@@493382

Prohibition as an Issue SIR : The New Republic frequently remarks the dearth of ideas , the absence of discussion of issues , in the pending presidential campaign . I should think that anyone who knows an idea at sight would agree with you in all but in this : namely , that you make no exception nor advertisement of Senator Borah 's move to put committal to Prohibition Enforcement into the campaign . To be sure , Mr. Borah is not ( alas ! ) a candidate -- but he is not quite inconsiderable as an influence ; his effort is perhaps not one that you are in sympathy with , yet I do not sec how it can be called any less than an idea . Can a " journal of opinion " do more to enhance the status of the idea in politics than by at least pointing the finger toward each such ? as ( or if ) it emerges ? even at an unpopular one ? You express disaffection for the blindness or the inertia which avoids an idea in order to avoid a disturbance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you impertinent if ? in the same spirit as yours ? I tell you that there are those who feel similarly disappointed in your preoccupation with economic issues when a moral issue is crying out for a champion ; that ? just as you regret the passing of the days when a political conflict was resolved in violent public discussion and finally in war itself ? exactly so do others regret the days when the : noral issue at the heart of that conflict found its least equivocal expression in a certain " journal of opinion . " Can you honestly contend that there is a shadow of - difference between the reasonableness or the difficulty of the prohibition of slavery and the reasonableness or the difficUlty of the prohibition of liquor except that you happen to be living in a section of the country that for selfish reasons is particularly unwilling to admit the latter ? whereas someone else was so located in the earlier struggle ? I feel with you that the sluggish , the inert , the fast asleep ? arc generally unlovely , and I think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be awake . When a fat and benighted old ngatened voter , ca n't be prodded up , it 's a pity ; when professed intellectuals miss the light , it is the supreme calamity . In short , my feeling is that if the New Republic is so anxious for the good old days when presidential elections were tied up with terrific questions of right and wrong and the travail of bringing them to birth --  --  then the New Republic has only ( if I may say so ) to take its coat and collar off . Why not change your name to the New Liberato4 RUTH GEORGE . P. S. And let 's draft Borah . T HE New Republic agrees with Miss George in attaching a great deal of importance to Senator Borah 's attempt to project the enforcement Of the prohibition law into the presidential campaign ' We said as much most emphatically last year when the Senator started to arouse his fellow countrymen to a sense of its importance . The existence in the Constitution of a rule concerning a matter of poPtllar conduct , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dubiously enforced by cials who , in a majority of cases , themselves disobey it , and which at present is as far from being nicdi ? lied or repealed as it is from being enforced , Is moral and political anachronism of the first magni : tude . In the circumstances , it is absurd to expect the American body politic to recover its health , or the American people to take a wholesome and remuner , ative interest in other issues . Prohibition is the red herring which is always distracting their political attention , but upon which they are helpless t focus . The New Republic would ' elect , if it could , to have the issue of prohibition in its various aspects /d ' dominate the campaign of next year . We ' Ow : . like to see Senator Borah and Gifford Pinchot nonlesi 1 nated by the Republicans on a platform of Nth ' 0 enforcement , carried out with the whole power the federal government , and Nicholas Murray Butler and Henry L. Mencken nominated by the Democrats on a platform calling for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But our preferences in this matter do not count any more than Miss George 's . The politicians will not , if they can help it , allow the issues of prohibition and its ' enforcement to come to a decisive popular vote in a presidential election . They are terrified by its wholly incalculable effects on the party regularity of ordinary Democrats and Republicans . They consented to the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment in the hope of disposing of prohibition finally as a source of local political irregularity , and they would regard the revival of the issue and its projection into national politics as equivalent to the suicide of the two existing parties . They have greeted and will continue to greet any effort in that direction with a conspiracy of indifference and silence . Borah has not at present a chance to rush their defenses . His failure provides a fresh illustration of the New Re-Public 's contention that the nation is organized and Operated at present to suppress vital political discussion . There are , however , causes at work , deeper than the politician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to account for the exclusion of prohibition from national politics . The American ruling class of educated and well-to-do people are double-faced in their attitude toward the question . A few of them obey the law and are entitled to force Others to obey it . They are consistent and usually admirable people , who demand its rigorous administration with a clear conscience , who are deeply troubled by the existing nullification of the law , and who are searching for some way to mitigate the But even these people , together with the less Wealthy church-goers in the small towns who brought about adoption of the Amendment , are rarely prepared to go through with a policy of enforcement . It is perfectly clear that nothing less than federal police courts , a largely increased fed- , eral police and a system of spying and domiciliary searches can possibly stamp out the existing dis ? bedience . The thorough-going prohibitionists shrink - ' 1.0111 proposing such measures . They realize that , if they invoked the full powers of the federal government to compel obedience , they would destroy - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread the existing popu- /al ' resentment against prohibition : Senator Borah , nnself , while he discourses energetically about en- forcement in general , does not propose any program ? f legislation to strengthen the Volstead Act . In view of the fact that he is a convinced advocate of " reserving the " rights " of the states intact , we do not see how he could very well favor the aggran-Iement to this extent of the federal government . , n the other hand , if he is unwilling to back up his agitation with an administrative program which w ? uld have some chance of enforcing prohibition , what reality is there to his proclamation of the issue ? Any insincerity , however , on the part of the thorough-going prohibitionists with respect to the enforcement of the law is mild and inoffensive compared to that of the vast mass of responsible American business and professional men . Many of this class favored the ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment , and still refuse to consider the revision of the Volstead Act or the modification of the constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the law , which in practice enables them to get . what they want to drink but which diminishes the amount of alcoholism among the poorer hand-laborers . They regard it as a reasonable compromise . Unlike the " common people , " they are not at all interested in projecting the issue into a presidential campaign . The resulting deadlock will never be broken by an agitation such as that of Senator Borah . He is laboring to manufacture a national political issue out of the successful defiance of the law . He points an accusing finger at the deliberate " nullification , " and calls for its suppression . But the enforcement of the law can not , if it is to be starred as a political issue , he divorced from the wisdom of the law and the intensity and spread of the popular hostility to it . Prohibitionists who seek to make an issue out of enforcement without raising at the same time the question of the modification or repeal of the existing law can win an easy rhetorical victory , but it would have nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of political conflict and of human motive . Millions of indiViduals disobey the law , partly because they do not feel it binding on their consciences , and partly because they realize vagUely that only by disobedience can they discredit it . Most of them would jump at the chance to vote about prohibition , but very few of them are particularly interested in voting about prohibition enforcement . Those who disobey it are acting as if the law did not exist , in order to get a chance to vote against it . Their disobedience of the law , which they commit , usually with impunity , is their one sure way of reopening the question of what a sound national policy is with respect to the manufacture and sale of al- coholic beverages . Miss George asks us whether we " can honestly - contend that there is a shadow of difference between the reasonableness and difficulty of the prohibition of slavery and the reasonableness and difficulty of the prohibition of liquor . " There are , to our mind , many essential differences between the two prohibitions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion , it is enough to insist on only one . Prohibition of slavery does prohibit . Prohibition of liquor does not . She would like to make a stirring moral issue out of the prohibition of liquor and its violation , but when the law interferes in a region of conduct whose consequences are , to a large extent , personal and private , the political and the moral get mixed up in a way that prevents either from ' functioning wholesomely . A generation ago , American Protestant Christianity finally admitted its impotence to abate the evils of alcoholism by the exercise of its moral authority over the conduct of professing Christians . Defeated in its own sphere , it appealed to the state to force temperance on people by law , and in this region its campaign passed from one success to another , until it finally attempted and officially succeeded in accomplishing by political command what it could not accomplish by persuasion or moral authority . Prohibition and its enforcement have , consequently , by the act of the clergy become an essentially political question which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There will be appeals to moral authority on both sides , but without avail . Sensible prohibitionists should recognize that , if a law is adopted which arouses widespread popular resistance and can be challenged only by being nullified , its enemies will not hesitate to do what they can to nullify it . The answer to nullification is not moral exhortation , but the grim and ruthless enforcement of the law . The prohibitionists can always break the deadlock , if they will , by equipping the federal government with power to compel the law-nullifying communities into law-obedience . But for reasons which we have already indicated , they draw back . Playing , as they are , a political game , they prefer to imitate Mr. Coolidge and the political realists in pretending that the question is settled . If they make too much fuss about the moral issue of non-enforcement , they may only endanger the continuance of political prohibition . By refraining from being too zealous about enforcing the law , they keep those who are disobeying it for political purposes at a political disadvantage . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they are executive officials like Governor Smtih , to campaign candidly against prohibition as it is for the prohibitionists to insist on the enforcement of the law . A citizen can nullify a law in his own private conduct , with the understanding that such nullification is itself a necessary form of political protest , but if he happens to be the governor of a state and is seeking the presidency , he can not talk frankly in public about the theory on which he is acting . The American people would shrink from electing another candidate to the presidency who might conceivably imitate Mr. Harding in permitting the Department of Justice to become a bootlegger 's refuge . Prohibition is rapidly converting American political leaders into a flock of hypocrites . The anti-prohibitionists do not dare to discuss from the platform the logic of their own disreputable conduct . The prohibitionists do not dare to take advantage of the sinister fact that the very essence of anti-prohibitionism is the violation of the law . For both factions it is certainly the hell of a story to tell the captain @ 