@@490218

BRIGHT and early on the day after New Year 's The New York Telegram published on its front page an editorial in which were reported the results of a survey made by members of its staff into the liquor situation in New York City . Commending Commissioner Whalen 's spectacular drive to dry up the metropolis , the Telegram at the same time pointed out to him , and to the public in general , that of the eighteen thousand speakeasies in this city a considerable number , as the hospital records indicate , must be dispensing beverages which are poisonOtis . Some four hundred of New York 's representative speakeasies were visited by Telegram reporters , who brought some of the liquor back to be analyzed by a chemist employed by the newspaper . On the basis of these analyses the Telegram stated that eleven of these four hundred speakeasies were selling " poisonous liquor . " The addresses of these eleven were transmitted to Mr. Whalen with the editorial advice that , inasmuch as literal desiccation of the city is impossible , he concentrate his attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the time being . This sounded reasonable to the new Commissioner of Police  --  and besides , the Rothstein case was threatening to bob up embarrassingly again at the first unoccupied moment . n t . So within twenty-four hours all the eleveff offending bars were raided , and one of them reduced to wreckage  --  while in nearly every case speakeasies in the same block which were known to the police but had escaped the Telegram blacklist were not moh-sted . THERE is no ques- tion about the logic of the Telegram 's argument . But a careful examination of the evidence on the basis of which differentiation was made between criminal and merely naughty bootleggers discloses that this evidence was unskillfully obtained and unintelligently interpreted . The probabilities are that there is just as much criminal bootlegging among the three hundred and eighty-nine of the Telegram 's select four hundred on which they put their official stamp of approval as among the unfortunate eleven , for wood alcohol , which , with not more than two exceptions , was the only poison appearing in the published analyses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poisons which are likely to be found in alcohol of illegal origin . Besides these common adulterants which are added to grain alcohol by the Government to render it unpotable and which arc all therefore poisons , there are at least twenty-five or thirty others which might occasionally be found in bootleg spirit . The absurdity of decreeing that a liquor is poisonous or drinkable on the basis of whether it contains or does not contain wood alcohol is apparent . A few of the commonly found adulterants which in addition to wood alcohol might be found in illeged rum are listed below : Acetone , pyridine , ammonia , diethyl phthallate , phenol , benzene , aldohol ( a kerosene derivative ) , amyl alcohols ( fusel propyl alcohols , alkaloids ( of which there are many ) , bichloride of mercury . The Treasury Department publishes an official list of f  --  innulas for the adulteration of grain alcohol for use in legitimate industries . There are close to fifty of these formulas , all of which are in use , and the constituents of any of which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as a matter of fact , is one of the easiest for the bootlegger to remove  --  and is therefore not very widely used in the Government formulas . THIS action on the part of the Telegram in tacitly assuming that wood alcohol is the only poison to he found in liquor is not complimentary to the reading public . It smacks of trying to capitalize what is evidently thought to he public ignorance and gullibility . It furthermore tends to foster in the public mind what is conceivably a dangerous misconception concerning poisonous liquor . A cursory lay reader of the Telegram 's recent headlines , judging the potability of his bootleggers ' stock entirely by the presence or absence of wood alcohol , would be very liable to find himself eventually in the toxicological ward in Bellevue . Furthermore the the Telegram knew mendable but not tained caution , the newspaper sent representatives to the best-known expert on poisons in 1 ' York City , showed him their chemist 's reports , outlined their arguments , and asked for an opinion . This expert needed only a glance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; for these reports showed that the chemist had paid no attention to any possible adulterant except wood alcohol . He explained to the newspaper men the chemistry of the situation and ventured that the analyses were untrustworthy . The next day the Telegram brought to this toxicologist a sample of whiskey which their chemist had found by analysis to contain 0.5 per cent wood alcohol . The newspaper requested that the expert attempt to confirm this analysis . This the expert did  --  and found no trace of wood alcohol . Later investigation of the liquor showed dangerous traces of diethyl plithallate , a poison for which the Telegram 's chemist had apparently not looked . In the face of this the Telegram published its story and started its campaign . I the analyses of the liquor of the 1 eleven condemned speakeasies published in follow-up stories by the Telegram , wood-alcohol percentages of C.5 per cent and sometimes of 0.2 per cent appear . In elucidating this for the layman , the Telegram- states that their analysts , " whenever they found wood alcohol , held down the percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests of i.itune of the samples indicated 1 per cent the highest certified by the chemist was 0.5 per cent . " Even if this statement had any discernible meaning it would he nullified by an expert opinion obtained by the writer that it is not scientifically possible to distinguish between 0.2 per cent and 0.5 per cent wood alcohol . In one case the liquor in a speakeasy was condemned by the Telegram because it showed 0.2 per Cent sulphuric acid . Sulphuric acid is a poison that works harm only if taken in a strong solution , where it burns the mucous membrane . In this small percentage it is quite innocuous  --  a fact which is borne out by the statement in a standard textbook of physiological chemistry that hydrochloric acid , which is comparable in corrosiveness to sulphuric acid , " is normally present in the gastric juice of man to the extent of 0.2 to 0.3 per cent . " MHESE facts support of the statement arc presented in made in the beginning of this article that the evidence on which the Telegram differentiates between good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But a more serious development has lately taken place which , from a scientific viewpoint , completely vitiates the whole argument back of the Telegram 's publicity campaign . When the Telegram 's now famous List of Eleven was first presented to Mr. Whalen , this restless gentleman immediately saw the point . Came a week of glorious fun for Mr. Whalen and his strong-arm squad . Then someone in federal authority in New York decided it would he just as well to check op on the Telegram 's analyses before the thing went too far . More sampling agents were sent to the eleven offending speakeasies  --  ten of which had in the meantime reopened  --  and more samples were brought in ( how profitable business must have been for the eleven during these two weeks ! ) . These samples were then submitted to the government chemist , who in duc course made a report of which the following is part : " Traces , in no case over approximately 0.5 per cent , wood alcohol appear in samples from two places . From two other places analysis showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other ( 6 ) premises no active denaturant or other poisons found . " off HETHER or not a liquor is poisonous is merely a problem in chemistry , " says the Telegram . Approached from this angle serious doubts must be raised as to the toxicity of beverages containing 0.5 per cent wood spirit . An authority in toxicology has stated to the writer that beverages made of raw , unaged , chemically pure grain alcohol are as likely to cause collapse from alcoholic poisoning as are those with it trace of wood alcohol . In a wide experience in autopsies on persons dying after drinking , he states that in most cases no poison is found and the condition of the organs in cares death from raw but pure alcohol . The Telegram quotes , as scientific authority for assigning toxicity to the liquors it condemned , an article in a chemical journal which states that if ten persons each drink four ounces of wood alcohol in three hours , four will suffer no permanent injury while six will experience dire results . Does the Telegram realize that to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a person would have to drink nearly thirteen quarts of the speakeasy liquor containing U.S per cent wood alcohol , and this within three hours ' time ? Whatever may be one 's convictions as to the desirability of raiding speakeasies , it is patently unfair to discriminate on the basis of pseudo-scientific evidence of liquor toxicity . But , after all , " whether liquor is poisonous or not is merely a problem in chemistry . " The Telegram might profitably approach the matter from that angle .                     