@@685389

txt EXPLOITATION OF YELLOWSTONE . To the Editor of the New York Times : There is now before Congress a measure which would authorize a serious raid on the Yellowstone National . Park . This is House bill 12466 , introduced by Representative Smith of Idaho , granting to an Idaho corporation the right to build reservoirs and dig canals in the Falls Rivers country in the ' southwestern part of the park and to use the waters of the lakes there for irrigation purposes . Bad as it is , the Falls Rivers project is only the first of a series of similar schemes , for which plans have been drawn , to seize the other parts of the park for commercial exploitation . Among these plans is one no less audacious than an irrigation scheme which involves the damming of Yellowstone Lake at the outlet . This would raise the water level and flood the adjacent land , including the paint pot formations at the Thumb and some of the geysers , and would convert what is now one of the most intcresting and characteristic features @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A bill similar to tho Falls measure has already passed the Senate . The Falls bill will pass , unless there shall , be public opposition to prevent it . To state the case ought to he sufficient , to arouse such opposition . There will be a public hearing on May 23 . The Yellowstone Park is a national resource of incalculable value . It was set apart and dedicated to the use of the whole people as a wonderland , pleasure ground and great outdoor sanitarium . It is national , pot only in name , but also truly so in its use and enjoyment and the benefits , it confers . The tens of thousands who resort to it ( there were 62,281 in 1119 ) , and in the pure air , the outdoor life and the change and grandeur of scene find rest and . recreation and health and vigor , come from every State in the Union . This means that - the preservation of the park intact is something that directly and vitally concerns the people of every State , the constituents of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a park far outweighs any possible advantages there might be In converting any part of it by dams and ditches into an irrigation plant . It is a case of the interests of the people of the whole country against those of a corporation and a few of a special locality . EVery Representative should know that his own constituents are looking to him to protect the park and to preserve it both for themselves and as a priceless heritage for their children and children 's children . C. B. REYNOLDS . New York , June I , 1920.                     