@@688766

txt Every few months the Secretary of State . whoever he may be . has to explain to a delegation of earnest ladies why he does n't recognize the Soviet I:epublic of Hus , . in . The personnel of the delegation , the name of the organization which it represents . may change from time to time : the argument varies , too . But , on the whole ; it seems to be that broken Russia , ruined by the blockade . must die unless we recognize her : mighty Russia . able and eager to save the rest of Europe . ca n't do it until we recognize her : poverty-stricken Russia can not be built up without the help of American capital unless we recognize her : and opulent Russia is making the fortunes of enterprising European capitalists while we sit idly by and miss our chance of the profits . There is no reason to suppose that Mr. HuGHEs  --  s reply to the latest delegation will change the opinions of these worthy ladies and their sympathizers . He observed . to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charity to Russia . and that anybody who wants to take a chance can trade with tussia now . Mr. HARRY SINCLAIR , for instance , is paying $.50,000 a year for a five-year option on some Sakhalin oil fields , if . as and when the Japanese let go of them . Mr. HENRY MASON DAY is doing business in the Caucasus . So far as conditions in Russia make it possible . Americans are doing business : but the experience of British and Germans , who started a little earlier , suggests that things will have to happen not only to Russia but in . Russia to hold out much promise to a business man . As Mr. HUGHES observes , the salvation of Russia can not be made up outside , like a drug store prescription , and hypodermically injected . Much play is made with the promises of the Bolsheviks to pay Russia 's debts . Senator BORAH lately expressed his high opinion of Russia 's promise to pay ; but so far as is knowniFtussia owes him nothing . TCHITCHERIN has denied the infamous slander that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doubtless the ladies can not see why Mr. HUGHES remains unconvinced . But Mr. HUGHES is a lawyer , not a metaphysiMan . He is unskilled in the higher logic as practiced in Moscow . He fails to realize the difference between LENIN the Commissar and LENIN the Communist . We fear that it will take others also some time to get educated up to this distinction . Here is a small religious sect which has seized the Government of Russia . It . - has still smaller fractions in other countries which also hope , or used to hope , to seize the Governments . Members of this sect , speaking as the Government of Russia , say one thing . As believers in a missionary world-religion they say something quite different . Mr. HUGHES finds it hard to understand why what LENIN says in the Kremlin is to be taken seriously , while what LENIN says when he goes across the street to the congress Of the Third International is to be ignored . When LENIN , TROTZ.N Y. RADEK and the rest of them speak as the lords of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Russia 's need of money . When they speak as priests of the established Church they talk about the glorious revolution somewhere in the future which Is going to overthrow all these friends and brothers and abolish money and debts : No doubt Mr. HUGHES is an obscurantist in believing what they say in conventicles of the brethren rather than what they say in notes to people who have money to lend . How far the Communist theologians still believe their own doctrines is another question . When LENIN , at least , talks about the hopeful prospects of world revolution one suspects that he is like some clergymen who maintain doctrines in the pulpit which they would prefer to ignore at home . The Communist Last Judgment recedes further and further into the future . But it may be noted that outward moderation has been forced on the Bolshevist leaders by experience : it is not their fault that the red revolution has n't come off .                     