@@694371

txt It is an eminently sensible view which the Canadian minister of finance expresses in declaring he feels no apprehension about purchases of Canadian securities by American investment trusts . Where some Canadian politicians had been rather quick to perceive a bogey worth at least talking vigorously about , Minister Robb says : 7 ; ore American capital is coming to Canada , not with the idea , of securing a control  --  that would not be permitted  --  but rather to find profitable outlet for surplus of moneyed re . sources . " That some of the almost brand-new American investment trusts  --  which in the ' very recent past have blossomed forth so profusely  --  should turn their attention to the nearby Canadian field is logical enough for both general and particular reasons . In an era when there-is incentive for us to explore foreign fields for attractive investments , yielding relatively large returns and chances of appreciation  --  just as the English did during the decades when their investment trusts scattered capital fruitfully abolit the world  --  Canada IS a very natucal haven for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the security sense ; and some folks have professed to see some relatively promising Canadian investment opportunities . Canadian bank stocks , although not the sole example ; have supplied a conspicuous instance of such selection in the very recent past . On this side of the border the appreciation in such securities in several other cities as well as New York has been pronounced of late , with some almost sensational advances . When it became a case of lboking farther away for similar opportunities , Canada offered a fairly virgin field . Further it has been incidentally observed that the possession of a French name by a Canadian bank has been known to obscure real investment attractions , through a lack of familiarity . And such bank stocks have a distinct appeal for investment trust managers . Likewise an inclination to scan the lists of Canadian insurance securities ? v. hich together with the banks carry in themselves an element of diversification or selectiveness  --  and also the possibilities among Canadian industrials of more seasoned character is quite a natural procedure for American investment trusts . These have set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world for the scores or hundreds of securities they aim to accumulate . Many yields at home have become relatively slim . Canada , on the other hand , can find profitable use for such surplus capital as we have to put out to work elsewhere , following our transition from debtor to creditor estate . It is not a quest for control or even voice in management so far as investment trusts are concerned . They seek no such responsibilities . And it is further obvious that the limitations on percentage of their moderate capital which such trusts may put out in any one foreign country leave little or no danger of , any raitling incursions .                     