@@689091

txt The recent dismissal of Arthur Powell Davis as Director of the Reclamation Service , in the Department of the Interior , was effected by private power companies of Colorado and California , according to Mr. Davis himself and some engineers who are investigating the forced resignation of this official , whose name has been linked with reclamation- work since its inception . Engineers and members of Congress from Western States familiar with the work of Mr. Davis have started an inquiry which is expected to end in a congressional investigation . Information at hand shows that big power companies have sought for more than two years to get rid of Mr. Davis because of his recommendation that the Government build a dam in the Colorado River and prevent several companies using this power . The , opposition to Mr. Davis . appeared immediately upon his insisting that this unharnessed power of the Colorado River be controlled by the Federal Government . One of the leading opponents of Mr. Davis was Senator Fhipps of Colorado , a friend and political , adviser of Secretary Work . The opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power corn- , panies , became  --  so pronounced twOYeafir. ago that the then Secretary , Mr. Fait " ' was about to heed their protests . Agitation to obtain this end was started-in the West , and this proved to be such a boomerang that Mr. Fall did not attempt to dismiss the - Reclamation Director , scores of members of Congress from reclamation States having protested in a body against such proposed action . Davis Refuses to Resign . Before his departure with the President on the trip to Alaska Secretary Work summoned Director Davis and requested his resignation , saying that he desired to put a business man in the office . This was despite the fact that over $50,000,000 of engineering projects were uncompleted . Mr. Davis refused to resign and informed his chief that since there were no charges against him he would not give way to the " placing of this service in polities . " Friends of reclamation who are making an independent investigation , said that Secretary Work could not have accomplished his apparent purpose of rewarding " faithful workers " if Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress had gone away to put the I reclamation service in politics . Secretary Work , in his interview with Mr. Davis on June 16 . Is said to have told the engineer that this action had been . under consideration for two years . That the power companies and those opposed to reclamation have been fighting him for that long was known to 1r . Davis . After the Director of Reclamation recommended a Government dam in the Colorado River , the fight against him was launched . Telegrams of complaint descended upon Secretary Fall and the final stage for his dismissal was sat In an alleged plan of the water companies to have him condemned by the Chamber of Commerce of Denver . Agents for the power companies , it is asserted here , endeavored to get this body to adopt a resolution asking for Mr. Davis 's dismissal After an investigation the Chamber took the opposite action and stirred up members of Congress to halt the movement of the power companies . Then members of Congress intervened and Secretary Fall promised not to force the resignatin of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Davis , who has been ' in the Government service more than forty years and built all the big power dams and was responsible for ' the success of reclamation . went into retirement on June US , although his resignation does not become operative until June 30 , as Secretary Work allowed him to have two weeks leave with pay . He was succeeded by D. W. Davis , twice Governor of Idaho and recently head of a bank at American Falls . Before entering politics Mr. Davis was a successful grocer . He had no experience in reclamation service , although as Governor he organized a recelamation association It was on his record as such and his knowledge of politics and farmers that Secretary Work put him into a place requiring technical skill and engineering ability . Arthur P. Davis left tonight to inspect Ian engineering project which will pay him one-third of his former yearly salary . Before he went he told his story of the efforts Secretary Work made to induce him to resign . He declined to go into the motives of his chief , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to be judged by engineers rather than politicians . " Early on Saturday morning , t June 16 . Secretary Work called me to his office and . informed me that he had decided to give my place to another /ran , " Mr. Davis said . " He gave his reason , apparently comprehensive and conclusive , that he believed the reclamation service should be administered by a business man and not by an engineer . He stated thca there was an insistent public demand that this policy be adopted . " He requested me to submit my resignation to take effect June 30 , which I promptly did in the following form : My dear Mr. Secretary : In accordance with your suggestion of this date . I hereby tender my resignation as Director of the Reclamation Service , to take effect on June 30. 1923 . During the interim and at any time thereafter I shall be glad to do whatever may be possible to inform my successor and the department concerning any matters at present under my charge or related thereto , to the end that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . may be continued and improved . " Very respectfully yours , ? ? ? " wanted Wording of Letter Changed " When he received the resignation in the above form , he sent for me again and objected to my statement that ' " Ete resignation had been requested by him , and said he would prefer to have it in such shape that it would appear to be initiated by me . I told him that such a statement would not ' be truthful and . therefore , not proper . He replied that no reference need be made directly to its origin , but that the resignation as it stood indicated that I had been ' fired , ' and I surely , he said . did not desire to advertise that fact to the world . " I told him that / desired the world to know the facts whatever they were , and preferred the letter to remain in its form and I gave my reasons substantially as follows : " ' the reclamation law is unique in requiring the repayment of the moneys invested by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the criticism of those trying to escape their payments , who seek to discredit the work ' nd to make claims concerning understandings of long agp , which would tend to establish their right to exemption from the payments required by law ; if these efforts were successful the repayment would be checked or stopped , 1 and by cutting off ' - the revenues the reclamation work would be stopped . - I " Under present laws with a large revolving fund the entire West susceptible of reclamation can be ultimately re , darned if the law is carried out and the fund kept revolving , but if payments are not made the main source of revenue is cut off and the work accordingly stopped . " The large reclamation projects yet to be developed are so extensive that they form a very important part of the future development of the West . They are so difficult physically that they can not be carried out by private enterprise , which ' requires profits and interest on investment . " Recognizing these facts . the Congress has provided a revolving fund . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is repaid . Congress is closely watching the operations of the act , and when satisfied that repayment is not coming , will probably withdraw the public assistance to reclamation and the development will be completely and permanently stopped . " For these reasons the faithful return of the Reclamation Fund as required by law is vital to the interests of the West and of the country in general . Owing to my familiarity with the early history and progressive develqpment of every project of the ? service I am better equipped than any one lse to refute the false allegations and fEsist the efforts of the repudiators to achieve their . ends . " For these reasons I have not felt at liberty to leave the service as long as permitted to remain . and have accordingly , mainly for this reason , declined several offers of attractive positions at much higher salaries in the last few years . The real friends of reclamation have very loyally defended me when attacked by the repudiators and others , and I do not feel that I should desert the cause without consulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not willing to do this , but after hearing me through , he promptly decided that the clause should go out and I returned to my office and redrafted the letter accordingly ; out on reading it over I concluded that the intended deception would be improper , and accordingly returned the resignation to the Secretary in the form above quoted , except that I inserted in the first sentence the word ' respectfully . ' Informs Secretary of Decision . " I accompanied this resignation with the following letter : " ' My Dear Mr. Secretary : " ' I have reconsidered my decision of this morning to eliminate from my letter of resignation the statement that it was Made by request . " ' I rewrote the letter in the form you suggested , but after thinking it over concluded this would be making myself party to a public deception that would not only be ethically improper , but unjust to the real friends of reclamation , who are entitled to the facts : I am accordingly resubmitting my resignation as requested . ' Rs ' Dectfully , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his position . He offered me an appointment as Consulting Engineer as a % promotion , ' whatever that might mean , and several times threatened me with attack if I did not accede to his wishes . His threats of defamation so irritated me that I informed him that I was not to be intimidated , and suggested he cease the attempt . " When the announcement was published in The Washington Star , it contained the following : " ' Orders for . the reorganization followed the Secretary 's study of data gathered on his recent Western trip when he personally inspected several of the most important projects . ? ? ? At various points he met representatives of farmers interested in the Government reclamation operations and listened to complaints and suggestions from them . ' " Substantially this statement was printed in The Washington ' Post , THE NEW YORIC TIMES , The New York Evening Post , The Denver Post and California papers , and there is little doubt that it is substantially what was learned by newspaper men in the Secretary 's office . Secretary Work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reclamation Service , and D. W. Davis , who visited some of them recently , insists that he made no unfavorable report . When request was made on Secretary Work for definite charges and the names of accusing parties , he simply disclaimed authorship of the item quoted . " Mr. Davis was an engineer in the Reclamation Service twenty-one years , and since 1914 has been Director . During his administration all the large dams were built , such as the Roosevelt , Elephant and Shoshone . Four other dams are . still uncompleted  --  at Rim Rock , Wash . at Black Canyon , Idaho , and tw.p in Oregon . He is recognized as one of the leading civil engineers in the United States . He is the author of many books on hydrography and irrigation and is regarded as an authority on the latter subject .                     