@@688508

txt Slavery has been practically wiped out , forced labor has become a rarity , and the lot of the working people in the former German possessions in the Pacific and in Africa is as happy as that of the toiling masses of Europe and America . So it may be inferred- from data furnished by the Governments administering those territories under the ? mandates authorized by the Treaty of  - -  VersailleS . Desirous of ascertaining if the Allies were bearing in mind the clauses of the peace treaty which affirm that the well-being and development of peoples not yet able to stand by themselves in the modern world should form a sacred trust of civilization , and that the general welfare of wage-earners ' is of supreme international importance , the International Labor Office of the League of Nations in Geneva sent out questionnaires on this subject several months ago . From the answers received it appears that in the territory under Japanese mandate , which includes the Caroline , Marshall and Ladrone Islands , " human development being in its in " fancy and the order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered " by recommendations adopted by the in " ternational labor conferences provided " for in the Treaty of Versailles . " The report says that while there may be a little domestic slavery among the natives its existence is not recognized by the Administration nor admitted by the chiefs . The only thing approximating forced labor is a provision for the working out of poll taxes by the natives , but this is hardly ever applied . Australia reports that in New Guinea and the rest of the territory under its control the native laborers are protected by special ordinances providing for the ten-hour day , weekly rest day and public holidays and fixing the minimum monthly wage , with board , lodging and medical attendance , at 5 shillings for men and 4 shillings for women and boys . The maximum wage is 10 shillings " ex " cept where the district officer con-. " siders that some laborer has special " qualifications . " There 4s neither slavery nor forced labor , and the recruiting of native labor is regulated by law . Life in the Samoan Islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use native labor on the plantations , and has had to resort to drafts of Chinese , following the example of the former German administrators . Forced labor has been abolished on the Island of Nauru , which is now directly administered by Great Britain . In Central and Southern Africa what the French Administration of the Cameroons calls " the scourge which formerly " threaiened , the life and future of the " African population " has been banished , as the slave trade exists oily sporadically . There is considerable domestic servitude , but it is said to be gradually disappearing under the influence of the French , British and Belgian Administrations . The British report on the Tanganyika territory of East Africa shows that slavery had been reduced to almost nothing before - the order formally abolishing it was communicated to the Secretariat of the League of Nations on Nov. 29 . In Belgian East Africa , however , there is a ' race of Bantu stock called Bahutas , kept in atriet dependence by - lae , donn7 , nazi t Batutii . An ' ordinance - of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of domestic slaves ; The slave trade itself has been repressed . In the British Caineroons there- are -a few hundred persons , captured or bought many years ago  --  who are regarded as slaves by the natives . There are many domestic slaves in French Togoland , but most of them seem satisfied with their status , as they only have to  --  , announce their intention to pay taxes and comply with the obligations imposed upon free natives to be set at liberty . There is no slave trade in Southwest Africa , which : is administered by the Union of - South Africa .                     