@@685908

txt Now that the provisions of the Transportation Act , giving the Interstate Commerce Commission control over issuance of securities , and also , to a certain degree , over the application of the proceeds thereof , are in force , it is becoming apparent that railroad financing methods , as heretofore practiced , will undergo some modification . The change , in fact , has already begun . Banking firms , particularly the primary nouses which are the first purchasers of most of the larger security issues , have realized some of the implications of the new order , and not with unmixed satisfaction . They are aware , for instance , that plans for security issues and for reorganizations , must be submitted to the commission 's division of finance , which is required by law to hold a public hearing on each application for approval . This means sonic delay , and that involves the delicate and troublesome task of timing a public security offering to the capricious appetite of the investment market . With a haunting memory of the weary months through which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some Wall Street bankers have been apprehensive that the time consumed in obtaining Federal authority to sell securities would mean that the railroads might : fall into the chronic condition of " missing their market " . Such apprehensions , if one may judge from events to date , are groundless , for at least two reasons . One is that the division cf finance , under Director Colston , a man of long experience in railroad law and finance , has been quick to see the need of expedition in affording a railroad needed capital . The other is that such applications , drawn up on forms prepared by the division of finance , are submitted in such detail that little time is required in the hearing to bring out all the pertinent facts . As a rule , no opposition develops . The mere fact that Federal control of securities has actually supplanted that of the dozen or more states which formerly exercised such powers , is admittedly a great offset to any possible disadvantage it may entail . That was the purpose of the law , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one case . a state in which the applicant carrier operates , made a formal effort to save its jurisdiction of securities . but apparently nothing has come of it . at least not yet . In official circles it is doubted whether the banking community fully realizes the willingness of the Corn ' merce Commission to facilitate the necessary and legitimate work of financing the railroads . For illustration , it may be cited that in approving e. certain issue of bonds , the commission commented on the fact that the bonds had been sold by the railroad , subject to the approval of the commission . In some Wall Street quarters , the comment was interpreted as disapproval of such a practice . One who is in a position to reflect the commission 's ? views accurately , says : " So far from having condemned the practice of selling securities subject to the commission 's approval , the commission recognizes that such a step is proper , and 1 in many cases may be highly necessary . Before the I present Transportation Act was passed , railroads subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently sold securities subject to approval of the various state ; and I never heard any objection to it then , either from the side of the investor or the side of the regulating bodies . The Commerce Commission merely pointed out that it was a thing that must be done with due regard for the responsibility thus assumed . " It should not he supposed , for instance , that a sale of bonds in advance of the commission 's action to our old friend the innocent investor , could ever be regarded as a successful means of bringing pressure to bear upon the commission to approve an issue which it would not have approved otherwise . and in advance of the sale . No such case has arisen , and the commission has no idea that any will . But you must bear in mind that this is a new function of the commission , and the precedents to govern it in the future are in the making . " The commission realizes . I think , that for every established and recognized business practice there is a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission has no desire to upset good business practice . It desires only to help the railroads to transact their business to the fullest extent of its powers . " Probably the most important effect of Federal securities regulation will he that railroads will make their financial plans further in advance than lias heretofore been considered necessary , and may even adopt the practice of obtaining ennunission approval of their financial plans long before their intended execution . The secrecy which banker : : and railroad executives have habitually regarded as an es4ential part of their negotiations , up to the moment of a public offering , may become a less binding rule in the future .                     