@@686543

txt Among the influences drawing Germany toward an affirmative decision is the opinion expressed by moderates in the allied , countries . Prominent among these because of his-strictly business viewpoint is Jacques Seydoux , chief French economic adviser and author of the Seydoux plan , to which the German government unofficially assented last January . Germans have high regard " for Seydoux as an economist whose fairness is unaffected by political or emotional considerations . From M. Seydoux I today obtained the following statement : " ( 1 ) The good will of Germany is necessary to satisfactory results . " ( 2 ) Their acceptance and performance in good faith will not only benefit them but is quite essential to the general economic settlement ofbthe affairs of the world . Up to this time Germany has shown no sign of good will . " ( 3 ) The ultimatum is a fair proposal - and Germany can not decline it without assuming full responsibility for all the consequences . " ( 4 ) It is a settlement that is entirely economic in character . There is neither politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructive and fulfillable . I em perfectly convinced that Germany can carry them out without being crippled . Acceptance and performance in right spirit will mean a change of heart out of which will coma regeneration and redemption for Germany . " Marshal Foch said peace is above war . The voice that spoke these words comes from a long way back when peace was promised to men of good will . " Cooler Judgment In France . There has been a remarkable exhibition of cold common sense in France in the last few days , with a resultant clearing of the atmosphere regarding the ultimatum terms . French military and political leadership was firmly resolved on sanctions and was solidly supported by all influences in the country that were visible or vocal . Suddenly plans 100 per cent . economic emerged from a background luridly belligerent to the French people whose excitation ? as Napoleon said of himself when he broke a vase in apparent anger  --  seldom extends above their self-interest . This is far from saying there is the slightest element of bluff or doubt about prompt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 13 the blackest Friday in world history . Up to this time it has not been possible clearly to face the realities ' of the war settlement because politics had obscured necessarily the economic character of any sound settlement that could be made . In other words , this is the first time a settlement has been proposed in business terms . Ting NEW YORK TIMES readers for the last two months have been informed through its cables from Berlin , Paris and London of the trend toward tatting the final settlement out of politics and intrusting it to the Reparation Commission , and have been repeatedly told that this settlement might provide a Commission of Guarantee to watch the German performances and provide flexibility under which the amount could be collected from Germany without binding that country to impossibilities . But general opinion in Europe has clung to the simple , concrete idea of military measures . Your cable dispatches have set military action in its real relation to the whole question of . settlement . While in themselves regrettable military measures , as a last resort , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary because of conditions in Germany . Without the dead certainty that these measures would be taken by France , which knows so well how to take them and has in her magnificent army and splendid military leadership an instrument effective for the purpose , Germany could not have been brought to acceptance of any terms adequate to the situation . The peremptory fact which is moving Germany toward acceptance is allied unity under French leadership in supporting the sanctions , and it will be chiefly because of these compelling measures if in the necessarily short time the politically uninformed and disunited country , utterly weak in its executive , can discern its own interest and act accordingly before the issue slips back to political ground with accompaniment of military violence . Public opinion has been to a certain extent misled on both sides . On the one hand , the Allies have held Germany must pay for all damages of the war whereas es a fact Germany 's capacity is the limit and that is now recognized . This ought to bring as a consequence abandonment by Germany of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a bill she knows she can not honor . Swayed by Moderate Opinion . General opinion in these economic circles which for the first time are getting a hearing in high allied , councils is that the terms of the ultimatum are aceeptaWe . As German newspapers are pointing out , Ciynes , Robert Cecil , Asquith , Barnes and even Keynes  --  who acquired a greater influence in Germany than perhaps any other  --  all of whom have been so moderate as to fall under suspicion of pro-Germanism , are councilling acceptance . Count Sforzasel representing Italian tolerance for Germany , has said that . if the Germans refuse the present terms it can only mean their unwillingness to pay any reasonable war bel . French Socialists as represented by the Paris Populairo and Jouhaux in . Le l'euple have rallied to the ultimatum terms . There is no real opposition at present from any quarter . Poineare and the element represented by him are quite content , and there is good reason for believing Marshal Foch himself looks with confidence to the result of acceptance with good-will by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. fair settlement and have the magnetism of fairness and justice . Economic authorities are unanimous ain saying that Germany 's position will ' be much better when she has once agreed to shoulder her debt . Her good-will hi essential to any real solution of her own problems and a satisfactory settlement of general economic conditions . Economists hold the allied powers might occupy the Ruhr , take coal and collect taxes in the country , but they wo n't by these means get all they want . They can not get much without ruining Germany , and the means thus unprofitably employed will only carry everybody back to violence . Experts stress two points in the ultimatum as requiring careful consideration . The first is the issue of bonds redeemable by Germany , and the second the provision which has been wrongly described as a tax on exports . The Allies do not propose to tax German exports in any sense that may lead to destruction of German foreign trade . On the contrary , the Allies propose to accept in part settlement of Germany 's yearly payment a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values due to Germany by foreign countries for her exports . There is no attempt by the Allies to rob Germany of her foreign market and thus permanently cripple her export trade . On the contrary , ft will be to the interest of the Allies that the value of German exports increase . So far how does the hope of payment from this source seem justified ? German exports amounted in 1019 to $600 , - 000,000 . They increased in 11120 to nearly $1,500,000,000 . To produce this sum in 1913 four times as much tonnage would have been required owing to subsequent inflation of values . Export trade is increasing all over the world . World stocks have been depleted and must he replenished before the cost of living can cone down . It is true Germany has lost certain provinces and her capacity for industrial production is by so much diminished , but Germany can still have a very large export trade . When the proposal for an export index of German payments was originally made by Seydeux at Brussels , the German experts asked for twentyfour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted this standard . In talking with experts today I elicited the interesting fact that the ultimatum terms were prepared by the British delegation on the Reparation Commission and afterward amended by representatives of other powers , M. Locheur taking an active part . I put last what was most impressed by all with whom I talked . The conditions in the various countries are such that any changes in the ultimatum terms are impossible . The Germans must take them or leave them .                     