@@687394

txt Unless the loquacity of statesmen or the piling of an unusual amount of work on the Government Printing Office should impose unforeseen delays , the Conference on the Limitation of Armament will cud on Saturday , twelve weeks to a day after it began . The actual signing oC some or all of the treaties relating to China may have to be deferred until Monday on account of the mechanical difficulties of ' printing and correcting so many treaties in so short a time , and in that case the signing of the naval treaties may also be deferred . But it is now expected that a plenary session can be called for Saturday , and that ' it will be able to finish all the basiness before the conference . There will , of course , be further diplomatic exchanges resulting from the conference . For example , it was said today that there would be an exchange of notes that would virtually give to the Netherlands and Portugal the benefit of the four-power Pacific treaty . The Dutch Government , whose East In ? d'art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , are more pee-. ulous and valuable than those of any ' other ' country , has been very anxious from the first to be included . in this treaty . Otherwise , there was nti formal obstacle to prevent a power , anxious expand into other island territories , ft. &; avoiding those of the signatory power and satisfying ' itself by the Dutch East Indies . Remote as this prospect might be , the mere possibility of it was suffl ? sufficiently disturbing to the Dutch . Their Initiative resulted in conversations between the four participating powers , as a result of which it was decided to exchange notes , declaring that the protection afforded by the treaty to American , British , French and Japanese island possessions would cover Dutch and Portuguese possessions also . Many Notes to Follow . There will also be an exchange , of notes to remove the " homeland " of Japan from the four-power treaty , as well as offer exchanges on the sequels of some agreements with regard to China . But these will pass gradually into the current stream @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is hoped , will be finished tomorrow . The Far Eastern Committee will hear the Chinese reply ? to Baron Shiclehara 's statement on tie twenty-one demands . Whatever the Chinese may say , however , will have no practical effect , any more than the remarks of Secretary Hughes if , as was reported today , he makes observations on thy same subject . Japan 's flat refusal to admit that the twenty-one demands can be/reconsidered has made action by the conference Impossible , and tie astute concession* made by the Japanese , which are really of some importance , has measurably reduced any desire to take up this question that may have existed outside the Chinese delegation . So the Far Eastern Committee meeting ought to meet with no serious obstacles , and the committee should be able to complete its work . Tie sub . committee appointed to draft the treaties , however , will be kept busy . After a meeting today , in which it was , officially stated that " ' some progress " had been made , it was called to meet again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be kept busy the greater part of the night , putting the treaties into shape . Mr. Hughes has been unwilling to say how many treaties would restilt from the work of tie drafting committee . but a British spokesman said today that there would probably be three  --  the first embodying the general principles expressed in the ' Root resolutions , the second covering the question of tariffs , and the third , dealing with the open door . The/ labor of drafting these treatlej and of getting them set and printed is considerable , and it is this obstacle , if any , which is likely to delay the conclusion of  --  the conference . It was hoped today . however , that the treaties could all be presented to the conference in plenary session at some time on Saturday . Delegates Anxious to Leave . Most of the delegates want to finish and get away . The British delegation will sail on the Aquitania Tuesday . The French expect to leave about the middle of the week . The Italians , say Senator Albertini , who will tour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and the Japanese expect to leave Washing . ton on Feb. 10 and sail from San Pran ? cisco on Feb. 21 . The Chinese Eastern Railway question was settled today by being left exactly where it was , and discussion of it brought out some of the fundamental difficulties which the conference has had ' in dealing with Chinese questions . A technical committee ofexpgra which the conference first refer matter . looked at it ' from an art . point of view , Which happened to be the same as that of the Itirsgo ; - Aelatic Bank , which owns and , operates the railroad . Its report.adVind that the Thief -- allied Technical Conniriabion ; has ? been exercising a " inorat trtisteeShIP " over the road since should be that , /rifled by ? the grant of actual powers , such as supervision of finances of the road And control over a Chinese police force to protect it . Hight technical experts approved of this ; the solitary dissentient was Dr. Hawkling Yen , the Chinese member of the committee , who insisted . that such action wcarld @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " According to non-Chinese observets of the recent operations of the toad , Chinese protection has been inadequate and Chinese interference with the management has been uneconomic . Practical railroad Men favor the plan suggested by the technical experts . It would be a good thing for the road , but it would infringe the sovereignty of China . That is just what the conference ' has been solemnly promising never to do again . A subcommittee of experts , entrusted with the task of finding a way to reconcile the Chinese viewpoint with that of the other nations , finally gave it up and reported only a resolution , to the effect that tht Chinese Eastern Iailw ay would be better off if it had better protection , more careful selection of personnel ' and more economic ad. ministration . But when it came to tifActiczil ways and meads of enforcing these principles , which by their statement in this resolution imply a criticism of Chinese interference , the whole matter had to be passed to the regular diplomatic service , which may or may not be able to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the road alone without infringing Chinese sovereignty . China as " Trustee " for Russia . Another resolution reminded China of her obligation to the stockholders and bdndholders of the road , an obligation which lies Upton het now through the non-existence of a recognized Russian Government . The old Russian Government built the railroad by agreement with China , and up to the Russo-Japanese war used it as an instrument of aggression against China . But as Russia has fallen into disorder the Chinese Government now becomes the protector of Russian , interests in the railroad . This . is perhaps the most curious incident in this curious conference  --  that China iQ made the " moral trustee " for Russia in the only case in which any effort has been made to put moral trusteeship into practice . Dr. Wellington Koo , in making objections to this disposition of the case , took up one of the arguments , which the Russians had advanced to prevent the conference from considering the extreme Chinese claim to take over , in whole or In part , the ownership and operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lately , for the Chinese saw that ? it would get them nothing . But several Weeks ago , when those interested in the Russian character of the road were becoming alarmed by the Chinese program , it was pointed out , among other things , that the Chinese Eastern was only part of the railroad system of Asiatic Russia , which includes the Transsiberian Road and the Ussuri Railway , connecting the Chinese Eastern with Vladivostok , as well as the South Manchurian Railroad until the Japanese took it away from the Russians . Dr. Koo took up this point today and turned it it around , using it as the basis for an argument that the Interallied Commission had no business dealing with the Chinese Eastern when it was exercising no authority over other parts of the Asiatic Russian system , originally the province of the commission . This argument , however , had a purely dialectic . interest . The commission will continue to exercise supervision over the Chinese Eastern as it has exercised it in the past , and the conference did not seize the opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Siberian question . Our liele-gate , to Frame Report . ? WASHINGTON , Feb. 2 ( Associated Ptets ) . ? Although President Harding has indicated his desire to submit all of the conference treaties to the Senate for ratification soon after the negotiations the , it was said tonight that there would probably be some delay to permit preparation of a comprehensive report addressed to him by the American ' delegates . This report is Expected tO review in detail the accomplishnients of the conference and may be given to_the the Senate along with the treaties for guidance during the ratification debate .                     