@@692042

txt Chancellor Luther , head of the German delegation . Deceived tonight from Berlin a telegraphic communication stating that President von Hindenburg and the members of the German Cabinet remaining in Berlin found themselves In accord with the policy followed at Locarno by Dr. Luther and Dr. Stresemann . This message came In reply to the explanation of Dr. Kempner of the German delegation , who was sent to Berlin to lay before President von Hindenburg and the German party leaders the tentative agreements reached at Loearno . Dr. Luther and Dr. Stresemann desired especially to have the other Berlin leaders approve the plan for German entry into the League of Nations , which requires a two-thirds vote of the Reichstag . Berlin 's response Is taken as completely satisfactory and it is believed that it brings the conference much nearer to w successful conclusion . So much had been made in Germany of pie Reich 's need for reservations on the League military duties that the delegates here considered it aii.isable  --  and perhaps it was In aceye dance with their promises  --  to submit thy scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . but with the promise of the allied nations , as League members , to recommend that In arty allotment of military duties full ccnsi ( lcration would be taken of the particular position of Germany due to the Ind.:lly clauses of the Treaty of VerI : r . Luther sent word that he thought Germany- was protected in this manner , and tonight 's reply indicates that President von Hindenburg approves fully the Rhineland compact . It is the President 's approval which gives Chancellor Luther a good weapon to use in meeting possible Nationalist opposition in the Reichstag . Chamberlain Foresees New Era . Meanwhile the conference had largely marked time awaiting the German reply . Mr. Chamberlain gave an interview tais morning in which he said he believed no country , no Government , no party leader dare take the responsibility for preventing Locarno coming to a successful conclusion in making a treaty which he declared would be " a watershed between war and peace . " Tho British Foreign Secretary characterized the Locarno meeting as one of the most momentous ever held and predicted that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The jurists continued their work today drafting the Eastern arbitration compacts between Germany and Poland and Germany and Czechoslovakia . The latter appears almost finished , whereas there still remain difficulties with respect to the document to be signed by Berlin and Warsaw . While each side denies being responsible for the trouble , one thing seems true ; namely , that the trouble comes with respect to the Dantaic corridor . On the one hand the Poles wish to exclude from arbitration any territorial issue in order to prevent the corridor going to arbitration , and on the other hand they are afraid Germany will make war about the corridor if it is simply left out of the compact . Therefore , a formula is being sought by the Poles which will bind Germany definitely not to fight about the corridor without giving Poland an opportunity to bring the issue to arbitration . The Poles easily justify this stand by saying that their frontiers are fixed by the Treaty of Versailles , which all parties agree is not to be affected by I any agreements made at Locarno . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion , which , all other things aside , simply does not aerept Polish corridor as a permanent arrangement . There were a good many private conversations on the subject today , but it is not known whether as sue , . ' . tssful formula has yet been found . Tonight 's reply from Germany practi- I catty assures the Rhineland compact , since no important dispute remains concerning it . The completion of this treaty finishes the work of the English here , as they are taking no part in the compacts between Germany and her eastern neighbors . But since Mr. Chamberlain has agreed to stay until the end it is thought be will now bring pressure to bear to try to end the work of the meeting this week . The French say . however , that It will possibly go over until the beginning of next week . Tonight I asked a distinguished French statesman what he thought of the situation . Ile answered : " When Hindenburg agrees that Ger- many ought not to go to war again we are getting somewhere . " Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . " Premier Mussolini will arrive in Locarno tomorrow to be present at the signature of the Rhineland compact . which Italy , with England , is guaranteeing . Oying to the presence around Local ? no of many refugees from Fascist rule the authorities have taken ample preparations to protect the Fascist chief against hostile demonstrations . During his sojourn he will occupy a villa outside Loco rno.                     