@@695418

txt Here are two Frenchmen with characters as opposite as were their ideals . One sacrificed self for country ; the ether sacrificed country for self . Mr. Sedgwick achieves more than a biography in his life of Lafayette : he writes of the stirring days of the American revolution ; ho gives most interesting glimpses of George Washington and his friendship for Lafayette ; and he . depicts France from the Period before the reign of terror to the revolution of 1830 . ' In recounting the days of the Frenchman who gave so much for American liberty he must necessarily paint in the backdrop of history , for Lafayette was un outstanding figure on two continents . Born with a love of freedom and spending his entire life in ILs cause , both at home and in our country , this French nobleman also believed in law and order and gradual reform . For many months during the early days of the French revolution ' he steered a lonely and perilous course between the loyalists on one hand and the radical revolutionists on the other . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European monarchs considered his republican ideals dangerous to their thrones . He was afraid neither of Louis .. XVI. , Napoleon , nor Metternich . This biography Is an important book for . all Americans . Lafayette was godfather of our freedom , a man whose generosity to our struggling t'ttle " ration will never be forgotten . We are grateful for this fine account of his life because of the position he occupies in history , but more especi ally because he was our gallant and layal friend , and because , straight down the years , we remember . The figure of Louis XIV . of France has always been a conspicuous one in the history of Europe , since It tsmii this " most Christian king by trace of God , , of France and Navarre " who established the pomp and luxury of the French court and the endless core monies of etiquette for the satisfaction et ' his own ego . This glory ; destined ' to be copied by all the reigning heads of ' Europe , was responsible in late : years for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else , Mr. Forester emphasizes the selfishness of the king woo dragged France into the mire of financial ruin in order , to give expression to his own whims and those of the Marquise de Maldtenon , the Marquise de Montespan and ? other women who controlled his life . Ot great amusement are the many personal details of etiquette for which ' Louis was such a stickler . The nobles vied with each other to see who should hold his coat when he dressed , who should be present when he ate his breakfast , etc . And such honors were rot freely given . The political lenders , and the bloody , ruthless wars of the king-for personal gain are presented capably by the taithor and make the downfall of autocracy seem Inevitable .                     