@@691604

txt Alarm lest the agitation in China should become antiBritish rather than anti-foreign was expressed by Mr. Lloyd George in the debate over the Chinese disturbances in the Commons today . He urged the Government to be sure that other powers acted in concern with them in any  - -  action which might be taken in China , and was reassured by Mr. Chamberlain , who declared that this has been in his mind from the start . The evening resolved itself less into a debate on the Government 's handling of the Chinese situation than into a discussion as to the causes of . the disturbances . Labor speakers held that terrible industrial conditions in Shanghai were mainly responsible for the outbreaks . The Foreign Secretary , while admitting that there was much room for improvement in this respect , declared that the disturbances were assignable in the last analysis only to the break up of the Central Chinese Government . He announced that England is approaching other powers to expedite the approaching Chinese tariff conference provided for by the Washington conference with a view to finding the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was opened by C. P. Trevelyan , ex-Minister of Education in the Labor Government . Evidence , he said , had been given by American missionaries that the Shanghai crowds were fired upon without provocation . and that it is the Government 's duty , after securing the lives of its subjects , to bring home the responsibility for the tragedy . The Chinese felt that they were being governed by economic exploiters and the powers evidently realize that extraterritorialityin China is eventually doomed . He asked whether the forthcoming conference on Chinese tariffs could not be extended to cover the question of extra-territoriality . The root cause of the trouble , he concluded , is the rifle of forty-nine of the greatest cities of China by foreigners . Mr. Chamberlain said that the evil conditions in Shanghai are admitted and that the British Government no later than June 10 had pressed for the adoption of humane regulations by the Shanghai Municipal Council . However , an elementary sense of perspective would show that the present troubles originated in the break-up of the centralized autocratic Government and the substitution of rudimentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested powers . They agreed to help China and composed their own differences as the first step , but China has proved more difficult to help than had been expected . Her disorganization had increased and it has been difficult to find any Government there to deal with . Therefore , a watching though not a valueless policy had alone been possible . The very first and only immediate step , said Mr. Chamberlain , was to protect British lives and property and to hold the Chinese Government responsible for injury to either . But the causes of the trouble were more than the strike in a Japanese factory . General poverty and insecurity , owing to ' civil wars , had created a. discontent which it was to the interest of certain forces to direct toward a revolution against foreigners . There could be no doubt that they had been only too successful . Defends Order to Fire . " Whatever were the factory conditions , " continued the Foreign Secretary , " they did not justify the offense Of a murderous mob calling ' Kill the foreigrier and attacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my present information , it was not until the police station was in danger with all the arms it contained was the order to fire given , and if that is the case the order saved bloodshed instead of causing it . " His Majesty 's Government and the other Governments concerned , and let it be remembered that in these matters it is an international body that is acting in Shanghai and Peking , were acting with more knowledge than any one in this House under circumstances the responsiblity of which none here could relieve them . Let them be given credit for moderation and humanity , for a desire for a peaceful issue out of these disastrous troubles . " We are all agreed that there should be the , fullest and frankest inquiry . In the meantime I beg the House not to pass judgment in advance of receiving the evidence . " Mr. Chamberlain then made his announcement of the Government 's desire to expedite the approaching Chinese tariff conference . He add that this might be helped or hindered or even made impossible according to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether it proved to be an attitude of good faith and conciliation or the reverse . " In so far as the Chinese Government and local authorities fail to show good faith by repressing agitation , there are places where a word from the Governor has prevented all this agitation , and the steps to hasten the conference become more difficult . I trust , therefore , not only that among the great Powers a spirit of conciliation and helpfulness may be found , but that among the Chinese - we shall meet a similar spirit of conciliation and good will . " Mr. Lloyd George blamed the foreign Powers for the breaking up of the central authority in China by the barbarous methods pursued in suppressing the Boxer movement . " I am glad to hear that this country has no intention of taking isolated action in China and is going to insist upon the cooperation of all the Powers , " he added . " The real danger is that agitation in China might become not so much antiforeign as anti , British . That might suit other Powers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Powers joining any action that might be taken . " Mr. Chamberlain interposed to say that that had been his policy throughout . Mr. Lloyd George then said that what made the Chinese problem more difficult was the fact that the Anglo-Japanese Alliance had made a great impression throughout the whole Far East . When external Powers took fortynine Chinese cities , giving them no share in the Government of these cities , while at the same time they entered into an alliance with another race just across the water on perfectly equal terms , they were bound to get agitation in China . Lloyd George Blames America . Another factor was the use America had made of her . Boxer indemnity , although the work was initiated with the best intentions- Among . the thousands of young Chinamen educated in entirely Western ideas were those who are not merely discontented but became leaders of discontent . Mr. Ramsay also agreed that the trouble in China is not purely a police affair , nor originated solely in industrial causes . It arose from a simultaneous ' and amazing spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , looked upon the disgraceful sweating going on and became sick and angry at heart . For the rest , he agreed with the Government 's policy . Mr. Chamberlain rose . to thank the Opposition for their support , which was vociferous  --  exception was immediately taken by the Socialist back benches ? and to remind them that the British mills were the best in Shanghai and had agreed to enforce ameliorative conditions next                     