@@692757

txt Shortly before the outbreak of the British general strike the Independent Labor Party declared emphatically for the policy of " Socialism in our time . " RAMSAY MACDONALD was not among those present . Re was avowedly not a revolutionary Socialist . He was not a Socialist in a hurry . If his Left Wingopponents now wish to raise the question whether he is a Socialist at all , they may find a basis for argument in Mr. MACDONALD 'S comments on the lessons of the general strike in THE Toms of last Wednesday . He may be accused of heresy as to one of the fundamental tenets of Marxianism , the class struggle . The former Labor and Socialist Prime Minister ' writes : Never again should we allow a trade dispute affecting the whole life of the nation to drift to a crisis without in good time some authority stepping in and guiding it away from disaster . For Mr. MACDONALD this viewpoint is nothing new . But formulated so definitely it marks a sharp break with the traditional Socialist doctrine . That doctrine is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In its extreme . form it describes the organs of national life , and particularly the State . as a device of the capitalists for the enslavement of the workers . It is quite true that the World War elicited among workers and Socialists in every country a lively manifestation of that capitalistic thing called patriotism . But the attempt has been made to justify such aberrations by arguing that in fighting for their country the workers were fighting for their own class interests . It is not a very convincing defense . The fact remains that when Socialists speak . of . the , national interest and the public interest they do not speak in the old terminology . Mr. MACDONALD refers to " trade disputes " and to the " passions ' as well as the rights of the workers . Once upon a time Socialists would not have referred to a stake as a trade dispute . They would have described it as an uprising of the disinherited and oppressed . The denial of class antagonism is reaffirmed when Mr. MACDONALD asserts that " the sharp division between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That again is heresy . In the older doctrine there could be no obliteration , no bridging of the " division . " It was an irrepressible conflict between the " exploiters " and the " exploited . " The misunderstanding between the worker and his employer was as fundamental as the " misunderstanding " between the house owner and the burglar . The latter had taken what belonged to the former , and the problem was entirely one of securing the restoration of the stolen property and preventing the repetition of the offense in the future . Emphasis on reconciliation between managers and ' Workers in industry places Mr. MACDONALD much nearer to the British coal owners than it does to KARL MARX . The evolution of this particular British Socialist is not to be explained in terms of the British temperament . Even before the war a change was coming over the Marxian dream , and since the war it has moved forward - with tremendous speed . In Mr. MACDONALD 'S statement , " A " more- enliiiitened study of trade re " quiivie4445 concentrating attention " ** summed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned with distribution . The proletariat was robbed of the social product which it created . The " exploiter " battened on stolen profits . But even before Russia came around to show what " distribution " can do without production the world had begun to suspect that the welfare , of the proletarian depended much less on his " just share " of the social product than on the amount of such product available for distribution among the community as a whole .                     