@@690809

txt Hope of bringing the Army and Navy game to Chicago next fall was materially strengthened today when Representative Fred A. Britten Rep. , Ill. arrived here for a conference with Secretary of War Weeks relative to this question . Congressman Britten will lay two proposals before Secretary Weeks in the morning . He will ask that the Army and Navy game be held as the principal feature of the dedicatory program for Chicago 's new Grant park stadium and that the airplane Chicago which encircled the globe be placed in the Field museum as a perpetual historical exhibit . In both requests Congressman Britten will have the full support of Representative Martin B. Madden Rep. , ill. as well as of army and navy officers of high rank . 1926 if Not 1925. " conferred with Representative Madden today and he is with us heart and soul in this matter , " Representative Britten said . We think the prospects of bringing the Army and Navy game to Chicago are extremely good . If we can not arrange for the game to be held there next fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Capt . Waldo Evans , commandant at Great Lakes , is working with us . He has said he believes the holding of the game in the middle west will be a great boost for naval recruiting in that section of the country . I run sure Admiral Moffett will also be with us in this request . " Want Coolidge to Attend . The American Legion , which appealed to the board of south park corn . missioners to dedicate the stadium as a ' memorial to Chicago 's dead in the world war , is also working to bring the game to Grant park . A part of the plan is to invite President Coolidge to attend the game and deliver the dedication address . Mr. Britten will ask Secretary Weeks for permission to have the airplane Chicago left In that city after the Armistice day celebration . According to the original plan the plane was to arrive on Nov. 9 , but this may have to be changed In order that the round the world aviators might arrive In Chicago in time . It is possible the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ill . ARROWS PLAY SUNDAY . Tho ' Wentworth Arrows , who hare won seven straight games this season . Sunday will test their strength with their former ' . rival . Rosebud Jr. , who likewise has had a ! nondefeat season . This game will be played at Palmer Park .                     