@@688638

txt Chicago has no night court , but in the downtown loop , in the wealthiest ward in the world , it has police dungeons that at times rival the Black Hole of Calcutta . Here small offenders are herded with hardened criminals . Often , too , innocent bystanders who have perhaps stepped into a poolroom to get warm or to buy a cigar just as the police have rounded the corner on a raiding expedition , spend a night and maybe Sunday also . if it happens to be the week-end , under conditions little short of appalling . If they are without friends and without money enough , in the case of misdemeanors , to put up a cash ball or to pay a straw bondsman a fat fee , they are clear out of luck . The country boy or the floating laborer sticks in jail until he can be taken into court next day , when his case is probably disposed of in three minutes . Habeas Corpus Tool for Criminals . ' The professional criminal , on the other hand , finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can let his gang outside know he has been pinched . A hurry-up call for a lawyer , a trip to a judge at his home , -a writ of habeas corpus , and the habitual criminal if again at large and ripe for another Job Long ago habeas corpus . became mart used as abUlwark feetirgazilzed than as a safeguard for society7 ? it , invoked by prOfessional crime mon often than by any other element , , any good policeman will admit . . Years ago Chicago had a night coot ? in fact , it was twice tried  --  and eact time discontinued for some reason of other . Some of the judges objected to being torn from their siippered ease at night . Others went to the theater when business was dull in the early evening hours . The night court faded away . New City Around Old Jails . Since then Chicago 's population has grown a million or so ; the police are more active , roundups are more frequent , while the police station Jails in the congested sections are just as vile and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised whether a night court should not again be established . Michael Hughes , chief of detectives ? is among those who declare a night court might prove a distinct advantage . He says it would not interfere in his operations against crime , while it would perhaps alleviate conditions for some , classes of prisoners who are entitled to juster treatment . Chief Justice Harry Olson of the Municipal court also is considering the question , while at Springfield a bill h as been introduced - for a court that will sit nights , Sundays , and holidays . The police jails in Chicago have the reputation of being the worst in the state , and those down town are the worst in the city . A few years ago a former president of the International Prison congress , after inspecting some of Chicago 's jails in the loop district , told Judge Olson that in all the prison history of the world he had found no prisons so vile , with the exception of the-jails of Turkey of the twelfth century . He may have been stretching it a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loathsome . No Way to Ventilate . Worst c:f the lot , perhaps , is the basement dungeon of the detective bureau in La Salle street , half a block from the city hall .. Here the visitor stumbles down a wooden stairway into a dank basement . There are five iron cells in a row , each about 6 feet by 8 feet . They face a wall In which are small darkened windows , and off to one side is another window . There is nc way of ventilating the interior of the cells . and daylight ? never penetrates It is bad enough to linger in Hilt hole when only a few prisoners are it the cells , but when the jail begins to till up at 10 or ' 11 o'clock at night , I becorfies abominable . The detective : denounce it as a plague spot . Yount and old , first offender and habitua Criminal , the physically clean and tin diseased are all packed together , otter so tightly that most of the prisoner are forced to stand up all night . Th4 turnkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had stood on his feel from Saturday night until Monde ; morning , unable to sit on the fool even . And in court the youngster wal dismissed . Nearly every night from sixty to 121 men are locked up in the cellroom . Re cently after one raid , forty men had t.4 be locked into one cell , with a floo area of about forty-eight feet . It seem : incredible , but the lockup keeper In sisted the figures were right . Thu meant each man has standing room o missing page                     