@@691620

txt At the first meeting of the International Chamber of Commerce at Brussels , the President , M. DESPRETS , a leading banker , took occasion to question the financial soundness of the Dawes plan . His doubts concerned not its justice , but its feasibility . How could such vast sums be transferred from one country to another ? It is easy to say that debts must be paid , but the creditor must accept either goods or services , since cash is out of the question , and the necessary moves are likely to play havoc with the foreign exchange market . This revival of speculative doubts , often expressed before , seems doubly ill timed . It follows too quickly on the heels of the first report . of the Agent General for Reparations , Mr. PARKER GILBERT , who states that the exchange transactions were effected without the slightest difficulty . Very true , the sums to be transmitted are as yet only a fraction of what will be paid over eventually , if the Dawes plan is faithfully lived up to . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the amount now transferred would sadly dislocate foreign exchange . Another reason why the remarks of N. DESPRETB seem maladroit at the present moment is that his own country has just negotiated a large loan in the United ' States . Would he Intimate that there can be any difficulty in Belgium meeting her interest payments on these bonds simply because the intricate and delicate nature of foreign exchange makes the transfer of such large sums from one nation to another almost impossible ? There is no use in saying that the thing can not be done when it is being done under our very eyes . The Brussels banker can not be ignorant of the detailed report on the balance of international payments to the United States ' during 1924 prepared for the Department of Commerce . In that official compilation the value of American investments abroad at the end of 1924 was estimated to be a total of $5,250 , - 000,000 for industrial and other securities , together with $3,840,000,000 in obligations carrying a Government guarantee . In both classifications there has since been an increase . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart from the war debts , there was paid during 1924 at the lowest figure no less than $455,000,000 in interest . This great amount was passed along without , so far as reported , producing a ripple in the foreign exchange market . The plain inference . would seem to be that the banks and financiers charged with the conduct of this business know how to do it without disturbance . We are aware of the difference between what has been done and what remains to be done on a larger scale . A part of the foreign loans negotiated here has , we know , been held as an available credit in American banks . But when all is said , and every allowance made , it appears indubitable that the method thus far employed is sound , and that it can be largely extended . M. DESPRETB may think the thing is impossible , but there it stands as an assured fact .                     