@@696591

txt The feature event of ' 1 the 1929 air races , the closed course ! fifty-mile free-for-all race , was won here this afternoon by a commercial ; plane . The race marked the first open competition between military and civilian fliers and - planes since the early Pulitzer races seven years ago , and today the army and navy stars saw a little-known commercial pilot , Douglas Davis , 24 , of Atlanta , flash past them to set up an unofficial world 's record for commercial planes on a closed course . Davis flew the much-heralded Travelair " mystery " monoplane , built in secret at Wichita under the personal supervision of Walter Beech , president of the Travelair Aircraft Company . His time for the fifty-mile event , flown in five laps on the triangular twelve-mile course , was 14 minutes 5 9-10 seconds . His average : Teed for the course was 194.9 miles an hour , or better than three miles al minute . Army Plane Finishes Second . I Captain Gale Breene , engineering officer at Wright Field , Dayton , flew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made the course in 14 minutes 42 14-100 seconds , and he averaged 186.84 miles an hour . His plane was a Curtiss Hawk pursuit , powered - with a 425-horsepower Wasp motor and cowled by a special Venturi cowling developed by Major ! Breene in the army laboratories at Wright Field . Another commercial plane . a Wasppowered Lockheed-Vega , flown by Roscoe Turner of Los Angeles , placed third . His time was 16 minutes 48 7-10 seconds , and his average 163.44 miles an hour . Close behind Turner came the navy ' entry , a Curtiss Sea Hawk powered with a Curtiss D-12 engine cooled with the new chemical cooling developed by the army . Lieutenant J. J. Clarke flew the little fighting machine around the fifty-mile course in 17 minutes 55 seconds . His average was 153.38 miles an hour . Other Finishers . Behind these four , all of whom made faster time than any of the winners in the other races during the eight days of the 1929 national air races , were : Fifth . H. S. Myhres in a Whirlwind-powered Simplex , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cessna . The navy flier was first to get away . Clarke banked sharply and sped away for the first leg at a tremendous rate . Turner and his Lock-. heed sped after him , and then came Breene with his air-cooled army Hawk . Then Doug Davis took the air , his little monoplane with but a thirtyfoot span fairly leaping from the ground . His engine , a Whirlwind 300. was turning up better than 2.000 revolutions and the metal propeller sung like a siren as it cut the air . Davis whipped his tiny plane around the first pylon and began eating up the miles between his machine and the speeding leaders . Down on the line striding up and down was Walter Beech , builder of the plane , a cigar stub clinched in his teeth . Beech had been predicting openly that he was coming to the air races this year to " lick the army and the navy . ' Cuts Pylon . Goes Back . Before a single lap had been flown his predictions appeared likely to be true . but on the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistake before going on , hoWeve ? , and circled the course stake , losing precious moments and making sure that he would not be ruled out . The others gained ' almost a mile on him , but he soon made it up and his next lap clocked at ' the rate of 208 miles an hour . the fastest ten miles on a closed course ever made by a commercial plane . Even to the spectators the speed of the little Travelair was apparent . Davis did not cut the pylons as closely as the army and navy planes , but in spite of flying around the corners on a wider curve his speed made no for the greater distance he had to go . At the finish Breene was the first to cross the line , with the Travelair right behind him . Roscoe Turner 's Lockheed was next and then Clarke zoomed over the line in the navy entry . The last day of the 1929 air races saw a gathering of celebrities . Dr. Hugo Eckener , who last week crossed the airport late at night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leg of its round-the-world ' flight , and Governor Myers Y. Cooper of Ohio sat in the distinguished guest box . They arrived just as the Navy High Hats flew past in nine-plane formation , each group of three planes tied together with the ribboned . manila lines . Dr. Eckener had a somewhat trying time attempting to acknowledge introductions , pose for the camera men and watch the manoeuvres of the navy fliers all at once . He stayed for more than an hour and then left aboard the Goodyear Zeppelin Company 's non-rigid airship Defender for Akron . He received a stirring ovation as he rode past the stands sitting up on the folded top of the back seat of his car . Colonel Lindbergh , who. with Mrs. Lindbergh , had been watching the air races from their car near the navy headquarters . came down the field to greet Dr. Eckener just before the airship floated off . Lieutenant Alford J. Williams of the navy and Lieutenant James H. Doolittle of the army again demonstrated their unique abilities in defying all the conventional rules of airplane flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From about 3.000 feet , with his nose pointing straight toward the earth , he spun the Hawk for five complete turns and pulled out nearly 1,000 feet closer to the ground . Doolittle repeated his lightninglike dives of yesterday and in his loops mixed barrel rolls at the top and on the side of the loop . These two pilots won more spontaneous applause from the crowd than any of the other performers of the day . Colonel Lindbergh , who has given his time exclusively to the air races for six days . went up for a farewell exhibition with his navy comrades , Lieutenants F. Kivette and F , A. O'Bierne . They looped , rolled and slipped their planes about the sky in formation with perfect timing . The army pursuit group from Selfridge Field gave their farewell performance , ending with a dive across the stands in an eighteen-plane formation , and flew off for their home station in Michigan . This morning the seven bombers from Langley Field and Major John Jouett 's eighteen-plane attack squadron from Fort Crockett . Texas , illustrated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the air in the next war . The trimctored transport plane i ace , which had been postponed from day to day because of a full program . was won this afternoon by Waldo Waterman of Los Angeles in a Bach Air Yacht . Another Bach , flown by Bill Brock of the transatlantic team of Brock and Schlee , was second , and a trimotored Fokker , piloted by Michael Giston. was third and last . The time for the winner in this 25-mile race was not announced tonight . Brock and Waterman announced that the prize money in this event would be turned over to the widow of Jack Reid , the endurance flier who died in a crash after winning a world 's solo record last Friday morning . The combined purse amounted to $800.                     