@@696307

txt Professional pressure and profit taking came into the market again at various times yesterday , but despite periods of irregularity , the tone of the leading issues could be described as steady to firm . Resistance was again encountered when stocks receded from their highest , and there was considerable short covering by interests who were disappointed that the market was not reacting more sharply when rellmg developed . There were several outstanding features , including American Locomotive and Bethlehem Steel which rose to new highs for the current advance on buying based on the prospects for these companies- Hahn Department Store also was remarkably strong , the recent accumulation having reduced the floating supply , so that short covering found offerings smaller than in some time . Can money renewed and held at SO ' , throughout the session- However , it was reported that as low as had prevailed outside the Stock Exchange , indicating an easier situation for the moment . Some conservative observers have been impressed with the resistance shown in the leading issues and state that if this opposition to lower levels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good general recovery . However , these interests are still advising great discrimination in making buying selections , and favor selling stocks which have been lagging . Optimists still recommend followers to buy good stacks on small recessions on the theory that the next important movement will be a recovery when the readjustment now in progress has been completed . Trading Professionals and floor traders , seeking to start a set-back , have been pressing stocks for sale and this has more than offset the short covering . so that this element sold on balance yesterday . Commission houses reported an increase in the outside demand , particularly w hen stocks receded and were buyers on balance . There was some public profit taking , but it was not unusu ' ally large . Business Reports on business conditions which have been received in financial quarters in recent weeks have been satisfactory . The steel output has continued large with a good demand ; cop'per interests anticipate a big export demand ; it is admitted that the reduction in the automobile industry has been smaller than the bears have anticipated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average . It is. therefore , the contention in optimistic circles that the trade fundamentals aril sound . Credit Many authorities believe there will be periods of strain in the credit situation in the coming weeks because of the heavy demands which will be made upon the banks for the various extraordinary requirements running into July . However , after these needs have been provided for it is considered nrobable that the credit situation will ease . Margined Accounts One factor which has prevented liquidation on a large scale has been the excellent condition of many of the margined accounts . Weak holdings were thrown over during the break of several weeks ago and additional funds were provided for many accounts . As a result , the efforts of bears to bring about a sharp drop by drives against the market have not been highly successful , because outside liquidation has been comparatively small . Rights The amount of corporation financing which must be taken care of by present holders of securities through subscription rights in the next few weeks is unusually large . In many instances holders of stocks have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the funds must be forthcoming . On Friday , holders of Pennsylvania rights will subscribe for Pennroad Corp . stock . Other dates for the expiration of rights are : Allegheny Corp .. June 17 ; Anaconda and Beth ' lehem , June 18 ; Baltimore &; Ohio , June 20 ; United States Steel Corp .. June 21 : American Telephone and Chesapeake &; Ohio , July 1 , and International Telephone . July 5 . Baltimore &; Ohlo Baltimore &; Ohio is probably being held down by the fact that rights are ' on the stock . When these are out of the way it is probable the issue will do much better . Net operating income this year has been 36 ' , greater than in the corresponding period of 1928. which will more than offset the ; i 5increase in the capital stock . The road is looked upon as the probable nucleus of an important consolidation which will include the Reading . Central Railroad of New Jersey and other lines . Eric Preferreds Erie preferred stocks have been meeting good buying from time to time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done for the holders in the not distant future , particularly in view of the excellent results which have been shown in earnings in recent months . Bethlehem Steel Action of Bethlehem Steel has been impressive recently , even during periods when other stocks were inclined to react . Demand has come from several important commission houses and is based on knowledge that earnings of the company are making a remarkably goocj , showing . With prospects of as much as $7 a share on the 2.400.000 shares to be outstanding in the first half of this year , and with the outlook for $12 or more a share in 1929 it is maintained that Bethlehem is selling out of line with other industrials . Officials of the company are known to be decidedly optimistic regarding the future . Pullman Pullman , as the second largest car builder , with plant capacity of 45,000 freight cars , 1,80() passenger coaches , 450.000 car wheels and more than 25,000 tons of ? castings annually , in addition to its repair departments , should benefit handsomely from the increased car buying which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many authorities expect will continue comparatively good in the coming months . The company also has excellent revenues from the operation of its cars . Pullman has paid dividends uninterruptedly since 1867 and this fact ig oeing commented upon by some of the recent buyers . Motors It is quite surprising that pressure comes into many of the motor stocks from time to time . Part of this selling has been from traders who are bearish on the group , but there has also been liquidation by outsiders who have become disappointed because of the inability of these , stocks to rally with others . Pan American Pan American is expected to be one of the leaders in the oil group when strength develops . This stock has indicated steady accumulation in recent weeks , the buying being apparently based on the fact that the management is planning to make the company a big facto : - in the refining industry . Woolworth May sales of Woolworth were at the rate of more than $1,000,000 daily . This average , it ' kept up . would bring the total for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such a figure will be reached . but conservative estimates are that between $310.000,000 and $315,000,000 will he shown in 1929 . Some quiet buying has come into Woolworth recently from interests who were active in the stock in the past . International Cement A prominent commission house which has often been active in International Cement states that by virtue of advantageous location of plants and close control of costs earnings this year should equal or exceed the results for 1928 . Highly competitive conditions in the industry . however , may continue to necessitate maintenance of a conservative dividend policy , but this year 's operations should strengthen the company 's financial position . Lima Locomotive Strength of American Locomotive has resulted in bringing a demand into Lima recently . The feeling is quite general that the engine business this year will continue excellent and as buying by railroads conies in periods it is also possible that 1930 will be much more favorable than the lean years just passed for the locomotive builders . Lima should get its share of the going business and this has been a factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed on Atlantic Refining believe that earnings for this quarter will show substantial improvement over the first three months . They have been quietly accumulating the stock on recessions in recent weeks in anticipation of a bullish demonstration later in the year . Newton Steel Optimism on Newton Steel in certain quarters is due to the belief that the plant expansion program , when completed , will put the company in a position to supply many of the automobile manufacturers with high grade sheets . The company 's mills are operating practically at capacity . Estimates are that the earnings for the first half of this year should be in the neighborhood of 56 a share . In the first quarter $2.57 a share was reported , and it is stated In these circles that the results for April alone were equal to ; 110 a share .                     