@@685098

txt There is a danger about " mating the world safe for democracy " . Democracy feels so safe that it goes to sleep . A large number of other interests , basically selfish , do not fail to take advantage of the opportunity , and democracy wakes up to find itself in serious danger . President Wilson , who originated this and other mouth-filling phrases , has never in practice concealed his contempt for democracy . It is only fair to him to say that his party Democratic following have , for the past seven years , thoroughly justified his contempt . Class government of any kind is the enemy of democracy ? and the word is here used in the broad American sense which implies that the party Republican can also be a true democrat . Twenty years ago the most dangerous threat of class government was that of capital , under the leadership of Mark Hanna . It received its first severe check from Roosevelt 's anthracite wage-dispute commission in 1902 , when President Baer of the Reading was shown that he was not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of hard coal . This lesson to the capitalist full of class consciousness was repeated in the insurance inquiry of Charles E. Hughes in 1905 . Within the next five years the pendulum had even swung unfairly in the opposite direction . Then with the advent of good times , after the depression of 1907 , union labor began to develop an anti-democratic class consciousness , leading to the arrogance which dictated the Adamson law to Congress , in 3916 . We probably saw the turn in the defeat of the steel strike , the collapse of the coal strike and the return of the railroads to their owners , in spite of everything the undemocratic American Federation of Labor could do . All such combinations as the Anti-Saloon League , farmers ' combinations exempted from the conspiracy laws , the American Legion playing politics for cash advantage , even " women 's parties " proposing to vote not as citizens but as women , ? hold a pistol at the head of democracy . So far , in the history of our country , the whole has been greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage which an organized minority holds over a nebulous and divided majority . The air is full of talk of new parties , combining selfish interests to blackjack the old parties , which have falteringly upheld the banner of representative government . Newspapers have been testing public opinion by offering prizes for planks in party platforms . Here is a weathered and seasoned plank , big enough and strong enough to make a platform in itself . It is unbelievahle .. that the Republican party will commit the incredible folly of rejecting it . Chicago Federal Reserve Bank forbids marriage to employes with salaries under 6125 per month  --  a restriction which in the past has tended to stimulate what it tried to prevent .                     