@@695822

txt A little more than a year after the Oklahoma Legislature attempted to convene itself for the purpose of impeaching Governor JOHNSTON , and was prevented from so doing by the State court and troops , a regular session is proceeding with the business . Hope had generally been expressed that the impeachment-ridden State would settle down and let the electors decide when Governors are to come and go . But fierce political feeling had been aroused , and the Legislature has taken the first opportunity to rid the Capitol of Governor JoHNSTON as it was rid of his predecessor , Governor WALTON . Against WALTON- the charges were supposed to have been inspired by the Klan , toward which the redoubtable " JACK " had made some gallery gestures . The accusations against JoHNSTON  --  now suspended from office  --  are based largely on " incompetence , " but beneath the surface are complaints ranging from the practice of mysticism to petticoat government . In October , 1926 , when Jon NSTON had been nominated by the Democrats , the dispatches said that he would neither affirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not been in office more than a week when the Senate staged a row over confirming his appointments of road commissioners , and already his secretary  --  Mrs. 0 . 0 . HAMMONDS  --  was being denounced for isolating the Governor . " The female Colonel House of Oklahoma " was the polite beginning of Senatorial remarks made about her in February , 1927 . Mrs. HAMMONDS is the wife of the State Health Commissioner and the mother of two children , but legislators who found her an insuperable bar to access to Governor JOIINSTON began to note the fact that her uncle " was a student of Yogi philosophy . " It was also asserted that the Governor himself had been attracted by Rosicrucian teachings . He had often explained that he signed bills at certain hours of certain days because of the favorable condition of the zodiac . The gossip spread ; tales of mystic seances in the Executive Mansion presided over by Mrs. HAMMONDS began to be heard all over Oklahoma . And to the end of December , 1927 , the legislative insurgents sought frantically to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State courts declared invalid and which the troops were twice called out to enforce . Both houses were barred from the Capitol by soldiers , and the Governor continued to announce that Mrs. HAMMONDS was a " fine little woman " and would not be required to resign . Senator H. TOM KIGHT once breathed the charge of " moral turpitude " against Governor JOHNSTON , but throughout the stormy sixty days little was openly said of this . The extra-legal activities ended in a victory for the Governor and the courts , and the revolters retired to their homes with fiery reminders that there was a regular session coming . Now Oklahoma 's politics and government are torn again by this war among Democrats . The general public there seems little excited , but business interests are hoping what the rest of the country hopes  --  that self-government in Oklahoma will become the settled practice before the State is much older .                     