@@694382

txt Gt-nius and Character , " by Emil Ludteiy . Thu-court , Brace oo ? with Emil Ludwig 's " Napoleon " and " William Hohenzollern " two of the most Popular biographies of the moment h one of them a pilenomenall y best seller " Genius and Character " is bound to be one of the most discusserl books of the sea son , nt least ? before its reading if not after it . The book ' Is a series of sketches of great men , tied together with a brilliant introductory essay on the writings of history , which is the outstanding sketch of the book . The others are something which may be rather new to Germany , but which have been old stories to readers of American books . at least ever since Camaliel Bradford wrote his first " psycographs . " Mr. Ludwig 's essays lack Mr. Bradford 's quality of information , Ludwig has approached each of his subjects intellectually and not In any sense either historically or biographically . His essays upon their lives are , in almost every case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critic . They presuppose a knowledge on the part of the reader of the facts of the life of each character . They interpret the genius rather than his character . Some of them are remarkable . The one about Rembrandt is a skilled piece of observation  --  that Rembrandt painted himself always and left In his canvases his autobiography , physically set forth in the changing faces of his characters . The one which records a conversation between Wilson and George Washington is the most brilliant of all of the sketches , it seems to me , for Ludwig , a German , theoretically removed entirely from the subtleties of Wilson 's reactions to his time , has stated probably more clearly and more vividly what Wilson 's Ideals were than has ever been done by one of Wilson 's own countrymen . But even that brilliant essay is nothing but words to any one who does not know beforehand tho essentials of the Wilsonian doctrine . It is remarkable that a foreigner could have written that particular sketch . Lenin , Rembrandt , and Balzac he Is more informative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Voltaire he does another brilliant piece of drawing with , in depicting eighteen tableaux of his life . He goes into the relationship between Schiller and Goethe without giving , at least to me , any real addition to the problem. , Gamaliel Bradford does the thing better than Emil Ludwig does it . As for the keen vividness of Lytton Strachey in his " Eminent Victorians , " " Genius and Character " has nothing in common with that except the method of dealing with great men in parvo . Mr. Ludwig has no wit . ' He Is a solid biographer . There is actualness and outspokenness on his pen , but no venom . Even Meade Minnegerode makes his dead men live more potently than Mr. Ludwig does in this book , and Meade Minnigerode has been , in his short biog. rahhies , often only cleverly superficial . Except in the three or four cases , Wilson , Voltaire , Rembrandt , and the essay on the writings of history , Mr. Ludwig seems a little heavy-handed . He hopes , as all biographers do , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth ; else , why should a biographer ever waste ink ? Tithe gives a patina to life which is the special blessing of biographers . Mr. Ludwig is a portrait painter , really , rather than a rapid sketch artist . He Is a recorder , not a critic . Tho method of the short biographical sketch demands too swift a tempo for his talent .                     