@@691714

txt President Coolidge 's attitude on the Chinese situation is that all the signatories to the Washington treaties and the extraterritoriality resolution should proceed under those agreements and do what they can to adjust conditions in China . It was explained today that the United States Government had not entered into an understanding , but that there had been an exchange of ideas on the situation in China  --  and the policy to be pursued in carrying into effect the action of the Washington conference . The Admini:tration voids that there should be no delay in this respect . The President believes such action would be he ' . pful in composing the riots against foreigners Rnd restoring order in China . in the exchange of ideas the United States insisted that the terms of the treaties and resolutions relating thereto should be rigidly adhered to . Great Britain objected to present action on extraterritoriality. it is pointed out , but when flu . United States Government called attention to the phrasing of the resolution , which does not bind the Governments to the recommeedations of the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed , agreed that the commission should function after the customs conference . This agreement , It is understood , provides that Great Britain shall accept the verdict of an impartial jury on the responsibility for the Shanghai riots . Technically speaking , therefore , no understanding has yet been concluded , but am accord tantamount to an agreement has been reached which promises to solve the present troubles In China and pave the way for the meeting of the customs conference and a study of extraterritoriality . France 's Delay Explained . The background of the reported discussion and the delay in adoption of the Nine-Power Treaty was sketched here today . It was explained that France held up ratification and action upon extraterritoriality until last week because of China 's refusal to pay Boxer indemnities to France in gold . When China wanted the conferences on extraterritoriality called France 's move was to refuse to ratify the treaty and act on the other subject . During this dispute the influence of the United States was exerted , with the result that China paid the Boxer indemnities in gold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry out the Nine-Power Treaty and the extraterritoriality resolution . The exchange of ideas , interpreted in Tokio dispatches as an understanding , followed . The anti-foreign riots in China had to be taken into account . Composure of the dispute between England and China was necessary , and it is believed the exchange of ideas has brought this about . Throughout the discussion the United States held that the terms of the Washington treaty and the extraterritoriality resolution should be followed . The accord said to have been reached , in which Japan also entered , included prompt action , but with the feeling by Great Britain that the study of extraterritoriality should be an evidence of good faith and that China had not progressed sufficiently for an abandonment of these rights in the immediate future . It was explained today that Great Britain and the United States are bound by treaties entered into in 1902 and 1903 to aid China in reforming its judicial system and bring it into accord with that of Western nations . In these treaties they declared they also were " prepared to relinquish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws . the arrangements for their administration and other considerations warrant " so doing . Summed up . the attitude of the American Government , explained by President Coolidge. is for strict observance of all agreements in the Washington treaties dealing with China 's problems and of the resolution relating to such questions . The exchange of ideas , interpreted as an understanding between the United States . England and Japan , dealt with the advisability of prompt action and considered whether some delay-might not be necessary . Believes Washington Is Informed . President Coolidge commented today on the suggestion advanced by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler that this country-should have a special envoy representing it before the League of Nations . The President 's view is that there is no need for a special representative with Ministerial rank to keep the United States informed of what is taking place there . He thinks that if Dr. Butler had made inquiries in Washington he would have found there all the information of interest to Americans that he is reported to- have found in Geneva . He feels that the Potted Stites is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's actions . Mr. Cn:ibrige expects to confer with all memo-rs of his Cabinet about subjects in their departments during his vacation . The Se. - retarles will come here from time to t:rne . One thing that now interests him is reorganization of the executive departments . While he has been able to save considerable money and bring about efficiency by combining some bureaus with the Department of Commerce , his authority is not extensive enough to make all the adjustments and reorganizations deemed necessary . He will consult with Cabinet members about these reorganizations so as to be prepared to recommend action by the next Congress on the pending Reorganization bill . Another subject that will be considered soon by Cabinet members and members of the United States Coal Commission is the threat of a hard-coal strike . It was said today that everything possible was being - done to prevent such a strike . ' John Have Hammond . Chairman of the United States Coal Commission , will consult with the President Thursday . Additional shipping legislation may be necessary to carry out the policy pf the Government respecting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of about 350.000.000 a year . The refusal of the Shipping Board to accept the bids obtained by Admiral Palmer , head of the Emergency Fleet Corporation , was explained to be due to the feeling by the board that the law was not complied , with In the offers , as there was no stip-ulation as to the use of the machinery , of the ships It was proposed to scrap . The law requires that when the machinery is bought as junk if shall be so used , and not used in new ships . Presldent Coolidge upheld the action of the board today . To Inspect Camp Devens . An Inspection of Camp Devens , where units of the National Guard and the Reserve armies are encamped , will be made by President Coolidge some time after his son John enters upon his training there in August . Young Coolidge now is at Plymouth with his grandfather . but is expected here soon for two weeks ' vacation ; before taking up his mfIit ry training . Discuss , on of the debt situation and the pr " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governments may be heard be President and Mrs. Coolidge during the session , of the Politieal institute at Williams College . Dr. Henry A. Garfield . President of the college , saw Mr. Coolidge tnd v and invited him to listen to these disussions . Learning that the feelings of the moving-picture onerators and photographers were somewhat ruffled when they were ordered . off the Mayflower last week when it sailed to inspect Fort Andrews . President Coolidge has invited them to be h 's sne-ial gs  --  ests tomorrow , when the Mayflower will cruise to Quincy , Mass.                     