@@693110

txt The Locarno treaties came into effect today . At 11 o'clock the representatives of the seven nations involved deposited the ratifications - of their respective Parliaments with the Secretariat General of the League of Nations and signed the act of exchange of ratifications . France was represented by M. Beard , Germany by Dr. Stresemann , Great Britain by Sir Austen Chamberlain , Belgium by M. de Brouck ? re , Italy by Signor Scialoja , Poland by M. Zaleski and Czechoslovakia by Dr. Ben es . The final paragraph of the treaties made at Locarno said they came into effect after the entry of Germany and after exchange of ratifications and their deposit at Geneva , the latter of these two steps having been taken today and the former when Germany entered the League last week , the Rhineland treaty and other compacts ; 271ade last October are now in force . Five Treaties Made at Locarno . There are five Locarno treaties . First and most important is the Rhineland guarantee treaty between France and Belgium . on the one hand , and Germany , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy . Second , the arbitration convention tween Belgium and Germany . Third , the arbitration convention between Belbium and Germany . Fourth , the arbitration treaty between Germany and Poland . Fifth , the arbitration treaty between Germany and Czechoslovakia The Rhineland treaty is characterized as the bare of the new European policy by the promise of France and Germany that they will in no case rstort to war against each other . It establishes the sanctity of the neutral zone along the Rhine , which neither France nor Germany may cross militarily except in the execution of a mission of the League of Nations . Germany and France , as well as Belgium , agree to arbitrate all differences arising between them . The League is made the judge of all allege tons id violation of the treaty . In execution of this treaty France and Germany are expected in the near future to hold a series of n -- -eiations looking to satisfying certain German wishes with respect to enforcement of the Treaty of Versailles . and in those conversations were begun here at Geneva in the last week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Locarno Conference the allied ? ars handed to the Germans a statement saying they would support a construction of Article 16 of the Covenant to the effect that Germany 's geographical position and military status woe id be taken into account 4-i a qsessing her duties under Article 16 . This matter will be discussed both here and at the December meeting of the Council . which , incidentally , ma : - be held . in Berlin . Concessions Sought by Germans . Among the concessions the Germans wish to obtain are sho : . ning of the occupation of the Rhineland , which , for part of that territory , has seven years to run , and a reduction in the near future of the effectives the Allies keep on the ' Rhine . In fact , this subject may be gone into very deeply in the months to come , for it is obvious that the maintenanc : by three League members of troops on the territory of another League member is one thing which promises to produce difficulties . Since the adoption of the Dawes plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintaining occupation has been to obtain execution of the military clauses of the Treaty of Versailles with respect to which the allied.au-1 thorities allege certain German de-1 faults . . It is understood that Dr. Stresemann desires to hold an early1 conversation with M. Briand looking to liquidation of this issue . However , just as Dr. Stresemann has to consider a national opinion which resents continuation of the occupation after Germany is a member of the League , so M. Briand has to take into account a very strong opinion , of which his Premier is the spokesman , which will not look kindly on any early and radical curtailment of the occupation period . It is quite likely that if the remaining military issues are settled ? as they will be  --  and there comes any general readjustment of international war debts by which the whole indebtedness may be settled by marketing German railroad and industrial securities , there will be good prospects of greatly reducing the time during which the allied troops will remain on the Rhine . Briand Hopeful of Accord . In a statement issued today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the course of talks which I hope to have with Dr. Stresemann we will seek the best means to make possible fertile cooperation between Germany and France in the spirit of the Treaty of Locarno . " It is very probable that we will examine questions concerning the occupation of the Rhineland and the un- finished execution of the disarmament clauses of the peace treaty . " We certainly all wish to see finished as soon as possible the activity of the Military Control Commission in Germany . But the date of its recall depends on when the different points of the convention of last November have been settled . " 1 do not doubt that if good-will is shown by both sides a result will soon be obtained for that rapprochement between Germany and France which is an essential condition of European peace . " Therefore pending various negotiations between the French and Germans relating to commercial treaties , the iron and steel combination , customs revisions , and so on . Doubtless in the minds of both Foreign Ministers their coming political conversations will be related to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compacts . Certainly the Locarno treaties will give bistorias something to write about . Either there will be a happy story of the keeping of perhaps the most remarkable peace compact ever made between two hereditary enemies , , or there will be a sorry story of violation of , . the most solemn pledges . Germany 's joining the League of Nations has not removed all the differences between her and France , but surely it would appear to have created a most excellent occasion to settle them . Pessimists say that if the Rhineland compact does not resist the stress the situation will be worse than if it bad not existed : But optimists do not see it that way . And both M. Briand and Dr. Stresemann are optimists.                     