@@695695

txt Action of the market was much less impressive than on the two preceding days . Stocks met increased profit taking on the early advances and thereafter there were periods of pronounced irregularity and lower prices . A. few outar.mil ? ng features of strength developed .. Packard was carried forward sharply in the last half hour and at one time showed an advance of 11 points from its initial quotation , but in the final few minutes it broke 14 points more rapidly than it . had moved forward . Money continued favorable and eased during the afternoon but this did not have as much effect on the market as expected . Probably the predictions that there would be periods of stringency again later in the month ? perhaps beginning late next week  --  were responsible for chilling the optimism which usually accompanies easier money after . a period of stringency . It is learned that some of those who had supported stocks late on Saturday and who added to their holdings at the opening Monday were actively disposing of their commitments during the early dealings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stocks can be reaccumulated at more favorable levels than those now existing . Sentiment is mixed . Conservative observers are cautioning against adding to long holdings , and most of them are actively urging the reduction of long accounts on the upturns . Because so many holders of stocks passed through an uncomfortable period while the reactions were in progress last week , it is reported there has been more response to these recommendations than neretofore . The element which has been consistently bullish , while admitting the market may have another period of liquidation during which weak accounts will be eliminated . are in favor of purchasing stocks on the setbacks for a new and =sustained advance which they expect to be started after the selling has entirely run its course . Trading Commission houses were again moderate sellers on balance . There was some new buying on the reactions by outsiders who had been out of the market and who were waiting far moderate setbacks to repurchase stocks . However , this demand did not equal the profit-taking by others . Professionals and floor traders , because of early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stocks toward the close . Indtlistrial Average After reacting more than 38 points from its high record , most of which decline occurred in the last three days of last week , the industrial average rallied slightly more than twelve points up to the close on Tuesday . Such a recovery is a normal technical development following a break as substantial as that encountered when the selling was in progress . It would not be out of line for the average to rally still further . In fact , chart students contend that as much as 50 , a or 60% of the loss could be regained before another wave of selling came into the market . This would mean that stocks could move forward for several more days . A View One large commission and wire house , in its advice to customers yesterday , said : " Sound though the business situation is , and encouraging as the industrial outlook may be , we do not believe the current time to be auspicious for the beginning of another extended bull movement . " We believe precedent will be followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeed the current recovery period . Thefeafter a series of up and down movements over a relatively narrow range are anticipated as stabilization occurs and accumulation progresses for the next phase of the bull movement . " We would await this period for the accumulation of stocks , since more attractive buying levels are then expected to be evident . " Volume Fact that the volume has been falling off since the rally is not considered highly encouraging by some of the bulls . It probably indicates that the greater part of the buying power came from professionals and others who had a short position and were covering . During periods of public participation the volume has been much larger than at present . Apparently outside buying has not been an important influence during the recovery . However , this might be explained by the fact that margins against accounts were materially reduced through the break and some of the public confidence raturally has been shaken . Profl t-Taking Profit-taking recommendations were numerous yesterday . Most conservative observers were in favor of reducing long holdings on the upturns because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction . They argued that stocks could be repurchased during such a decline at favorable levels for the next important upward movement . The Liquidation There is no doubt that liquidation was of recordbreaking proportions during the decline , but , compared with the previous participation on the long side while stocks were moving ahead rapidly , it was not abnormal . It is the belief of some students that the outside selling would have been much larger , but for the fact that so many had accumulated stocks at unusually low levels months ago and were in a position to maintain their holdings as their buying limits were not even approached on the break . Loan Agitation Agitation in Congress against brokers ' loans is likely to receive more attention in the coming weeks . While it is not expected that legislation will be adopted , the arguments are likely to be critical and many have some influence on sentiment , particularly if the market becomes irregular or reactionary . Rails Railroad shares are most in favor among the conservative investment firms . These houses are recommending the standard dividend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general market . They point out that the carrier group is still in a better technical position than industrials , because they have not been the mediums of the speculation which has existed in other departments . Merger rails also are well liked in quarters where the speculation in the market receives most attention . Baltimore &; Ohio That Baltimore &; Ohio will be one of the outstanding leaders of the rails is considered probable in responsible quarters . There has been persistent accumulation in the issue , particularly when the reactions were in progress , and this buying has been credited to interests who are confident regarding the outlook for the road , and who expect an increase in the dividend rate soon . In these quarters it is believed the buying of the stock will have been completed by the end of the year , and thereafter the issue is expected to be more responsive to any new demand which may develop . Southern Pacific Southern Pacific is one of the issues which has not been exploited in the recent advancing markets . This has kept the speculative interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as favorable because it is interpreted to meat ' that the technical position of the stock is better than exists in most others . Long-pull buying has been in progress from time to time . At present prices Southern Pacific yields a little less than 5% . ? Erie Houses which have been identified with the upturns in Erie in the past are again talking bullishly on the stock . They insist that good buying has come into the issue during the past three days and believe this Is preliminary to another demonstration . Packard Although there was heavy bear pressure against Packard during the general break from traders who inslated that the extraordinary advance previously had weakened the powers of resistance in the issue , the fact remains that Packard snapped back sharply as soon as the /11.411. g ? subsided . Short covering was an important faCtor in the subsequent advance- Action of the stock has been attracting a long following from outsiders . Many rumors have been circulated to explain the strength in the issue at times in the past , but confirmation has been lacking . International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advance but has moved ahead recently . Those who have been among the latest buyers are calling attention to the large increases in the gross and net earnings since 1921 . They also consider the acquisition of the Mackay systems as of vast importance for the future of the company and point out that the foreign fields offer opportunities for further almoit unlimited expansion Naturally all these factors should be reflected in the earnings of the future . Gold Dust That Gold Dust is continuing its plans for expansion and extension is indicated by the purchase of 40.000 shares , f Standard Milling stock . The company has been spreadng its activities for some time and it is reported that other companies will be acquired in the coming months . Knowledge of these plans was responsible for much of the buying which has come into Gold Dust- A. rumor is being circulated around Wall Street that the ultimate aim is a split-up in Gold Dust . Reynolds Tobacco Announcement of the 21e-for-1 split-up in Reynolds Tobacco came just as the market was in the midst of its sharp break last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nevertheless during the period of idling there was a good underlying demand for the issue rem interests who have been highly successful on the ong side in the past . Greene Cananea According to the discussions heard around the financial district there has been consistent accumulation in Greene Cananea for the account of western interests who were credited with many operations in other stocks in the past year or so . This buying reduced the floating supply to such an extent that the issue is likely to be more responsive than ever to any new demand . Public Service Among public utilities , Public Service is still the favorite in most quarters . The company 's steady improvement in volume of business and earnings has taken much stock out of the Street , particularly as many of the buyers of odd-lots have paid for the shares outright There is still buying reported from Philadelphia interests . This is viewed as significant by market students .                     