@@688457

txt A plan , under which an American commission would determine how much Germany should be required to pay the allies in repara lions , has emerged from the effort to find a way for extending American aid toward solution of the economic troubles of Europe . Although discussions of the proposal have , been kept thus far outside the formal channels of diplomacy , the ex change of views has developed a thor ough understanding that the United States , Great Britain , and Germany are all willing to assent to the creation of such a commission . The plan now is before Premier Poincare of France No Official Action . Washington officials , who from the beginning of the discussions have been unwilling to do more than hint that a way was being sought to assist in a European settlement , , refused today to discuss the plan for an American commission . Secretary Hughes , however , did issue a statement saying that the " government " had presented no " proposal . " The procedure by which all of those directly interested are sounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government authority behind it is the usual method employed in negotiations of great dealicacy . The plan for an American commis. sion first was disclosed early today in an Associated Press dispatch from London . The dispatch credited the Chamber of Commerce of the United States with having first laid the suggestion before Secretary Hughes , and it was learned here today that much of the actual discussion has been conducted on behalf of American industry by officials of the chamber . It became clear today that the business and officials groups have kept in close touch and that not only Secretary Hughes but Secretary Hoover and others high in the administration were fully advised of efforts made by President Julius H. Barnes of the chamber of commerce and business men in England , France , and Germany to find a formula for solution of the reparations problem . State Depailment Silent . Neither at the state department nor at offices of the chamber was there any inclination to deny the report from London telling of the plan . It is known that Mr. Barnes conferred last week with Secretary Hughes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to this conference , state department spokesmen said it would not be possible to do so . At the same time efforts to obtain a more detailed statement regarding Secretary Hughes ' denial of a governMent " proposal " also proved fruitless . The proposal to create a commission of American industrial leaders to measure Germany 's economic capacity seems to have been the expression among the business interests of all nations that such a course would be wise , since the United States is not a participant in Germany 's reparations . The allied premiere are to reassemble In Paris Jan. 2 and the present German moratorium expires Jan. 15 . It now appears that if the unofficial efforts to reach a basis of settlement prior to that time should prove unsuccessful the French premier prob .. ably would be in a position then to disclose the fact to his colleagues . In that event it would be logical , it is said , to expect another postpone-1 ment of the premiers ' discussions and probably some move toward a brief rttension of the moratorium period to permit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  