@@696297

txt Russell Gordon Smith , instructor in sociology at Columbia university , committed suicide this afternoon by Jumping from a thirteenth story window in the apartment of Mrs. Ethel Clyde at 914 Park avenue . Mr. Smith , who made his home in West 140th street , was 36 years old . Detectives attributed his act to despondency over ill health . He had suffered from a lung ailment ever since he had been gassed during the war , and only two months ago underwent a serious operation for it . Since that time he had been convalescing at Huntington , L. I. He returned to the city today and called upon his physician , Dr. Adrian Van S. Lambert . Dr. Lambert declined tonight to disclose what had transpired or the state of Mr. Smith 's health . ' Families Were Old Friends . After leaving the doctor 's office Mr. Smith proceeded to , the &Ming; where Mrs. Clyde has a duplex apartment occupying the twelfth and thirteenth floors . The Smith and Clyde families have been friends for many years . He was ushered into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said later that Mr. Smith showed no signs of agitation . He asked Swanson ' to bring him a glass of water . When the butler returned with the drink , Mr. Smith was not in sight . Swanson found an open window in the study and looking out saw Mr. Smith 's body in the courtyard below . First police record of ' the case asserted that Mr. Smith " Jumped or fell " and that no notes or other evidence of premeditation were discovered , but Detective John O'Shaughnessy said later that it was " a clear case of suicide . " lie said that marks of Mr. Smith 's rubber heels were visible on the cretonne covering of a radiator- in front of the window from which he plunged , showing that he had stepped upon it to reach the sill . On Faculty Five Years , Mr. Smith was a graduate of the University of Richmond , Richmond , Va. , in the class of 1911 , and obtained the degree of master of arts from Columbia in 1914 . He had been on the faculty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had forced him to give up his work temporarily this spring . He was married . His wife was said to be visiting her mother-in-law , Mrs. Robert M. Smith , in Richmond , Va . Mrs. Clyde , In whose apartment the tragedy took place , is the youngest daughter of William G. Clyde , founder of the Clyde steamship line . In 1907 she married MaJ. Ernest Gottfried vniimer of the German army , With her two sons , DOM pun , veruntaly , he she came to Now York in March , 1914 . Vollmer returned to Germany and Joined the field artillery . The following summer Mrs. Vollmer began suit for divorce , but before the action came to trial Vollmer was killed in battle in Picardy . Mrs. Vollmer obtained legal permission to resume her maiden name after this COUntU'il V40.110 ** ? J14 NEAL                     