@@686455

txt Develop . ments in the strike situation came about shortly before midnight and early this morning which brought new hope that the stoppage of work on the part of millions of men , set for 10 o'clock tonight , might yet be avoided . Frank Hodges , the miners ' Secretary , at a late meeting with a number of Members of Parliament , said the miners would discuss wages ? with the owners and the Government at once if the large issues of policy were separated from wages and would be considered later . Hodges 's offer to discuss wages if the larger issues  --  that is , a national wages board and a national profits pool  --  were separated from wages and considered later was immediately conveyed to the Prime Minister by the M. P. 's present at the meeting , and an informal talk was held - at Downing Street which lasted into the early hours of the morning . It is now considered that there is the greatest likelihood of the official peace conferences being fully resumed today . It was noticed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but refused to make any statement . Slightly different versions are given of the words used by Hodges in making his new offer . According to one version , he said : " Wages can be considered , provided they are not attached to permanent terms of settlement . " He added later , " We agree to consider any wage offer by the Government or owners , quite apart from the pool , that does not ' have the stamp of permanency on it . " Hodges said he would be prepared to agree to the appointment of an independent Arbitrator to consider the proper length of a temporary arrangement . He admitted some financial assistance would be necessary from the Government to secure the temporary settlement he suggested . Sudden Change in the Outlook . The Daily Telegraph 's Parliamentary correspondent says : " The view taken in the lobby was that the offer of Hodges means a ? distinot change of attitude on the part of the federation , and the members were inclined to attribute it to realization by the executive of the hopelessness of prolonging the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of a national pool was disposed of . The day closed with a fresh feeling of hope that it may now be possible to reopen negotiations . " The London Times says : " The Miners ' Secretary spoke at length , impressing many by his general argument , but by no means carrying conviction . Then in a single sentence he made his new offer and the meeting by instinct fastened upon it and hastened to publish it broadcast as they streamed away from the committee room into the lobby . It was realized by all that a firm basis had been secured for the dis- ? cussion fixed for noon today . The rank and file of the House of Commons had asserted themselves with decisive effect , A favorable position for resumption of negotiations had been secured and the black day ended in a most dramaao manner , with a message of encouragement to the nation . In recent history of Parliament there has been nothing so remarkable as the swift turn of events in the darkest hour . " Owners Invite Men to Confer . Almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of newspapers by the Coal Owners ' Federation addressed to the public and declaring that the coal owners again invited the miners ' representatives " to sit down with us to see what can be done to improve wage conditions of those classes of workers who would be most severely hit . " The public was asked to note that the coal owners " under present conditions were ready to sacrifice all our claims to a return on the industry and we will be content with a , monthly review of the position until circumstances improve . " Government control , it waY added , had left the industry bankrupt and the advertisement ' concluded : " We publicly extend this invitation to the miners to meet us and talk things . over . What else can the owners do ? " Lord Gainford , a member of the Central Committee of the Mine Owners ' Association , discussing their advertised invitttion to the miners to meet them and talk things over , said : " I might say we could not make a more honest or sincere efforrto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the mine owners are prepared to hand over any profit there might be on their mines in the immediate future . We are only too anxious to meet the men 's leaders to discuss the best standard by ' which wages in the industry may be readjusted . and we always have been . We have Met them in the past and the meetings have been very amicable , but they have never agreed to meet us on this one question of a wage scale . " It is suggested this invitation was issued as a result of the meeting between the M. P. 's and the mine owners which preceded the similar meeting between the M. P. 's and miners . The mine owners stated their case for the wage reduction and several papers assert they did not enlist a great amount of sympathy . The Daily Mail says there was considerable criticism of the proposed scale of wages and that It impressed many members so unfavorably that strong representation on the subject were later made to the Prime Minister . While at this late hour it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statement made by Hodges on behalf of the Miners ' federation to the meeting of members of Parliament , is a complete reversal of the position previously taken by the miners ' federation , which was that a national profits pool should be placed in the forefront of negotiations . Hodges , according to this statement , is now willing to leave the question of a national profits pool in the background and to discuss with the miner owners simply the question of wages , leaving the point . of national profits pool for future consideration ? This indicates on the part of the miners complete abdication of their previous contention that a national profits pool should be the pivot on which the whole discussion should turn . While it is impossible to draw general deductions from the information available , this looks like an admission on the part of the miners ' federation that their position was untenable . In the first instance the Triple Alliance declared that they would come out on behalf of . miners if and when negotiations between miners and mine owners broke down . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have declared their willingness to resume negotiations at any time on the point of wages . Consequently if negotiations are resumed on the basis suggested by Hodges , the other parties in the Triple Alliance are bound by their initial declaration , th tt they would only come out in cane of a termination of negotiations , to call off the strike which they had announced for 10 o'clock Friday night . holders have been reduced to half a hundred weight a house a week , and then only by permit . Hodges Urges Uniform Reductions . LONDON , April 15 ( Associated Press ) . ? Frank Hodges , Secretary of the Miners ' Union , in a letter to The London Times , says that the miners " are prepared to make suostantial contributions to the industry in the direction of wiping out the present deficit by agreeing to a uniform reduction of wages throughout the country . " The letter is devoted largely to emphasizing the need of a national pool and in supporting the miners ' opposition to district settlements . It charges that the Gover'nment 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lockout of the members of the federation . " The economic capacity of districts varies so enormously , one from the other , " says Mr. Hodges , " that the proposals of the owners on a district basis could not have resulted in anything but the wide variation they proposed in wages . " Mr. Hodges says the owners and workmen need no external Government help to put into effect the principles governing the national wages movements which he has advocated . Outlining the federation scheme for a national pool , he says : " It is true It can not be applied at once , owing to abnormal conditions of trade in this country , and some financial assistance is necessary . " He declares the miners ' willingness to help by a reduction of wages . He expresses a desire for freedom from the " bureaucratic influences " of Government control , and concludes : " Whatever sacrifices there may be to the owners , whatever bplitcal view the Government may take , is it not abundantly clear that it is better for the nation that our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and with this machinery animated by it . rather than they should be forced back to work with the old machinery and in a apirit of sullenness , anger , enmity and hatred ? " Day of Gloomy ream These swift and dramatic developments giving new hope of settlement brought to a close a day of almost unrelieved gloom . It was realized that within twenty-four hours Great Britain might be the battle ground upon which would be fought out questions which must materially affect the destinies of the world at large , unless efforts to avert the portentous struggle proved more successful . The country faces the fight with reluctance , hoping and praying that counsels of wisdom will prevail at the eleventh hour . It has been said that the fight is one the end whereof no man can foresee , and there indubitably exist conditions which make for uncertainty and threaten to bring into the open subterranean forces working for social upheaval . But , all things considered , there is no fear but the ultimate result would be fresh assertion of the proved right and might of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's will . The railwaymen and transport workers ' leaders telephoned Downing Street early yesterday morning and stated that they would like to make a viva voce reply to the letter they had had from the Prime Minister the previous night , asking why they had determined to inflict such a serious blow on their fellow-countrymen . The two unions had been expected to reply by letter and the announcement that they preferred to have a conversation with Lloyd George came as a surprise not unmingled with hope that there was greater possibility of arrangement in a personal meeting . When the Downing Street conference ended the labor leaders came away saying they saw no hope of the reopening of negotiations . Lloyd George . appearing later in the afternoon in the House of Commons , had nothing hopeful to say and after reporting what had occurred at the morning conference suggested it was undesirable to have a discussion in Parliament at present . Mr. Asquith , who had asked whether the anxieties of the nation would not be relieved by a review of the position , fell in with Lloyd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full report of the Downing Street meeting was being issued to the press . Mr. Asquith then suggested that the Prime Minister should make a statement to the House at noon on Friday and Lloyd George agreed to do so . Mr. Clynes. speaking for the Labor members said he thought the Premier had expressed the most helpful view so far as Parliament was eoncerned , seeing that the negotiations to come degree were not altogether broken off . The Commons was plainly relieved . interpreting the postponement of the debate in most favorable light . Support for General Strike . Possibly the M. P. 's relief was based On the idea that the meeting of the Parliamentary Labe ' Party , which was to be held later 1n the day , might find a way out , but , as a matter of fact , when that body did meet there was practically no talk of peace . Indeed , the Parliamentary Labor Party passed a resolution backing the Triple Alliance end appointed a committee to watch events . The National Federation of General Workers , which has a membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worker : . , also pledged itself to support , the Triple Alliance whenever and wherever it ( an in its effort to resent wholesale reductions in wages and to maintain : rational standards of wages and , conditions of labor . This federation Ineludes the Dock Laborers ' Union . Its : President is J. R. Clynes , M. P. , and 1 , its Secretory James O'Grady , who yesterday said tie was appalled at the idea . of the great bulk of men and women v ho labored with their hands and brains ' being out on the streets without having a word to say on the issue . On the other hand , the important Electrical Power Engineers ' Association Issued a statement saying it would not withdraw its members , but would not assist any volunteer labor or do work of any striking employe , and Havelock Wilson , President of the National Sailors and Firemen 's Union , which is taking a ballot , declared that so far there was a majority against the strike . drivers of London wilt continue work and the metropolitan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although threatened , as the managers admit , with considerable loss . There are reports from many quarters that a sufficiently large majority of workers called out are doubtful of the grounds on which their executives have founded their decision and will remain at work till their doubts are set at rest . British trade unionism is not revolutionary , and while it is well disciplined and en the whole has confidence in its leaders , misgivings regarding the various steps taken that have led to the present crisis are widely felt . If , however , trade unionism comes to a. conviction that most of what it has gained in the past sixty years is now menaced , there will be no hesitation among the majority . Bob Williams , Secretary ? of the Transport Workers ' Federation , has issued instructions for members of the Federation in which he says : " Violence must be avoided and there must be no provocative action . Every measure the employers and Government can use will be met by counter-measures of our own . Every attempt they make to destroy the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action on the part of the organized workers to render the Government 's efforts unavailing . If the conflict is widened to include operations of all forces which the employers and the Government can muster to their aid and the whole forces of organized labor , this conflict can only result in ' the success of the latter . " Eyde Park and . Regent 's Park have been elos.Fl to the general public . The former will be used as a milk distributing centre and the latter as a food delivery depot . Hyde Park has been given over to an army of workmen who up to a late hour Wet night were busy erecting tents and hutments . Similar activities were witnessed in other parks commandeered by the Government . QsliV rotioas to the ordinary house-                     