@@691235

txt General WILLIA.I1I MITCHELL made it difficult for his superiors to retain him in ; the post of Assistant Chief of the Army Air Service by the position he took as a witness before the House aircraft investigating committee and by his intemperate and extravagant statements . The argument that rotation should not occur in his case because he had shown ability and zeal as General PATRICK 'S subordinate had no real foundation . Colonel MITCHELL was appointed for a four-year term with the rank and pay of Brigadier General . Had he not engaged in a publicity campaign to direct - attention to the shortcomings of aviation and to his plan of a unified service , taking advantage of his appearance before a House committee to spread his views and to assail those who did not agree with him , a new detail and demotion to the grade of Colonel would have caused no comment in or out of the service . Rotation is the rule rather than the exception in these temporary Promotions . It is hardly fair to energetic and capable officers to deny them an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man can lay a permanent claim . It will be neither humiliation nor punishment for General MITCHELL to accept a detail to a flying field where his talents may have full play . A good soldier obeys orders and acdepts transfers in a spirit of loyalty . No one knew better than General MITCHELL that in electing to go over the heads of his superiors as a witness before the House committee and try to force changes in the air service by charging inefficiency he was inviting a reprimand , if not a court-martial . He will escape both , it appears , because in the backwardness of American military aviation he had a good cause , as even ' his critics admitted . But his methods could not be tolerated if discipline was to be maintained . Most of the officers In the two services who differed with him were as sincere as he was . Some of them knew more about the art of war and were better strategists . Many of them were fairer in controversy . Their knowledge of aviation in relation to warships was as good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . too audacious , too reckless in his conclusions . After the smoke of battle had cleared away it became evident that if General MITCHELL were to keep his post as assistant to General PATRICK he would loom bigger in the public imagination . than his chief or than even Secretary WEEH.s , both of whom he had condemned by implication . For the good of the service it became necessary to appoint a successor to General MITCHELL . Colonel JAMES E. FECHET , who will take his place , seems to be an admirable selection . He has been in command of many flying fields and has filled almost every subordinate position of importance in the Air Corps , training , operations and executive . Lust year he was Chief of the War Plans Division " He is an excellent flier , " says Major HENSLET of Mitchel Field , " and has the interests of the airman at heart . "                     