@@689132

txt Reports of consumption of private liquor stocks by passengers on board Government-owned ships have brought before the Shipping Board the question of its jurisdiction in the matter , with the resulting decision that its authority , as exercised through the ship 's captain , does not run to the extent which would permit any interference with the passengers ' actions . It was indicated , however , that this decision might only be temporary and that steps would be taken to obtain a positive ruling on the question , probably from the Department of Justice . As the situation now stands the board is convinced that a passenger on the Leviathan , for instance , is entirely within his rights when he produces the makings of a cocktail at ' his table in the dining saloon and acts as bartender to his companions . The wide police powers given to the commander of a ship under common law and international customs , it was de , clared by officials of the board , were materially curtailed by the La Follette act as they affected the crew , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the point where the safety of ship and cargo is involved . So far as the officers and crews of shipping board vessels are themselves concerned . Chairman Farley said today that the order issued last October forbidding them to possess liquor while on duty still remains in force . " At the direction of the President , on Oct . G. 1922 , " Mr. Farley said . " the Shipping Board vessels are themselves be operated ' dry ' and all officials are instructed to see that the same is complied with . There has been no deviation from this policy and none is contemplated . " Experts Question Board 's Stand . Inquiry among experts in maritime law did not bring unanimous support of the board 's position . Long established recognition of a captain 's special responsibilities , according to some authorities , has given him practically limitless authority in suppression of what he may consider illegal acts by any persons on board his ship . In the Navy Department the common law rule of a master 's authority has always held . and the only modifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of restriction of punishments which he may inflict . The decision of the board was not called forth by any recent Incident . it was declared ' today . Attention being called to the action which had been taken on the Leviathan 's trial trip , cards were posted in each stateroom requesting the voluntary co-operation of passengers to prevent violation of the liquor statutes . It was understood that a similar request was carried in each stateroom on the eastward trip which the Leviathan has just completed . Under another decision dealing with ship liquor , announced today by Commissioner Blair of the Internal Revenue Bureau , forfeiture proceedings will be Undertaken by the Department of Justice against contrabdnd liquor . Such suits , however , would not be directed at ships or commanders bringing liquors into American territorial waters . Commissioner Blair 's order will allow customs agents to continue their work of search and seizure , but all legal questions will be handled by the Attorney General . Instructions were sent to Federal proIhibition directors and other enforcement officers by Commissioner Haynes of the prohibition unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be returned to the Collector of Customs I at the port in which they were seized . The previous procedure had been to turn over seized , liquors to State prohibitibn directors for disposition under the Volstead act . but the Treasury decided use of the smuggling provisions in the tariff law would be more effective . To Curb Religious Wine Abuse . Prohibition enforcement problems , especially those relating to " padlock " injunctions and sacramental wine , were discussed at a conference today of division chiefs with Commissioner Haynes and his new special assistant , E. L. Porterfield , who will have charge of court proceedings to " padlock " places in which illegal liquor traffic is discovered . Officials declared they had found that the limitations on sacramental wine were being evaded by a shifting of brands of wine . With the Willis-Campbell antibeer law prohibiting imports of sacramental wines , unless a shortage developed . it was said a scarcity had been created by changing the labels on sacramental wine , some dealers removing the labels and giving it the brands of beverage wine . Officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prevent the importation of more sacramental wine which might be diverted into improper channels .                     