@@684951

txt THE LOST ART GALLERIES . What Should Be Done to Replace Exhibition Buildings Burned Last Week . By HOWARD RUSSELL BUTLER . To the Editor of The New York Times : Allow me to thank you for your editorial article of today , entitled " Beauty Burned Away . " , In doing so I feel sure that I also voice the appreciation of the painters , sculptors , and architects of New York City . Your sympathetic and intelligent statement of what . this disheartening calamity of yesterday means to them is , I am sure , deeply appreciated , and has given courage to all who have read it . The artists and art-lovers of New York have indeed suffered a great loss in this destruction , not only of many chosen examples of native art , but also of the only exhibition building which they could call their own . The largest of the galleries destroyed was donated to the American Fine Arts Society by the late George W. Vanderbilt , and it is safe to say that no gift ever did so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important exhibitions have been held within its walls . It is therefore not surprising that it  --  the only example of its kind  --  should have been prized so highly and-that its loss now should be most keenly felt . For years the ** Arts Building , ( main building and galleries ) has been overcrowded . Ever since - the sale , in 1896 , of the old Academy Building on Fourth Avenue and Twenty-third Street the Academy and the younger art societies have been packed within it . The Academy has been compelled to hold two exhibitions each year and yet the walls have had to be unduly crowded . Many of our ablest artists have hesitated to have their works seen under such conditions and so the exhibitions have suffered in quality . Effort after effort has been made by the Academy , and recently by the National Academy Association ( a union of ten societies led by the Academy ) , to secure the building which you state is so urgently needed . Time and again the vision seemed about to materialize , only to fade away and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort to this project , and died disappointed . Many others have followed the same sad path . So we heartily indorse the conclusion reached in your article , that the time has come when the art societies should be adequately housed . The men of talent to whom the city and country look for inspiration in the domain of beauty have fully established their claim for that much recognition . The benefit to the city would be immense . We have seen , and have been glad to see , millions go into museums and millions more expended for old masters and foreign works . But when , we ask , will the turn come for our own native art ? Here is the golden opportunity for some one , for many , or for all who care for art and who have a pride in the city , to come forward and provide the means of proper exhibition  --  such as have long existed in Paris , London and the other great art centres of the world , but have never really existed in New York . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much benefit for the public as for the artist . It would redound to the honor and prestige of the city and nation and ever be a monument to those whose enlightened sympathy recognized that the best way to foster art is to encourage the work of the living  --  at least to the extent of allowing it to be appropriately exhibited . If it be asked why do not the Academy and the other societies provide their own building out of their treasuries or the pockets of their members , the answer is that they have not the means both to secure the real estate and to provide for maintenance . The Academy , it is true , has a considerable property , but most of it is tied up for specific uses , such as extensive prize funds , and it IS also compelled , under its charter , to maintain a free school , and this requires an annual outlay , for which a good portion of its holdings are held as endowment . The balance would go but a , little ' way toward the erection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Academy and the societies can render . They can see to it that the costs of maintenance are met without calling for outside aid : Under the agreement which created the National Academy . Associa. - . Lion the Academy sets aside from its balance all that it can safely pledge toward the endowment to meet the running expenses of the hoped-for building , and the other societies , as well as the Academy , pledge rental for the use of galleries and permanent quarters . Thus an annual revenue would be forthcoming sufficient for maintenance . This is the manner in which the American Fine Arts Society has maintained it. , self for twenty-six years . It is a practical plan which has worked perfectly and defrayed all expenses . The gate receipts and returns from catalogues belong under this plan to the exhibiting organizations , and none of the risks attending these sources of reVenue are run by the society owning the property . The artists contemplate no such monumental edifice as the Metropolitan Museum or the Museum of National History . Instead of a dozen acres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is essential that the galleries should be in the heart of the city . The great difficulty has been in the question of site . On several occasions sites have been obtainable ( now no longer so ) , but the money could not be found . If some person , - or group of persons , intent on ' renderin. , the greatest possible service to current art and to the education and rational enjoyment of the community , and perhaps ultimately to the glory of the nation , would come for.ward and state that he or th would stand behind a movement to pro ey vide the needed exhibition space the great object which you and we have in view would speedily be realized . HOWARD RUSSELL BUTLER , President National Academy Association . Princeton , Jan. 31 , 1920.                     