@@695580

txt DEMOCRACY VINDICATED . If Vindication Were Needed , Choice of Candidate Supplies It To the Editor of The New York Times : Regardless of the result of the election next Tuesday , one thing is sure ? ' , the Democracy has been vindicated in its choice of New York 's Governor as its candidate for the Presidency ! Rarely , if ever , has this nation produced . a leader so frank and candid in the exposition of his views on all controversial questions , so idolized by those who know him for his eloquent , if homely , interpretation of the hopes and aspirations of the masses of the people , so mercilessly severe in his contempt for , and denunciation of , beliefs which he conceives to be un-American  --  and consequently so utterly insensible of and callous to the effects of his own political future of his rasping utterances on those powerful members and organizations of the body politic whom he chastises . It is now generally conceded that the basis of the opposition to him is his religious belief . His ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his political opponents . His compelling personality and his capacity for leadership are the talk of the nation . It is not too much to say that if he is defeated it will be due to the fact that he is a Catholic . The American people will have accomplished by indirection and nullification what they could not have accomplished in the open , viz. , the political proscription of " an upstanding , outstanding and understanding man " ( to borrow an apt characterization of that great Democrat Hon. John W. Davis , who was his party 's standard bearer in 1924 ) by the votes of those millions of citizens who would otherwise have supported him and whose sole reason for opposition to him is that he is a devout member of the Roman Catholic Church . This constitutes real nullification . If Congress should pass a law declaring that no Catholic should be eligible for the Presidency it would immediately be declared unconstitutional as violative of Article VI of the Constitution of the United States . But millions of Americans will nullify the letter and spirit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States " by casting their ballots against Governor Smith . And the pitiable part of the whole matter is that the Grand Old Party and its National Committee have encouraged the propagation and dissemination of the vicious anti-Catholie attacks and have materially assisted in fanning the flame of religious bigotry and intolerance . Witness , for example , the numerous appeals of responsible Republicans , including Mrs. Willebrandt , to Protestant churches to present a united front in support of Mr. Hoover . Witness Newell Sanders , who , in presenting Senator Borah at Nashville , said : " Tennessee is a Protestant State and wants a Protestant President . " Witness the prominent Republican lady from Virginia who occupied a seat on Mr. Hoover 's platform at Elizabethton . And witness the spectacle presented by Mr. Hoover in permitting his henchmen to gather in votes for him by making disgusting and un-American appeals to religious bigotry and intolerance . As a Protestant and a Southern Democrat , I resent the unfair and partisan b advantar , e which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious belief of the Democratic candidate . I applaud Governor Smith for his bold and forthright plea for the separation of Church and State and for his repeated declaration that he wants no support because of his religious belief . The country can , by electing him , go far toward making a reality the constitutional guarantee of every man 's right to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience . SHIELDS M. GOODWIN . Little Rock , Ark. , Oct. 31 , 1928 . Credit Where It Is Due . An institution which will emerge with credit from the mud-slinging which appears to be a necessary accompaniment of this and of every Presidential campaign is the Roman Catholic Church . if that Church has not " turned the other cheek , " it has at least kept its face straight . From the Vatican down to the parish priest the Catholic Church has been restrained and silent in the face of whispering as well as open attacks of the most virulent kind . ' That these attacks have been especially bitter in this campaign is , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential candidates is a Roman Catholic . But from the " Know-Nothing " days down through the time of " Ruin . Romanism and Rebellion " Burchard and the Ku Klux Klan , denunciation of the Catholic Church has always been ready to serve in our political campaigns . The spectre of the " Pope in the White House " makes many of our citizens turn pale today . But the Pope has equally ? been in the Executive residence at . Albany ever since Governor Smith has been there , but I am not aware that our institutions or any of our non-Papists have suffered therefrom , and it ought to help calm the fears of our Baptists and Methodists to feel that Mussolini is likely to keep the Pope busy at home for the next four years . I am going to vote for Hoover , but it is not fear of the Pope getting into the White House that influences inc . LAWRENCE : GODKIN . New York , Nov. 1 , IO23 . President Eliot 's " Aura . " To t he Ettiior of The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who on many good arid sufficient grounds is voting for Mr. Hoover , enter a mild demurrer against the adroit attempt of Professor Perry In a recent communication in your columns to throw around the Democratic national ticket the- aura of President Eliot 's great name ? No one has ally right to allege what Position Mr. Eliot might have taken in this peculiar campaign : but whatever the intrinsic merits of the issue On which Governor Smith , in defiance of the platform of his party , is attempting to capture the vote of the great cities. , no one acquainted with Mr. Eliot 's views on the liquor MIPSion can easily imagine him voting for the standard bearer of the Democratic Party . Yale Univeisity , Oct. : i1 , =S . A First-Edition Misprint . To the of The New York Times : I am a member of the old French family of Robidoux , and I have been greatly pleased to see Tue That% publishing what Mr. Hughes has said about the head of our family . But I notice that he does not give any reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your bright newspaper reporters . interview him before election and find out why lie has been led to prefer a man of French descent rather than a man whose ancestry is German or Irish ? You may notknow exactly what I amtalking , talking about , but I am led to send this letter to Yea because 1 rcad in Tole TIMES a week . ago ' yesterday . Oct. 24. first page , eighth column , . that Mr. Hughes said : " The uuestion is between Smith and Hoover , and I decidedly prefer Robidoux . " JEAN BAPTISTE ROBIDOUX.                     