@@687418

txt With the publication of Premier Poincare 's memorandum on the conditions for French attendance at the Genoa conference and the simultaneous announcement by Premier Lloyd George in the British Parliament that the date , March 8 , for the meeting still stands , direct .. issue seems to have been joined between the French and British Governments , which , if it develops , may have the most serious consequences and alter the whole outlook in Europe just at the moment when it gave promise of beginning to improve . Here in France M. PoincarO 's careful statement of the French ease and his endeavor to get ' the position clear before the meeting with the Soviets has unanimous approval . His way of conducting his case is regarded as the only way of avoiding misunderstandings and difficulties in the actual presence of the Soviet and German delegates , and , further , the only way of obtaining any benefit or practical result from the meeting . The note itself is also regarded as the best possible corrective to antiFrench propaganda recently prevalent in which the.Premier has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position lie takes is quite otherwise . Ho presents his case as a lawyer might in asking for adjournment of a trial in order ' to collect further evidence . The six points which he makes are perfectly clear and perfectly reasonable . The first is that before France can participate in the conference the Soviet Government must accept completely the condid-6ns of the protocol of Cannes ; second , that the conferenoe must not question existing treaties and must not assume the rOle of the League of Nations in this regard ; third , respect for internal sovereignty must not be taken to imply abandonment of the right of interference in Germany and Hungary in case of attempted restoration of the former ruling houses ; fourth , according to French opinion , respect for foreign rights and holdings within Russia . can only be obtained by non-Russian jurisdiction as long as the Soviet Government does not legally admit holding private mtperty ; fifth , as the League of Nations covenant already provides for abstention by members from aggression , no general compact to this effect is needed , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franco-Belgian and Anglo-Belilan defense treaties are allowable ; sixth , at least three months will be needed In the French estimate for preparation of a sound financial econpomaicti program for the conference . and rn England The London Times has , to the great satisfaction of the French , taken the lead in admitting tho justice ' and reason of all these points . But between the two Governments there re- mains a complete difference in conception of the nature of the conference which was proposed and accepted at Cannes . Polneare strongly Duel:ea . At the Qua ! d'Orsay the British Premier 's method of replying publicly to a note by a speech in Parliament before he has replied in writing has not either helped to any better understanding , and backed as M. Polncare is by the Foreign Affairs Commission in the Chamber and by practically the whole press , it has become obvious that in the new Premier Mr. Lloyd George has found an entirely different person to deal with than either 111111erand or Briand . Every one hopes that some ground for compromise will be found and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be found for holding the conference . But unfortunately in the situation there is a distinct element of personal antagonism dating from the days of the Peace Conference and not at all lessened by the events at Cannes and the interview at the British Embassy here just before-the Premier took office . How far that antagonism will lead is for all Europe a critical question and it is the more unfortunate since , while so ? different in their conception of the method by which results should be come to , both Premiers are in agreement as to the absolute necessity for the Anglo-French agreement , and , second , for the reconstruction of the financial and economic situation of this continent by the concerted effort of all nations . At present there is no doubt that M. Poincare has the advantage of the better strategic position in the diplomatic battle now going on , but whether he will be able to keep it is highly doubtful . Already some old differences of point of view have shown themselves in relations of the Premier and President Millerand , who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still trying to take a hand in framing the country 's policy . Further , while the Chamber and press are behind Poincare , the voters have already in local meetings shown that they will not tolerate too long delay in bringing about the ends that are being sought . . These internal differences are not unlikely to have an ameliorating effect on the obstinacy with which the French Premier holds to his position , while on the English side the pressure of opinion in favor of the French thesis is also regarded as hopeful here and as likel to lead Lloyd George to modify his plyans . Neither side can afford to quarrel about procedure , and today 's editorial articles in the French press are all on the line that an understanding must be come to . The probable return to power of Signor Bonomi in Italy will certainly strengthen the prospects of the conference being held at the arranged date and before that date if dispatch is used . It is not impossible that on the political aspects some understanding may be . reached while the details of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least on the British side , already sufficiently far advanced as to give a prospect of being ready . Everything , . however , seems to depend on the temper with which the two Premiers regard each other 's viewpoint and in that matter the ? signs today are not entirely hopeful . ference. unless the request for such ? pestPonement emanates from Rhome , it was authoritatively declared here today . The French Ambassador , it is understood , was so informed last evening by Lord Curzon , the Foreign Secretary , during their . discussion of the French memorandum urging postponement of the conference . , Belief was expressed In a wellinformed American quarter today that the holding of the conference on the intended date was becoming increasingly doubtful , owing to the Italian domestic political situation . Until an intimation was given that this situation was such ' as to preclude the holding of the conference , however , the nations which are expected to participate have no choice but to ' await . developments . Special Cable to Tun New YOI:K MISS . LONDON , Feb. ** Daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note on the Genoa conference is addressed not only to Great Britain but to all . the Allied and Associated Governments , to the Little Entente countries , for example , and to America . A skillful appeal is made to American sensitiveness concerning Soviet Russia and to Czechoslovak and Jugoslav sensitiveness concerning the integrity of the treaties of St. Germain and Neuilly . Consequently the note requires something more than a crude and brusque dismissal as a mere attempt to torpedo the Genoa conference . It demands careful and argumentative treatment . " Of course , the request for a three months ' postponement of the conference can not be accepted . Some delay may he caused by the difficulties in forming a new Italian Government , but until and unless a request for postponement conies from Rome the original date must hold rood . "                     