@@690187

txt Scores of Persons were overcome by automobile exhaust fumes in the twin Liberty tunnels through the South Hills here today . Increased traffic in the tunnels as a consequence of a strike of 3.200 street car motormen and conductors caused the tubes to become choked with the gases . First aid crews of the United States Bureau of Mines and the city fire department were rushed to the scene . When the rescue men reached the tubes they donned oxygen helmets and . went in . The tunnels were closed to all traffic . and soon the rescuers were busy carrying out men and women who had collapsed . They were given first aid treatment , and more than a score , reported in a. serious condition , were sent to hosTIMM " ? The tunnels form the main gateway into the city from five'thickly populated . suburbs . With the street cars tied up , the tubes were crowded to capacity this morning , hundreds of motorists using this inlet to Pittsburgh from beyond the South Hills . After receipt of a letter from officials of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the company looked to the city to protect its property during the strike , the Mayor isldressed the Council , urging that pending ordinances for the purchase of 150 tear gas masks , 50 riot guns , 100 gas grenades and 10 tear gas tanks , be passed and the equipment purchased immediately . He also asked that the Council provide automobiles for the rapid transportation of police from one section of the city to another , Tens of thousands of Pittsburgh and suburban residents moved to their work in vehicles of every conceivable variety , including automobile trucks and passenger cars , motorcycles , bicycles , buses , taxicabs , horse-drawn wagons and shuttle trains . Thousands of others found themselves wifhout service of any kind and were forced to walk . The traffic jam in the downtown section began at daybreak . Every available traffic officer was on duty , but their combined efforts were futile and the long lineal of motor cars and other vehicles moved at snail-pace . When the tunnels were thrown open to the public several months ago , it was discovered that airshafts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the deadly gasses . Bureau of Mines men conducted experiments and found that persons passing through the tubes were affected by carbon poisoning . The tunnels , they said , were safe as long as motorists kept moving . The Allegheny County Commissioners , when advirsed of today 's traffic jam . ordered the tunnels closed , but one of them was reopened tonight , one auto being admitted every ten seconds . The Pittsburgh Hallways Lon , pany will resume street car service on Monday morning , using men from other cities to replace the striking motormen and conductors , it was officially announced today . More than 500 out-of-town men are available to matt the cars , it is said , and others will be brought in later . SEES NO DANGER HERE . Engineer Declares New York-New Jersey Tunnel Absolutely Safe . Clifford M. Holland , chief engineer in charge of the construction of the Hudson River vehicular tunnel , told a reporter for Trig Nsw YORE TIMES last night that the New York-New Jersey tunnel would never be confronted with such a danger as was experienced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Pittsburgh engineers by telephone , because I wanted to know what the trouble was , " Mr. Holland said . " You must bear in mind that out there they were permitting the use of the new construction before the instalment of the ventilating equipment . Such equipment has not yet been installed . It was not a tunnel accident that brought on the trouble , but the heavy congestion of unregulated traffic . " In our tunnel , traffic will be regulated . There was n't a traffic policeman in the entire Pittsburgh stretch . We will have one every 500 feet . There will be no congest'on of traffic here , because it wo n't be permitted to accumulate into congestion . In the entire 5,800 feet of the Pittsburgh tunnel there is only one ventilation shaft , in the middle . In our tunnel we will nave four shafts . We will not permit any vehicle to enter our tunnel until all our ventilation equipment has been installed . Our power connections are so arranged that we can not have a mechanical breakdown . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? three power stations were to go out of commission . the arrangement is such that the fourth will continue in operation . " When automobiles move along in a tunnel they create a draft of air , but those in the Pittsburgh tunnel were stalled . With our arrangement of power connections in duplicate we eliminate danger in any condition of traffic . In our tunnel we ventilate by the distributive method , whereby the same amount of air is found wherever you happen to be in the 8.300 feet of the tunnel . We do n't blow the air through the tunnel , but across it , not longitudinally but latitudinally . The air comes up from the bottom of the roadway and passes out through the ceiling . Between the roadway and the ring is a space through which the air enters at intervals of ten feet . Between the ceiling and the ring is a similar space through which the air passf-s out at intervals of ten feet . " The blockade of the tubes resulted from a jam of city-bound traffic on the street leading to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire length and deadly gas soon poisoned the air . Many motorists abandoned their cars and staggered from the tubes . while pedestrians . overcome while walking through . were carried out by first aid crews from the United States Bureau of Mines and members of the city Fire Department . Engineers in charge of the tunnel were notified that D. R. Levy , an expert in tunnel ventilation , would arrive in Pittsburgh tomorrow from New York to advise on the problem of ventilating the tubes . The ventilating system decided on for the Hudson River tunnel was the result c4.experiments in which the Bureau of .... ales cooperated . Using a miniature tunnel on the campus at Urbana. the University of Illinois also gave its assistance . ' Yale University gathered data . on the effect of carbon monoxide , the deadly fumes given off from internal combustion gas engines . The largest quantity of carbon monoxide that will be met In the tunnel , according to the engineers , will be four Parts in ten thousand . The experts have declared that this quantity would not even induce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending fresh air into the tunnel will change the air in the tunnel forty times an hour , '                     