@@690243

txt 37,000 Photographs of Paint : ings and Drawings to Be Shown Tod ay at Private Gathering . ART FROM 12TH CENTURY Valuable Reference Collection to Be Available for Students on and After June 9 . The Frick Art Reference Library . which has been compiled in the last three and a half years , will be opened informally this afternoon at a private gathering in the new library building , just east of the gallery at Seventy-first Street and Fifth Avenue , which houses the Frick collection . Beginning on June 9 the library will be open by appointment to students and others seriously interested In art . It consists today of 37,000 photographs of paintings and drawings from the twelfth century to the present , catalogued in such a way as to give the art student and research worker quick access to any photograph in the library . In addition to the photographs there are 7,000 sales catalogues and magazines and 5,000 reference books . The aim of the library is to bring together photographs of the paintings and drawings of the representative artists of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning . The largest collection of the kind is that of Sir Robert Witt , which contains 250 , - 000 photographs and yet does not exhaust the field . The Frick Library is modeled after the Witt Library . Miss Helen Frick , the director , has had much assistance from Sir Robert and Lady Witt and also from the Doucet Library in Paris , while many experts , dealers and collectors have been generous in their cooperation . Work Done Thoroughly . Additional photographs of works of art in Europe and the United States are being steadily* added to the Frick library . If its rate of growth has been limited it has been because of the care used in gathering information about each work of art before classifying it . It is aimed to tell briefly on the back of each photograph the changes of ownership of the painting , as far as can be ascertained . A " color " note description of a painting , a list of its appearances in public exhibitions , bibliographical reference and sources of information about the painting also are set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with thoroughness . There are nineteen workers on the staff of the library . Others have been employed abroad , and many art critics and dealers have helped . The process of collecting facts about each painting and of digesting.them for the catalogue is necessarily a slow one . The card-indexing is carried on with the view of enabling the student to trace a Painting , even it he has forgotten the title and the name of the painter , provided that he can remember some outstanding feature . For instance , there is a special list of paintings In which dogs appear . There are other separate lists of birds , horses , cathedrals , rugs , porcelains and many other objects , by means of which the searcher can trace the painting which he has in mind . Help to Art Students . The library is intended chiefly for art students , who will be ? able to study through photographs thousands of masterpieces Which they could not see in the original without years of traveling in Europe and America . The library was founded as a means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Prick who , in leaving his gra.t collection of paintings to become eventually a public gallery , said : " It is my desire and purpose through the provisions of this article of my will to found an institution which shall be permanent in character and which shall encourage and develop the study of the fine arts , and which shall promote the general knowledge of kindred subjects among the public at large . " An interesting line of research has been carried on for the library by Lawrence Park of Boston , an architect and expert on early American paintings , who found many fine works by early American painters and seventeenth and eighteenth century British painters in the homes of old families in Virginia and North Carolina . Several Knellers and Lelys were found , which had been executed in the early days of the Colonies for rich planters returning to London . Sometimes the present owners did not know that the portraits were by famous painters until the identification was made by Mr. Park . Many paintings by Jeremiah Theus , the early American painter , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found on this trip . Many paintings by Sully . Hesselius and Wollaston were brought to a light . About 900 photographs were made for the library in the course of two trips to the South . Similar searches for old paintings have been made in Massachusetts and New York . It is Intended to cover many other States in this way . Plan to Include Sculpture . The 7,000 sales catalogues and the 5,000 reference books have been bought in the last three and a half years at sales and bookshops . The first catalogue is nearly 200 years old . It announced the sale in London on Feb. 19 , 1727 , of the collection of art which had belonged to Thomas Coke , " Chamberlain to his late Majesty . " There are several other eighteenth century catalogues . It is planned to start at some time in the future a collection of photographs of works of sculpture . This will not begin , however , until the library is much further advanced in the subject of paintInge . Many photographs of miniature paintings have been acquired , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more progress has been made along the main line of work . Talks will be made at the gathering at the library this afternoon by Professor Paul J. Sachs of the Fogg Art Museum of Harvard , and by Dan Fellowes Platt of Englewood , a collector of Italian primitives .                     