@@696049

txt MASS HEALTH PRODUCTION . Doctors Would Benefit by Organizing More Clinics . To the Editor of The New York Times : What may be termed the quantity production of health is being opposed by County Medical Society members and other doctors . There was a time when the quantity production of rapid transportation was opposed by stage coach drivers . Some day the obstructive members of the County Medical Society may be remembered in the same way . In the last twenty-five or thirty years vast progress has been made in medical science . But the discoverers are always far ahead of the practitioners . They call this conservatism , but thousands die In the interim . One reason for the slowness of progress and the chief justification of the clinic and medical centre lies in the fact that a great quantity of apparatus is needed that the former doctor never dreamed of , and experienced users of the apparatus must be trained . A young man graduating today as a general practitioner needs a small fortune to equip an office with a complete outfit of apparatus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time . The overhead is too much for him . He is almost in the position of a young man wanting to start his own locomotive-making establishment . But a clinic has the apparatus and constantly makes use of it . Continuous streams of patients wait to be treated by the doctors . This is quantity production of health , and accordingly within the means of the public at large . The physician in a department must soon become a specialist through the great amount of practice he has . The patients thus feel a confidence in the clinic physician which the general practitioner can only slowly build up . It would seem to be the most effective thing for physicians to organize clinics among themselves . For example , suppose twenty or thirty physicians , specialists in various branches , clubbed together and established their own neighborhood clinic . It would be a sort of physicians ' guild . Their fees would be lower than at present but incomes would be larger . One may wonder if the physicians not in the guilds would be able to survive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but with the lower charges people would get themselves doctored oftener . There is far more than employment enough for all the doctors if their services could be commanded on a living fee basis . Most people put off doctoring too long . When stage coaches ran to Washington there were few travelers . Railroads cheapened transportation but promoted its use . The public pays much more in the aggregate for transportation than the stage coaches would ever have been able to earn . Similarly clinics lessen medical fees but promote doctoring . " EDWIN HOPKINS ..                     