@@694414

txt ABANDONED AlTYTC3101-E13 FARM C ( 313 i'd-rre Lyme , in New Hampshire , " a town that has gone downhill , " which Professor J. W. GoLDTHwArr of Dartmouth College writes about in the October Geographical Review , is not a deserted village like GOLDSMITH 'S " Sweet Auburn , " but outside of Lyme Plain and Lyme Centre , a State highway and the Connecticut River road linking Hanover with Orford on the north , there are few occupied dwellings to be seen . A map of 1925 shows considerably more than one hundred " abandoned houses or home sites . " In the case of Sweet Auburn one master grasped the whole domain , the brook was choked with sedges , the " hollow-sounding bittern " boomed in solitude , bowers were sunk in " shapeless ruin , " and the long-grass fringed " the moldering wall . " Wealth has n't accumulated in Lyme , but most of its " bold peasantry " have gone . Lyrae began to go downhill before 1860 . The reasons were economic . Not all the hill farms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the valleys Otere was little attempt at fertilization . One ' reads in a local history ( 1860 ) that " the " principal " occupation of the people is " in subduing a hard , silicious surface " and extorting from its reluctant lap " the bread of toil . " . Once the hills of Lyme were covered with sheep . At the present time there may be 3.50 , " or " scarcely more than 1 per cent . of the " old number . " However , " the decline in population In " New Hampshire was not due simply to " emigration . " In large part it could be accounted for by the attractions of industrial towns , Lowell , Nashua and Manchester . The little industries of Lyme ? lumber , shingle , flour and cider mills ? . could not stand against the competition . Greatly reduced in population , Lyme continues to be American , with the old stock still at home . The church is a fine example of old-fashioned architecture , with a bell-tower and clock . But worshipers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacation season . Professor GOLDTHWAIT has had to consult old records to account for disappearance of houses from the country roads and hilltops . Cellar holes and fallen-in wells have had his scrutiny . Lyme is a hill-town of many brooks and ponds , with such commanding heights as Davison , Bear , Acorn , Gline 's and Plott Hills . Smart Mountain looms up more than 3,000 feet , Holt 's and Winslow Ledges 2,000 . In the east the White Mountains dominate the horizon , in the west the Green Mountains . The winding of the tree-fringed Connecticut is worth looking at . Even Toad Hollow and Hardscrabble has an interest for the curious . One could ponder on the past of Tinkham Town , which is now only two abandoned farms . There must be a melancholy satisfaction in turning east to the rugged township of Dorchester , which for deserted homesteads and roads grown up with bush probably holds the record for New Hampshire . In some respects Lyme is looking up . Of many abandoned farms city people hold the title deeds today , Lonely and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the runabout car only the least attractive of them need go begging . Locations for boys ' and girls ' camps have been taken up . Hikers have succumbed to the outdoor charms of Lyme , Dorchester , Orford and Wentworth . The country stores have a new lease of life . On roads that have not been closed by the Selectmen service stations and refreshment booths have sprung up . In highland Dorchester " hunters , fishermen and campers , " says Professor GOLDTHWAIT , " find a paradise of deserted " roads , overgrown pastures , ruins of old " farm buildings , along with plenty of " game . " To him who likes elbow room , sweep of the winds , clouds rolling up in the blue , and roads too rough for Fords , Dorchester , " high up on the watershed " between the Connecticut and Merri " mack , " is to be recommended over Lyme.                     