@@693382

txt It is from no less an authority than Secretary of War Davis , in his annual report to the President , that We- learn that the army maintains the only horseshoeing school in the country , that the country depends on the army to keep the trade alive , and that a majority of civilian horseshoers are more than 45 years of age , because young men are not attracted to the occupation . There is in the secretary 's statement a naive admission that the army is behind the times . The country is motor driven and steani , and electrically powered . Young men turn to mechanics , not horseshoeing . But the army sticks to the horse and the tradition of the army mule . With the horse passing out as a draft anima ) , even on the farm , the army sticks to him because it is not a competitive business in peace time . If it were , it would be forced to motorize or go under . Military experience in the world war proved , if nothing else , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was found utterly Impossible in the American army to get enough men to drive artillery and transport horses . The use of the horse meant that men perfectly familiar with the mechanism and driving of a motor vehicle had to be taught how to feed and curry and drive horses . Some of them had never be/bre seen a horse close up . The results were what were to have been expected , when to inadequate food and the tremendous labor of war and battlelwere added the horrors of incompetent handling . The horses gave out . This was one of the principal reasons for , the breakdown of the attack in the Argonne . Both the allied and the German commands failed miserably , then and all through the war , to take advantage of the opportunity for quick maneuvering afforded by motor transport . When a crisis came ? as at the first battle of the Marne or Verdun  --  motor transport was hastily gathered and used to save the day ; . ordinarily , it was march  --  the artillery horse-drawn . The failure to realize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep Ludendorff from being considered one of the world 's greatest generals . The army is tied down to the horse because throughout history , armies have been served by horses . All experience in maneuvering troops has been predicated on the horse . Every book of tactics , every military critic from Caesar to Clausewitz , bases strategy on the speed and endurance and the forage requirements of the horse . Let horses be abandoned and all the military authorities  --  except a few moderns the army . would call radical  --  lose their value . The weight of the horse 's inertia is an overwhelming burden upon the professional soldier . And to base a table of organization upon horses which will soon cease to exist ? as the men who know hoW to drive and care for horses have already ceased to exist ? is to reduce the army to an archaic absurdity .                     