@@694334

txt .11 the report from Geneva that the ' British ge , vernment intends proposing a more comprehensive arbitration treaty with the United States is true , We think there pan be no doubt of its reception at Washington or by the American people . There is in Otis country a strong tradition - in favor of arbitration and , in respect of Anglo-American relations , arbitration especiallly commends itself as a , practicable method because of the similarity of our standards , our mode of thinking , our sentiment against war , our facility in sensible compromise , l our consciousness of general agreement , and corn mon interests in world policy . The British and American peoples are better fitted to make arbitration of difficult disputes effectual than any other , and though war between us is not unthinkable or impossible , as is often alleged-1n fact , just because it is not unthinkable or impossible ? the adoption of an inclusive agreement for peaceful arbitrament of differences is highly desirable . Both peoples sincerely wish peace and abhor war . Both believe that the civilized method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through justice , reason , and self-restraint . Both are practical , distrustful of rigid formulas , apt at fair concession . Therefore they can afford to bind themselves more precisely and inclusively than either can with nations of other characteristics . Let us have therefore a very full and frank consideration of the possibilities of arbitration between us and the formulation after careful deliberation of a comprehensive agreement . But with regard to our part in the negotiation , we would express the hope that our representatives will be men who will keep essential American interests clearly in mind and not , in their zeal for friendly concession , commit us to the sacrifice of rights of defense which the vital welfare of the nation can not Justify . Such sacrifices our optimism and our pacific habit make us prone to accept . But they would not be a victory for peace since they inevitably would be repudiated . There are interests which the nation can not afford to submit to any arbitrament than that of its own conscience and for which it will always fight if necessary , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of these . Immigration is another . Our freedo'in to take whatever measures are necessary , In our own judgment , to protect the canal and our waters , is another . But these limitations , we take it , would have the sympathy of British official opinion . If not , it would be useless to negotiate .                     