@@685071

txt Attorney General Palmer , in announcing his candidacy for the Democratic nomination for President , intends to make as his supreme issues the League of Nations as a means of minimizing wars , and regulation of trusts through a modification of the Sherman anti-trust law as made necessary through the decision of the Supreme Court in the United States Steel Corporation case . While these will be the chief issues that Mr. Palmer will esp2use , he intends to support without question the policies of President Wilson , and in doing so will emphasize the necessity for conservatism and saneness in controling big business and the relations between labor and capital . In the opinion of his supporters , ** and Herbert Hoover . if the latter formally seeks the nemjng. tion , will be the outstanding aspirants for President on the Democratic side who will represent conservatively , PrOgressive ideas . W. G. is rated by Mr. Palmer's. friends as a conservative radical . An outline of Attorney General Palmer 's views on some of the issues now before the people was given to THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Palmer 's , laid stress on the point that Mr. Palmer would approach all questions with broadness , but Should not be considered as adopting ultra-radical views on business or labor questions . " Mr. Palmer has already declared for a system of Federal licensing of corporations engaged in interstate business , as advanced by President Wilson in a message to Congress last August , " said the Attorney General 's spokesman . " The decision of the United States ' Supreme Court in the Steel case will make it necessary for Congress to rewrite the trust laws , and it appears now that regulation of an intimate character may result from this decision , which marks another era In big business law . If big business has reached a point where it is ne longer restraining trade as defined by the Sherman law , public interest calls for legislation which will prevent the socalled trusts from controlling necessities in sucha way as to control prices in any respective commodity . " Perhaps the big issues in the campaign will be the Treaty dispute , " continued Mr. Palmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . He is willing Ito take ? the Treaty into the campaign . His opinion is that we should accept the League of Nations idea ; that we should take the plan at a 100 per cent . value , and build up machinery N.hich will minimize wars , and make unnecessary large military establishments and the training of our youths in military matters . He is against universal military training becaune he believes that the League of Nations , if accepted , and placed in operation in good faith by ail nations , will do away with-the necessity for heavy armaments and big armies . In othsr words , he thinks the world does not want any more wars and does want the machinery of a league of nations to deal with the disputes of nations . " Mr. Palmer favors the enforcement of the prohibition law and believes that by this Spring or , at the latest , by early Fall , it will be more and more accepted and will not figure as a real issue in the coming campaign . While Mr. Palmer entered the Georgia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the record of the Wilson Administration , he will ' not have the open support of President Wilson . It is known that the President has fixed views on the propriety of the Chief Executive using- his power to name his successor . - It became known here today that Mr. was considering entering the Georgia primaries . Although some time ago he requested that the delegates of that State be sent to the San Francisco Convention unpledged , it was asserted today that he was about to rescind his course and file his papers in Georgia . Mr. Palmer will have Senator Reed of Missouri as his only rival for the Georgia delegates unless Mr. or some one else enters in the next few days .                     