@@691160

txt Engineers who are sinking a fifteen-foot shaft down toward Sand Cave got evidence tonight that led them to believe that just below the forty-foot level where they were working they would strike a fissure , or crevice , that might lead to the cavern that has held Floyd Collins a prisoner for ten days . Disappearance of the water from the bottom of the shaft and a pungent odor of banana oil , some of which was loosed in Sand Cave several days ago in an effort to connect it with the great Mammoth Cave , led the engineers to urge their workers on at a feverish pace , in the belief that an opening was near at hand . Cave crickets , such as inhabit only the tortuous passages that honeycomb this district of Kentucky . have been found at the bottom of the shaft , indicating further that recesses of the cave are close at hand . Leader Takes Heart From Find . M. E. S. Posey , executive secretary of the Highway Commission and personal representative of Governor Fields , ascended . . splashed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight . " We feel certain we are near some of Sand Cave 's barrel-like passageways , " he said . " A few days ago a diamond drill we sent down indicated a passage of some sort at a depth of forty feet . " Whether any passage we may s e will lead to Collins is problematical . We can only hope it will . There is one passage that leads from a point known as the ' squeeze ' down towards Collins . This is above the cave-in , however , and it might not be of any value . " All this is very encouraging , however . It gives me hope that ' we have not had in days . " Dr. William Hazlett of St. Luke 's Hospital , Chicago , who is to administer to Collins immediately , if he is still alive , left the hotel in Cave City for Sand Cave as soon as the news of the new developments was brought here . Whether this was an indication that Collins might be brought to the surface before morning was not made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hurry . At the cave a rigging of rope and leather , making a sort of harness , with a covering of heavy canvas , has been prepared to receive Collins 's body and haul it up through the shaft . Hope appeared to run high among the workers at the cave . As the reports reached Cave City there was considerable excitement and several persons left for the cave in automobiles . According to one report the workers in the shaft have found easier going . Some dirt is mixed with the rock that is being uncovered . That Collins Is still alive was asserted today by Dr. Hazlett , basing his statement on tests made by the radio amplification device attached to the electric light wire leading down to the imprisoned man . It was stated that some raspy sounds indicated that Collins was stirring slightly or coughing . " His respiration may be distinctly heard with the earphones , " Dr. Hazlett said . " When I listened late this afternoon he was breathing fourteen times to the minute , normal respiration is eighteen a minute , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or a stuporlike sleep . " Military InquIfy Draws Crowds . While the workers in the shaft above Sand Cave were digging faster on the way to Collins , Governor Field 's military court of inquiry was centring its attention here on stories that Collins was not actually in the cave , or had become imprisoned there as a publicity scheme for the cave he was exploring . By toniLht sufficient witnesses had been heard to establish the fact that Collins was not only in the cave , but also , according to general belief , was accidentally imprisoned there and probably knew of no way of escape when rescue work for him was undertaken . The inquiry , which is to continue tomorrow , proved a second drawing card for the crowds attending the daily spectacle here , and its opening resulted in a substantial thinning out of those watching the drilling of the shaft . Those at the Cave City inquiry heard six witnesses give their views or discoveries in connection with Collins 's imprisonment . Most , of them said they had never heard the rumors that Collins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " back door " to Sand Cave or that the whole affair was concocted for advertising purposes . William Burke Miller , newspaper reporter of Louisville , testified that he had made seven trips into Sand Cave and that on five of these he talked with Collins . The ' reporter 's testimony was corroborated by B. G. Fishbein , a farmer of the vicinity , who said he went to the cave on Tuesday . a week ago today , and that he also crawled to Collins and had his hand on Collins 's head . Tell How Collins Pleaded . Robert Burdon . Lieutenant of the Fire Department in Louisville , who also helped in rescue work , said he went down each time with Miller and described in detail how they found Collins , pinioned almost upright in his crevice ; how they fed the entombed man and tried to pull him out with rope harness . Those who testified they got to Collins said he begged and pleaded pitifully with them to get him out of the place in which he was fastened alive . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disorganized. but constant and desperate . Lieutenant Burdon , a young man , admitted he came for the glory of rescuing Collins and obtaining merit in the department . " But after I had been down in there and heard that man plead , beg for help . " the Lieutenant said , " I forgot all about merit and glory , and I only wanted to fight to get him out . " Johnny Geralds , close friend of Collins , who also went time and again down into the hole that held Collins , and who had been tacitly criticized for his part in the rescue work , was vindiated by the men who testified . The witnesses declared Geralds had made sincere efforts to save Collins and that he showed high courage , leading expedition after expedition in efforts to extricate his imprisoned friend . Geralcis himself was not called upon to testify today . It is expected he will be called on tomorrow , when it is believed he will repeat a story he told in detail 1 to a Louisville newspaper . Brig . Gen. H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command of the troops , stationed at the cave and President of the Court of Inquiry , asked the witnesses in turn concerning an Associated Press dispatch stating that many persons here believed Collins was not imprisoned at all but alive and well with perhaps a cache of food on hand . Some said they had not heard any such reports . W. D. Funkhouser , head of the Department of Zoology of the University of Kentucky , and E. S. Posey . Executive Secretary of the State Highway Commission , both testified they castle to the cave at the request of Governor Fields to help where they could in the rescue work . Mr. Posey told of arriving on Wednesday . He told of a group of miners coming from Drakesboro , who said they were practical men underground and offered to help . He said Geralds told him that what had been done had not been done for the best condition of the cave , that some of the would-be rescuers were doing more harm than good . " Have you reason to believe there is a man caught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly have , " he replied . " Do you think it possible there was a hoax attempted ? " " I certainly do not . " The Associated Press dispatch was read to him . " Do n't you think , " General Denhardt asked , " that this was a deliberate falsehood sent out to the world ? " " Yes , sir , i would think so . " Dr. Funkhouser told of being familiar with caves because of his many trips underground in search of bugs and snakes . He said surveys to determine where the body of Collins is entrapped showed that Collins is 160 feet from the entrance of the cave and 75 feet down . " The release of Collins , " he said , " is now an engineering job . It seemed to be a cave problem when I came here . It may be again when the engineers digging the shaft down just in front of the mouth of the cave strike the tunnel . " Dr. Funkhouser collapsed late today just as Samuel M. Matlock , a general builder from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. Funkhouser has been working with only about four hours ' rest in twenty-four for a week . Matlock testified he brought an acetylene torch with him to burn away the rock that held Collins imprisoned in the cave ; but that he never got a chance to use his torch . " Who stopped you from going down ? " demanded General H. H. Denhardt . " Every one , " said Matlock vehemently , and named a number , Lieutenant Burdon told of his last visit on Friday after the walls had caved in some feet up from where Collins was . " On that occasion , " he said , " I called to Collins as before , but I got no answer . "                     