@@687310

txt The document given out yesterday by the delegates of the Far Eastern Republic indicating a Franco-Japanese agreement for common action in Siberia , and possibly at the Washington conference , documents whose authenticity was immediately denied by both the French and Japanese delegations , gave Washington a lively topic of conversation over the holiday . Since the denial of the two Governments accused was generally accepted , speculation centred chiefly on the effect the statement might have on the status of ** question before the conference , and on the standing of the Far Eastern Republic 's delegation here . This delegation , of course , has no official position , as it represents a Government which has not been recognized . It ' has , however , been presenting information in an unofficial character to delegates to the conference , and it was thought in some quarters that failure to substantiate this story of the secret Franco-Japanese treaty might discredit other information which it . has furnished . There was a rumor this afternoon that the French delegation might suggest to the- United States Government that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grossly that their presence in Washington might be embarrassing to the conference . This was denied by the French delegates . Minister of Colonies Sarraut , head of the French delegation , did , however , supplement the newspaper denials given out yesterday by a letter sent to Secretary Hughes as Chairman ( President ) of the conference , in which he called the documents " gross fabrications , " and their publication by the Chita delegates an " illegal and malicious action . " A similar letter may be sent tomorrow by the Japanese delegation , though ' It was said tonight that their action was still undecided . Ar San rrass Statement . The ' French delegation gave out the following translation , which they described as " free , " of Mr. Sarraut 's letter to Secretary Hughes : Washington , Jan. 2 , 1922 . , M. le President : The papers of this morning reproduce the text of some alleged official documents by the so-called delegation of the so-called Chita Government , documents said to emanate ! from French official authorities and representing official conversations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a determined policy in Siberia . ? - It is my duty to inform you that these documents are gross fabrications , and that since the moment when the allied Governments carried on a policy of military intervention in Siberia with : co-operation of the United States , - directed only against Germany and not at all with the aim of intervention in internal politics of the Russian people , no agreement has been either concluded or negotiated by France with any Government regarding the statutes status ? or the destiny of Siberia . At this time , when it appears to me necessary to expressly deny this false news , I consider it my duty to point out to you that the illegal and malicious action exercised by representatives of the pseudo Republic of Chita , having no mandate and no moral authority , with the aim of creating sus- picions between the powers represented at the Washington conference , seems to be directly contrary to the alms of the peace sought . Believe me , &c.,; SARRAUT . Speculation on Documents . People who did not accept the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible origin . One diplomat said that it was possible to assume that the Chita representatives were entirely sincere in believing that these documents were genuine , on the assumption that the Far Eastern Government had been deceived by its own secret service or that that ? secret service had been deceived by the vendors of the documents . " Forged documents purporting to deal with international affairs are a common article , " he said . " They were everywhere during the war , and they are familiar to all diplomats in troubled parts of the world today . Where there is known to be a demand for documents on international affairs there is bound to be a supply of documents , genuine or otherwise . It is very much like bootleg whisky under prohibition . " A theory advanced today by a man familiar with international politics may be presented for what it is worth . Frankly , it is largely inferential , though it starts from One or two known facts ; and it has the advantage of reconciling the French and Japanese denials with the apparently sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is known , according to this man , that in the Spring of 1921  --  the time when. , according to the Chita documents , the Franco-Japanese plot to send the Wrangel army to Siberia and set up a Russian Conservative Government under Japanese domination was being concocetd  --  certain Japanese Army officers in Paris were engaged in frequent concocted  --  certain Japanese army officers there , of reactionary politics , who were connected with the Wrangel movement . The Wrangel organization , it will be remembered , had been recognized as *a de facto government by the French in the Summer of 1920 , a few months before its fail . There is ground for believing that these Russian and Japanese military men may have discussed the possibility of moving Wrangel 's troops to Vladivostok . The situation in Constantinople was so serious  --  for that matter , the prospects of the 30,000 or so who are still in Constantinople and receiving some food supplies from the French Government , are still so black  --  that suggestions have been made for sending them almost anywhere . These Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their Government , or for their army command , nor were the Russians able to bind General Wrangel . But it is put forward as a hypothesis that some such schemes for transporting Wrangel 's troops to Siberia may have been talked over by these military groups on their own initiative , and reports of the discussions may have been sent to Tokio . In that case , it is suggested , the dispatches may'have fallen into the hands of the Far Eastern secret service , or of persons who disposed of them to that service . Perhaps , it is suggested , the text is substantially accurate , with the very important differences that the addressees were supplied by guess work . As to the French Conneetien . As to the French connection , it is Suggested that this , too , may have been a voluntary and extra-official matter of a few army officers who would natural , ly have come into contact with the Russian and Japanese officers who were conversing in Paris . The objection has been raised that the Government of the French Republic would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . of Its documents , of ' the restoration of the monarchy in Russia . But everybody knows that there is , a numerous and influential faction in the French Army , and in the French Foreign Office as well , Which is royalist ; which prefers a monarchy to a republic not only in Russia ; but in France and everywhere else . influence has been exerted , with rather unhappy results , in several episodes in Franco-Russian relations in recent years ; it has given a good deal of comfort , if not much aid , to Charles Hapsburg and it has been largely influential in the abortive efforts to detach Bavaria from Germany and set it up as an independent and Catholic monarchy . Perhaps certain royalist army officers , it is suggested , may have participated in the discussions of these Russian and Japanese military schemers . In that case the Chita documents rEpresented not messages between Governments , but notes and memoranda on plans proposed by this clique of officers on its own initiative  --  notes whose nature was misunderstood by ) those who obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern Republic . One point brought out which may have some bearing on the textual criticism of the documents is that there was a mistake in identification of the Rus= sian officer Tirbach , who according to the Chita papers was to be the chief organizer of the reactionary and proJapanese Russian Government in Siberia and who was represented as " a former aide-de-camp of Admiral Kolchak " and " the trusted representative of the French Government . " There are two Tirbachs  --  one a naval officer who was Kolchait 's aid , and his brother , who was one of Semenoff 's officers . It is apparently this latter Tirbach who is now in Vladivostok and active in politics there . The other brother has not appeared lately in Siberian affairs . Similar Story Published in Paris . Another comment on the documents was given out tonight by the Foreign Affairs News Service and was credited to an unidentified Russian source . According to this statement a similar story of a Franco-Japanese agreement on Siberia was published in the Paris papers early in November , but was not cabled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this story had been inspired by Bolshevist sympathizers in Paris , was reported to Moscow and obtained there by the representatives of the Far Eastern Republic and thus came to the Chita delegation here . The original report was denied by the French Government and by the Japanese Embassy in Paris . ' The same authority was quoted as discrediting the Chita documents on the ground that in discussing possible action against the Bolshevik ' by Central European armies the French would naturally have suggested the Poles , instead of the Hungarians and Jugoslays , as mentioned in the documents . Various reports about the reorganization of the Chita Government are in circulation . A cablegram from Peking reported yesterday that , according to Japanese information , the whole Government had resigned and was being reconstituted with the Communist , at present the most powerful single party in the Far Eastern Republic , excluded . This was denied by the Chita representatives in Peking . Another report has it that all except the Communists have resigned from the Government , The Far Eastern delegates have had no official information as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improbable , as the fall of Khabarovsk and the evident danger from the White armies which have marched north from Vladivostok might Well have led to some reorganization . It seems unlikely , ' however , that any Government which would be formed at present would be either wholly Communist or wholly anti-Communist . That is to say , so long as the Japanese , or the Russian parties operating from territory controlled ? by the Japanese , present a serious menace , the Chita Government will continue to represent a coalition of all parties for national defense . Chita Agent Asks Investigation . WASHINGTON , Jan. 2 ( Associated Press ) . ? Boris B. Skvirsky , a member of the Chita delegation , declared today that additional documents , which he Said had passed between the French and Japanese Governments on the " subject of a protectorate over Siberia , were in the files of his Government and that permission would be , given for the inspection of these papers as well as the originals of those made public last night by a duly accredited : representative of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Consul General to Kobe , Jackson K. Caldwell , who is temporarily stationed in Chita , be authorized to inspect the documents and report on them . " The first American mission - which visited Chita , " he continued , " was composed of Dr. James A. Abbott , Commercial Attach ? to the ; American - Embassy at Tokio , and Colonel Davis , the Assistant Military Attach ? . I understand that Dr. Abbott , who. is now in the United States as an adviser to the American conference delegation , has submitted a lengthy report embodying the result of his visit to Chita . At the present tune the United States has at Chita Jackson K. Caldwell , the Consul General at Kobe , Japan , who was for many years the American Consul at Vladivostok , and . . who : is thoroughly familiar-with the political situation in Siberia . We want : the truth to be known about Siberia . Why not publish Mr. Caldwell 's reports ? We believe that every word in these documents is true . The best way for the Japanese to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can not disclose our authority for the documents in question , but can only say that we obtained them in the same manner that other Governments succeeded in getting copies of important communications which are of vital concern to their own national interests . " No blanket resolution of the Washington conference concerning Siberia will satisfy the people of the Far Eastern Republic . If we are not permitted to appear before the conference and submit our- case , we will issue a formal protest and at the same time send a memorandum to the conference setting forth the conditions in Siberia . " Special Cable to Tut New YORK TIMER . LONDON , Tuesday , Jan. 3.  - -  Commenting on the publication in America of documents purporting to reveal a secret agreement between France and Japan , The Westminster Gazette says : " " On the face of them they can not be said to wear the appearance of truth . The revelation is made from a source which invites suspicion. , We can not accept the highly improbable documents against the double declaration that they are forged on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The incident may give piquancy to the- deliberations of the conference , but we anticipate that in the end it will do no more than bring gayety to the assembly , which hitherto has not indulged in humor . " The Daily Telegraph says : " It is sufficient to run - through the text of the alleged documents to see that one has to do with gross forgeries . " The Daily News says : " The strange and deplorable thing is ( 1 ) that it should have been worth anybody 's while to concoct such a story , and ( 2 ) that but for prompt denial almost everybody would have found no . difficulty at all in believing . it . "                     