@@692225

txt Premier Mussomm 's lecture on imperialism to the assembled newspaper men at Rome professed to confine itself to the etymological , lexicographical and psychological implications of the word . Empire , he was careful to explain , may mean government and domination or it may mean the will to life and power , the national " ? lan vital . " Unfortunately , there crept into the Premier 's exposition certain phrases which suggest that he is thinking of imperialism in more tangible form . He eschewed territorial conquests , " but finds In history examples of " peaceful agreements and " partitionings through which Powers " arrived at a firmer and more just equilibrium of their forces . " It is not quite a case of my mind to me an empire is , but of substantial expansion for Italian energies in Tunis , along the Adriatic , in the Alps , to be attained by peaceful agreement and partitioning . If MUSSOLINI were in a less academic mood , he might have referred to Italy 's surplus population as a compelling reason for thinking imperially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been overstated in current discussion . Our own immigration laws have not affected Italy so grievously as is commonly assumed . Before the new restrictive laws Italian immigration into this country ranged between 200,000 and 225,000 annually . The Italian quota is now cut down to less than 5,000 . Under the old conditions there was a heavy annual return of Italians to Italy . Altogether it might be said that so far as we are concerned an annual outlet for 150,000 Italian emigrants has been closed . Economic conditions in other overseas countries may bring this number up to a quarter of a million . That is a large surplus to deal withAnd yet if MI/SSOUNI succeeds , as he already claims he has succeeded , in reviving and augmenting the nation 's energies , Italian industry ought to be able to take care of it . Italy 's annual surplus of births over deaths is about 475,000 . Germany 's annual surplus before the war was nearly twice as much , and yet Germany had voluntarily cut down her annual emigration to less than 20,000 . To be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages . But she has great resources in water power and engineering skill which it should be precisely the duty of a super-statesman to develop . On the surface it would seem that the most pressing duty which confronts MussoLna is to think domestically rather than imperially . As a matter of fact , there is good reason for believing that the Italian Dictator does think of affairs at home when he discourses on empire . Brilliant evocations of the glorious Roman past and of a glorious Italian future may be a way of winning popular acquiescence in a galling present . Popular liberties are suppressed in Italy . The democratic ideal is openly flouted . The hand of the Fascist Party lies heavy on the national life . Regimentation and drill are the order of the day . To what purpose ? the Italian people must be asking itself . Mussoima replies by pointing to roseate imperial glories .                     