@@686704

txt PLATOON SCHOOL PLAN . Mr. Willcox Recommends the Detroit System for New York . Tu the Editor of The New York . Times : The effort to Make political capital of the public schools and fix responsibility on one Administration or another tends to obscure the serious problem I with which the city is confronted . The fact is that for many years past the public school population of the city has increased much faster than the seating capacity of the school buildings and no Administration has made any substantial progress in dealing with the situation . Consolidation in 1398 found the school accommodations of the greater city quite inadequate and thousands of pupils on part time . The expenditure of more than $190,000,000 for new buildings since that date has not improved the situation . On the contrary , in spite of an imposing array of new buildings , of which the city may well be proud , the number of pupils on part time has steadily increased . Moreover , while the new buildings have furnished modern accommodations to the pupils fortunate enough to enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve the old buildings , many of which are a disgrace to the city . Possibly the development of our splendid system of high schools may have diverted attention from the shortcomings of the lower schools ; but certain it is that at no time during the last twenty-two years have the elementary school buildings kept pace with the growth of the school registration . During the Mitchel Administration for the first time an attempt was made to deal with the whole situation in a systematic and- constructive manner . The " Gary plan " was associated in the public mind with manual training and shop work , but this was only an incidental feature which was in no way essential . The prime objects of this plan were : 1 . To abolish part time and provide a full school day for every pupil . 2 . To provide an adequate playground and systematic physical training for every school in the city . 3 . To alter the ? old buildings ; to eliminate dark and unsanitary rooms , and to provide , as far as possible , modern accommodations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too rapidly , before it had been thoroughly tested and adapted to New York conditions , and before it had been sufficiently explained to parents and teachers , was a serious mistake which undoubtedly created a very false impression regarding it ; but even its opponents must admit that the Gary plan never had a fair trial in New York . Its advocates still believe that this plan offers the best if not the only practicable Method of providing adequate accommodations for all pupils in the elementary schools and abolishing the part time evil in New York . In this connection it is interesting to learn that the Board of Education of the City of Detroit has recently adopted a similar double session plan , known as the Platoon School , as its official policy , and has not only planned its building program accordingly , but is reorganizing its entire system of elementary schools on this basis . The Deputy Superintendent , Mr. Charges L. Spain , states in his report : " The Platoon School as it is being developed in Detroit is designed to exemplify the principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression of the most progressive educational thought . It represents the deliberate judgment of the Superintendent of Schools and his staff , after a carefully planned experiment covering nearly two years . During that time fifteen experimental schools were carefully observed and the results were measured from all angles by the Department of Educational Research . These results are so convincing and the psychological effect of the new type of school , upon principals , teachers and pupils , has been so favor , able that the further development of the Platoon School organization becomes almost inevitable . " The most striking outcome of the experiment has been the spontaneous and whole-hearted endorsement which the Platoon School has received from principals , teachers , pupils and parents. ? . Detroit has apparently discarded the shop work feature of the Gary plan , for under the Platoon plan one-half of . the school is occupied in the auditorium , gymnasium , playground , library and in special rooms provided for music , art , literature , geography , science , cooking and manual training , while the other half is in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would deprive the pupils of higher education and rear a class of industrial slaves can not be used , therefore , against the Platoon School . Elaborate tests show that the results In the Platoon School are somewhat better than in the conventional school , and a large majority of the teachers testify that the children are happier , more industrious and more self-reliant . By this plan of organization the Capacity of the school buildings is increased more than 20 per cent . If a similar plan could be adopted in New York it would solve the part-time problem at a cost many million dollars less than would be required to provide a reserved seat for every pupil . In view of the present condition of our New York schools and New York finances , surely the results of the duplicate school plan in Detroit deserve investigation Ind serious consideration . WILLIAM G. WILLCOX . New York , June 27 , 1921.                     