@@687845

txt Articles will be signed without delay probably within a week ; for the proposed world 's heavyweight championship contest in which Jack Dempsey will defend his title against Harry Wills , giant New Orleans Negro . This now development came today , following the issuance of an order by the New York state athletic commission , demanding of Dempsey that he either accept or decline Wills ' challenge on or before July 10 , under the threat of having his title declared vacated . Agreement to Do Signed . Promoter Tex Rickard has received assurances from Manager Jack Kearns of Dempsey 's readiness to defend his title against his colored rival . The promoter said articles of agreement now are being drawn up ; and will be signed without fuqher delay . The articles , according to Rickard will be blank as to the time and place for the proposed battle , but will be binding in  --  legally clinching the Match . From a source close to Rickard it was learned that the promoter is planning on conducting the important battle on June 34 next year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Mils next year 04 a Wednesday . In selecting this date , therefore , iticluird would be observing the custom he followed with the Demosey , Carpentier battle , which was held waiting three days beyond . the time originally act , the New York boxing commis-s on today declared vacated the middleweight title held by Johnny Wilson of Boston , so far as New York state is concerned , when informed that efforts have failed to match him with ( Marry- Greb . The commission also revoked Wilson 's lkense to box in this state . on a Saturday preceding the national holiday . Kearns Not Much Bottbgred . Neither the promoter nolo/Manager Kearns exhibited much concern over the edict of the state commission . The signing of articles for the bout will come within the requirements of the commission rules on challenging , according to . Chairman William Mul , doon . The commission is not concerned over the date or place for the battle , Chairman : Muldoon said when discussing the situation . Neither is the commission prepared to commit itself on the matter of permitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board has before it a. contract for a bout between a white and a colored boxer . Only a small per cent of the fruit treestrees set out in this country over reach the bearing age . In many cases the trees are dead before they are ever set out . This may be the fault in the way the trees were packed at the nursery , but In Many cases it is due to carelessness and neglect in handling the trees at the time - they are set out  --  the roots are exposed and allowed to dry out MISKE FLATTENS SMITH IN FIRST Covington , Ky. , June 23 . ? Billy1 Misko knocked out Homer Smith in the first round of their scheduled twelve round bout here tonight . One of the most common causes for failures , nursery men say , is that many orchard owners finish the planting and go away , forgetting that the roots are not any too well established by the time hot weath6r sets in , and It often is difficult for the young trees to get enough moisture to keep alive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trees , beginning as soon as they are set in the ground . Break up the crust immediately after rains and keep down the Weeds . In extremely dry weather many of the trees are likely to die unless supplied with water . Some haul water to the orchard in barrels and soak the soil Immediately around the trunk , to keep the trees alive .                     