@@696414

txt The stock market was remarkably strong yesterday . Buying started with the opening of business , because the bulls were encouraged by the decrease in brokers ' loans whereas predictions had been general that a substantial increase would be shown . Outside demand also was on a larger scale than in recent sessions . The higher prices attracted considerable profit-taking but this supply was easily absorbed by short covering and new buying which came on moderate recessions from the early peaks . There was no selling pressure from the bears who had been attempting to start a reaction recently . With this supply removed the market moved ahead in an impressive manner . Call money held at 9 " ; ' , throughout the session . This was disappointing to those who have been predicting an easier tone and who expected a loner rate for the loans which Were to carry over until Monday . Sentiment is somewhat more optimistic , but conservative observers are still advising discrimination in making buying selections . Most students favor the accumulation of the leading stocks on any good technical set-back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounts against any sudden reversal of the trend . Professionals who are active in various pools are predicting higher prices for their favorites . Tradlnr Commission houses were good buyers on balance . The outside demand started with the beginning of business , and while some profittaking developed later in the day , the recessions brought a new demand Floor traders and professionals covered shorts actively at times during the session . but many were even.ng accounts before the close and as a result they were credited with having sold on balance Brokers ' Loans Wall Street was treated to a pleasant surprise by the decrease of $14,000,000 , 0 brokers ' loans of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York . All the estimates had been for a substantial increase , and , as it would have required a gain of only 523.000.000 to establish a new high record , the opinion was general that a new peak would be reached . Segregated figures showed a decrease of $54. - 000 000 in loans for the account of local banks , a decrease of 51000 000 in loans for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borrowings from out-of-town banks . No doubt the drop can be attributed to the epayrnent of loans which had been made for the purpose of taking up new stock offerings in recent weeks . Some of the int estors who purchased stocks before July 1 and borrowed funds also probably were pay.ng off their loans with the interest and claodend monies receit ed at the beginning of the month . Revert e Ratios There has been considerable short selling at times in recent sessions . This pressure has come from professionals and others who insisted the market . was in need of a purg.ng after its substant.al advance in the past five or six weeks . In a few instances these sellers were able to uncover a.r pockets " and force sharp reactions in indit idual issues but the standard stocks . which are credited with good banking support , did not yield to any large eN. - tent . The result has been that moderate setbacks in these leaders hate attracted urgent cot ering in the efforts of the bears to take in their commitments . Norfolk a : W @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor folk &; Western v.h.ch indicate that interests usually conservative are looking for an Inc cease of at least 56 a share ot.et the 192S results , which equalled more than 521 a share There has been quiet accumulation of the stock at times in the past because of these predications . St. Paul Adjuntsuent% St Paul adjustment bonds are being recommended by several leading commission houses as attractite for speculative investment . It is contended that the full $5 annually is practically assured now that the company 's earnings have been showing such good improvement . In the distant future the conversion privilege entitling the exchange of a bond for five abates of common and five shares of preferred stock might prove to be of substantial value . Loadings on the road for the first eight days of the current month amounted to 44.388 cars , compared with 33.222 cars in the similar period last year , Food C pang Earnings Preliminary statements on earnings of the various food companies for the first six months of this year indicate a new high record . in addition , indications are that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unusually bright . While many of the food stocks have been acting strong , market interests assert . they hate not yet . discounted the increased earnings and excellent outlook , as well as the consolidation possibilities of the future . National Biscuit Report s are widely circulating that t he banking interests in National Biscuit hate tentative plans for acquisitions of other companies . with Biscuit as the nucleus for a big and important . food products consolidation Such a move would not be out of line , pat Ocularly as the products of National Biscuit are well known and acquisitions would result in efficiency and operating economies which would be beneficial to any concern taken over . A great many people in the financial district are inclined to believe there is some basis by the latest rumor . Gold Dust Gold Dust has been purchased by interests who are confident the organization eventually will find its way into the new Standard Brands concern . It is pointed out that the stock is note approaching a figure which has been rumored as the price at which the stock would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the upturn was well absorbed , Consolidated Gas The aggressive buying which has come into Consolidated Gas has not surprised market interests who have contended right along that the issue has not been moved forward in proportion to the previous gains in other utilities . The investma/it features of the stock have been steadily emphasized by conservative observers This has resulted in bringing a good demand from small outsiders , many of whom have paid for the stock and have taken it out of the Street . Standard Gas Accumulation is reported to be in progress in Standard Gas &; Electric again . Many outsiders who had followed the issue on the presous advance have been liquidating and this has improved the technical position of the issue according to leading market interests . Those who have been interested in the util -- ties generally point out that this company Is now doing a gross business of about 5150.000 - 000 annually and has extremely valuable properties from which big developments of bencet to stockholders can be expected Earnings at e currently running at better than c7 a sh  --  r ? co @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priced . Montgomery Ward When wheat was declining , alontgorne-y Ward was depressed by the trete that the farming communities would be smaller briers . Sim : here has been a recovery of about 30 cents a bushel in the wheat price , the stock has rall.ed , but not in proportion to the upturn In the commodity Ilecently a report has been v idela ? vacillated that the company may lake over some other retail concern . but no names hate been mentioned in these reports . SuLti a move would Solve some of the problems of personnel and locations for the new stores re-timed by the company . llernington Rand A large short interest is said to be tied up in Remington nand and urgent covering has been noted during recent spurts aleanahile , in , commission houses , theze is a growing feeling of optimism regarding the future earnings and price of the stock . Much significance is at ' tached to the fact that among the recent additions to the hoard was an individual who is also a director of National Cash Register and a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the shay p advance in the last named stock a year ago , This has been widely COmmented upon and has resulted in active publi . Imams ; of Remington Rand . Arnerlean lee A seasonal slur k hell is likely to reflect the tact that het weather is increasing its sales and earnings is American Ice The company has been doing well all year and operations for the first five months were 35 ' , in excess of the similar period last year . A new record for this a ear is indieated . It is reported in optimistic quarters that the company has earned in excess of its full dividend needs in the first six months .                     