@@692674

txt Tomorrow the coal strike will be in full swing in South Wales , Scotland and other parts of Great Britain .. Though , the negotia-. tions between the , mine . owners and the miners broke down Saturday at *midnight , the , fact of ' the- strike has ' not fully impressed itself- upon the miners yet , since Saturday was May Day , when the men would not have worked even if the negotiations had been continued , and today was Sunday and a holiday in any event . But tomorrow the full force of the stoppage will become apparent in Wales and other coal mining districts . The first whiff of possible trouble came to the big Welsh mining centre of Cardiff today when a truckload of I soldiers passed through the streets . It was part of the force concentrated in the Welsh coal district to forestall trouble . Despite the appearance of the soldiers there is little anxiety as yet among the population . Yesterday in Wales there was some heavy buying of provisions , however , which recalled the food-hoarding days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clarendon , who has been appointed Civil Commissioner for South Wales , arrived at Cardiff today with the nucleus of an emergency staff . He has already formed a skeleton organization for continuing the essential services if the strike makes this necessary . Scotland Remains Quiet . So far there has been no disorder around Cardiff . Thousands of miners still keep up the lingering hope that the overthrow of the Government 's financial aid may be amended in some form to the mining industry and the dreaded catastrophe thus be averted . Throughout the Scottish coal fields things remained quiet today . The breakdown in the coal negotiations was not quite unexpected , but the decision of the Trade Union Conference to call a general strike came as a shock . Throughout Scotland the people are well prepared for the coal strike . In Glasgow , for instance , both the gas and the electric light plants have sufficient coal stocks to last several weeks , and if there is. any serious closing down of industrial plants they will probably find a way to keep going two or three months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply of fuel . The Scotch railroads are also well stocked . But supplies of domestic coal are rather scanty . In fact some Scotch coal merchants have already started rationing their customers . The prospect of a marked rise in coal prices already looms up . In the Glasgow district an embargo has been placed on export coal . At Aberdeen four coal cargoes arriving in port were promptly embargoed by the Government and the consignees informed that the cargoes must not be discharged until Government authority is obtained . Volunteer workers are being organized in Scotland for maintenance of essential services . In Glasgow alone 2,000 volunteers are awaiting ? summons to meet the strike emergency . By noon today the coal strike was general in the Nottinghamshire coal mining districts . Though the miners are rather disorganized and there are many non-union men among them . they appear to be solidly behifid their leaders . The Nottingham municipal authoritives have accumulated huge stocks of coal and can probably defy the strikers for four months or so . In Derbyshire there is no doubt the order to cease work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 20,000 miners are striking in North Wales , but available funds in the hands of the local Miners ' Association will only allow out-of-work pay during a fortnight . In Yorkshire , in the coal mining district around Barnsley , between 10,000 and 12,000 miners have quit . In Durhamshire and Northumberland there are 210 ; 000 idle coal miners-150. - 000 in the former and 60,000 in the latter . In the former 200 pits and in the latter 75 pits are already closed down . Considerable apprehension as to what is going to happen exists among the miners in these counties , though the Financial Secretary of the Northumberland Miners ' Association declared today that the miners were better placed to wage a battle than in 1921 when they struck during fourteen weeks . Then they had no funds , he said , whereas now they have enough to keep going some time , even without outside assistance . It is believed that the funds in the hands of the miners ' organization In these counties totals about 5250,000 . The supplies of coal on hand in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the news of the coal stoppage orders were given to damp down some blast furnaces . Most of the steel firms can carry on for about a week . The small potteries in Staffordshire practically have no stocks of fuel , Many of the larger fa*. to:ries have sufficient for two or three weeks . Manchester Concerns Well Supplied . The big industrial concerns in Manchester and the neighborhood are well supplied with coal . Most of the cotton mills use electricity and are dependent on municipal supplies which are not likely to curtailed yet . Others have big stocks of coal . The coal crisis will have a serious effect on the iron tad steel trades of northwest England . The Barrow Ironworks will close down at the end or this week . Only if the general strike extends to the gas and electricity plants will London 's supply of light , heat and power be seriously affected . Since the coal strike was deemed probable some time ago stocks of coal had been accumulated to meet the emergency . The Gas , Light and Coke Company announces today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some time . The South Metropolitan Gas Company also said that there is no need of anxiety yet awhile . Officials of various electricity concerns spoke in the same hopeful vein . Up to late yesterday the London tramway companies had not considered the possibility of curtailing service on the London County Council tramway system . But London may soon run short of household coal . The coal requirements of the population , however , decrease at this time of year , so the situation is not so serious as it would be at another season . An indication of impending trouble is contained in an announcement tonight by the London &; Northeastern Railway that it has received a communication from the National Union of Railwaymen , signed by the well-known leader , C. T. Cramp , stating that a number of the railway 's employes will quit work tomorrow , The railway rmpany has pointed out that the men would thereby break their contracts . As a result of the communication from the union , the railway company announces that it can not be responsible for the maintenance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for any loss that may arise . Railway Appeals to Workers . Sir Felix Pole , the general manager of the Great Western Railway , has issued an appeal to the employes of that company urging them to hesitate before they break their contracts of service . " The railway companies and railway Men , " he says , " have demonstrated that they can settle their disputes by direst negotiations . The mining industry should be advised to do the same , Remember that your means of living and personal interests are involved . " He trusts his men will carry out their conditions of service in the same manner as they expect the company to carry out its obligations and agreements . The Miners ' Federation this evening issued a statement dealing with " a number of incorrect or misleading statements " which have appeared concerning the attitude of the Miners ' Federation to " any possible reduction in wages . " " It is necessary to make clear , " says the Miners ' Federation 's statement , " that under no circumstances can the miners accept any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the conference of the Miners ' Federation last week , after receiving unanimous reports of the districts against any reductions in wages , increases in hours , or district agreements , reaffirmed their unaltered opposition to any settlepaent embodying any of these proposals . "                     