@@685013

txt Conclusions regarding the Homer oil field can be stated as follows : The deep sand wells have been over-rated , in that initial production estimates can not , for several reasons , be even approximately equalled by actual performance . Salt water in deep sands not only forces great curtailment of flow but threatens-to make life of the wells comparatively short . . Salt water will not drown deep wells over night . It has been present in the pool since December ; deep wells will make more than the average amount of oil despite handicaps . Shallow sand wells , especially in the north end , have been under-estimated . The shallow pool at Homer is about the best thing of its depth ever discovered in the MidContinent . The shallow sand pool will make more oil per acre . than the deep sands . Properties both in the shallow and deep sands are unusually valuable but those in the shallow sand are liable to prove even more valuable . After approximately 650,000 barrels of oil had been taken out of the field from the deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and salt water . It was not in all the wells , but there were so many that it was evident salt water in dangerous quantities was prevalent through the field . The first appearance was in the northeast edge of the pool and since either emulsion or pure salt water has appeared in wells on the north , west and south . Although it is feared the salt water will have the effect of damaging the oil , or stopping the flow of the oil altogether , none of these bad results has yet happened to any of the Homer wells but the fear of such results has compelled restriction of the flow , while the water itself has become so prominent in some that it has threatened to replace the oil . About 10,000 barrels of oil daily are now being taken by producers from the Homer wells , this representing their facilities for piping and storing the oil . What the pool might make with plenty of facilities for handling the oil is a question . Such estimates as 300,000 barrels , potential , are greatly exaggerated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide open , but the day after half the big wells would be flowing salt water , and the others would have lost much " head " . Thirty-five of the deep sand wells have been completed , most of them estimated at 10,000 barrels initial or better . But gauges on these wells were for very short periods of time , a quarter of an hour , or such . None of the big wells have ever tanked more than 5,000 or 6,000 barrels of oil in any 24 hours . Some of them are already far behind their initial showing . At least two have quit flowing . One hundred thousand barrels daily would probably take the head off the pool , as it now stands , within a week , but this is a supposition . The shallow sand wells would probably stand up under heavy flow better than the deep sand wells , even regardless of water . One hundred and forty shallow wells have been completed . Approximately half the shallow wells are in the south pool . There is an unusual contest going on at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gillilands on the " Oakes " tract , together with the reputation they have for getting out the oil , has caused all producers in the deep sand to strain energies to get holes down and tanks up , and to get pipes to their tanks . Standard Oil Co. of Louisiana has had the advantage in getting the oil out of the pool , since its eight-inch pipe line to Shreveport was completed December 24 , 1919 . This so far is the only pipe line outlet , although Louisiana Oil Refining Co. ( subsidiary of Invincible Oil ) has a six-. inch pipe practically completed to Shreveport . The other : pipe lines are to tank farms or loading racks . Standard Oil of Louisiana is able to handle , with its pipe line and Homer loading rack , about 20,000 barrels of its own oil and 8,000 barrels of others . Gilliland Oil Co. , with two pipes , a sixinch and a combination four and six-inch , completed to tank farms , and loading rack at Homer as well as Minden , is getting out 12,000 barrels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher , . as more tanks are completed . Invincible , with a pipe line to a tank farm and a loading rack at Homer ; Arkansas Natural , with what it is shipping from loading racks and what is being run by Standard Oil ; Simms Petroleum , with pipes completed to its tank farm ; Gulf Oil Corp. , with pipes to a tank farm , are neck in neck " in the present average amount of oil got out daily . White Oil Corp . gets some oil out through Standard Oil pipes .                     