@@687636

txt Industrial and financial interests , who are the controlling element in the ownership of Barnum Island  --  sometimes called Jekyl Island ? it was learned yesterday , through Edgeworth Smith , their local renresentative. have determined on the immediate development of the 700 acres , lying just to the north of Long Beach and comprising the area of Barnum , or Island . which in the future will be known as Island Park  --  Long Beach . The development of this property will add approximately 10,000 lots to the Long Beach Channel and Atlantic Ocean seashore district , in which area the building of dwelling houses and bungalows has been intensely active  --  especlally at Long Beach  --  since the lifting of certain of the building restrictions , which for fifteen years were rigidly enforced . Since the removal of these restrictions Long Beach has developed as never before in its history , and hundreds of new houses , bungalows , business buildings , &c.,; are now in course of construction , with the result that land values are Increasing steadily , thereby creating a. strong demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range of prices . This demand will be met in the development of Island Park  --  Long Beach , one result of which will be the widening and improvement of the two-mile automobile highway  --  Long Beach " Road  --  leading from the Merrick Road , thence crossing Barnum Island and directly connecting with the new concrete bridge across Long BeachC'hannel to Long Beach . Island ParkTLong Beach has about five miles of water frontagb on Long Beach Channel . Barnum Island Channel , Wreck Lead , Simmons-Hassock and Parrott *Creeks and other navigable waterways , all of which are to be dredged to provide deep waterways , 300 to 400 feet in width , which will afford unusual facilities for still water bathing , motor boating and other acquatic pastimes . Contracts have been let already for dredging the deep-water channels ; filling the existing meadow land with clean sand ; building concrete roads and sidewalks ; planting a large number of shade trees . There will be two stations of the Long Island Railroad on the property between Long Beacji and the mainland . Lockwood . Greene &; Co. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fairview , Camden , N. J. , for the Government during the World War , are in charge of the development work to be done at Island Park  --  Long Beach . The development of the property will include the creation of a modern town ; the creation of two business centres . one at each of the island railroad stations ; the establishment of bungalow colonies having private behes , facilities for motor boating , bathing , &c.; the organization of local fishing clubs ; the inauguration of community beaches , a community club house and community bathhouses.                     