@@692187

txt C. W. Barron was interviewed by the journalist , Marchese di Castelmaurigi of the II Popolo d ' Italia , of Rome , concerning the situation in Italy and the financial outlook . The Marquis is a son-in-law of Philippe Bunau Varilla of Panama Canal fame , and questions were right to the point His paper was founded by Mussolini and is now edited by the brother of the Premier . " What is your opinion about the future of Italy financially , now that the settlement - with the United States has been made ? " Mr. Barron ? " I am proud of ray col:nutty and of Italy that they have settled so justly and in such friendliness the international financial obligations arising out of the war . " When I was in Italy and met Mussolini , a little more than two years ago , I cabled my financial papers in the United States that there were two people in public life who never made any mistakes in their economic declarations , and they were Mussolini and Vice President Coolidge , and I am very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement between the United . States and Italy . My economic studies have shown me that Italy has a very serious problem as respects her growing population on her narrow strip of territory in the Mediterranean without as yet discovered mineral resources of coal , iron or oiL " Italy has to send out to North and South America several hundred thousand people every year , and they make the best citizens and the best workers in the Western world . I wish we had millions more of them . But Italy could keep many more of her sons at home for her own development if she could work her shipping so as to bring iron ore andrcoal from the United States and make her own iron and steel . For her people have a lower level of wages than we have in the United States and she could , with raw materials , make her steel for her railroads and her building construction cheaper than we can make it if she had the proper connections , machinery and development . " I have called the attention of several financial people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when sometime in the future the vast resources ' of iron ore and coal and limestone in the state of Alabama on the Gulf of Mexico shall have been cnnected by rail with the gulf ports in the United States- There are probably in Alabama the richest and the largest deposits of iron ore , coal and limestone that are as yet known an where in the world . It is the largest base of the United States Steel Corp . for the future , but the rail and waterway connections to the South , where these raw materials can go out by the Gulf of Mexico , are not yet fully developed . ITALIAN MEN AND SHIPS " Italy should keep her eye upon the possibilities of development here so that in the future Italian ships and Italian sailors may bring the raw materials of the southern states of America directly to her own shores , getting thereby the profit on the ships and the labor into Italy . In the future iron ore and coal may come from Alabama cheaper than from any other point in the world and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be high . " I have noticed as I traveled on the west coast of Italy the shipyards that were started during the war and I believe ' that Italy has a great future not only on the ocean but on the land , if she will use her ships to bring in her raw material and manufacture for her own needs . Distance with raw material is not difficult . Mr. Schwab of the Bethlehem Steel Corp. , the second largest steel company in the world , described his plans to me for capturing the export trade of the world in the future by bringing his ore from the west coast of South America i in Norwegian ships ' through the Panama Canal up to the northern ports of the United States where he will make i steel for export to Europe . " I believe that in the future , with the deve  --  opment of banking by Italians in the ) United States , who are now among our richest and most successful bankers , especially on the Pacific coast , the financial and banking relations between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much closer , and I believe that in due time millions more of American money will flow into Italy . I believe also that Italy will be a great point for winter tourists and travelers from America . Indeed , what is now needed foz tourists to travel are more homes in Rome , the Mecca of I all good Americans , and these homes should be built of I Italian steel and American elevators , as we are all aspirI ing to live high up in the air of sunny Italy . The whole of ' Italy should be one prolongation of the Riviera . " " Will the American immigration laws be so modified ? as to admit of larger Italian immigration ? " I THE LMALIGHATION QUESTION Mr. Barron ? " I do n't thnk they will be immediately imodified , but I think the Italians in the United States should agitate for a modification because the basis of imI migration as respects Italy is not perfectly fair as based ion past figures . If necessary , the law might be modified so as to permit more Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money of Italians in the United States to help you pay your way and pay the obligations you have assumed toward the United States , and I think now that everything possible will be done in the United States to help the Italian people , for you are very , very close to us . The subscription of the Italians of $5,00C,000 to their government to make the payment to the United States must touch all true hearts and make closer all international relations and promote the friendliness of peace of the whole world . " What do you think of the future of Italian exchanger Mr. Barron ? " I have seen the Italian lira when I was in Italy many years ago sell at one-third its nominal value as expressed in gold dollars , and I have seen it steadily come back to par , and I believe that it will be to the advantage of Italy and of the whole world to have the lira again back to its pre-war value . It raises labor and the standard of labor , it helps to savings and increases the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced except very slowly , because a too sudden enhancement hurts business and hurts the merchants who have goods on their shelves . The appreciation of the lira should be so gradual as not to interfere with business pig:A-Its and the ability of business men to pay taxes to the government , for taxes must come from profits . APPRECIATION OP THE LIRA " It seems to me that in the future , with the large earnings of the Italian immigrants in the United States , and an increase of the tourist movement into Italy , the exchanges should run year after year in favor of Italy making a gradual appreciation of the lira . I have great faith that Mussolini will maintain the balance of the Italian budget with a surplus in the national treasury . With no further emission of paper the future of the lira and its steady enhancement is , I believe , assured . " " Do you think the lira will go up quickly or slowly ? " Mr. Barron ? " It ought to go up very slowly , but I am afraid that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the settlement with the United States is very-sharply rising and the present promise of advancement in the lira will attract capital and money into Italy and into the lira . " " Can you suggest any remedy against a too sudden advance in the lira ? " Mr. Barron ? " I think it would be perfectly justifiable on the part of the Italian government to buy American exchange well in advance of its payments , thereby selling Italian lire to stop any too sudden upward movements . In this respect Italy might take a lesson from Great Britain which is very forehanded in using its debt payments to the United States to assist in regulation of international exchange . " Of course the government might issue more lire but this would be a bad practice and a bad precedent , and give rise to demands for lira inflatIon which should never be encouraged . Above all else , Italy should beware of inflation . The downward path may be easy ; the hardship is in the necessary upward climb that must follow if credit breakdown and national bankruptcy is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you suggest for the future of Italy ? " Mr. Barron ? " I would recommend a thoroughly scientific survey not only for the possible greater agricultural development in middle and southern Italy , but ii thorough survey looking to the possibility of the uncovering underground wealth . " Our present scientific knowledge of the earth 's crust is not sufficient for a thorough understanding of the wealth that is beneath the soil . In the United States we have not uncovered our wealth by science but by adventure . This is called in Texas and in the oil regions ' wild catting ' or the opening up of the earth as a gamble or speculation where there is no evidence of wealth . Consider for a moment what we have done in arid and poor regions in the Southwest . Where we once had great American deserts , larger than Italy , re now have ellerMous , wealth-and factors in world development .                     