@@693177

txt The name of Senator James W. Wadsworth Jr. , was received in silence at a luncheon of Republican women before whom Representative Ogden D. Mills , Republican candidate for Governor , spoke here today . Following a consultation with leaders who met him this Morning , Representative Mills made a vigorous appeal for support for the Senatorial candidate at all of the three I meetings he addressed today in Dutchess County and emphasized the need of electing the entire Republican ticket . On State issues he stressed taxation , the cost of Government and the borrowing policy of Governor Smith . Mr. Mills sensed the indifference , ' which was in marked contrast to the enthusiastic greeting he received himself at the women 's luncheon . There was no applause at the speaker 's mention of Senator Wadsworth , although less than a week ago the Republican County Committee , of which Mrs. F. H. M. Hart of Poughkeepsie is Vice Chairman , unanimously endorsed him . Mrs. Hart presided at the luncheon . At the night meeting here , however , when Mr. Mills urged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiastic applause . Throughout his address the audience of 1.500 , many of whom were standing . interrupted him repeatedly to applaud his bolts at Governor Smith and Tammany Hall . Calls Tammany the Issue . " What we need , " Mr. Mills said , " is speaking at the luncheon , " is not bread and butter politics but courage , intelligence and ability . Senator Wadsworth has brains , courage , character and ability . It will be a disgrace to the State if " Jim " Wadsworth is driven out of public life and " Bob " Wagner takes his place . New York State owes it to itself to keep such a public servant in Washington . " Ref erring to the New York City milk scandal , he emphasized its effect on producing dairymen , saying : " On the one hand the milk grafters have brought the high standard product of our dairy farms into competition with bootleg milk and cream , underselling the New York market and doing real carnage to the industry . On the other , they have subjected 6,000,000 people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the statement attributed to Herbert H. Lehman , Chairman of the Smith Citizens Committee , that the Republican candidate had yet to develop a single important issue . Mr. Mills declared that Tammany Hall itself was the principal issue . He traced In detail what he termed the growth in power of the New York Democratic organization and asserted that the Smith State building program and the bond issue passed last year would provide ? Tammany with the sinews to seize complete control of the State . Attacks Borrowing Policy . His speech before a large gathering at Columbus Institute tonight was devoted to questions of economy , an attack on Governor Smith 's methods c.f borrowing and an elaborate analysis of taxation in principle and as applied in this State . " Governor Smith , of course , will say that this is water over the dam , " he raid , referring to the $100,000,000 bond issue , " that I am debating a question that was fought out last year . But the 5100.000,000 bond issue is a part of the record of the Smith Administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor 's financial program . It serves as a warning of what may be expected in the future if the Governor is returned to power . " Borrowing , he continued , " should be reserved for great emergencies should be avoided whenever possible because of its expense . " Interest charges which seem small enough at the outset have a way of snowballing at an amazing rate , " he added . " Mr. Mellon summed up the case for debt reduction as neatly as any one could when he said ' that the time to mend your roof is in good weather , not when it is raining . The time to pay your debts is when you can . ' " That is what the Federal Government has been doing . In New York , with the flood tide of prosperity sweeping in , with the revenue of the Government in spite of lower rates reaching good figures , we have not only failed to reduce the debt , which perhaps would not have been possible , but we have taken this occasion of all times to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embark on a program of paying for recurrent capital expenditures from borowed money . " The return of Governor Smith to Albany , according to Mr. Mills , was ordered by Tammany Hall for the purpose of getting control of the spending power of the State . " Do . you see why Governer Smith must run again ? " he asked . " He declared he would not run again , that he wanted to retire or to gn to Washington , but he had to run again . He had to finish the work he has commenced . The State Government reorganization plan will be in operation under the next Governor and Governor Smith had to run . " ' Go back , Al , ' they said to him , ' Go up there two more years . By that time you 'll have the State sewed up so you can turn it over to us . Then you can take a rest and go to Washington . Thanks for the buggy ride . ' " Elect Smith , " Mr. Mills exclaimed , " and you will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tammany Hall hog-tied for a generation : , Confers With Leaders . Representative Mills and Mrs. Mills spent last night at the home of Mr. Mills 's father in Staatsburg , about thirteen miles from here . They were met at their train this morning by State Senator Griswold Webb , Chairman of the Dutchess County Committee : Mayor Frank B. Lovelace of Poughkeepsie , Frank L. Gardner , secretary of the County Committee , and other leaders . i During their discussion of the situation in Dutchess County , particularly in regard to the possible dry vote , Mr. Webb made public a telegram pledging his support for the Republican ticket from Representative Hamilton Fish of Garrison , who has heretofore urged a dry candidate for Governor and a dry platform . Mr. Fish , in whose district Representative Mills was speaking , did not attend any of the meetings today . In explanation of his absence he wired the following : New York , N. Y. , Oct. 5 , 1926 . Hon. Griswold Webb , Poughkeepsie , N. Y. Regret unable to attend Beacon and Poughkeepsie meetings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I served with Representative Mills in both the State Legislature and House of Representatives and know him to be well qualified through ability and experience to administer efficiently the office of Chief Executive of New York State . I hope every effort will be made by the Republican County Committee of Beacon and Poughkeepsie to get out a big registration , as the bigger the registration the more chance there will be for sub- ? stantial majorities for the Republican ticket election day . Yours for an old-fashioned Republican victory .. HAMILTON FISH JR . Tomorrow morning Mr. Mills and his party will go on to Hudson , where he will make two speeches . He will also make a short address at Philmont at noon .                     