@@695408

txt Aristide Briand , Foreign Minister of France , tonight followed up a virile speech to the Assembly of the League of Nations in defense of the Franco-British naval accord with a statement thlt it would be made completely public through the League Committee on Disarmament . The speech of M. Briand , in which he took a slap at Russia and reproved some statements made in behalf of Germany , was only one of the events which made the day outstanding in the Assembly . Spain , Venezuela and Persia were elected to threeyear terms on the council , Spain winning semi-permanancy by receiving the " privilege of re-eligibility . " China , to whom this distinction was refused , was among the several countries disappointed by the choice of these three . She was short seven votes of the majo ity needed . Her term with those of Holland and Colombia has just expired . Among the other unsuccessful candidates were Norway , Siam , Denmark , Paraguay and Uruguay . On the balloting Spain received 46 votes , Persia 40 and Venezuela 35 . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Denmark 8 , Paraguay and Uruguay 2 each . There were some other scattering ballots . Denies Naval Accord Rumors . The French Foreign Minister today told the Assembly in one of the greatest political speeches of his career that there were no secret clauses in the accord with England , and that it had been arranged for the sole purpose of facilitating reduction of armament . Tonight he assured the correspondent of The Associated Press that the French had definitely decided to make the full accord public during the disarmament discussions before the Assembly committee . He added that the understanding would be introduced merely in passing as an example of the efforts being made to hasten disarmament . M. Briand used ridicule in driving home- his denial of whispers heard recently in many European quarters that the accord contained more provisions than appeared on the surface or had been made public . His address followed a plea for an international disarmament conference before next year 's Assembly which was given by Ernest Blythe , Vice President of the Executive Council and Minister of Finance , Posts and Telegraphs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time limit be put on the work of the Preparatory Disarmament Commission . Mr. Blythe said that the Kellogg pact had made war a crime and an outrage . In his address M. Briand termed the accord " a favorable act of rapproachment " between divergent views revealed in the last disarmament conference . He complained , somewhat bitterly , that some persons had said immediately that it embodied " something unhealthy . " Instead of asking " for whom , " these persons had asked " against whom ; " ? said the Minister . They had spoken of " secret clauses and . all . the paraphernalia which does not take on a pacific aspect . " In reality , said M. Briand , the accord was much simpler and he said that the world would learn that France and Great Britain had genuinely striven to ' facilitate the ' work preparatory to a disarmament conference . Raps Germany and Russia . He replied pointedly to the German 's contention that they had ' been disarmed ' while other countries show no signs of reduction in their forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army of 100,000 men , " he said . " Germany also has a magnificent reservoir elf man power from which she may draw a much larger army . " , He belittled the claim that Germany had no war material and said that the rapidity with which she had rebuilt her merchant marine showed the remarkable national capacity to reconstruct instruments of peace suitable for the manufacture , of weapons of war . The French statarssa criticized Russia for increasing her armaments and for " glorying in it . " While the soviet Union by adhering to the Kellogg pact has renounced wars of aggression , he said , he did not know that it had renounced another kind of war , a contest which some regard as a " holy war . " He dubbed Russia 's project for- complete disarmament a " theatrical gesture . " He admitted the importance of questions involving therights and status of minority sections of the population . He said , however , that regard for these rights should not be used so as to provoke mass demonstrations having the modification of frontiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aspirations of groups . DENIES CHANGING FRONT . Briand Says lie Is Clearing Atmosphere for Negotiations . By WYTHE WILLIAMS . Wireless to TILE NEW Yost : TIMES . GENEVA , Sept. ** the first time since he has headed the French delegation to the League of Nations , M. Briand today addressed the Assembly in the role of an out-and-out Frenchman rather than as an international peacemaker . His speech replying to Chancellor Mueller 's address last week was heard with amazement by the German delegation , which at first pronounced it as spelling the ruin of the Locarno agreement and also the end o : the rapprochement policy . Certainly on this occasion the , great French spellbinder did not produce the customary magical harmony . Instead of the ' cello he employed the trumpet for his leading motif , and the result , while vigor- ' ously applauded in many quarters was far from being an academic oration such as he has usually delivered from the League rostrum . The German delegates at the close of his addresse declared it was evident now that M. Briand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , intended to adopt an entirely new attitude . This was denied by M. Briand soon after the session . The French Foreign Minister declared that after he had fulfilled his duties of clearing the atmosphere and putting the negotiations on safe and sane ground he would be quite ready to start in with the Geneva official conversations which may lead to negotiations relative to evacuation of the Rhineland and that he was perfectly willing to show a conciliatory spirit , but ? that he objected to leaving to Germany an implied leadership of the League and of European policy . He leaves for Paris Thursday for a Cabinet meeting to choose a new Minister of Commerce and at the same time to go over with Premier PiNncare the entire question of meeting the Germans . Ile intends to return to Geneva Sunday . Thus it Is evident that the round table talk is not likely to take place before next week . Meanwhile , it is expected that the Germans , unless they feel themselves too offended over the new devlopment in the situation , will not run the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Russia . It is believed that Chancellor Meuller will realize that any form of substantial success for himself will come only through beginning negotiations here . As suggested in these dispatches following Herr Mueller 's speech , M. Briand today realized that it was necessary to make a clear statement concerning French intentions . Therefore , he spoke directly in the name of the French Government and French Parliament . He has stated several times recently that he Is completely out of patience with the press reception accorded him both in France and Germany each time ho returns from Geneva . In his own country he is repeatedly described as the dreamer of Thoiry and Locarno  --  a man who in the atmosphere of Geneva has lost a sense of realities ; while in Germany he has been described as a double faced individual , such as was depicted in Herr Muller 's speech as a man traveling in two directions . Thus today in the tribune of the League he suddenly became the same man as he appears in diplomatic negotiations , no longer concealing the obstacles which exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion Germany is largely responsible . Herr Muller , appearing as a Socialist , gave a sort of moral lead to the assembly debate , first on the subject of immediate disarmament and second as regards the so-called protection of minorities . Replying to Herr Muller 's declaration that Germany had completely disarmed , Briand maintained that there was voluntary confusion of two different theses . He admitted that if Germany is disarmed in accordance with the Versailles Treaty other powers must then study the problem of reduction of armaments in proportion to the degree of security each demands . But since Herr Muller insisted that no one need longer have any fear of Germany , M. Briand took the position of pointing out the difference between two kings of disarmament . He therefore declared that with the Reichswehr , industrial organization and millions of men alreauy trained Germany could scarcely be considered as sufficiently disarmed to justify the full disarmament of others . He especially pointed out that the eventual ally of Germany in case of war  --  Soviet Russia  --  instead of decreasing was increasing armaments . That meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough milltary force to justify French precautions . Concerning minorities he referred directly to the movement to annex Austria to Germany . He graphically pointed out that before the war the unsatisfied , complaining minorities amounted in Europe to 100,000,000 and that none cared much about them , especially Germany ; while now that there were 20,000,000 Germany had become their protector . Therefore he summed up that If minorities such as those crying aloud in Austria were to trouble the peace he believed in silencing them despite his otherwise respectful at-1 titude toward rights and liberties .                     