@@686585

txt The Northwest Wheat Growers ' Association has decided to join the United States Grain Growers , Inc. , and in four Northwestern States 40 , - 000,000 bushels of wheat are reported as " pooled . " That is not a wheat corner , and the conspiracy is not in restraint of trade because the conspirators are farmers who are licensed to do such things by the same statute which punishes others who do them . If the farmers are pooling their grain with their own resources , Wall Street and the bankers will have nothing to say to the contrary , but really the farmers ought not to ask for assistance from the money power in the activities of their combinations " not for profit . " It is fair to make that suggestion because the farmers and planters are asking credit to hold their crops at the same time that they are asking other credits for the planting of this year 's harvest , and are complaining that their credits are restricted . Even while they are combining for the marketing of their crops in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of more liberal rural discounts , extension of the present six months ' limit on agricultural rediscounts and fixing of two years for rediscounts on cattle paper . The Secretary thought this would be safe , since member banks guarantee their rediscounts , and he favored such legislation as might be necessary . Farmers and planters should have all the credit they need for either raising or moving their crops . They should not have exceptional facilities for speculating in them . Farm products have fallen more than most commodities , and the farmers have suffered more than most others whose views of the markets have gone wrong . But against the money power or the exchanges they have no griev --  , ance except that they have allowed the farmers to persist in their error . Governor HARDING of the Federal Reserve is now touring the agricultural regions for personal and official information , and last week he said that city bank accounts had diminished in " enormous volume . " Rural accounts , however , " have increased by 300 per cent . during the last twelve months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said last year ; that bank credits to these interests were growing right through the time when they complained that restrictions of credit broke the market for their goods . It is with regret that it is remarked that the farmers ' losses have been proportioned to the excess of liberality with which they have been treated by those whom the farmers repay  --  by attacking them in their own field . The exchanges , for instance , have offered them a constant market where they might have transferred their losses to others , and would have done so if they could have foreseen the price movement . The farmers repay this service by proposing to close the exchanges by law , and bills have been introduced in Congress for that purpose . There is now before the Governor of Illinois 1 a bill putting the Chicago . Board of Trade under the license of the Illinois Board of Agriculture , with the expectation and intention that the board shall be made to operate in the manner which the trade says is impracticable . If the farmers had been better speculators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to legislate the exchanges out of business . It is because the farmers are such poor speculators that there le a feeling that they would do well to corifinl their activities to farming . Regret that there are hard times fa farmers does not extend to the degree of allowing farmers to make time ; harder for others . Liverpool , the flow : milling centres and even New Yorl would profit by having thrown to them the business taken away iron Chicago . Nevertheless , they woulc Prefer that the Board of Trade should not be closed . It is tiresome to sa.3 these old truths again , but if-they are not said , and do . not prevail , the farm . ers will suffer more than they have suffered yet , and they will cause greater suffering to others .                     