@@696899

txt At last dress reform in England has passed out of the hands of dilettantes and cranks . To achieve its purposes they are embodied in a political organization , the Men 's Dress Reform party . A vote is but a counter . Clothes are the man , according to a philosophy not yet outworn . Why should exterior democracy conform more and more to a conventional pattern ? If the bureaucracy is stripping the citizen of freedom , he might console himself a little by achieving freedom in dress . The general object of the new party , according to a report of its committee , is to encourage individuality of style . Why then does the committee submit , though only tentatively , suggestions for substituting new conventions for the old ? Why should it attempt to impose the " Byron " collar ? Not by emancipation of necks are independence and individuality of costume to be achieved . GOETHE showed less neck than GEORGE GORDON , and was incomparably the greater poet and man . A hanging tie may be worn with a low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are braver men who will revive the ruff . Likewise , this very Winter , the muff , after the manner of Sir WALTER RALEIGH and other mighty Elizabethans . Why not earrings or , what is a little more delicate , the single earring ? Sir PHILIP SIDNEY is a sufficient patron . ADAM WINTHROP , . father . of JOHN I. , wears the single earring in ' his portrait in the hall of one of the great London companies . so recommending the fashion to Americans . There is no manlier gaud . It is a badge of the buccaneers . All genuine retired sailors wore earrings when some of us were boys . To these decorated mariners , thereby suspect of piracy , was paid a profound and trembling juvenile worship . Our new reformers do n't go to the root of the matter . Forgetting the rude things that have been said about the pillars of the feminine temple , they urge men largely to substitute " shorts " for trousers . They - find that " there is much to be " said ih favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for many " purposes . " What is a blouse but a shirt or overshirt ? Even in. this country there was the butcher 's " frock , " for instance . Similar blue " frocks " were worn by some of the earlier generation of American farmers , continuing an English agricultural tradition . The " decorated " shirt is a more comely proposal . Only why is he of the pictorial shirt , the new variety of painted Pict , to carry his coat on his arm ? Assuming that the weather is warm , why does he want a coat ? It is a pleasure , however , to agree with the committee that the kilt is hardly suited to " modern industrial conditions . " The best the committee can do to provide " ideal " evening dress is " a fine white silk or " satin blouse , black satin or silk " breeches and silk stockings . " ANTINOUS would feel ashamed in a blouse . Where are the ancient splendors ? One 's great-grandfathers wore peach and plum coats and embroidered waistcoats that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago the eye could rejoice in blue coats and red waistcoats and yellow " Chesterfields . " Even a city merchant would wear top-boots . About the time that the railroads came , the color and the brilliance of men 's togs began to fade away into fuscous , sub-fuscous , drab , dreary . When individuality revives , we may see slashed doublets and trunk hose and feathered hats on Broadway . At present men shrink under the constraint of fear . Yet we do not despair . We live in hope to see the Senate worthily clad in togas and sandals .                     