@@686256

txt Probably thirty negroes and two whites were killed and more than forty others , whites and negroes , were injured , several probably fatally , by a cyclone which wrecked the settlement of Gardner and part of adjoining Oconee soon after noon today . For a stretch of five miles the ground was swept clear of all buildings and trees . Most of the negroes killed were in their homes eating dinner . Stores , dwellings , a school house , sawmills , farm buildings and telephone and telegraph wires were blown clown and hurled in all directions , and dead cows , horses and hogs were scattered throughout the district . Chickens were plucked of their feathers by the wind . The cyclone was preceded by a heavy rainstorm . At noon there came a lull in the rain . A swiftly moving dark cloudhovered for a moment overhead . Then the cyclone struck . Members of a freight train crew who were at Oconee during the storm and brought the first news of the disaster to the nearest point , TenMlle. saw the air literally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part , roofs , animals and darts of all kinds , and heard negroes crying in terror as they were swept away . A train was quickly made up at Tennille and rushed to Oconee with physicians . , medical supplies and a relief force . They found a scene of terror and desolation . Twelve Negroes Still Missing . Forty of the tenant houses of the Cleveland-Oconee Lumber Company , which operates a large hardwood mill at Gardner , had been blown away , leaving the ground as clean as if swept by a giant broom . At o'clock the bodies of twentythree negroes had been found and more than a dozen were missing . Benjamin Orr , 14 years old , was decapitated inside the commissary of the lumber company when it was destroyed . Seven negro women and fifteen . negro men were laid out in an improvised morgue near the railroad tracks , many bodies being broken and twisted beyond recognition . One dead negro was found in the top of a tree half a mile from his home . Another was hurled through the air until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Oconee school houac , a new wooden structure , just completed , near Gardner , was a total wreck , nothing being left but the floor . The roof was carried away and the side blown in on eighty-two children , but only one child suffered bruises . Several pigs under the building were killed instantly . Among those injured was Marion Hodges , clerk in C. A. Hodges 's store at Oconee . This store collapsed as if crushed by a giant , pinning Hodges under the debris , breaking his arm and otherwise injuring him . Dol and Sans Trawick , negroes , were found half a mile from the scene , their heads driven Into the ground side by side . Household goods could be seen in the tops of trees for a mile . The ' commissary operated by Sheppard Brothers was one of , the first buildings to . go down . The negro houses In its rear went next . One house was lifted bodily from its foundations and sailed through the air , falling in pieces as it went . In many instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim the bodies , and it was suggested tonight that the mill company bury all the dead in one big grave . Roads from all directions to Oconee were blocked by fallen trees and telephone lines and It became necessary to rush the county convicts to the scene to clear a passage to the settlement . When the storm broke over thE , Oconee school house the three teachers ordered all children to remain seated . When the roof had been blown away and the sides of the building . began to cave in , the children ducked ; under their desks , with the result that no one was killed . Farmers who lived in the neighborhood suspended work and joined in the hunt for bodies . A negro woman was blown into a stump , her body being practically severed . T. M. Harrison . a farmer living two miles from the lumber mill , lost his home , and his mother was badly hurt . Houses on each side of his were unscathed . The cyclone seemed to take dips and spurts , taking first one building and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disaster spread hundreds of automobiles rushed to the scene , Blankets , medicines and other first aids were soon on hand , and order was restored , immeless people were eared for and plans discussed for rebuilding many of the homes . Lon/le was scatter ( : 1 as if shot from a gun , nt d sent of the victims were Isi11 ? ? 1 ' ; 1:y 11 , e flying thvbers . The new Fairbanks mill was undamaged , though houses all around it NI ' Fe unroofed . Section house.3 of the rt liroati were moved from their foundations and chimneys blown half a mile a Wa The second white person killed was a child , the 1-year-old daughter of E. J. Miner , manager of the convrilaary.                     