@@693019

txt Two passengers , one an American , were killed and eleven others , of whom seven were Americans , were injured , together with the French pilot and mechanic , when a new Farman Goliath cross-Channel air liner belonging to the French Air Union crashed at 4 o'clock this afternoon at Adlington , Romney Marsh ? in Kent . The following official report was issued by the Air Union tonight : " The French commercial aircraft Faieb , engaged in regular passenger service between Le Bourget and Croydon , which left Le Bourget at 12:30 o'clock , crashed at Aldington , Kent , at 2:3n , when making a forced landing in very bad weather . " Among the thirteen passengers two were killed  --  Robert Blaney , an American , and M. Vigorizzi , an Italian . The injured are Miss Mildred Varden , Miss Victoria Varden , Miss Edna Searn , Miss Margaret Hazzard , Stanley Hazzard , Miss Harriet Ames , Lawrence Stroh , all American ; Robert and Miss Edna Bennett , British , , nd two other British passengers . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also were injured , the pilot gravely . " British Peer Among Injured . Lord Norreys is mentioned in a Paris dispatch as having been one of the British passengers . He is a grandson of the Bad of Abingdon . The address of Robert Blaney is understood to be Mount Vernon Street , Boston . He was the first person lifted from the wreck and died almost immediately . The Italian passed away Soon after Before dying he said : " My people are in Paris .. Send for my sister . " The pilot and mechanic were the last extricated . The mechanic was conscious and exclaimed to his rescuers , " Good enough ! Good enough ! " . One of the engines had to be removed altogether before the pilot could be taken from his seat . The crossing of the Channel had been made extremely difficult owing to heavy , misty rain . When the airplane had crossed the coast and approached Adlington it was flying low and it soon became apparent that the pilot was forced ? to make a landing . Approaching College Farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landing grcaind . The circling machine flew so low that it struck the porch of a barn and was deflected into some haystacks . The airplane then twisted in its flight , struck another haystack and almost immediately crashed to the ground . Eyewitness Tells of Accident . College Farm is occupied by H. G. Wilson , who at the time of the accident was standing near the barn sheltering from the wind . He said : " The machine came along at a low altitude . I noticed that the propeller of one of the engines had stopped and thought the pilot was going to attempt to land in a field close by . The machine made one turn , then unfortunately struck the projecting portion of the porch of the barn . It crashed into three haystacks , which it demolished , and , continuing , twisted halfway around and struck another haystack , falling with the nose in the direction whence it had come . " Had the airplane been six feet higher when it flew over the barn it would have cleared the roof safely . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losing height rapidly , for the undercarriage struck the roof of the barn and tore up the tiles for a distance of six feet . Horses we were holding took fright at the sound of the airplane and bolted , dragging us into the road , where we had to let them go . We had a narrow escape ourselves from the machine . " To my amazement . when we reached the wrecked airplane the door of the cabin , which was lying practically level with the ground , opened and a man climbed out . He in turn assisted two women . They were the only people able to get out unaided and did not seem seriously injured . All the others were huddled in a. bunch in the fore part of the machine , and one woman had been flung with such violence against the side that her head was protruding from the fuselage . " The man who had first emerged was bleeding from the nose and shaken . Except for the two women he had assisted the passengers were lifted out . Some were unconscious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until doctors came from Adlington to render first aid . We then made stretchers and carried the passengers into the barn . The pilot and mechanic were doubled up in the nose of the machine and we had to break the side of the cockpit away to reach them . " The county police removed the bodies of the two dead men to a neighboring house . The Lympne Airdrome , which is five miles away , was informed of the accident and a Royal Air Force ambulance on duty there rushed to the scene and assisted in handling the Injured .                     