@@690257

txt of the navy will occur in the T.nut , r ? of representatives tomorrow ... Sic-moon. when the question of installation of additional protection against submarine rine and air attack , and the conversion of the battleships New York . Texue , Florida , Utah , Arkansas rind Wyoming into oil burners , at a cost of $18,350.000 , comes tin for final action , " Congressmen Britten ( Rep. , III. ) , said today . " This amount will also care for the installation of new fire control systems . on the New York and Texas . " These ships were completed between 1911 and 1914 , before the submarine , the torpedo'and the aircraft bomb development of the world war , which would now make them easy prey In battle . : t 1411611 in the Arms Treaty . " The Washington arms conference spectileally authorizes this additional protection against submarines and air attack , but it does not particularize in the direction of conversion of such vessels from coal burning to oil burning , so it may be necessary for our state department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kven if congress appropriates immediately , this work can not be completed under six years because of the danger of putting too many of these vessels out of commission an at once . " The present peaceful international outlook is an opportune ! time for the rehabilitation of our battleships , many of which would certainly remain out of the nation 's first line of defense if war came suddenly . WM Add Greatly to Strength . " The conversion to oil burning will increase the effective steaming radius of thee ' ) vessels considerably , and will place them on a parity with other units of the battle fleet in this respect . It will increase the comfort of the personnel manning the ships ; it will increase the economy of operation ; it will increase mobility of the entire battle fleet by decreasing the time consumed in refueling , and it will make the battle fleet homeogeneous In the kind of fuel used . " I certainly consider these major alterations as Important for the dotense of-the nation as the building of new ships of a smaller type . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been submitted to the President and that they are not in conflict with his financial program . " Stabs Self with Scissors ; Husband Finds Her Dying Mrs. Ida Moser , 47 , died yesterday three hours after stabbing herself above the heart with a pair of scissors while in her home at 204 North Lemont street . Her husband , who found her lying unconscious , said Mrs. Muser had been despondent over ill health .                     