@@696907

txt The nomination of William R. Castle Jr of the District of Columbia to be Ambassador to Japan during the ricilod of the International Confer . etice on Naval Armament , which opens in London next month , was sent to the Senate today by President Hoover . It was made known at the White House that Mr. Castle would return to his present duties as Assistant Secretary of State when the armament conference was concluded . His selection for special ambassadorial duties is designed to place in Tokio. while the armament conference is in session , an experienced diplomatist familiar with the purposes of the administration with respect to naval armament limitation and who will be able to make representations directly to the Japanese Government concerning complications that may arise in the London negotiations . The selection of Mr. Castle for the Japanese mission comes at a time when considerable pessimism over the outcome of the armament conference is being voiced by many Much of this pessimism is a reflec tion of what appears to be widespread opinion in France and to some extent in Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuse to accept any armament reduction or limitation proposals which would insure the conclusion of a treaty by the five participants , the United States , Great Britain , France , Italy and Japan . The recent disclosure of the claims that would be made by Japan in the conference with regard to cruisers and submarines has produced considerable uneasiness in official circles here , and the course of the President in deciding to send Mr. Castle to Tokio has a direct bearing on that factor . While designated for a special mission , Mr. Castle has been nominated for full Ambassadorial rank , in succession to Charles , who tendered his resignation last March and returned to this country soon afterward . Mr. is now en- gaged in practicing law in New York . Since his departure from Tokio the United States has been represented by a Charg ? d'Affaires there . Early in his administration President Hoover tendered the Japanese mission to Dr. Hubert Work of Colorado , former ? chairman of the Republican National Committee , but Dr. Work declined . Recently the Ambassadorship was offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Interior , and the Japanese Government was asked if Mr. West wold be acceptable . Before a response from Japan was received Mr. West , for business reasons , withdrew his acceptance of the tender . The members of the Japanese mission to the London conference are scheduled to reach Seattle tomorrow and to arrive in Washington Monday . Secretary Stimson and the American delegates will take up with them the factors comprised in the Japanese and American points of view . Mr. Castle will remain in Washington to participate in these conferences and will sail from San Francisco on Dec. 31 . He will spend a few days in Honolulu visiting his father and other relatives , and will said thence on the steamship President Jefferson , which is due at Yokohama on Jan. 20 , the day before the London conference is to begin . Mr. Castle was born in Honolulu under the old Hawaiian monarchy on June 19 , 1878 . His father was King Kalakana 's Minister in Washinelon . He was graduated from Harvard in 1900 ; was an instructor and assistant dean there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Communications of the American . Red Cross during American participation in the World War ; entered the State Department as a special assistant in 1919 , and was gradually promoted until he reached his present position of Assistant Secretary of State in February , 1927 . Submarine-Cruiser Discussion . The task of persuading the Japanese delegation that its contentions with respect to submarines and 10,000-ton cruisers , on which Tokio is understood to seek at least a 70 per cent ratio with respect to British and American strength , are based on apprehensions that have no sub stantial foundation as far as the United States and Britain are concerned , appears to have been allotted to Secretary Stimson . Meanwhile the British Government is conducting exchanges with France and Italy , and the two countries last named are engaged in controversies having to do with their own peculiar needs , especially in the Mediterranean . In these circumstances the importance of Mr. Castle 's special mission to Tokio becomes apparent . Publication in this country of suggestions that the Japanese claims with respect to an armament limitation arrangement were designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where it is insisted that they practically constitute the minimum requirements of the Japanese Navy . Mr. Castle has had especial familiarity with the factors which will enter into the London discussions and this was stressed with the anr.ouncement of his nomination . He has attended the various meetings between officials of the government in mapping out the American program and has an intimate knowledge of the preliminary exchanges between the United States and the four other powers . With the White House statement that President Hoover wanted to have at Tokio while the London conference was in progress some one familiar with the problems involved . a tribute was paid to Mr. Castle 's fitness for the mission . Program of Japanese Delegates . The Japanese delegates will be in Washington for three days before going on to New YOrk Dec. 19 to sail for England . They are to be in Chicago Sunday and arrive in Washington at 10:05 A. M. Monday . The President will receive them at the White House at 2:15 P. M. , and at 5 o'clock the delegates will receive press representatives at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the delegates at the Embassy Monday evening . Next Tuesday the Japanese will call on the Vice President , the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the Speaker of the House at the Capitol in the morning . The Japanese Ambassador and Madame Debuchi will entertain at dinner at . the Mayflower Hotel , the headquarters of the delegation , at 8 P. M. The morning of Wednesday , Dec. 18 , the delegates will visit Mount Vernon and Arlington to place wreaths on the tombs of George Washington and the Unknown Soldier . The Japanese Ambassador and Mme. Debuchi will- hold a reception at the Mayflower between 4 and 6 o'clock . The President and Mrs. Hoover will entertain the delegates at dinner at the White House . Secretary Stimson will entertain the delegation at a luncheon Dec. 19 at the Pan-American Union . The Japanese experts will leave Washington for New York at 4:25 P. M. that day .                     