@@690575

txt John W. Davis . Democratic nominee for President . was informed on his arrival here today that the political situation in the West was in a state of flux , that Senator La Follette , third party candidate , was stronger in the normally Republican States of this section than Theodore Roosevelt was In 1912 and that the outlook for a marked increase in the Democratic strength before election day was highly encouraging . It was in 1912 that Roosevelt as a progressive split the Republican vote and brought about the election of - Wilson . Every report made to Mr. Davis by the party leaders who visited him dwelt on the apparent La Follette strength . Ile was told of this by George E. Brennan . the Chicago Democratic leader ; Clyde L. Herring , National Committeeman from Iowa , and Edwin T. Meredith of Iowa , former Secretary of Agriculture , and Arthur Mullen , National Committeeman from Nebraska . Mr. Herring declared after seeing Mr. Davis that the La Follette sentiment in Iowa was so strong that it appeared that he might carry the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coolidge . " I ' have no hesitancy in saying that if the election were to be held tomorrow Senator La Follette would carry Iowa . " Mr. Herring said . " He is particularly strong in the northern part and has strong support from the farmers everywhere . " I believe that the situation will change in Mr. Davis 's favor . It is much as it was at this time in the ' campaign of 1912. when it appeared that Roosevelt would carry Iowa . This resulted in a swing of , conservative Republicans to Wilson . with the result that he carried the State . I expect something similar to happen this year . " The Republicans , who are split over the candidacy of Senator Brookhart , have been thrown into further confusion by the appointment of an Iowa Steering Committee composed of John T. Adams , former Republican National Chairman : Hanford and former Representative James W. Good , to manage the Iowa campaign . By the appointment of this committee the Republican National Chairman practically superseded Charles A. Rawson , who succeeded Mr. Adams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many friends of Mr. Rawson . " Illinois Changes Called Good . Mr. Brennan told Mr. Davis that the outlook in Illinois was decidedly encouraging and that he would carry the State . Mr. Brennan based his prediction on an improved Democratic situation in Chicago since Mr. Davis 's antiKlan declaration in his Sea Girt ( N. J. ) speech , Republican factional troubles in the State and a belief that Mr. Davis would grow steadily in strength as a candidate . There was a general agreement among the party chiefs who talked with Mr. Davis that his chance to carry several Western States would depend largely on his next two speeches , that at Omaha , on Sept . G. in which he will present n , constructive program for farm relief , and that at Denver on Sept. 11. which will deal largely with the conservation of the country 's natural resources , and the development of hydroelectric power . According to the information received by persons attached to the Western Democratic headquarters . Senator La Follette now appears likely to carry his home State of Wisconsin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chance of carrying Iowa . Kansas and Nebraska . It is hoped that Davis and Bryan will carry Nebraska , . the home State of the Democratic nominee for Vice President , and it is believed that the Democratic national ticket has a chance of carrying Iowa acid Kansas . Missouri , Kentucky , Tennessee and Oklahoma are considered safe for Davis and Bryan , while the Democratic Western managers have hopes of carrying Indiana and Ohio as well as Illinois . Lincoln Dixon , who is in charge of the Western headquarters , said after a talk with Mr. Davis that the work of organizing in his territory was proceeding satisfactorily and that the outlook was most encouraging . Welcomed With a Band . Mr. Davis was welcomed to Chicago by a delegation of Cook County Democrats , beaded by Mr. Brennan . and . accompanied by a band , which led a - procession - of automobiles from the ' Dearborn station to the Congress Hotel . where Mr. Davis and his party ate. ! staying . Mr. Davis had luncheon with Mr. Break nan . Samuel G. Blythe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Key Pitman of Nevada , who are members of his party. , Callers during the day were Clarence Darrow , who complimented Mr. Davis y on his Labor Day speech at Wheeling ? . Paul Mueller . editor of ' the AbendpostiI , Miss Kathryn O'Loughlin , Secretary of the Illinois Women 's Democratic , CIub ; and Mrs. Amos Walker of Chicagm Mr. Meredith , Mr. , Herring and : Vie : Madge O'Neil , woman , Inepber ; Qt. , : Ws , A. ? National Committee from Iowa . invited Mr. Davis to speak at Des Moines on Friday . Because of a desire to make his first speech in an agricultural State and in the home State of Governor Bryan . Mr. Davis declined to speak on that date but may visit Des Moines mil his way back from Denver . As the program is now arranged , Mr. Davis will make no speech on his prest visit to Chicago , where he will remain until Friday . when he will leave for Omaha . He will spend Sunday with Governor Bryan at Lincoln . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest before speaking at Denver on Sept. 11 . On his way back Mr. Davis will speak in Missouri , at a time and place to be decided later .                     