@@692338

txt When the Senate adjourned at 5:l5 o'clock this afternoon , it had adopted all the reservations to the World Court resolution proposed by those supporting the measure , and had rejected every effort made to amend them . Tomorrow the Senate will consider and probably act on new reservations offered by those who are opposed to American membership in the Court . There is an excellent prospect that all these hostile reservations will be rejected , and that before the day is over the Senate will have given its sanction to the Court protocol . In spite of yesterday 's victory of the Court proponents in invoking closure , the Ku Klux Klan still is fighting for the rejection of the protocol . Accord-I ing to rumors about the Capitol , its , activities were responsible for some of the adverse votes cast against closure yesterday by Senators supposed to be I inclined to vote for the protocol . Senators Fess and Willis of Ohio , who had voted for closure , heard by telegram and letter today from Claude W. Osborne , " Grand Dragon of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Klan . " demanding " in the name of 250,000 Protestant men and women of the State of Ohio . " that they vote against the World Court . Senator Willis telegraphed the Grand Dragon that he intended to vote for the protocol . Senator Fess said he ' would take the same course . Opponents Muster Eight N'otes . None of the hostile reservations acted on today received any considerable support . Some of them were bowled over by viva voce votes , while eight Senators furnished the maximum number the Court 's enemies were able to muster when roll-calls were ordered . On the principle that anything that ' would limit participation of the United States in the Court was desirable , antiCourt Senators voted very generally for the reservations offered by the pro-Court majority  --  the so-called Swanson reservations . The excitement that marked yesterday 's proceedings in the Senate , when the limited closure rule was invoked by a vote of 68 to 26 to bring the debate on the World Court to a close , : was entirely lacking today . Although great crowds filled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the session had little of interest in it . Two incidents stood out , however , in the somewhat prosy debate . Both occurred while Senator Arthur R. Robinson of Indiana was delivering his maiden speech . There had been much uncertainty as to how Mr. Robinson stood on the World Court issue . Yesterday he voted against closure , but so did his colleague , Senator Watson , whose understood inclination was to support the World Court resolution on the final vote . Mr. Robinson announced that he ' ould never agree to American participation in the World Court so long as the election of its Judges was in the hands of a body  --  meaning the Assembly of the League of Nations ? in which t he British Empire had seven votes and the United States only one vote . Indiana Senators See Coolidge . The announcement of Senator Robinson was interesting . There was reason to believe that up to the time the Senate met today he was uncertain as to what his course would be toward the World Court resolution . This morning he and Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclose the subject of their conversation , it was suspected that they desired to tell Mr. Coolidge something about the troubles the World Court issue had brought to them politically After Senator Robinson had spoken , it became known that he and Senator Watson had agreed that they would stand together in whatever attitude they ultimately assumed with respect to the Court issue , and Mr. Robinson 's declaration was taken to mean that Senator Watson had decided to vote against the enabling resolution . According to Indianians in Washington , one cause of this decision was that if either Senator Watson or Senator Robinson should have declared for the Court , former Senator Albert J. , Beveridge would have come out as a candidate for the Republican nomination for the Senate either for the place now held by Mr. Watson or to succeed Mr. Robinson . Mr. Watson is a candidate for renomination in this year 's Senatorial primary . Mr. Robinson ' is serving by appointment to fill part of the unexpired term of the late Senator Samuel I 11 . Ralston . If Governor Jackson , who appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Ralston 's term , also to be filled in this year 's elections , Mr. Robinson will be a candidate . Former Senator Beveridge has come Out against the World Court , and if Mr. Watson or Mr. Robinson gave him the opportunity , it was said , he probably would enter the primaries on the issue of opposition to American participation in the Court . Mr. Beveridge was in Washington this week . Robinson Angers Walsh . The other Incident during Mr. Robinson 's speech came when he spoke of Senator Walsh of Montana as one " who stoutly supports the World Court and supports the British Empire on this floor . " " I call the Senator to order , " cried Senator Walsh angrily . " I have never supported the British Empire on this floor or elsewhere . " Mr. Robinson , while he uttered a word of apology , pressed Mr. Walsh to know if be did not support the seven-vote arrangement of the British Empire in the Assembly of the League of Nations . " The Senator knows , " Mr. Walsh responded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " that I have never championed or advocated the British Empire . " There was some discussion in today 's debate over the new reservation of the pro-Court group providing that any dispute between the United States ' and ' another nation should not be referred to the World Court until it had been made the subject of a treaty between the United States and the other nation and this treaty ratified by a two-thirds vote of the Senate . Senator Walsh explained the new reservation . " We ca n't get into the Court without a treaty which requires the joint action of the Executive and the Senate , " he ' said . " This is no more than the Constitution of the United States now provides . This does not add or change the situation in any degree whatever . I understand the same provision is in The Hague Arbitration Tribunal Convention . First Reservation Adopted . The first reservation to the Court protocol offered by Senator Swanson in behalf of the pro-Court group , upon which a vote was had , provides that the adherence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken to involve any legal relation on the part of the United States to the League of Nations , or the assumption of any obligations by the United States under the Treaty of Versailles . " A record vote resulted in its adoption , 89 to 1 . I The sole negative vote was cast by Senator Frazier of North Dakota , after Senator Blease of South Carolina had voted " No , " and then withdrawn it . ' The second Swanson reservation was adopted . 83 to S. The nays were cast by Messrs . Blease , Borah , Frazier , La Follette , Moses , Reed of Missouri , Williams and Shipstead . This  - -  czervation provides for the participation of the , United States in the Council and the I Assembly of the League of Nations for the election of judges of the World Court . Swanson reservation No. 3 , providing that the United States shall pay a fair share of the expenses of the Court , was adopted on a roll-call , 89 to 3 . The negative votes were cast by Senators Blease , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the statute of the World Court shall not be amended without the consent of the United States , was adopted on a roll-call , 91 to 1 , Mr. Blease being . the sole dissenter . Senator Frazier tried to have this amended , but his substitute reservation was voted down I viva voce . Borah Withdraws One Objection . When Swanson reservation No. 5 was called up , Senator Borah objected to the word " render " in the provision that the Court shall not render any advisory opinion except publicly , after due notice , but did not press his pant . I The reservation was divided into paragraphs for voting purposes with a vote on each paragraph . The first paragraph , providing for publicity of advisory opinions and that , unless the United States consents , the Court shall not render an advisory opinion touching any dispute or question in which the United States has , or claims to have , an interest , was adopted on a roll-call , 91 to 1 , Mr. Blease again giving the negative vote . The second paragraph provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court protocol shall not be affixed until the powers signatory to the protocol shall have accepted the Senate 's reservations through an exchange of notes . This was one of the eleventh-hour reservations criticized by supporters of American adherence to the Court , as it affords the chance that one or more nations affiliated with the Court may object to the Senate reservations and thus prevent the United States from becoming a member . Another objection was that the matter of obtaining the assent of all the members of the Court , nearly fifty in number , would take a long time . It was apparent that the enemies of the Court in the Senate liked this reservation , for they assented to it without the formality of a record vote . Treaty Reservation Adopted . Paragraph 3 of the reservation . which provides for the ratification of an appropriate treaty by the Senate before any dispute affecting the United States and another Government may be submitted to the Court , caused some discussion , but it was adopted viva voce . ? Then Senator Reed *of Missouri offered an amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which provides that in joining the Court the United States does mot depart from its traditional policy of avoiding entangling alliances or " its traditional attitude toward purely American questions . " Mr. Reed 's amendment read : " Resolved , further , That the Monroe Ilinctrine be declared as a principle of international law binding upon the Court . " Senator Shortridge made the chief argthnent against this amendment . He pointed out that if the Monroe Doctrine was declared to be a principle of international law binding upon the Court it became an international and not an American principle , as it now is . America alone , he insisted , should interpret its own doctrine . The Reed amendment isas defeated on a roll-call , 82 to 6 . The negative votes were cast by Senators Blease , Copeland , Harreld , - Johnson , Moses and Reed of Missouri . The last paragraph of reservation No. 5 was adopted viva voce and , after a short secret session , the Senate adjourned . CALL CLOSURE GAG RULE . ' Court Opponents Here Want Constitutional Amendment Before Vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate- as " gag rule , " and calling for a constitutional amendment before American entry into the court , were adopted yesterday at a meeting of a committee representing a group of organizations opposed to the World Court and the League of Nations . The meeting was held in the office of John Jerome Rooney in the Woolworth Building . " Before any vote is taken on the court , " the resolutions declared , " the smoke screen which conceals the real influences behind the League of Nations and the Versailles Treaty should be completely torn away , and the people of the United States should be fully informed as to the dangerous entanglements in which our country has since become involved through the provisions and operation of the Dawes plan  --  a plan devised by the international banking group to solidify Its devastating control , not only of America but the world . " Those at yesterday 's meeting included Joseph C. Thomson , State Commander Veterans of Foreign Wars ; J. A. H. Hopkins , - Chairman of the Committee of Forty-eight ; Mrs. John Jerome Rooney , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Munn , Secretary of the Progressive League .                     