@@693014

txt A storm of hurricane violence , accompanied by terrific lightning and flood , cut a wide path of destruction through New Rochelle and other parts of Westchester County at 10:30 A. M. yesterday before jumping clear across Long Island Sound and causing havoc over another large area , including Locust Valley and Oyster Bay . There was no loss of life , but property damage estimated at hundreds of thousands of dollars was caused by the storm . The business life of the Westchester and Long Island communities in the path of the storm was paralyzed . And the sportive elements , after doing their worst in the communities along the two shores of Long Island , threatened Manhattan at noon with another thunderstorm and miniature cloudburst on the heels of the rainstorms and electrical storms which on Thursday paralyzed railroads ' , subways , . motor traffic , radios and telephones . The noonday storm in Manhattan was qui-kly dissipated , and the Weather Bureau reported a rainfall ' . f only .27 of an inch . The numerous thunderstorms that broke over the metropolitan district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but gave a little relief . A second thunderstorm broke over Manhattan at 7:15 o'clock last evening . The storm that visited parts of Westchester and Long Island was unleashed for more than half an hour in each place . Police Headquarters Strnek . The storm over Manhattan in the evening was punctuated by numerous lightning flashes and thunder claps . A bolt of lightning struck Police Headquarters and blew out the ceiling switch in the radio room , causing blue sparks to leap about the ' room and knocking Patrolman Louis Michaels , radio operator , out of a chair . Michaels was stunned but unhurt and soon after was able to report back - to his post . But the radio equipment was entirely disabled , and Police Headquarters was unable to establish communication with police boats and other places equipped with radio . Another bolt struck an apartment house , 1,421 Avenue A , causing a short circuit and a fire in a fuse - box in the apartment of Mrs. Anna . Haweilanek on the first floor . The fire was quickly extinguished . No one in the apartment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it left city officials , public utility corporations and private citizens struggling to overcome a complete paralysis of their normal activities . Trolley , electric power and telephone lines were out of commission in many parts of New Rochelle , Locust Valley and Oyster Bay . Trees were toppled across highways and streets and blocked motor traffic . In Locust Valley a large tree was blown across the - tracks of the Long Island Railroad , but was cut away before it caused any derangement of . schedules . Trees blown across the motor highways serving Locust Valley completely cut off automobile traffic from the outside world , and in that community the power service was out of commission most of the day . Scores of telephones were put out of order . The Storm blew up out of the Southwest . Its advance was presaged by a continuous rumble of thunder , and just before the storm broke day was turned into night . The darkness was rent by flashes of lightning mapping the skies with rivers of fire . The incessant flashes of lightninL were accompanied by continuous Washes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by residents In some of the most remote parts of ' Westchester like the sinister rumble of guns Of war . Surf Avenue a Canal . Intermittent rain at Coney Island yesterday made a canal of Surf Avenut . Especially at the street corners were conditions bad , for the sewers there backed up , sending the water rippling up over the sidewalks . ' Persons who had attended the New Brighton Theatre last night came out after 10 o'clock to find themselves stranded on an island , while the , tax who were ' plunging through the street in front were charging what were said to be exorbitant rates . Lights in all the houses between West Twenty-second and West Thirtieth Streets were out due to a short circuit . Up to midnight repairs had not been made . Thousands of young men who had disregarded the warning early in the evening to go home while things were comparatively dry were forced to take off their shoes and stockings and carry their girls to street cars or wade through water a foot deep . Many stalled automobiles were abandoned along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Rochelle the main force of the storm was aimed at the heart of the city . The storm caused damage , as far away as White Plains , where torrential rains washed out roadways ? and sidewalks . The lightning played much further afield than New Rochelle , and a stray bolt struck a house on the grounds of the Westchester Biltmore Country Club at Rye . In New Rochelle lightning struck the tower on the main building of the College for Women on Centre Avenue . The institution , which is closed for the Summer , was in the direct path of the hurricane . Several instructors - were at work in an office in the administration building when they were startled by the bolt . They did not feel any shock , but the bolt fired the , tower of the building . The fire de ' partment extinguished the blaze before it had caused great damage . Lightning struck two trolley cars on the New York and Stamford line , one at Rockland Avenue and the other at Dillon Park . The wiring and motors of both trolley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lightning came also from Port Chester , Pound Ridge , Mount Kisco , Elmsford , White Plains , Peekskill and Mount Vernon . A section of Mount Vernon nearest to New Rochelle lay in the path of the storm , and in that section also many trees were uprooted . More than 100 shade trees along the streets and on private lawns in New Rochelle were uprooted by the terrific wind as if they had been saplings . In some cases uprooted trees fell upon houses and crushed the roofs . In other places they were toppled across streets and blocked traffic until they were hewn in two by wood choppers . Floods were caused by the heavy rain at many places along important streets and avenues , and traffic was brought to a standstill until the waters subsided , Livingston Place , Sickles Avenue , Webster and Union Avenues , Van Guilder Terrace and other streets in the western section of New Rochelle were roped or fenced off while workmen were busy clearing away the wreckage . The work of clearing up the debris , engaged 2 ( 9 men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets mere Still impassable . ? Calls Storm a Cyclone .. The velocity of the wind was estimated at between 90 and 100 miles an hour by former Mayor George - Gillespie RaYnitind , ad engineer , who described it as a tornado , while other residents agreed that they had seen a funnelshaped cloud such as usually accompanies a cyclone . Fire CohuniSeibner Paul Borchard , according to late reports , sustained the heaviest property damage . The wind toppled a tree on his premises . It cut his garage in two and smashed the hood and engine of . his motor car . The wind Smashed large plate glass doors at the entrance a Commissioner Borchard 's residence and uprooted other trees on his place . In Rye Beach the storm toppled a large elm tree down upon a Summer bungalow occupied by Anthony Armosa , 2,246 First Avenue , Manhattan , and his family of five . The crash was heard for blocks , . and when neighbors went to the rescue they found Mr. and Mrs. Armosa and their children dazed or frightened but unhurt . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beach also the electric and telephone systems were crippled by the storm . When the Wind uprooted a large tree at the house of James Mecca , 219 Webster Avenue , it made an opening into the cellar , which was flooded . as was the street in front of Mr. Mecca 's residence . The wind blew down all the large trees on the estate of John J. Grennan on Lockwood Avenue . Where the roots of trees ran under the sidewalk their uprooting caused upheavals of the pavements . - Many trees blown down were poplars , and that , fact was cited in support of arguments that have been made recently in New Rochelle against the continued planting of poplar trees . The poplar tree is one of the favorites in Westchester Because of the large number of native tulip trees which blooin ? in the Spring and which grow tall and slender to great height . A score of trees , ' most of them very old , caught fire when electric power wires were toppled against them . Fire alarms were turned in to save some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A large tree was blown down on Union Avenue directly in front of an automobile Owned and driven by Dr. James Brennan . The falling trunk of the tree tore off the bumper of Dr. Brennan 's automobile and damaged two of the mudgards , but the physician was uninjured . White Plains Streets Flooded . Not only in New Rochelle , but in White Plains and other communities the streets were flooded to such depth that automobiles got stalled in pools when their Ignition systems were shorteircuited under water . Telephone and electric power wires were down all over the central part of Westchester County , and telephone service was extensively curtailed . Repairmen were engaged a 11 day in restoring lines put out of commission , and had reduced the number to less than 100 by evening . Many of the dirt roads of Westchester County have been washed out in places by the heavy rainfall . When the storm blew out over Long Island Sound it first enveloped the Locust Valley section in gloom , which residents described as ... black as night . " The wind was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the West . " It felled twenty large trees at the Locust Valley railroad station , and one of them was toppled across the railroad tracks , but was quickly removed . Oyster Bay Streets Dark . The streets of Oyster Bay were still dark last night as a result of the damage done to the power plant , but current had been restored sufficiently fo illuminate houses . Felled trees still lay across the principal streets of the Village and the main highways , Janeting the Town of Oyster Bay as far as motor traffic was concerned . The storm came upon Oyster Bay from the Northwest . There was a preliminary gust of wind , followed by the heaviest downpour ever seen by oldest residents Of the village . The terrific wind reared over the main part of the town , uprooting trees , tearing down signs , ripping off roofs , smashing overhead wires and flooding cellars and streets . The path of the storm was a half mile wide and took a route across the villages of New Neck and Bayville . The main force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue . The wind was accompanied by lightning , hail and deluge . The wind unroofed a corner of the Long Island Railroad roundhouse and tore from the front of St. Dominick 's Catholic Church a sign with the names of members who recently had contributed to a $50,000 church fund . The wind hurled the sign several hundred feet across the street from the church . Three stately trees that for generations had shaded Christ Church , where Theodore Roosevelt and his family worshipped , were uprooted by the hurricane , and one of the felled trees nearly smashed one of the memorial windows of the edifice . Last night four tree trunks were still lying across South Street and there were similar barriers across Anstice and East Main Streets , Lexington , Burtice and Hamilton Avenues . Residents along those streets suffered the worst damage . Cellars ' were flooded , windmts were smashed and lawns practically denuded of shade trees and shrubbery . In many places trees fell between houses  --  and there was not a case where a tree fell upon a house . In Oyster Bay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the storm and their timbers set adrift . Many shore estates - were littered with uprooted trees and other wreckage . The storm mowed down a beautiful grove of ancient walnut trees surrounding the Jane Keller mansion . The grove has been regarded as one Of tile most valuable in New York State . Three of the black walnuts were snapped in two . Another large walnut narrowly missed falling upon the roof of tj-ie mansion . More than half the telephone wires of Locust Valley were put mit of commission by wind and lightning . Five gangs of men were sent out to repair the damage between Locust Valley and Northport . Motor highways were impassable in all directions from Locust Valley and extensive damage was reported to have been caused on the large estates of many prominent New Yorkers in that vicinity . Streets were flooded and wires were dowmain parts of Oyster - Bay . The edge of the storm that struck New Rochells and Locust Valley swept over Mamaroneck , Larchmont and part of Harrison , N. Y. , blowing trees across the electric power wires and leaving those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . - Electric Equipment Damaged . The hydro-electric plant of the Nett Jersey Power and Light Company was badly damaged by lightning which started a fire on Friday night . The building was nearly destroyed , and the electric equipment was damaged to the extent of $15,000 , according to officials of the company . The local tbuncier storms that have occurred in the metropolitan district were predicted by the Weather Bureau on the basis of reports showing a low pressure area extending from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico over practically all the region east of the Mississippi River . A- high pressure movement from the Canadian Northwest has already brought relief from the sultry weather to the Dakota region . The temperature and humidity . in New York City were recorded by the local Weather Bureau yesterday as follows : Hour . Temp.Hum . Hour . Temp.Huni. 12 PM 74 71 9 AM 1 AM ' 7 10 AM AM AM 71 1121 ** 71 7751 4 , A2%4/ 7744 1 PM 1 AM 75 2 PM AM ...... 74 .. 4   v2 : 1193 7 77 75 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; One Heat Death Reported . One death was caused in New York City by the heat . Robert White . 55 years old , a chauffeur , of 266 West . Twenty-fifth Street , was overcome while sitting on a wall at 119th Street and Amsterdam Avenue . He was employed by the New York Transfer Express and was engaged in transferring baggage for students at Columbia University when he felt faint and went to the wall to sit down . Dr. Taylor of Knickerbocker Hospital . called by Patrolman Cornelius Kane of the West 100th Street Station , pronounced White dead . David Friedman , 30 years old , of 747 Brunswick Avenue , Trenton , N. J. , was reported overcome by the heat in that city , where the thermometer reached 95 degrees . When Walter Humphrey , official inspector and caretaker of the old clock inSt. , Paul 's Episcopal Chapel . Broadway and Vesey Street , went up to the belfry in the forenoon to start the mechanism , ' which had stopped , he expressed the belief that the old clock had been stopped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The national capital still was embarrassed by the Distinction of being the country 's hottest spot , with a temperature of 98 degrees , according to The Associated Press . and Worcester . Mass. , reported the most trouble with humidity because it was actually Interfering with telephone service . General Manager J. C. Abbott of the New England Telephone Company said that the humidity had played such havoc with delicate instruments in the telephone exchange that he would hare to start the heating system to dry ( ) u the place before repairmen could undertake to make adjustments .                     