@@694127

txt New York State Republicans , with very few exceptions , were thunderstruck yesterday by President Coolidge 's announcement regarding his candidacy for another term . Neither former Senator William M. Butler of Massachusets , Chairman of the Republican , National Committee , who happened to be in the city , nor I Charles D. Hillesv. the Vice Chairman , had any advance notice of the , President 's intention : Senator Butler was the PAsident 's personal choice for National Chairman and managed his 1b24 ' c-ampaign . Mr. Hines is considered particularly close to the President and is consulted by him on all matters affecting New York State , and the fact that the President 's statement came to them as a surprise indicates the degree of astonishment felt by Republicans here generally . Hines Sees Withdrawal . Mr. Hines declared that President Coolidge had made his statement without reservation and intended his withdrawal to be final unless some emergency should confront the country.in 1928 . He said : " The President 's laconic statement was entirely unexpected , and I regret his action . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own counsel until the decision was announced . He is a man of candor and sincerity , and I think he made the statement without reservation . Except that if an emergency should confront the country in 1928. and it should clearly be a duty to run , he will be free to do so . Otherwise I think he intends this to be final . " He has had the satisfaction of knowing that he would have been renominated by an overwhelming majority . " I think the President was considerate in announcing his renunciation. now . It gives us ten months in which to prepare for the nomination of his successor . I do not agree with those who think he will lose a strategic advantage with the next Congress . He will cease to be a target for partisan attack . Members of his own party who have withheld their support as well as those of the opposition party will now have a kindlier feeling for him and an appreciation of the great service he has rendered . " By the leaders of the State party organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain . With few exceptions , the local Republican leaders accepted the President 's statement as final and at its face value , although it was said that a movement would undoubtedly develop to take advantage of the phraseology of his statement that he did " not choose to be a candidate , " and seek to bring . about his renomination by popular demand . Think Field Now Wide Open . The general feeling among those New York Republican leaders who could be found in or near the city , was that the President 's statement had left the field wide open for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1928 , and that strong movements for former Governor Frank 0 . Lowden , of Illinois . and Herbert Hoover , Secretary of Commerce , were cer-tain to develop m this State . The one Republican of prominence who did not feel surprised at the 1President 's announcement was Dr. I Nicholas Murray Butler , president of Columbia University , who returned I earlier in the day from a trip to lEurope . Dr. Butler predicted last February that President Coolidge would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for renomination , and his attitude of opposition to a third term brought at I that time a great deal of criticism from members of the State party organization , who had based all their plans on the probability of President Collidge 's renomination. n Dr. Butler 's Statement . ? Asked to comment on the President 's statement , Dr. Butler said : " As a personal friend and a political supporter of President Coolidge , although without knowledge of his purpose , I have taken it for granted . as I stated in an address to my friends and neighbors of the Riverside Republican Club on Feb. 7 last , that President Coolidge would . when he saw the right time had come decline to permit his name to be used as a candidate for a third term , " Very many persons ? In public life disagreed with me , more or less violently , but I have seen no reason to change the view then expressed . President Coolidge has done precisely what I have always thought he would do when the time was ripe . Few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he to the fundamental principles of our Government and our social order . He realizes , as did Theodore Roosevelt in 1904 , that it is the essence of matter that counts and not merely the form . " President Coolidge has done a wise and patriotic act , and has thereby strengthened his hold upon the confidence and respect of the people . " He has shown that principle can succeed over personal ambition . He has displayed a fine and grand character . " Senator Butler Refuses Comment . Senator Butler , the Republican National Chairman , was obviously astonished when he was seen at the Hotel Biltmore soon after news of the President 's statement had been received here . " How do you interpret it ? " he was asked . " Does the President 's use of the word ' choose ' indicate that he might run for re-election in deference to a popular demand ? " " In view of the President 's statement , I have nothing to say , " Senator Butler replied . " It speaks for itself . " Other leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to try to interpret its meaning or to predict what it might lead to , without more information than was contained in the early newspaper dispatches . " Thank you for informing me of the President 's action , " said Samuel S. Koenig , New York County Republican Chairman . " I have no comment to make . " Lieut . Col. Theodore Roosevelt , Republican candidate for Governor in 1924 and brother-in-law of Speaker Nicholas Longworth , who is expected to be one of the leading contenders for the Republican Presidential nomination with President Coolidge out of the race , also declined to comment on the statement . Tax Commissioner George Henry Payne , who has been working for several months in the interest of former Governor Lowden and was the organizer of the Anti-Third Term League , declared that President Coolidge had performed a great patriotic duty by preserving the third term tradition and putting himself in the position of Washington , Jefferson , Madison , Monroe , Jackson , , ley and other two-term Presidents , who never contemplated a third term . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hidden meaning or motive , or agree With those who recall that Caesar thrice refused the crown , that Napoleon refused a crown and then put it on and that Roosevelt tried to get a third cup of coffee . I believe that President Coolidge is standing for a great funIdatnental principle , which is just as much an American principle as though it were written in the Constitution . " Incidentally , great credit is due to Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler for his stand against the third term . His prediction that President Coolidge would not accept one has now been vindicated . My personal preference for the Presidential nomination is Governor Lowden . " State Organization at Sea . Although the unexpectedness of the President 's announcement made it impossible to get any definite opinion from leading Republicans as to the probable future attitude of the State party organization , it Was evident that they were temporarily a good deal at sea . With President Coolidge assumed to be a candidate for renomination , It appeared virtually certain that there would be a solid State Coolidge delegation to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running or even with a doubt that he would run in response to popular demand , it was said to be certain that friends of other aspirants for the nomination would attempt to bring about the election of delegates . With President Coolidge out , the friends of both Governor Lowden and Mr. Hoover would make efforts to get delegates from this State and there would be a strong probability that a similar effort would be made by supporters of Speaker Longworth . At present , Governor Lowden , it was said , appears to have the start of other aspirants , so far as New York State is concerned . A movement for him has been under way here for some time and , although it made little progress while President Coolidge was considered in the field , it was learned that there are friends of Governor Lowden in the various city Republican organizations who have been deterred from getting ready to declare for him only by belief that President Coolidge 's renomination was assured . Supporters of Secretary Hoover also were reported to be ready to enter the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York in 1920 , and much of this , it was said , would be for him now , with President Coolidge eliminated . Would Favor Popular Demand . One leading Republican organization leader said that the policy of the organization probably would be to wait for a time and learn whether or not there would develop a popular demand for President Coolidge 's renomination strong enough to influence the President . He indicated that the development of such a demand would meet with the favor of most of the party leaders in this State . If such a demand should not develop or if the President should refuse to accede to it if it did develop , the State party policy probably would be to send to the convention an uninstructed delegation , which would mark time during the early balloting , a prominent local Republican said , and then cast a solid vote for the successful candidate at the most opportune time . This would be no new policy for the New York Republicans , and the size of the delegation , approximately ninety , the largest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although Charles E. Hughes , former Secretary of State , stated emphatically that he would not be a candidate for President , it was said by a number of the members of his party that he might be offered to the convention as the choice of New York State . Dr. Butler also has said that he was not a candidate , but there was a suggestion that the New York delegation , or the greater part of It , might unite on him , as it did in 1920 . Dr. Butler 's opposition to the prohibition amendment and the Volstead act might cause some of the up-State delegates to refuse to support him , it vOas said , but would not interfere greatly with his getting the support of the delegates from New York City . Frelinghuysen Comments . Former United States Senator Joseph S. Frelinghuysen commented as follows on President Coolidge 's statement last night in Newark to The Associated Press : " I hope that the President will not continue in his determination not to run for the nomination in 1928 . I believe the people should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a candidate . "                     