@@689213

txt President Harding died at 7:30 o'clock tonight 11:30 o'clock New York time of a stroke of apoplexy . The end came suddenly while Mrs. Harding was reading to him from the evening newspaper , and after what had been called the best day he had had since the beginning of his illness exactly one week ago . A shudder ran through the President 's frame and he collapsed . Mrs. Harding and the two nurses in the sick room knew the end had come , and Mrs. Harding rushed out of the room and asked for Dr. Boone and the others to " come quick . " Dr. Boone and Brig . Gen. Sawyer reached the President before he passed away , but were not able to avert the inevitable . This formal announcement following soon efteilold tire story of the tragic end : " The President died at 7:30 P. M. Mrs. Harding and the two nurses , Miss Ruth Powderly and Miss Sue Drusser , were in the room at the time . Mrs. Harding was reading to the President , when , utterly without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he collapsed , and all recognized that the end had come . A stroke of apoplexy was the cause his death . " Within a few moments all of the President 's official party had been summoned . " Shocking in Its Suddenness . Nothing could have been a more shocking surprise . Shortly beforethe President 's sudden collapse General Sawyer had been telling newspaper men that Mr. Harding had had the best day since he became seriously ill . He said that the President had definitely entered upon the stage of convalescence and that everything went to show that Mr. Harding was on the road to ultimate recovery . The members of the official party had no warning that the President was in danger . They , like the newspaper men , had been assured that a fatal termination of the President 's illness was a thing not likely and with good care he would be able to recover health and strength . Most of the members of the official party were at dinner when the news came . George B. Christian Jr. , secretary to the President and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He had gone there at the President 's solicitation . to read at a gathering of the Knights Templar ' tonight an address which the President had prepared in the expectation that he would deliver it in person . Mr. Christian had declined to leave San Francisco until he was positively assured by the President 's physicians that there was no likelihood of any set-back in the President 's condition . The newspaper men had an engagement with General Sawyer for 8 o'clock . He was to tell them of how the President was progressing toward recovery . In view of what he had said on prior occasions during the day and statements in two official bulletins , the newspaper men had every expectation that they would be able to record that Mr. Harding was one step nearer the goal of recovery . " There will be a bulletin , " said one of the White House messengers gathered in the corridor of the Presidential suite . In a few minutes copies of the bulletin on thin white ' gaper were handed to the waiting reporters . Instead of informing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it gave them the astounding information that he was dead . Mrs. Harding Is Brave to the End . First reports that Mrs. Harding had collapsed were denied . The official version indicates that she was calm throughout her husband 's last illness . She has been extremely courageous and by her manner and words helped him when he was suffering intensely and was apprehensive of a fatal termination . The official account says : " Mrs. Harding , who from the beginning of the President 's illness had expressed confidence in his recovery , did not break down . On the other hand , she continued , as from the beginning , the bravest member of the group . " When it was realized that the President had actually passed away , she turned to those in the room , whose concern had turned to her , and said , ' I am not going to break down . ' " Mrs. Harding was seated by the bedside when at 7:10 o'clock the President suddenly collapsed . His breathing , which had been quick ever since the illness overtook him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two nurses to take whatever steps they could in the emergency , ran to the door of the Presidential suite . " Dr. Boone ! " she called , as , she ran part way into the almost deserted : orridor . A Secret Service operative was seated about twenty feet down the hall . She hurriedly told the Secret Service man that , the President had lad 5. sudden and severe relapse and begged the detective to try to locate 15r . Boone or any et the other physicians . The Secret Sehice man took up the search for the physicians , Iv/his Rumors began to fly about , eac. wilder than its predecessor ; and al denied soon by official bulletins which were issued as a dozen words telling the news , or which had beer rushed from the press too fast fo more than a picture and the phras " Harding dead " and circulated lik wildfire through the downtown dis tries and even far out on the resi dential streets within a few minute . after the official bulletin announc ing the death had been issued . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before wen sure that the city 's distinguishes guest was well on the way to re covery and had started out to spenc the evening at theatres , dances ea other amusements . Another Version of Last Scene . From a friend wflo talked wit Mrs. Harding and other members of the Presidential party the following version of the President 's death was obtained : Mrs. Harding had been reading a newspaper article to her husband She paused at the ' end of a paragraph . Miss Powerly , the nurse , remarked that the President was looking fine . The President liked the newspaper article . " That 's good , go on , " the President said to Mrs. Harding . These were his last words . Before she could resume reading Mrs .. Harding saw the shudder pass through his frame and saw her husband collapse . General Sawyer was either in the room or just outside . He was at the President 's side at the first cry of alarm . The President according to this account died alomst immediately after . Mrs. Harding is calm . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late President who gathered around her late this evening that she did not fully realize the blow that had come to her . sShe had a duty to perform , she said , and must bear up . Mrs. Harding decided this evening that subject to changes that may be necessary by unforeseen circumstances that the body of the President should leave San Francisco at 7 o'clock tomorrow evening on the special train which carried the late President and his party from Washington to Tacoma and from Seattle to San Francisco in the return of the party from its cruise in Alaskar waters on the transport Henderson . The body will be taken direct to Washington for a formal funeral and thence to Marion , Ohio , for final services . The Rev. James S. West of the First Baptist Church of San Francisco hurried to the Palace Hotel when he heard of the President 's death . Knowing that both Mr. anc Mrs. Harding were members of his faith , he went to the Presidential suite to offer religious consolatiqr to Mrs. Harding if she desired . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stated his errand . Mrs. Harding Spends Night Willi Friends . At Mrs. Harding 's request a number of her friends went to her sitting room late this evening and sal with her . She was remarkably selfcontained . She showed the grit that was largely responsible for her recovery from the dangerous illness through which she passed during last Autumn and Winter . She talked of her last hours with the President . He had said kind things this afternoon of some of the newspaper correspondents who accompanied the Presidential party aid had paid a tribute to the fair accounts they had given of the President 's speeches and the incidents of the tour . It was apparent that her last day with her husband had been happy and was made happier in the seeming assurance that he had passed the crisis and would be restored to health and strength although the pull would be long and tedious .. Those who sat with Mrs. Harding in the dark hours following the President 's death were Mrs. Hubert Work , wife of the Secretary of the Interior ; Mrs. Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an old friend and neighbor of the flardinge in Marion ; Mrs. HerMrs . Harding returned to the bedside . It was found that Dr. Boone had left the hotel to have dinner with General Pershing . Herbert Hoover , Secretary of Commerce , and one of the closest Cabinet members to the President , was the first member of the . Cabinet to reach the bedside of the dead President . He hurried through the corridor , aware that the President 's life was ebbing fast , and the door of the suite closed behind him . A short time after , he came out . He was completely broken up ana could not speak to the newspaper men as they gathered around him on his way down to his own quarters . Tears were running down his cheeks and he seemed to be stunned by grief as he made his way to the elevator . Mayor James Rolph of San Francisco was the next to arrive and he , too , after a visit to the death room was inarticulate . All the members of the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his bedroom they learned that he had passed away . Their consternation and bewilderment was extreme . The whole affair could not have been more shocking . The following telegram announcing the President 's death was immediately sent to Vice President Coolidge , Chief Justice Taft and those members of the Cabinet who were not in San Francisco : " The President died at 7:30 P. M. from a stroke of cerebral apopleszY . The end came peaceably and without warning . ( Signed ) " DAUGHERTY . " WORK . " WALLACE . " HOOVER . " Scenes in the Death Room . Reports of what happened in the sick room when the President 's sudden stroke came are still somewhat confused . According to Dr. Boone , Miss Ruth Powderly , Mrs. Harding 's nurse , who had made the Presidential tour for the purpose of being with her patient , was struck by a great improvement in the President 's appearance . " Does n't he look fine ? " she said , turning to Mrs. Harding . Then the nurse turned back to look at the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They saw a shudder pass over the President 's frame . That marked the stroke that produced death . PRESIDENT HARDING 'S POLITICAL PROGRESS : ? Keystone View Company . PRESIDENT COOLIDGE AND HIS FAMILY . The New President of the United States Photographed With Mrs. Coolidge and Their Sons , Calvin Jr . and John Coolidge , in the State House , Boston . bert Hoover , wife of the Secretary of Commerce ; Mrs. Malcolm Jen nings of Marion , Ohio , whose hus. band was once editor of the Marior Star and Mrs. E. E. Remsberg o : Santa Ana , Cal. , the sister of th ( late President who came to Sat Francisco yesterday , and her two daughters , the President 's nieces . It was stated authoritatively tonight by Mr. Welliver , who is taking Secretary Christian 's place during the latter 's absence , that the official announcement of the Presi. dent 's death was in error in omitting that General Sawyer was with the President when he died . General Sawyer was in the room at the time , said Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official announcement of the funeral plans was made shortly after 11 o'clock tonight : " The President 's party as it has been traveling with the addition of General Pershing , Attorney Genera ! ' Daugherty , Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Remsberg and family ( Mrs. Remsberg being a sister of President Harding ) will leave San Franciscc about 7 o'clock Friday evening . " There will be no other addition to the party than those indicate ( ' except a military and naval guars : 3f honor of sixteen enlisted men and two officers representing the army and a like representation of the navy . " No stops will be made enroute except those necessary in operation of the train . The train will go from San Francisco via Reno , Ogden , Cheyenne , Omaha , Chicago and thence to Washington . It is not possible tonight to give further details of the route . " The President 's remains will be borne in the rear car , which will be lighted at night and at all times two soldiers and two sailors will stand at attention guarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the hotel except to go directly to the train . There will only be the simplest private ceremony at the hotel before they are moved . " While the time of the President 's death was given in the official announcement as 7:30 o'clock , it appears to be certain that it occurred at least ten minutes before that time . After he realized that the President was dead General Sawyer looked at his watch and it showed 7:30 o'clock . It probably was several minutes after the President passed away before General Sawyer thought of ascertaining the time . General Sawyer was in the President 's room with Mrs. Harding and the two nurses when the President collapsed . The President died withsut a groan or other indication of pain . All the physicians attending ' the President with the exception of Doctor Boone , who was at dinner with General Pershing , were in their rooms in the eighth floor at the Palace Hotel near the Presidential suite . They were summond at once . Dr. Boone had left word where he could be found and reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left the room in which President Harding died it was ' 7:40 o'clock , but the exact time of the- President 's death is still uncertain . All accounts appear to agree that Mr. Harding died instantly . The time given for Mrs. Harding 's call to the Secret Service man on duty outside at the door of the sick room is 7:10 o'clock . Emphasizing the Monroe Doctrine . ? Times Wide World Photos . Delivering His First Message to Congress . ( c ) Paul Thomp. , on . ( c ) Times Wide World Photos . Receiving the Degree of Doctor of Laws at William and Mary College , Virginia . ( s ) Underwood &; Underwood . With Laddie Boy at the White House . Driving to the Capitol With Wilson to Be Sworn in at His Inauguration.                     