@@687105

txt Prosecution of the rail union leaders for conspiracy to paralyze the transportation system of the country was determined upon today at the legal council of war of Attorney General Daugherty and the five district attorneys he called tp Washing-taw In the event of the walkout actually materializing the heads of the brotherhoods and the 400 local chairmen named in the strike call will be arrested on government warrants charging conspiracy . Other legal measures also will be adopted to prevent interference with transportation . e If the railway labor hoard fails to avert the strike , President Harding will issue a proclamation denoting the pur pose of the government to maintain transportation and giving warning of the consequences of prosecution which will be incurred by the strikers in defying the government . Clyne Hurries to Chicago . " The trains will run , " emphatically asserted Mr. Daugherty following the conclusion of the conference . Charles F. Clyne , the United States attorney at Chicago , left hurriedly for home this afternoon , " under sealed orders , " as he expressed it . Mr. Clyne carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communlcated to other district attorneys in the west , who will assemble at a conference within the next few days at St. Louis or Kansas City . This conference will make a study of the grounds for legal action , after which the United States , attorneys will return to their districts , prepared to institute concurrent prosecution of the strike leaders at the signal from Washington . While the attorney general Is confident there will be no complete suspension of transportation in the event of a strike , he recognizes that there will be a slowing down of food and fuel shipments . " Do n't Hoard Food . " With this situation in mind he tittered an appeal to households to refrain from a buying orgy or hoarding . which would incite profiteering by re . milers and send pric : ? s skyward . To Secretary of Commerce Hoover , who is organizing government agencies to keep the necessities of life mov. ' ing , Mr. Daugherty sent detailed re ports on the food and fuel situation in every section of the country . These reports disclose that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suillcient to last two weeks even if transportation were completely suspended . Mr. Daugherty declined to discuss his plans for proceeding against the strike leaders . " It is sufficient to say at this time , " he said , " that we are getting ready to act effectively if it should become necessary . " Believes ruble Opposes Strike . Asked who would he the defendants In any proceedings instituted by the government , Mr. Daugherty observed that the strike call contained the names of several hundred and the places at which they would he found . " It is one of the functions of government to preserve transportation . " said the attorney , general , " and that we are going to do to the utmost of our ability if it should become necessary . In performing that function of government I am confident we shall have the Practically unanimous approval of the country . Mr. Daugherty wished it to be understood that he was not discussing the merits of the controversy leading up to the strike order . Plenty of Food for Two Weeks . A summary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the food and fuel situation shows that the department of justice , through its representatives throughout the United States , has been gathering Information as to the probable effect upon the various sectione of the country of the threatened strike . " Enough information already has been obtained to make it clear that if the strike should take place as threatened there is no danger that any part of the country will suffer serious hardship from lack of food or fuel for a period of at least two weeks after a general tieup , " the report says . " Ali parts of the country report an abundance of food supplies with the exception of fresh meats , for which most of the large communities depend upon frequent shipments from the packers in the middle west . "                     