@@690868

txt A definite movement for the reorganization of the management of the Democratic Party is about to be undertaken by prominent party leaders . Plans under consideration contemplate a new deal based on the lessons of the elections , with indications that Democratic Senators will assume a dominating position in party control , such as existed in the Republican Party at the outset of the campaign of 1920 , when Warren G. Harding was the Republican candidate for President . Dissatisfaction with the conduct of the . Democratic campaign of 1924 Is being tBeard in Congressional circles , with the ' .. 1041* ; that it will gain volume with 6 .. e7 , - airluval in increasing numbers- of , Dernaile Senators and Representatives for " the reasgefiitiliiig of Congree.s . I The dissatisfaction goes deeper than critinsm of campaign management . It has a phase of self-accusation In recognizing that the conduct of party affairs in Congress brought an unfavorable reaction on the part of the electorate . Democratic flirtation with radicalism , both in Congress and during the campaign , is now considered by many leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented by prominent Democratic Senators and Representatives indicates that there will be ' complete severance of working relationship with the 1. a Follette legislative blot : Class and sectional policies may . receive a body blow in the contemplated reorganization of party management aria I legislative procedure . Meanwhile the party 's national administrative organization is in. a state of disintegration . An effort will be made to obtain the abrogation of the year 's lease on the offices maintained by the Democratic National Committee in Washington during the Presidential campaign so as to enable the committee to get along with smaller space In the same building . Permanent committee headquarters will be maintained in Washing- , tort. as 1. ) eretofore. but the working force , under an executive secretary of the committee , will be reduced to skeleton form . The Publicity Bureau of the ' committee already has been discontin- ' ued , and the work of packing its records in preparation for storing them Is in progress , under the direction of Richard Linthicum , whose position as publicity director , which he has held since soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the packing has been completed . Shaver is Short of Funds . Clem I ... Shaver . Chairmen of theDcuricratIc National Committee . has been unable , to collect money to continua a permanent organization on any comprehensive scale , and the necessity for rigid economy is given as the chief reason for the disintegration of the headquarters staff . With no disposition to minimize the meaning of the recent elections , lead- , Mg Democratic Senators see an opportunity presented In the very harshness of the defeat administered to the partY ? to build a party organization upon a firmer foundation . Some dissatisfaction is expressed over the tendency to bring about a new deal in party policies and management , but it appears to be small as compared with the desire to change the methods of party procedure which , are regarded as the main contributing causes to the defeat . So - far as Democratic legislative conduct is concerned , the new dispensation will be apparent when Congress reassembles . On the face of things the Senate and the House can be controlled . as they were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La . Follette Republicans , Farmer - Laborites and Secialists , whose numbers are greater than the regular Republicans . According to information ? from ? infdrmed Democrats the remaining three months of the present Congress will see a change ill . Democratic policy . ? If plans now under consideration are . car : ried out , the Democrats will not follow a course of obstruction to Administraa tion proposals . While registering . pro-. tests against such proposals of President . Coolidge as do not conform to Demo= creak ideas , they will so conduct-themselves as to put the Administration lit the position of being responsible . for its legislative program . The whole tendency of leading Demo , crats in Congress Is to let Senator , L4 Follette and his following in the Senate and House playthelr game alone . Tkay even may turn on La Follette . Their , feeling is tux : : La Follette shouldalie resisted in ' , every7 : **25;415;TOOLONG , Up a. third party on the structure Of ; the Democratic Party . ' The discussions now in progress between Democratic Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the initiative of the Democratic Steering Committee of the Senate and the House . The first move probably will be a . call ! mixed under the authority of the two aeering committees for a Democratic Congressional conference to discuss Ways and means for bringing about the Contemplated new deal . Has Historical Precedent , This plan is interesting from a his ! erical standpoint , as it has in it a re:Viva in some measure ' of the ' Congresatonal caucus which existed prior to . the inauguration of the national convention system . The Congressional caucus nominated candidates for President and otherwise assumed a large amount of responsibility for party conduct . There has been no suggestion that the new deal would undertake any such'comprehensive party domination as was exercised by the Congressional caucus , but the plans non- on foot are reminiscent of that manner of procedure . There is bitterness on the part ' f some ? Democrats in Congress toward Senator La Follette for the attitude he displayed in the campaign , an attitude which is construed as having been disastrous to Democratic hopes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the La Folletteites - appeal ' for Democratic aid in blocking Administration Pat Harrison Calls for unity . Senator Pat Harrison of . Mississippi , %to was active in the Democratic national campaign , got back to Washington today but did not express himself in regard to suggestions for party reorganization other than to warn against ) " wrangling " among party leaders . " T never like to deal in post-morterns. " : said Senator Harrison . " The Republican campaign was well managed and ' Well financed . We lost , but in losing the , Democratic Party need offer no apologles for the character of the campaign it waged or the character of candidates It presented . The suggestions that have been offered by some of our Republican friends and some so-called Democrats . Who were either lukewarm or deserted the party in this election ; are amusing . " It is not necessary for the Democratic Party to apologize for its record , change its policies or amend the principles for . which it stands . All its leaders need to do is to cease wrangling among themSelves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambitions and fight the common enemy . " Senator Thomas F. Bayard of Delaware stressed the belief that the Demdcratic Party was due to get back to its I fundamental principles . " I believe , " said Senator Bayard , " that the fundamental principles of the Democratic Party have undergone no change and will be just as enduring as ever . " I believe the time has come when we must swing back to first principles and refuse to be a party to the many isms advanced for the most part for purely local conditions or for the advancement of some personal equation . " In principle , the Democratic Party is the party of all the people , and therefore should represent no one class or section to the exclusion of or preferment to any class or section . If this principle be adhered to . blocs , factions and personalities would disappear and a United party based upon the old-lino Democratic doctrine could and would go forward to success . " OPPOSES TWO SENATORS . Republican Club Would Keep La Fol. ; tette and Brookhart Off Committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Follette of Wisconsin and Smith Brookhart of Iowa , the latter a winner by a narrow margin in the Senate elections of this year , was introduced at the regular monthly meeting of the National Republican Club held last tight . The sponsor was Charles H. Spooner , a lawyer of 14 Wall Street , who is a son of the late United States Senator John C. - Spooner , for many years prior to the ascendancy of Senator La Follette , the Republican leader in WisconaM . The resolution reads ; " Be it resolved by the National Republican Club that , for the preservation of party government and responsibility ; as well as in the interest of party loyalty and self-espect , no Senator of the United States or Representative in Congress who , during the last campaign , bolted the platform and ticket of the Republican Party . should be given any committee assignments as a Republican Or be otherwise recognized as such . " Under the rules of the club , consideration of the resolution went over for a month . Senator Brookhart bolted the Republican Party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ballot in Iowa even after the Republican State Committee had taken formal action to disavow him and the Republican stalwarts had thrown their support to his Democratic opponent . The action reading him out of the party followed a demand by Senator Brookhart that General Charles G. Dawes be supplanted as candidate for Vice President by a progressive Republican ,                     