@@695789

txt On New Year 's Day , Nicaragua , for the first time , inaugurated a president who , in an honest and peaceful election , had been selected by the majority voter of all the people . ' Here is something worth for it shows a little state , guided ' and upheld by the United States , emerging from bloody anarchy into the ways of peace and political stability . Two years ago Nicaragua was engaged in a revolutionary struggle destructive both to life and property . No great issue was being fought . Two rival factions were contending for the presidency and control of the government , an outside nation evidently having inspired and helped to bring on the revolution . The fighting was severe and the destruction of property was great . The peace and prosperity of Nicaragua were at stake , and it is probable that the welfare of other Central American states was endangered . The President of the United States was obliged to send Marines to Nicaragua to protect American and other foreign lives and property , and on January 10. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Congress defending this course . The record of some prominent Representatives and Senators does not make good reading now in the light of present achievements . Resolutions were offered in Congress demanding recall of the marines . Speeches were made and newspaper interviews given denouncing the President 's course as dictated by banking , " oil and mahogany " interests . In an attack on the President one Senator even said that this course was " shocking to every peace loving citizen in civilization ; ? ? ? that it was injuring our national honor . " But to decide whether that course was shocking , or that it was detrimental to our national honor , one has but to visualize the condition of Nicaragua then and now . The two pictures will show the difference between the " pacifism " which will stop a. fight and restore order , and the spurious sort that will make a great deal of noise and do nothing . It is to the everlasting credit of the President and State Department that the course of real pacifism was persevered in . The outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were brought together into an agreement to abide by a peaceful election ; a trouble maker was sternly repressed by American and Nicaraguan forces , and at the set time the election was held under the supervision of the United States in order to carry out the guarantee of a fair election . It might be too much to say that Nicaragua has at one step reached political stability , but she has made a notable beginning .                     