@@692428

txt ' With the Interstate Commerce Committees of both House and Senate in s ntial agreement on the Railroad Labor bill , the Chairman of the Labor Board which it . abolishes and the President of the Association of Manufacturers are Intensifying their barrage against it . That is humanly understandable . Mr. HooPER has been an energetic and public-spirited Chairman , pressing to the utmost the slender powers granted by the Transportation act of 1920 . Estopped by the Supreme Court from decisive action , he is looking to Congress to vest his board with a mandatory power over wages which shall be analogous to the power of the Interstate Commerce Commission over rates . Mr. EDGERTON is looking toward the time when wages and rates can be reduced together in the interests of shippers , but he despairs of it so long as wages may be fixed by mutual agreement between the carriers and their employes , with the possibility of a strike in the background . While both men come forward as champions of the public , they are also champions of an extension ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounce " government by commission " are often first to demand it when it is a question of the goring of their own ox . Nor do they dwell upon the outcome of previous er.orts on the part of Congress to legislate with regard to wages  --  the futile Newlands Conciliation act of 1913 , the largely meaningless Clayton act of 1914 , the Adamson act passed in wartime , the unworkable provisions with regard to labor in Section III of the Transportation act . gr . HOOPER makes much of the fact that two years ago " some of the very same men , " representatives of the railways , who now favor the Watson-Parker I bill were on his side , the side of the Labor Board . He intimates that they ' have been coerced by the Secretary of Labor and by the President . who urge that so far as possible wage disIputes be settled within the industry , without recourse to Federal authority . Can reasonable men be " coerced " into the paths of enlightened statesmanship , of mutual conciliation and arbitral justice ? At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sides expressed , and in virtually the same terms , an ' intelligent good-will and a constructive purpose which are new to such occasions and may be epoch-making : When the parties , whose unsettled disputes may bring hardships upon the public , have devised a program for peaceful settlement of their disputes , is it not better that Congress should impose upon the parties the moral obligation to make their own agreement work than attempt to compel them to accept theories and opinions of others ? ? ? ? Those who present this legislation are seeking ? ? ? Government cooperation in protecting all interests involved and at the same time preserving the principle of self-government in industry . The contention of Messrs . HOOPER and EDGERTON that the bill does not safeguard the public interest is technical and wire-drawn . As the President is behind it now , so , in the event of a deadlock , hoards which he appoints - to that end take charge of negotiations . By no other means could the power of the nation be so directly asserted . It is true that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also that a reduction of wages would be bitterly opposed . But there can be no question which is snore in accord with the genius and the traditions of the American people ? " commission government " by a Labor Board with mandatory powers or industrial self-government under the egis of the President .                     