@@693792

txt When the American Legion was turned over to Lieut . Commander Davis in Bristol , Pa. , a few weeks ago to make ready for his transatlantic flight it weighed in the scales 1,150 pounds more than was planned , due to " a detail of construction , " according to Bdwin Wildman of New York , personal representative of Bartlett Arkell . President of Beech Nut Packing Company , who had offered a $5,000 supplementary prize to Commander Davis . Mr. Wildman , who said he had been in daily contact with the flier since that time , declared Commander Davis confided to him that this fact was one that he greatly deplored . " Davis was disappointed ? he was grievously disappointed , " said Mr. Wildman , adding that he thought the truth about it might as well be told now . He explained that the overweight was not a matter for which any one was to blame , but that it was one of the things entering into the development of flying machines . This overweight was given as the reason for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each time loading the plane with a little more until the full load was reached for the trial today . Davis Refused to Take Dim Up . Mr. Wildman said he himself was to have gone to Langley Field to be taken up by Davis , probably today , but that the latter insisted he would not jeopardize the life of any one but himself or his aide until he had satisfied him- - 1f of the ability of his machine to go aloft with a full load . Speaking over the telephone last night Commander Davis said to Mr. Wildman , according to the latter : " Do n't come down for the try-out tornorrhw because I am taking up a full load and I do n't want to risk anybody 's life but my own and my assistant 's . " This ship is built heavier than we anticipated and that is the reason I am making all these trial flights , and I am taking up an increased load on each flight .. Tomorrow morning I shall take a cornr .... ae load , although I expect that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so I shall go to Bristol for these . adjustments . Therefore , I want to take anybody up with me , although there are several officers here who want to go . " Mr. Wildman said this was not the first time he had been told by Commander Davis about the difficulties he was having , and several days ago he confided his disappointment . " I know perfectly well , " he added . " that he would not have told me if it had not been the truth . That is the tragedy of the whole thing  --  that he should ? have kept going on trying to make the plane meet the exigencies of construction . " But it is one of those exigencies encountered in the development of the airplane . In his case he -. bsolutely had to have a certain amount of gas at the start of his trip , . and his task was to carry that gas and oil and equipment . " ? Speaks of Davis 's Bravery . : Mr. Wildman said it was characteristic of the bravery of Commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 .. the North Sea he called . " Ile put them all down and took them all up without an accident , " he said . " So you may know he was no piker ? no amateur . He added that he could not praise Commander Davis too gr.tly . " As he once said to me ? ' 1 am not an adventurer ; 1 hope to help aviation progress forward . ' And he has done sc . All last year he spent in the development of thet plane , and in developing the sentant he was to use to keep him on his course . He was a scientific man all the way through . He was n't merely a fellow who hops into a plane . It is a pity we have to put up our best men to find out those things . ' Mr. Wildman sent a wireless message today to Mr. Arkeil. why had called on the GeArge taisigi on for Paris where he was to sake pions for the reception of the fliers . Report to War Department . The War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army Air Corps , ececutive officer at Langley Field , who witnessed the accident , the following brief description of what happened : " The American Legion was taking off for a full load test , and it took off on the long runway at Langley Field , to the north . They ran along the ground for a long distance and finally got into the air , but apparently did not rise more than about twenty feet from the ground . They crossed Bac ' River beyond the big balloon hang : at Langley Felld , and apparently figuring that they would not be able to clear the trees , made a right hand turn to the east " The turn being nearly completed , the plane sank and crashed into the marsh on the north ride of Back River . The left wing of the plane is completely demolished and the fuselage was buried in the mud back to the pilot 's cockpit. "                     