@@692183

txt Premier Aristide Briand returned from London yesterday to face within an hour of his arrival a Parliamentary situation of such grave peril for his Government that the chances of Its surviving its first day before the Chamber seemed gone almost up to the tail-end of an all-night session . At 4:45 o'clock this morning the Premier obtained a vote of confidence by 298 to 113 on his motion to proceed with discussion of the bill . Later , again staking the ministry 's existence on the rejection of an alternative bill introduced by II . Bokanowskl financial expert of the Nationalist opposition , the Premier won by 362 votes to ISO , As late as 2 o'clock the Socialists announced their intention to vote against a proposal submitted at a first session in the afternoon by Finance Minister Loucheur , as part of his program , to increase banknote circulation by 7,500 , - 000,000 francs and taxation by 3,000 , - 000.000 . M. Bokanowski , in a telling speech for the Right , declared that his party also would vote against the bill . M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and offered no real remedy for the country 's financial straits . M. Loucheur , who followed M. Bokanowski after a half-hour recess taken to enable the groups to decide definitely which way they would Vote , explained that the inflation he was asking was urgently necessary to meet Treasury charges during the next eight days and until the month of March and could not be obtained without the compensatory taxation which he proposed . He said he did not defend his measure end did not introduce it as a political measure . it was a simple demand he was making to enable the Treasury to meet its obligations , and he appealed to the Chamber , irrespective of party , to vote with the Government . The Socialists decided to maintain their attitude al opposition , but signs of schism appeared and when the showdown came the first time , many , as the result showdd rallied to the suport of the Premier . Personal Vote for Premier . For it was really a vote for M. Briand Personally , who in one of the most dramatic speeches of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they overthrew him they would be doing " something grave against their country . ' The danger of defeat is not over for the Government . During the discussion of the articles of the bill the Premier is by no means sure of mustering sufficient votes , although , due to the split among the Socialists , he may obtain a final majority of fifteen to thirty votes . With the applause of London and Paris crowds still ringing in his ears , M. Briand came , punctual to his promise . to present his new Ministry to Parliament at 4 o'clock yesterday afternoon . His friends rose to acclaim him , but their cheers and handclapping served only to show that in France , at least , the Locarno Treaty is still largely a party affair , for the Nationalists abstained from any demonstration of sympathy . " This Government which comes before you , " were the Premier 's first words while reading the Ministerial declaration , " has been conptituted to meet a particularly grave situation . " And within an hour Just how grave that situation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tribune , asking the Chamber to vote at once his bill authorizing an advance of 6,000,000,000 francs to the State by the Bank of France and increase , the circulation of the bank by 7,500,000,000 francs . To counterbalance this inflation he proposed to increase by 50 per cent . all taxation on developed and undeveloped real estate , on industrial commercial profits and on income from and transfer of all stocks and bonds ; by 100 per cent . on mining rights and by 20 per cent , on income . Proposals Cause Astonishment . In order to permit immediate discussion of this bill , the reading of which caused a gasp of surprise among all parties despite the forewarning 31 . Loucheur had given , the Government asked that all interpellations be postponed and that a special sitting be called that night . In the Chamber this succeeded , but the Senate , which dislikes , with the dislike of older men , such panic legislation , of which it had already had a recent sample when the Painlev ? Government kept it sitting through half a night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obstinately refused to comply with the Government 's request and meet before 2 o'clock this ( Thursday ) afternoun . Premier Briand 's declaration was in itself straightforward and frank . Though the situation was grave it was not beyond remedy if the Chamber would back the Government , he said . Immediate payments for which the State was responsible must be met and it was only because of the urgency of the situation of the Treasury and to meet the requirements of commerce that new inflation would be asked . It would be limited to indispensable needs and at the same time means constituting a ' counterbalance would be presented . This counterbalance on M. Loucheur 's bill represents an estimated yield of ' 2,000,000,000 francs from his proposed taxation increase . ) The Government , the statement continued . would also immediately bring in a full measure for the construction of a sinking fund which would be fed by a contribution from all forms of wealth , but it held out hope to taxpayers that this special contribution would within a measurable distance of time reduce the load of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interallied negotiations on debts , " M. Erland continued , " being assured that our allies and friends will not fail to fake account of our situation and of the necessity to collaborate with us for the improvement of our national money so as to make possible the execution of any accords we may reach . " With more pride in his voice , the old orator then spoke of Locarno : " France has accomplished an act of International solidarity which constitutes a capital phase in her policy of world peace , " he said . " The compact of Locarno was signed yesterday in London . So we do not doubt that the whole French ** will fully associate itself with tills international action of j its Government . " For the first time during the reading of the Ministerial declaration there was loud applause , " In this same spirit of peace , " M. Briand continued , " we intend , as soon as the aggressions fomented against the work of civilization and traditional liberalism of France have be-en checked , to make a stable settlement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Government , by following this specific pal- j icy , would be able soon to reduce the army charges and the term of service of French conscripts . Amid the cheers of the Right and Centre he announced that the Government would also at once Introduce a bill for return to the old system of electoral representation , abolishing the proportional system under which the present I Chamber was elected . It ray to a Chamber torn and tormerited by the knowledge of what was to come that this statement was read . There could be no enthusiasm when every one knew that before the day ended the Chamber would be asked to vote new inflation . M. Loucheur went to the tribune . In his high-pitched voice he read his bill . He put a large part of the blame for the situation on the fact that the Chamber had so long postponed voting the 1925 budget and urged that this mistake be not again committed . More than 4,000,000,09 francs of this year 's taxes had yet to come in and it was be . cause the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligations of Dee . 8 . The bank needed 1,500,040.000 francs of now money for commercial requirements . Another 6,000,000,000 would see the Treasury through to the end of the year , by which time increased taxation would have begun to yield new money . At the conclusion of his remarks adjournment was taken until the night session .                     