@@692504

txt The battle of wets and drys was resumed in both houses of Congress this afternoon . In the Senate it was precipitated by Senator Bruce of Maryland , who read into the record newspaper polls on the proposition to modify the Volstead law and permit the sale of light wines and beer . Senators Bruce and Glass of Virginia . who are usually the best of friends , had lively interchange in which the former . answering a question whether wine and beer were intoxicating . said he suspected the Virginia Senator had imbibed enough of those beverages to be able to reply to the question himself . Immediately Senator Glass shouted back that he had never touched a drop of either beverage in his life . The House was considering the bill making apptopriations for the maintenance of the District of Columbia Government , but that measure was not mentioned in the course or the day 's debate . Prohibition enforcement was lugged ipto the discussion by wets and drys and ran on without interruption from the moment the House met until the hour of adjournment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington 's beer.recipe and Representative Howard of Nebraska entertained with a formula in which he described the proper method of compounding a Elanhattan cocktail . A resolution was introduced by Representative Somers of New York to authorize a referendum on prohibition modification , and a demand was made by Representative Black of New York that President Coolidge lead the movement for dry law modification . Lincoln 's Views Brought In . In the Senate Mr. Bruce began by having the clerk read the results of newspaper polls in various cities which showed-of those who voted-a majority in favor of light wines and beer of about ten to one . Similar polls were brought to the attention of the House by Repgesentative Celler of New York . Mr. Bruce insisted that he considered these polls worthy of study . When he concluded Senator Willis , a - dry " leader , said he wanted to read a long newspaper article which , he said , would show Lincoln was a prohibitionist . " I used to take a good deal of pride , ' Interposed Senator Smoot , " in keeping the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this body . but I long ago gave that up . Hokeever , I do want to say that every page printed in the Record costs about $48. outside of transportation throughout the United States of the mail itself . I think Senators ought to begin to see that if we are going to fill the Record with page after page , day after day , of extraneous matter they are simply taking that much money out of the Treasury of the United States . " Senator Willis was on his feet ready to begin reading the article on Lincoln . Senator Bruce , however , wedged in ahead of him . " I wish to say to the Senator from Utah , Mr. Smoot , " said Senator Bruce . " that he should not lose sight of the fact that the tendency of correct information on this subject is to save ' the United States the expenditure- of 525.000,000 a year , for that Is the amount it is expending at present in its vain and futile effort to enforce prohibition . " MayI ask the Senator what would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Mr. Glass . " I do not propose to offer any information of that kind , but will leave it to the Senator from Virginia. , " Mr. Bruce replied . " It is the opinion of the Senator from Virginia that the Senator from Maryland has offered incorrect informa- tion , " exclaimed Senator Glass , his reference being to the polls read by Mr. Bruce . " Well , as far as I know that does not give absolute finality to an opinion on any subject , " retorted Mr. Bruce . ' If the Senator charges me with foisting incorrect information on the Congressional Record , I say he is out of order . " Senator Glass was plainly nettled as he asked : " Does the Senator know anything more about the correctness of the figures he has presented than I know ? " " I should be sorry to have the extent of my information on any subject measured by the extent of that of the Senator from Virginia , " Senator Bruce replied . Ashurst Enters the Debate . At this point Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator from Maryland ; " shouted the Arizona Senator , " complains of a lack of perspicacity on the part of some members of the Senate ; but with all his perspicacity he is using his great ability to foist upon the people and rehabilitate the worst curse that ever afflicted the people  --  liquor . " " I desire to ask the Senator , " Mr. Glass said , and he was not in a good humor now , " if wine and beer are intoxicating ? " " I suspect it is needless for me to ansiver that . I suspect the Senator from Virginia has drunk too much of it not to be already thoroughly familiar with that , " replied Mr. Bruce . " The Senator from Virginia never touched a drop in his life , " Senator Glass exclaimed with all the lung power he could command . Once again Mr. Glass put the question . Senator Bruce did hot reply , just shook his head in a negative way , whereupon Senator Glass remarked : " With the Senator 's usual courtesy he declines to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this juncture and wanted to know why Senator Willis was not reading the article on Lincoln . The Vice President motioned the Ohio Senator to get under way , and a moment later Senator Willis began . He had been reading fifteen or twenty minutes when Senator Wadsworth of New York suggested that the clerk assume the burden of reading the rest of the article . Mr. Wadsworth said be found it difficult to hear the Senator , and the galleries roared , for Mr. Willis is considered the champion loud speaker of Congress . When the Lincoln article was finished Senator Reed of Missouri took the floor and read another long article from an Ohio newspaper which charged that prohibition officers in some parts of the State were prostituting their offices . He said this violation of the rights of citizens by prohibition officers was occurring in all parts of the country , and the prohibitionists , if they are sincere , he said , will see to it that none but honest Men and women are employed in the enforcement service . Lively Scenes in the House . Practically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the House took part in the discussion there . Representative Tydings of Maryland hammered the dry law , while Representative Tinkham of Massachusetts denounced it . at the same time assailing churches and church organizations for taking a band in politics . Representatives Blanton and Upshaw , dry leaders , were on their feet constantly , repulsing the sorties made by wets , among them Representatives Celler , Black and LaGuardia of New York . A speech by Representative Tydings was cheered by the wets and booed by the drys . " Any one who dares say anything against the Eighteenth Amendment is called un-American or a hypocrite , " he declared . " As a matter of fact the prohibition law is un-Christian . Listen to what St. iPaul said : ' If righteousness shall come by the law , then Christ is dead in vain . ' " You prohibitionists are narrow and intolerant , " he shouted ? shaking his finger at Mr. Upshaw . " If sitting under a tree with a couple of friends drinking a taint julep on a hot Summer day is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Upshaw reminded Mr. Tydings that the Scripture he quoted " referred absolutely to the plan of personal salvation . " " You have not the spirit of the sacrifice of Christ on the cross , who died between two thieves , but you take the narrow , intolerant power of force , " Mr. Tydings said to Mr. Upshasv , Washington 's Recipe Discussed . The action of Mr. Celler in printing in the Congressional Record on March 1 Washington 's recipe for " making small beer " came up for discussion today . Questioned concerning it by Mr. Blanton , Mr. Celler explained that Washington 's mike was a historical document and should be made available for those who wished to read it . It is Mr. Celler 's intention to circulate , under his frank , the prohibition speech he delivered in the House in which he embodied the beer recipe of the first President . Referring to newspaper polls , Mr. Celler said they indicated a trend in opposition to prohibition . Mr. Tinkham declared that as a result , in part , of the adoption of prohibition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world could compare with it in " lawlessness , disorder and increase in crime . " He charged that police statistics disclosed that although the increase in population in Washington from 1910 to 1925 was only 34.7 per cent . the arrests for intoxication for this fifteen-year period have increased 111.9 per cent . " American ? representative Government has gradually come under the control of ecclesiastical authority , which has lost the spiritual influence and control it once exercised over the hearts and consciences of men , " said Mr. Tinkham . Vote on Modification Urged . The Somers 's resolution for a referendum in each Congressional District on proposed modifications of the Volstead act provides that the House authorize the printing of a sufficient number of ballots to permit each member to afford registered voters opportunity to vote on the question whether he or she favors the sale of " nonintoxicating beverages , " namely 2.75 per cent . beer and 6 per cent , wine , with the proviso " that no such beverage shall he consumed upon the premises where purchased or obtained . " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which he told of a vision in " dreamland , " where he learned of the death of John Barleycorn , slain by the American Constitution , kept the House in good humor . Mr. Howard said that one evening recently he was placed upon a moonbeam , carried away into dreamland and dropped into a beautiful garden . Over the gateway was suspended a card bearing in golden letters : " The Place Where Facts Are I Found . " Within many persons were ranged around a banquet table and , although the evening was young , the diners I were singing " We Wo n't Go Home ' Till Morning " and finally one vocalist rendered " Sweet Adeline . " " In all my experience I had never known that anybody was capable of properly rendering ' Sweet Adeline ' without proper organization , " said Mr. Howard , amid laughter . Mr. Howard recited an ode on the cherry , which , as he observed in his dream , was held aloft by the toasti master and described as a part of the ingredients of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told how the cocktail is made and how the ghostly banqueters followed the toastmaster with eager interest , only to be obliged to leave the table with their thirst ? inslaked . Action was taken by the Executive Committee of the Anti-Saloon League of America , now in session here , on the presentation of newspaper polls to Congress by Senator Bruce and Mr. Celler . It denounced such polls as " valueless " and " subversive of the truth . "                     