@@695223

txt Abreast of the Market A Daily Column of Comment A recovery developed cn the Stock Exchange yesterday . led by General Motors , which was taken in hand during the afternoon and moved forward under the impetus of moderate new buying and rather urgent short covering . Many of the shorts were taking in their commitments late in the session . This demand was heavy enough to absorb nearby offerings in a large number of stocks Macy was an outstanding feature . That stock rose sharply , adding to its spectacular advance recorded on Monday- Offerings were limited and it was necessary for pureh- gers to put up their bid prices to bring out stock . Action of this issue was encouraging to interests who have been favorably inclined toward other store stocks recently . Commission houses continued to advise customers to take profits and reduce long holdings during the upturns . They insisted that the advance was the result of technical market conditions which had been strengthened recently by additions to the short interest , and added that when covering has been completed the market would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not changed appreciably . Conservative observers are not in sympathy with any advancing trend at this time because of the credit situation and their attitude has been keeping outsiders away from the long side . They have advised against short selling , however , on the theory that only the most nimble can realise a proat wits the narrow fluctuation : : which prevail when the market is sagging . Money the Factor Market is not being affected by business conditions , for all reports received in the financial district are that trade has continued favorable . The temporary unfavorable money situation is the outstanding influence which has actuated what liquidation and short selling have developed thus far . Eventually this selling will result in building a stronger technical condition in stocks . because I short selling seems to be growing in favor with trzders . Loan Discrimination Talk is again being heard of greater discrimination , on stock market loans by some of the . banks . Diversification of the collateral being offered on these loans is being demanded to a greater extent than heretofore . This is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . Liquidation While there has been sonic selling of stocks by outsiders in the past few weeks it is not likely that real liquidation of a heavy nature will develop unless important stocks break through their June lows . Many chart students are watching the market and if sufficient support is not encountered lust above the lows of last month to start a good recovery it will be considered a signal for selling . Ignoring Favorable Influences Market has reached the stage where little attention is being given to favorable influences . Ordinarily the developments of the past week or ten days would have been looked upon as important factors . These included stimulation to trade in certain lines because of the warmer weather , private reports of bumper crop prospects in the Middle West , improvement in the electrical business . continued heavy consumption of structural steel , increase in orders of the Steel Corp . outlook for at least better than average motor car business in the future and a slight increase in employment in June over May , the first time in five years that June has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been coming into International Nickel from some quarters accompanied by reports that there has been liquidation by Canadian interests prominent in the stock in the past . It is added that money rates are I getting firmer in Canada and some of the banks are show ' ing greater loan discrimination because they are preparing for the demands for crop purposes . In circles well informed on the market affairs of International Nickel this report is doubted . These interests maintain that the supply in Nickel has come from some of the domestic operators who took a long position only a short while ago and who have been lightening their long accounts because of the change in the general market . Railroads Some of the high-priced rails have been showing a tendency to hold comparatively steady in the face of the reactions in industrials . Because of this many of those who are still optimistic would not be surprised with leadership confined to Atchison . Chesapeake &; Ohio , Delaware &; Hudson , Pennsylvania . New York Central and others if the market turns upward again . Point is made that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the larger banks and a greater proportion of the carrier stocks to the industrials in brokers ' borowings would not be Rock Island Railroad authorities hold the opinion that earnings of Rock Island in the coming months will continue to improve and show better comparisons with the corresponding periods a year ago . They are now inclined to estimate that the road can show as much as $13 a share on the common this year . Mall Order Stocks Shares of the leading mail order companies  --  SearsRoebuck and Montgomery Ward  --  were among the strong feautres during the periods when other stocks were meeting offerings . Some of the buying again was credited to Chicago houses which often have ? acted for important western interests in the past . Better financial position of the farmer is expected to make for increased sales and earnings for these companies in the last half of this year . There has been moderate short covering by local traders in both issues . Atlantic Coast Line Atlantic Coast Line has been meeting liquidation and switching as a result of less favorable earnings than were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show its dividend earned this year , with a moderate amount to spare . Leading commission houses have been advising customers who have been long of the stock either to dispose of their holdings and wait for new buying opportunities or to switch into other rails which have prospects for greater earnings in excess of dividend requirements . Ludlum Steel Victory in the patent ' suit for Ludlum Steel is considered of vast importance by interests in the compar.y . Attorneys for Ludlum have always been optimistic regarding the outcome . It is probable that if the market had been more normal , there would have been a demonstration in the stock , following announcement of the court decision . As it was , moderate short covering found offerings smaller than in other issues . National Cash Register National Cash Register has shown a tendency to resist selling during recent sessions , and the action of the stock has been considered favorable by interests identified with the market for the issue recently . A rumor has been widely circulated that there is a possibility of a merger of the company with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which Fleischmann has held since the elimination of a - weak long following which liquidated during the reaction from its highest , is being commented upon in many quarters . Company plans to expand its business by adding new lines which can be distributed through its present organization , so that the only increase in expenses will be in connection with its production and advertising . This should add to earnings of the future . Cluett Peabody Cluett Peabody declined more than thirty points from its highest of the year , and now is meeting scale buying at times during recessions . Interests who were prominent in the issue during the advance now are insisting that the stock has been thoroughly liquidated , with the weak long following which was attracted during the strength eliminated on the subsequent decline . However . they add that there is no reason for hurrying into the stock under prevailing market uncertainty .                     