@@685698

txt The Miners ' Federation of Great Britain has declared for an embargo upon importation of American coal to England to relieve the impending coal crisis . %I. imam Livesey , secretary to Robert Smillie , president of the Miners ' federation , said tonight after a meeting of the executive council at headquarters of the federation at 55 Russell square : You can safely say that the federa.tion will exert the utmost economic pressure to prevent the importation of American coal . We do not seek to rob American markets , but neither do we want imported American coal to hamper our cause . This strike is to be made for more than a periodical wage increase . The price of coal and questions of nationalization are our aim . " Think Threat an Empty One . E. J. Foley , chief of the trade divisloe of ' the British coal mines department , says the embargo threat can be carried out only with the help of a sympathetic strike of trainmen and transportmen , which he believes is unlikely . " But that is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the threatened crisis arose , which seems extremely doubtful , " said Foley . " Poor shipping facilities and the existing embargo due to the coal shortage already existing in the American markets would be more serious stumbling blocks than the federation 's actions . So I am not optimistic about what aid we might get from America . Settle Crisis at Home . " Candidly , I do not believe we will be forced to call for American help . We would settle the crisis here in England before that contingency became necessary . " Mr. Livesey does not say how the federation hopes to enforce the threatened embargo , but the inference is clear that the federation is looking to the triple alliance for support . It is admitted by all sides , however , that America could afford the only relief in the event of a coal famine here . A demand for coal , it is estimated , would reach the American markets within two months after the beginning of the strike , Mr. Foley said , adding , that Such an early call would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exhausting of the existing reserve supplies within that time . British industrial coal bins are reported as not well filled and the cold season already is setting in . First Embargo Threat . This is the first time that the miners have threatened action to prevent coal imports and the move is regarded as fairly indicative of the strategy underlying the strike . It is generally accepted that the miners will " rubber stamp " President SmIllie 's prediction of a unanimous vote by the miners to strike in September .                     