@@686700

txt Complaint of the employment as an investigator by the Meyer Legislative Investigating Committee of a man with a Criminal record was made yesterday by Commissioner of Markets Edwin J. O'Malley in a letter to State Senator Schuyler M. Meyer , Chairman of the committee . Mr. O'Malley , whose department is under investigation , declared that this employe , who , he said , had been defendant in at least ten criminal proceedings and had served several terms of imprisonment , had received with another investigator the use of the room and a stenographer in the Department of Markets , and had access to an adjoining room , where large sums of money were constantly being received . Mr. O'Malley said that this same man bad the opportunity to see his own picture in the Rogues ' Gallery at Police Headquarters , as he was one of the men assigned to look up records in the Police Department , and asked whether such a man was a proper person to go over the records of the License Department to determine the propriety of issuing licenses to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the committee . Questioned concerning the identity of of the man he had referred to , Mr. O'Malley said his name was Karl Sohr and that his record at police headquarters was 40,837 . Mr. O'Malley said one of the records on file showed that he was convicted on a charge of shoplifting on Oct. 22 , 1915 , and was sentenced to serve a term of one year and eight months . At that time , Mr. O'Malley said , Sohr said he was born in Hungary and was 31 years old . Senator Meyer said the employe referred to was employed as a process server and not as an investigator , although he admitted that he had assisted in investigation work on one occasion . According to Senator Meyer , the man was employed on the recommendation of the chief detective of a large department store . Senator Meyer said that the employe , who admitted he had served terms in prison , was discharged last Thursday , and that subsequent investigation had convinced him that he was " planted " on the committee by persons friendly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O'Malley 's letter follows : June 25 , 1921 . Hon. Schuyler M. Meyer , Chairman , Legislative Invesugating Committee , 3S Park Row , New York City . Dear Sir : A matter has come to my attention that aemands your imineciiate consideration . What is true with respect to it may be true with respect to many more of the individuals you have turned loose in the various city departments . About the middle of May an individual presented himself at my department with credentials from you and accompanied by one of your staff for the purpose of examining certain records of our office . They requested that a room and stenographer be assigned to them for the purpose of facilitating the work . This request was immediately granted . Shortly thereafter he conducted himself in a manner that aroused my suspicion as to the safety of having him in contact with any of the employes of the department or having the opportunity of access to immediately adjoining rooms where large sums of money were being handled in connection with license fees , for the safety of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this man 's stay in the office some : $50,000 was taken in . He bad access to the root ( / ' in which this money was taken in . Pending looking into who he was he continued his activities in my department . My inquiries have brought to light an astounding situation . You have wantonly turned loose in my department , and jeopardized me personally with respect to liability for funds coming into my custody , a man with a record of activities involving felonies extending over four States . He has been the defendant in criminal proceedings involving moneys on at least ten occasions . His last contact with the law was as late as Jan. 15 of this year . His prison record extends back to March of 1913 . Objects to Crooks as Inspectors . Your public pronouncements invariably state that the purpose of your committee is to bring about advantageous charter revision . Turning loose convicted criminals in city departments and exposing officials to the hazard of financial loss is not conducive to bringing about advantageous charter revision . if carrying individuals of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and credentials of your committee to operate in various departments is your idea of proper legislative activity , I wish to place myself on record as emphatically and strenuously objecting to any such course . Such a course is an affront to every citizen of the City of New York . Everything in this department is open to inspection , but the inspection should be by men and women possessing a reasonable degree of honesty and character , not by jailbirds who are not even citizens . If you did not know of this man 's criminal record , you and your committee have shown an outrageous disregard of the proper degree of care that should attach itself to the selection of your aids . No man should be empowered with the tremendous powers of your committee who himself has not been properly accredited to you or investigated . If you did know of this man 's criminal record , the conduct of your committee in turning him loose in my department is an indefensible act . I have since learned that this particular individual was given access to the records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. serious or a humorous thing for your man to come across the records of his own criminal activities in this State and thus be afforded an opportunity to steal them while acting as your aid in investigating the Police Department ? Photograph in Rogues ' Gallery . Is it part of the functions of your committee to enable your aids to personally observe their photographs in the Rogues ' Gallery , in the Police Department ? If so , in this instance its purpose has been accomplished , for this man was one of those later assigned to the Police Department . Is it not somewhat ironical to have a jailbird going over the records of the License Department in connection with gathering data on the propriety of allowing other jailbirds to have licenses as taxicab ** This you have permitted . I would seriously urge that you take up with your committee or chief counsel the urgent necessity for confining ; ' our staff to investigators who are not themselves criminals or convicted felons or who have not themselves been in intimate association with such wrong-doers . In that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the safety of all funds and persons in the various departments will be kept inviolate . It should not need stating to you that individuals with criminal records who have not been restored to citizenship are no proper persons to be a part of any charter revision expedition such as your committee has asserted itself to be engaged in . This is equally true with respect to the undesirability of having such individuals in contact with members of the Citizens ' Union on your payroll . Yours truly , EDWIN J. O'MALLEY , Commissioner . A " Molehill , " Replies Meyer . ' " Commissioner O'Malley grossly exaggerates the facts and attempts to make a mountain out of a molehill , " said Senator Meyer in commenting upon the former 's letter . " The man in question was not an investigator , but a process server employed to serve subpoenas . He held the usual form letter of credentials . I understand he assisted Mr. on one occasion when he went to the Department of Markets to get some records which were public records and which any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a right to examine under the law . " He Was appointed by me to serve subpoenas at the request of a member of the committee who had been urged to obtain- his appointment with assurances of his ability and trustworthiness . As soon as we discovered he . had previously been convicted of a crime , although he had performed the duties ari ? Signed to him satisfactorily , We felt com , velled to dismiss him . "                     