@@687161

txt The police suppression of the birth control meeting at the Town Hall Sunday night , which culminated in the arrest of two of the speakers after they had refused to leave the stage , was brought about at the instance of Archbishop Patrick J. Hayes of this Roman Catholic Archdiocese . I The first complaint about the meeting . it was admitted yesterday at the archiepiscopal residence in Madison Avenue , was made at the Archbishop 's direction to Police Headquarters ' by telephone some time before the meeting , and Mgr . Joseph P. Dineen , the Archbishop 's secretary , went to the Town Hall before the meeting to meet Police Captain Thomas Donohue of the West Fortyseventh Street station . Captain Donohue , it was learned , did not know why he had been sent to the Town Hall until he met the Monsignor there . Mrs. Margaret Sanger and Mary Winsor , who were arrested at the meeting when they attempted to spank , by the order of Captain ? Donohue , were discharged ' yesterday by ' Magistrate Joseph E. Corrigan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference - with counsel to determine What legal steps would be taken to prevent police interference at further meetings and to obtain redress for the action taken Sunday . The first American Birth Control Conference , which had arranged Sunday 's meeting as a part of the program of a three days ' conference , announced yesterday that the meeting would be held on Friday night at Bryant Hall , Forty-second Street and Sixth Avenue . The subject will be " Birth Control : Is It Moral ? " and the speakers will be Mrs. Sanger and Harold Cox , a former member of the British Parliament , who had come here from England to speak at the Town Hall . Archbishop Hayes Incited . When Mgr . Dineen was told by reporters yesterday that persons who had attended the meeting had recognized him he said : " I was present from the start . The Archbishop had received an invitation from Mrs. Margaret Sanger to attend the meeting and I went there as his representative . The Archbishop is delighted and pleased at the action of the police , as am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly and without restrictions . " I need not tell you what the attitude of the Catholic Church is toward socalled ' birth control . ' What particularly aroused me , when I entered the hall , was the presence there of four children . I think any one will admit that . a meeting of that character is rko place for growing children . " Decent and clean-minded people would not discuss a subject such as birth control in public before children or at all . The police had been Informed in advance of the character of the meeting . They were told that this subject  --  this plan which attacks the very foundations of human society  --  was again being dragged before the public in a public hall . The presence of these four children at least was a reason for police action . " Mgr . Dineen was asked whether or not lie Archbishop would personally discuss his reasons for urging police - intervention . He replied : " The Archbishop may make a statement setting forth his attitude in the near future . I repeat that the attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and urochures made public when this matter ? ame up before . These were written by eminent theologians , who set forth the seeeeld doctrine of the Church , . explainMg fully that - the Roman Catholic , ' church could have no sympathy with this so-called movement . so similar as it is to a practice which is against the law ar every civilized country . " Told to See Mgr . Dineen . Asked whether representatives , of the - archbishop had got in touch with Commissioner Enright direct , Mgr . Dineen ; aid : " The proper police officials Were informed . " The instructions from Police headquarters to Captain Donohue , it teas learned from another source , were merely to go to the Tecere . Hall and " look for Mgr . Dineen , who had made e complaint about a birth control meetOfficials at Police Headquarters delined to discuss yesterday the details of the complaint against the meeting and the process by which Captain Donehue received his ? orders . Chief Inspector Lahey referred reporters to Commissioner Enright , who is out of town : Captain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that he had acted on orders received by telephone from Police Headquarters . He rook several policemen with him to the hall , but did not take any ? steps to stop the Meeting until the hail was more than half filled . Then those inside were locked in and those outside , including ' Qrs . Sanger and Mr. Cox , were locked eat . The arrest of airs . Sanger and Miss Winser was on Captain Donohue 's etelers . At . the police station , the parelman said that Captain Donohue was the complainant , but in Night Court the riatroiman himself , Thomas Gaine. apeeared as the complainant . About 250 persons , including some of the socially prominent men and women who were on - the committee on arrangeeicitts for Sunday 's meeting , were in ' . vest Side Court yesterday when Mrs. Sanger and Miss Winsor were arraigned Cur examination . Robert Mee. - Marsh , elle witnessed the arrests , appeared as ? eensel . Evidence Submitted to Court . Vollowing Mr. Marsh 's request for an eiljournment of the *examination Magistrate Corrigan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two women . The clerk in charge of the complaint room , it developed , had . on . hearing the evidence of the two patrolmen , refused to ' draw up a complaint for disorderly conduct on the ground that there was not sufficient evidence . He consulted Magistrate Corrigan , who also said that the evidence was insufficient . The Magistrate ordered an - 0-14 " drawn up . That is not an actual complaint , but a paper submitting the case to the court for determinee:on as to whether a complaint may be entertained . Magistrate Corrigan ordered Captain Donohue to be present later in the day . Captain Donohue was not in court when the matter came up for hearieg on the " 0-14 " complaint , and Magistrate Corrigan , after hearing two patrolmen testify , discharged the prisoners . Although several witnesses for Mrs. : Sanger and Miss Winsor , including Mrs. Ogden Mills Reid , Mrs. Ernest R. Ades and Mrs. . Tuliet 3ar ? ett Rubles : . were rowdy to - testify - foe titem. lie dceense was put in and Robert McC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoners , did not once interrupt the hearing . " We entered the hall about 8:30 o'clock and stopped the meeting as it was about to start , " said Patrolman Thomas Gaine . " How can you stop anything when it has not started ? " asked the Magistrate . " Well , " Gaine replied , " The police captain had instructed me to go and tell Mrs. Sanger to get off the stage , Dismissal.leecommended . " Do you see . where there has been any offense committed to cause this action ? " Magistrate Corrigan asked Assistant DIstriCt . Attorney Gibbs . " No I do not , " was the reply . " I rove to recommend the dismissal of the 0-14 complaint on the ground that the evidence is insufficient to cause a drawingeup of a regular complaint that would allege violation of any law . " Mrs. Sanger in a statement said yesterday : " The final session of the First American Birth Control Conference , which we were prevented from holding at the Town Hall Sunday evening , will be held at Bryant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Birth Control , Is It Moral ? will be discussed , just as it has been in my book , " Women and the New Race , " which goes through the mails . This meeting is a free mass meeting , open , just as the one scheduled for Sunday night was ; to the public . It is expected that both sides of this important question will be discussed . Harold Cox , the editor of the Edinburgh Review , and myself , will lead the discussion . " I invited Dr. John A. Ryan of Washington , D. C. , one of the leading Catholics of the country . to attend the Sunday night meeting , and offered to defray his expenses if he would attend . Of Bourse , it goes without saying that such a distinguished and learned man would have been given every opportunity to present his views . I also sent an invitation to John Sumner , the leader of the Society for the ** of Vice . I em inviting Archbishop Hayes or any representative he wishes to send , to the meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or be represented . to present the Catholic Church 's side of Birth Control . " My attorney . Robert McC . Marsh , is investigating what rights were violated last evening and what our redresa will be . The question I am desirous of settling is , by whose authority our meeting was stopped ? From the facts presented to me it would seem that Captain Donohue , a recognized officer of this State , was taking his orders directly from some one other than the recognized governmental authority . " which I did . Gaine said that the audience had hissed the police . Testimony to the same effect was given by Patrolman William S. Davis , who added : " Miss Winsor was trying to make a speech on birth control . " Hisses followed this statement and Magistrate Corrigan and Court Officer Edward Sullivan had to pound for order .                     