@@690743

txt While general list of stocks has suffered considerable irregularity and reaction in past ten days , oil securities have displayed firmness and , as a class , are at higher levels than a week or two ago . . This contrary movement from the remainder of the list can be attributed to accumulation in oil shares by good quarters , commission houses reporting better buying of oils than for some months past . Several of the largest houses have received and . executed substantial buying orders in oils in the last few days , stocks like Standard Oil of California , New Jersey , Texas Co .. Marland . Phillips and a number of others being in good demand . A special buying movement has been apparent in Simms Petroleum in the last few days , with volume on Wednesday and Thursday exceeding 31,000 shares . Another development in oil securities is the activity in Shell Union Oil common stock , in which over 21.000 shares were dealt in in two days . Company is about 72,70 owned ' by Royal Dutch-Shell and affiliated interests , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London , which has been the principal buyer of the stock . Among the unlisted oils . Prairie Oil &; Gas at 212 Thursday was 18 points above last Friday 's closing . ( Prairie Pipe . Vacuum , Standard of ' Kansas . International Petroleum and Imperial Oil , Ltd. were others showing improvement in price . Better feeling on oils reflects recent developments within the trade , particularly the lifting of the Prairie ' Oil &; Gas pro-rating order in the mid-continent district , which was induced by decided decline in production there . ' Mid-continent field . and Oklahoma particularly , has been the main cause of continued high crude oil production this year . Recently flush pools there have been declining , and the mid-continent production is 54.000 barrels a day less now than at the peak about five weeks ago . Of this , Oklahoma showed a drop of 35.000 barrels a day in that period . Another development in oil was the official statement by Texas Co. that it earned full year 's dividend of about 20,000.000 in first nine months , after making necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by ** and increased cash . This was a different picture than had been generally painted in Wail Street circles as to earnings of oil companies . While it is granted that fourth quarter results will not he as good . relatively , and reduction in gasoline prices will probably necessitate further inventory depreciation by most big companies , the fact that Texas earned the year 's dividend in nine months was much better than generally expected . People familiar with oil company earnings state that Texas is not the only company that can make a good showing . It is said that Standard Oil of N. J. had , in the first half year . one of the best six months in its career . Standard Oil of N. Y. is another whose earnings are reported as having been very good in the same period .                     