@@696752

txt In his welcome to the members of the Institute of International Law Mr. HUGHES touched ironically upon the incomparable pre-eminence of the United States in the lawmaking industry . The automobile factories are only a poor second to the statute factories . Add forty-eight State establishments to the great Federal plant , and the immense annual output is natural . But who is responsible for it ? Mr. HUGHES 'S irony , uttered in the building of the New York City Bar Association , must seem mainly directed at the lawyers . They are the main components and directing forces of Legislatures and Congress . They are the head mechanics of this monstrous product of legislation . Whatever be the outside influences , the innumerable societies for minding other people 's business , the active organized minorities that cajole and bully and have their way ; whatever be the American passion for something to make and break , the bar is at once the agent and principal in the interminable work . We may regard the bar as a law extension institute . The more laws , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are too many of them ; that " the supply far exceeds the demand . " Why should lawyers complain of the results of conditions which lawyers bring about ? In some States , fortunately for poetic justice , there is a different mind . Lawyers within the union , so to speak , are always trying to make it harder for apprentices to get in . The Constitution of Indiana . adopted in 1851 , reflects in some respects the democracy of " a purer day . " Under one of its provisions " every person of good moral char " acter , being a voter , shall be en " titled to admission to the practice " of law in all courts of justice . " Four times an amendment to repeal this provision has failed . Next month the people will pass upon it again . So we shall soon know whether the Hoosiers think they have too many lawyers or not . We know what California thinks about it , if her Governor and Legislature represent the people . The State has that " unitary bar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spite of its opposition , the Governor signed an amendment to the bar act by which , subject to the approval of the State Supreme Court , the Board of Governors of the State Bar is empowered to appoint a committee to examine candidates for admission . The requirements are among the most tolerant , the tenderest that we have had the happiness to see : Any person above the age of 21 years may apply to the board for admission to practice law upon presentation of satisfactory testimonials of his good moral character , together with satisfactory proof that for at least three years he has diligently and in good faith studied law . If California has n't come up to the mark of the high calling of lawyers in Indiana , she has done excellently well . The unitary bar must have been split . These conditions of admission must have been fixed by lawyers in the Legislature . At any rate , in two States it must be assumed that supply is not equal to demand . Even an " internationally minded " man like Mr. HUGHES seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a paradise for lawyers . " There is a fair sprinkling of them here , if there are 17,500 of them and 10,000 preparing in the city law schools . But Indiana and California are more hospitable to youthful genius . Ex Occidente lux ? likewise lex .                     