@@688847

txt By direction of Attorney General Daugherty a petition in equity was filed in United States District Court against the New York Coffee and Sugar Exchange , Inc. , and the New York Coffee and Sugar Clearing Association , Inc. , its officers , directors and managers , Acting Attorney General Seymour announced . In its petition , the government asks the court to enjoin defendants " from further engaging in and carrvier out in the United States a combination and conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce in raw and refined sugar among the several states and with foreign nations . " This action was taken following conferences between Attorney General Daugherty , who is in Asheville , N. and Acting Attorney General Seymour , and after the entire matter had been laid before the President and his cabinet . The Department of Justice is also considering and investigating possible criminal action as well as the case in equity . Advance of Sugar Petition charges that as a result of fictitious transactions carried out by defendants , price of raw sugar in this country and refined sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an average of more than $2 per hundred-weight ; that these speculative operations carried on for purpose and with intent of unduly enhancing price of both raw and refined sugar ; and which have , aecomplished that object , constitute an unlawful comitinatiort ant cOnsPiraey ht restraint of interstate and foreign trade and commerce and that unless restrained by the court , will continue to result not only in the continued enhancement of the price of raw and refined sugar , but also in a diminished demand , thereby lessening traffic in these commodities in interstate and foreign commerce . Such combination and Conspiracy , . the petition sets forth , are in violation of Sherman antitrust act and Wilson tariff act and operate to detriment and hurt of people in the United States , and in derogation of their common right and is " contrary to the public policy of the United States . ' : The , petition as signed by Attorney General Daugherty , Solicitor General Beck , Assistant to the Attorney ' General Seymour , and special assistants to the Attorney General Fowler , Shale and Meyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South District of New York , William Hayward , and is directed against the New York Coffee and Sugar Exchange , Inc. , New York Coffee and Sugar Clearing Association , Inc. , T. S. B. Neilson , Manuel E. Rionda , Frank C. Russell , , C. H. Middendorf , J. H. Walter Lenkau , Justus Ruperti , Louis V. Sterling , William S. Scott , C. H. Stofregen , August Schrerenberg , B. B. Peabody , E. L. Lueber , G. H. Finlay , Franklin W. Hopkins , John W. Windells , C. B. Stroud , John A. Dunn , Hugh S. Carney , William Daync , Edward F. Direircka , Leon Israel , Arthur H. Lamborn , Levis W. Minford , in their own right and as representatives of all the members of the exchange and association . Seek Subpoenas Petition asks writs of subpoena be issued directed to each and every one of the defendants included by name , commanding them to appear and answer for themselves and for those whom they represent , Thut not under oath , allegations contained in the petition and abide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may make in premises ; that the court order this cause to be heard on application for a preliminary injunction ( hereby made ) within ten days after the service of notice on defendants , ' and that the court upon such application enjoin defendants from further engaging in unlawful combination and conspiracy ns described and from further operating the New York Coffee and Sugar Exchange and the New York Coffee and Sugar Cleariy Association , Inc. , in so far as they relate to sugar . The petition further asks the court that upon final hearing it be adjudged and decreed that by-laws , , rules and regulations of defendant corporations ; in so far as they relate to sugar , their adoption by said corporations and individual defendants , and the concerted action of defendants in carrying out said rules and regulations , constitute a combination and conspiracy in restraint of interstate and foreign trade and commerce in raw and refined sugar . Seek to Close Exchange It asks nisi ? the defendants ho perpetually enjoined from maintaining and operating the exchange and clear'ing house in so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from eitablishing , maintaining , operating , or engaging in the operation of any plan or scheme of like character . or designed or intended to establish artificial prices of sugar or to substantially affect prices of sugar by artificial means , or the necessary result of Which would 11,1 " . ! .. - 7entshlish and affect the price of sugar . Petition asks defendants be perpetually enjoined from . in any manner publishing or any price or prices of raw or refined sugar as being , or purporting to be , , market price of such sugar as established by . or one served is transaction on said exchange and from attempting to establish prices named in transactions on said exchange as market price of sugar to be observed in bona fide transactions actually involving purchase , sale and delivery of sugar . Petition further ' asks five defendants be perpetually erjbined from entering into or permitting to be entered into any transactions on said exchange or elsewhere involving or purporting to involve the purchase , sale , and delivery of sugar , unless the person purporting to make such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply of sugar adequate to meet the requirements of such transaction , and the person purchasing or purporting to purchase , shall in good faith intend to buy and pay for such sugar and accept to delivery us soon as same can be made. , No Useful Purpose Seen The court was told the New York Coffee and Sugar . Exchange , Inc. , and the New York Coffee and Sugar Clear ' ing Association , Inc. , serve no legitimate or useful purpose in the marketing in interstate and foreign commerce ? of the United States of raw and refined sugar . The petition alleges they exist only as a means of contracting and speculating with reference to supplies of sugar which , in many cases , do not exist and for purpose of manipulating price of raw and refined sugar without regard to conditions actually obtaining in the industry , or to the law of supply and demand ; and solely for illegitimate gambling , speculative profits , and enrichment of parties to such operations and frequently to the injury and detriment of those actually engaged in the business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the serious injury of the consuming public . Maintenance and operation of the exdhange and clearing association , it is averred , inevitably result in the establishment of prices for raw and refined sugar which are wholly speculative and artificial without proper regard for the conditions which but for said unlawful and uneconomic operations would control said prices . During the period from February 1 to date , the situation of the United States and of the world in matter of available stocks of raw sugar was more favorable than at any time within the last three years , the petition states , adding production of cam and beet sugar for 1921 , 1922 , was approximately 1,000,000 tons greater than in the preceding year and estimated production for 1922-23 is 521,000 tons more than for 1921-22 . Allege Speculation Since Februray 7 , 1923 , the petition alleges . an orgy of speculation in raw sugar has been indulged in through instrumentality of the exchange and clearing association . Transactions on the exchange during February . 1923 , ( as short month with two holidays ) , aggregated 1,515,05 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January . During that month only 300 tons were actually delivered as a result of transactions on the exchange . Brokers ' commissions , resulting from transactions on the exchange in February , amounted to approximately $900,000 , an average of more than $40,000 each trading day , the bill states , and stamp taxes paid the United States Government on these transactions amounted ' to $35,711 . The defendants , by the petition , it is allege unlawful combination reasonably to enhance prices of raw and refined sugar , ani are " pursuing their operations with unabated zeal . " Public Injury Unless the court shall promptly issue its injunction restraining the defendants from carrying out , by means described or otherwise , their said unlawful combination and conspiracy , the petition avers , the fuliber unlawful maintenance and enhancement of present ' abnormally high prices of raw and refined sugar will constitute an ? rreparable public injury . The petition included in its allegations a table ' concerning cohtracts bought and sold , numbering : November , 1922 , 9,162 ; becember , 1922 , 6,229 ; January , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; March , 1923 , 19,912 . The bill states the " petitioner is not now complaining of operations on said exchange and through said clearing association relating to other commodities than raw and refined sugar , said other operations not now being put in issue . " Every advance of one cent per pound in the price of refined sugar costs the consumers in the United States approximately $2,000,000 a week , the bill states , adding that any artificial manipulation of the price of sugar interferes with , burdens , and restrains the interstate and foreign commerce of the United States .                     