@@688977

txt Michael J. Boyle , head of the electrical workers ' union , has been sentenced to six months in Jail by Judge Robert K. Welsh in Waukegan . Boyle , called before the Lake county grand jury which is investigating the acquittal of Len Small , refused to answer questions . He preferred to stand in contempt of court and be punished for it rather than give the answers , although , he had been granted immunity from prosecution . Ben Newmark , who was busy in Small 's behalf during tho trial of the governor for embezzlement , and who , after tho trial , was appointed a deputy state fire marshal , also refused to answer questions before the grand jury and also faces a sentence for contempt . There already have been confessions of bribery in the jury verdict which acquitted Small of the criminal charge and there have been indictments . The confessions implicate notorious gunmen of Chicago , said to have been employed to debauch the trial jury and provide for Small 's escape from conviction . A good deal of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosed . Small 's distribution of state patronage ' to jurors and persons who helped him when he was in jeopardy is a matter of record . The secret of all'the proceedings in connection with tho trial has been hard to get at , although Col. Smith , state 's attorney of Lake county , has been determined and Wholly publictpirited . Witnesses havd dodged subpcenas for weeks , just 4.11 Small originally avoided arrest . Witnesses , such as Boyle and Newmark , have chosen jail rather than to answer . Men on the grand jury hays Been threatened it they continued the inquiry . Spiders run from every stone that is overturned , . Cornelius U. Miller , state director of public works , has admitted that he passed the plate time raised a fund to be used In Small 's behalf at Wau kegan . Miller admits the raising of $27,000 , Amon/ the contributors to this fund is one " Barr . " Thll the brother of State Senator Barr - of Joliet While criminal processes in Lake county are bus ; With these aspects of Small 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case to recover th Interest Small is charged with withholding free the public treasury . He has made every effort t escape that accounting , but the court has hot him to it . ? , The state case against Small Is prosecuted b the attorney general , Mr. Brundage , , Srnall vetoe ; 500,000 of the attorney general 's appropriatio - And persuaded the legislature to uphold the vets Thus Small crippled the prosecutor , as he ha done two years before . There is an appropriation of $75,000 in the legt lature specifically to enable the attorney genera to prosecute for the return of interest . Brundag needs that to bring Small to an accounting . In the senate committee on appropriations fou teen senators , led by Barr of Joliet , voted again : ? giving this money for this purpose . The apps priation was bayely saved . This brief summary of events In Waukegan an Springfield reveals the operations of men wt are going to extreme lengths to protect the go ornor of the estate from judicial inquiry . The fig ) trill be warmer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in the courts at in the legislature are doing their best again discouragement , against malign influences , and spite of public . inertia . They need encouragemet and support if they are to make it a winning fig for public good . There is an entrenched enemy with great pow of evil . This is a call upon the reserves of got citizenship in the state . Its support is needed no SUBWAYS VS . ELEVATED . Street car transportation is in its least expensive but its least effective condition when it uses the surface of the streets . It costs less to Install a surface system , although it may cost more to operate it . To get speed , which is the modern requisite of metropolitan traction , the tracks must go up or they must go down . They must be taken out of the obstructions of general traffic . Subways improve adjoining property . The eleVetted may improve a region , but the property indirect contact with the elevated structure is damaged , with certain exceptions . The elevated gives a more agreeable method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the people living along the line . The elevated is cheaper to build . If we have elevated roads they shOuld bo on private property , as the elevated tracks of railroads within the city are . Without detriment to the city , subways may use city streets . Perhaps the equation of subway vs. elevated is the cost of elevated construction plus the cost of right of way vs. the cost of subway construction . This would mean subway construction downtown , rising to the surface at the point where the cost of elevated construction plus the real estate cost became less than the cost of subway construction With either system rental should be charged for entrance from stations to buildings . A LESSON IN LEGISLATION , The Illinois law prohibiting the marriage , within a year , of persons divorced in this state came into the legislature as a bill in 1905 . A young down . state legislator , serving his first term , introduced it and the legislature passed it . He thought it would check the unseemly sequence of divorce and marriage and enforce greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judiciary committee has recommended the repeal of the law at the urgence of Judge Hurley of Chicago , who has observed its operation In the divorce court . Where personal I eonvict ) on or regard for public opinion did not prevent the immediate marriage of persons going out of the divorce court with decrees , the Illinois law did not . Tho people went to a neighboring state and were married . Their union was not legal In Illinois , but it was elsewhere , ? The law was a well Intended attempt to clamp ft statute on human nature , but its most Conspicuous accomplishment was to bring into question the legitimacy of children of parents legally married elsewhere than in this state . It was one of many Illustrations of the unwisdom of running people down with statutes ill considered as to effectiveness and consequences . The freedom which American divorce gives Is not the evil that the woman chattel idea is where niarriage is virtually indissoluble on the initiative ef the women . As between American law in most of the states and English law even as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American contains Jim greater social intelligence , The remedy for American defects is not generally in a bill for an act . There are aspects of social conduct which can not be captured and confined by a legislature . They are governed by the tabus and convictions of society and by personal principles . When there Is no such control a statute is not always a barrier . General legislative meddling with all possible forms of social nonconformity , with the things which individuals do in offense to a community ideal or standard of conduct , is a pursuit of wild horses .                     