@@694360

txt For a long time the colleges have been undertaking to teach the young idea how to write plays . Now it is reported that they are going to establish courses in dramatic criticism . This announcement has provoked ribald laughter in cynical minds . They say that there is no such thing any longer as dramatic criticism . How can one teach what does not exist ? If there are no recognized standards of judging the theatre , no traditions to be maintained , but everything left to the sweet will and chaotic taste of the reviewers of the drama , the undergraduate aspirants will find it hard to discover any settled principles in the calling to which they are looking . Eut the plight of dramatic criticism is not so desperate as that . If it has no organized system of thought , it has rules of writing . These may be deduced from some of the most eminent practitioners of the art . Remembering the saying of SAINTS-Bnuvz that an example is the best definition , the professors in the college dramatic departments may well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on how to become dramatic critics : First of all , bear in world . And as your own personality is best known to yourself , and therefore most interesting to you , exploit it for all it is worth , and even more . Tell the eager public what you had to eat before going to the theatre . Explain that you were late either because of the fascinating conversation from which you could not bear to tear yourself away early , or because you got into a moot unpleasant traffic jam in the streets . Look around the audience and enumerate the persons you know . Recall to your readers some piquant incident in your past career of which the drama under observation strangely reminds you . Report what year it was when you first met the leading actress , and what she said to you behind the scenes . By keeping up this personal chatter about yourself , an easy transition is prepared for the second part of your critical notice . This should consist of exchanges with your fellow-critics . Let it be known how many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posture and facial expression , recount what they said to you when you last met , and do not fail to set down their smart sayings . In this there is a certain danger . A French writer recently- told a friend that he had just completed an essay on a leading dramatic critic . He added that he had " loaned " the man a few words of wit . The friend said , " Do n't do it ; he will never pay you back . " Nevertheless , the correct thing in dramatic critics is to exalt each other 's cleverness . Give the public the distinct impression that BEN JONSON and SHAKESPEARE at the Mermaid had nothing whatever on the dramatic reviewers who meet in the lobby , or at an aftertheatre supper , to hurl back and forth at each other the most flashing retorts , biting epigrams and malicious characterizations . Do not be deterred by the fear that some one may quote you the saying of Dr. JOHNSON : " The reciprocal civil " ity of authors is one of the most " risible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that smacks of the theatre , and in it today nothing is better established than the fact that dramatic critics must indulge every day in this reciprocal civility , whether the reader laughs at it or weeps . Of course , the play itself has somehow to be mentioned before the bottom of the column . This can best be done by saying whether you liked it or not . Either way , never give a reason . That would only encourage others to bring forward reasons against you . But there are certain convictions which it is always safe to express . If in a Russian or Hungarian play an actress suddenly screams , pounces upon a cat and throws it out of the window , you can write that nothing ever so shook you with a sense of horror or revealed to you the mysterious depths of the Slav consciousness , or the perfect command which the playwright had over his symbolic material , so suggestive of all that is true in FREUD , HEGEL , NIETZSCHE , KAYSERLING and ALFRED McCANN . On the contrary , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a North Carolina log cabin or in a Jersey City boarding house is introduced , speak of it as a tedious and meaningless piece of stage business that might better have been left out . Other simple rules may easily be deduced from current practice . But even with the few mentioned the Poloniuses of the college may start Laertes off with money enough in his mental purse to make sure of success as a dramatic critic .                     