@@692136

txt President Coolidge has now received final suggestions on the last important subjects which may be included in his annual message to Congress . With the presentation today of reports from H. G. Dalton , who investigated shipping affairs , and the divided linscie Shoals Commission , he has the data needed for discussion of these problems . Before he se - tds his message to Congress on- Dec. 9 , having decided not to read it to the Senate and House in joint session , the President will make two of the most important speeches of his Administration , it is stated . The first will be delivered at the Chamber of Commerce dinner in New York Thursday night and the second will be made before the convention of the American Farm Federation in Chicago on Dec. 7 . In the New York speech he will give his views on international affairs , the World Court and taxation and business qiestions . It will be somewhat of an elaboration of his views on these subjects beyond the formal recommendations in his annual message . In his address to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the farm situation and uri$ representatives of those organizations to follow economic lines and not etxpect paternalistic legislation . Along with other problems . President Coolidge is , giving serious consideration to the shipping question . As the time for the convening of Congress nears , the problem of what to do with the Shipping Board and whether American shipping shall be , promoted by a subsidy become questions of concern to the Administration and shipping interests , The President Is opposed to subsidy . Already the . President has had the advice of the United States Chamber of Commerce in favor of a ship subsidy plan . Today he conferred with Shipping Commissioner Lassiter and asked questions , intended for his guidance in the preparation of his message . The President also received the advantage of the inquiry concluded today by H. G. Dalton of Cleveland into Shipping Board affairs , resulting from the recent dispute and the dismissal of Rear Admiral Palmer as Chairman of the Emergency Fleet Corporation . Upon leaving the White House Mr. Lassiter said that he could not discuss the import of his conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facing the problem of how the merchant marine should be kept on the seas . In his opinion , the ships owned by the Government should be sold to private concerns , and they in turn encouraged by a proper subsidy . " The operation of the merchant fleet by the Government is now costing over $29,000,000 annually , " Mr. Lassiter said . " This represents a subsidy In whatever way you look at it . Unless this Government shall , devise some subsidy plan the merchant marine in time will sink to where it was before the war . " That President Coolidge intends to make radical recommendations for the control of shipping is the opinion of those in his confidence . He will probably recommend the abolition of the Shipping Board and the placing of its functions under a bureau . It is thought that the President will not touch upon the subsidy question in any definite way . In presenting his report to the President . Mr. Dalton made several recommendations . He surveyed the situation in the Shipping Board as developed by the dismissal of Rear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the President that the board be abolished . Besides the Dalton report the President has before him the report made this week by the Chamber of Commerce or the United States . The Chamber recommended that the Shipping Board be not placed under the Department of Commerce , as has been urged , by many students of the subject , but that the Emergency Fleet Corporation be divorced from the Shipping Board and operated under one man , to be named by the President . The Shipping Board 's power would then be limited to the purposes for which it originally was created , the establishment of routes , regulations and rates . The report also hinted at subsidy . Whether Mr. Dalton 's recommendations follow the line of the Chamber of Commerce is not made public , but it is known that President Coolidge inclines to the belief that the Shipping Board in size should be reduced , that its functions should be only semi-judicial , and that perhaps one man , under a Cabinet officer , probably Secretary Hoover , should be charged with full responsibility . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House today was two reports from the Muscle Shoals Commission . The majority report was presented today by Senator Dial . This . it is understood , suggests that the Government make another effort to sell the plant with the stipulation that the lessees shall make nitrates . The minority , it is said , favors Government operation . The President is expected to make in his message a definite recommendation for the disposal of the plant . He is opposed to Government operation .                     