@@692540

txt The Williamstown Institute of Politics has broadened its scope by including " natural scientists " in the list of its lecturers and leaders of roundtables for the coming season , along with international . , tatesmen and publicists . This is recognition of the fact that the competition for raw materials and foodstuffs has much to do with international politics . Tlie chemist is a commanding factor in modern civilization . He was called upon in the exigencies of warn . But the counsels of his laboratories are no less needed in peace . The atom has taken on a new role in the world 's economy . Moreover , the earth , is found to be interdependent mineralogically ; for , though nature has hidden away her metals with some marks of favoritism. no nation is entirely self-sufficient . A country may be rich in certain ores , but lack just the one that it needs to make what it already has of service nd profit . It may have to send around the globe to get the needed ingredient , unless the chemist can find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be asked at Williams to tell what they know about oil and other basic essentials , and the chemists to speak of enriching the soil of national production . But they are to supplement not to supplant those who have to do with the political and social sciences . A list of lecturers in these subjects has been announced : NICHOLAS PoLrris of Greece , who has won high ' esteem in the councils of Europe ; ALBRECHT MENDELSSOIIN-BARTHOLD7 of distinguished artistic and philosophic lineage ; Qir FREDERICE : WHYTE , who has done brilliant administrative work in India , and Dr. Moerra Bcpiw , who is already well known as a lecturer in America. : And the general conferences and roundtables. which will have to do mainly with conditions in Western Europe , Eastern Asia and Latin America , will be competently conducted . The Institute , occupying the delectable campus of Williams College through six weeks of the Summer , has come to be an American " institution , " not only in its own lengthening life , but in the fact that furnishing a model for other gatherings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a moot world Council in which those who are fortunate enough to be present can " sit in " on international affairs , even if they have no part in ordering them , except by helping to make the public opinion that will ultimately get itself obeyed .                     