@@695088

txt Cordial cooperation of ' Japan in. - the ' movement to outlaw war is pledged in. the reply of that Government received at ' the State Department today to the ' invitation by Secretary . ' Kellogg to join in a multilateral treaty renouncing war as an instrument of The . reply : ' was . embodied , in a notefrom Baron Giichi Tanaka , Foreign . Minister , to Charles ? MaeVeagbi American Ambassador : to Tokio , and said that the Japanese . government would " be happy to collaborate . with cordial good will " . in the movement . which it considers was aimed at " the . entire abolition of " the institution of war . " The only stipulations were-. of a nature . that have beer : - admitted to be  --  more or less inherent in ? the pro-. posed . treaty . These were ' that the Compact would admit of self-defense and would not be " incompatible with the obligations of : agreements guaranteeing : the - public peace , . such as are embodied in the covenant of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Locarno . " ' Text of the Reply . ? The text of the reply was " ' as follows : Mr. Ambassador : I have the honor to acknowledge . the ? receipt of your Excellendy 's note No. 336 of April 13th ; last , transmitting to ? me : under instructions from the Government of the United States ' the preliminary draft of a proposed ' multilateral treaty representing in ? a general way -a ' form of treaty which the - GOvernment of the United States %is prepared to sign with ' the French , Ger7 ? , man , British , Italian - and Japanese Governments , and any ' other governments similarly disposed , ' with the . object of securing the renunciation of war . At . the same time , your Excellency enclosed a copy Of the correspondence recently exchanged between the Governments of . - the United States and the French Republic , commencing ' with a ' proposal put forward ' by M. Briand in : June , 1927 ; and you intimated : that the Government ? of the United States desired to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give . favorable consideration to the , conclusion of such a treaty as that of which you enclosed a draft and if not , what ' specific modifications in the text would make it acceptable . . I beg to inform your Excellency that the Government of Japan sympathizes warmly with the high and beneficent aims of the proposal now made by the . United States , which they take to imply the entire abolition of the institution of war , and that they will be glad to render their most cordial cooperation toward the attainment of that end . The proposal of the United States is understood to contain nothing that would refuse to independent States the right of self defense , and nothing which is incompatible with the obligations of agreements guaranteeing the public peace , such as are embodied in the Covenant of the League of Nations and the Treaties of Loearno . Accordingly , the Imperial Government firmly believes that unanimous agreement on a mutually acceptable text for such a treaty as is contemplated is well capable of realization by discussion between the six powers referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cordial good will in the discussions , with the purpose of securing what they are persuaded is the common desire of all the peoples of the world  --  namely , the cessation of wars and the definite establishment among the nations of an era of permanent and universal peace . I avail myself of this occasion to renew to your Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration . Baron GIICHI TANAKA , Minister . All the powers originally addressed by Secretary Kellogg on the project have now been heard from , and in a way that is understood to be regarded by the State Department as constituting a general approval of the idea . Great Britain has accepted the proposal cordially in principle , if not completely ; Germany has signified her unqualified approval , and Italy has expressed sympathy with the general purpose of the movement . While France countered with a draft treaty of her own , so weighted with reservations as to be unacceptable to the United States , it is now understood that France 's position is substantially that of Great Britain . Only two stipulations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " certain regions . " One is looked upon essentially as a definition of self-defense . The other stated a preference for one of the French reservations aimed to safeguard the structure of all existing treaties and probably will not be pressed . Secretary Kellogg , it is understood , now feels warranted in addressing identic notes to the five powers specifically setting forth a treaty draft with the suggestion that it be signed . There were indications that this would be done within the next two or three weeks . Secretary Kellogg has already made clear that in any such treaty the right of self-defense would be inherent , buf it is regarded as possible that this and other points raised in the diplomatic exchanges of recent weeks may be defined in the preamble or phrased through some minor changes in language of the simple formula : : rst put forward by the Secretary of State for a simple , unqualified renunciation of war . In this connection it was recalled today that Mr. Kellogg , in his note of last February 27 , on the subject to France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such a treaty is a matter of indifference to the United States so long as it clearly and unmistakably sets forth the determination of the parties to abolish war among themselves . " Replies are yet to be received from the British Dominions and India to the recent invitation of the United States for them to adhere to the treaty . While these may be received before the State Department makes the next formal move , it is not considered essential for them to be at hand before the identic notes contemplated are transmitted . The six Govern cents of the British Commonwealths , it was pointed out today , were said by Sir Austen Chamberlain , the British Foreign Minister , in his recent note to be in accord with the Baldwin Govern- I ment on the project , and the invitations since then by the United States were designed primarily to assure their participation as signatories of the treaty .                     