@@687787

txt Several labor leaders are rash and immoderate in attacking the unanimous decision of the Supreme Court in the Coronado case , to the effect that trade unions are legal entities , even if not incorporated . What would have been the result of a decision that unions have no legal existence ? More than twoscore States have enacted laws protecting unions . in the use of their labels . A score of States have penalized discrimination against unionistsin contracts of employment . Dozens of States have provided for union representation on official boards of arbitration ' in labor . matters , or have specifically legalized unions , or have penalized the forgery or misuse of union cards . Several States have enacted specific exemptions of unions from laws governing all others . If Unions had no legal standing , how could such favors be bestowed ? Or if bestowed , how could they be protected , if the right to sue and be sued did not exist ? No doubt the decision creates duties and responsibilities which some unionists would prefer to shirk . But that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagines that it has a license to do whatever it likes , in the name of labor , and that unionism is a shield against punishment for wrongs - upon society , can have no future . Above all others , the men who have nothing but their labor need the protection of the law . In this Coronado case unionists dynamited and murdered in the name of labor . , Yet the court is so punctilious in protecting the rights of unions that it exonerates them , although with expressed regret . The national union is held not responsible for a local strike , and the $800,000 Liberty bonds which it had deposited in court as surety are released . The local union is not responsible under ; the law ' punishing conspiracy in restraint of interstate trade . Its acts were proved and heinous , punishable under the common . law , but not under the Federal , statute ! The Supreme Court discharges the defendants with , regret , because it is more important to " preserve inviolate the " fundamental limitation 's in respect " to Federal jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misconduct fairly inhuman . Yet labor thinks that it is persecuted ! This is the first case in which it has been held that unincorporated unions are responsible to the law . The Danbury hatters case was the first case in which it .. was held that individual unionists are answerable with their persons and property for unlawful conduct . There are strikes pending in which the defenses could not be set up which allow the guilty Coronado defendants to escape . If national and international unions authorize strikes and act unlawfully , the local excuse could not be pleaded . The Danbury and Coronado cases together settle it that the persons and property of both unions and unionists can be made responsible in case of such ' wrongful acts as have been committed again and again , with the claim to exalt class interests . above universal welfare ... - That is not Americanism . That is not the sort of unionism which can be defended from pulpits or in the press ? or in courts . The decision " in this eight-year-old case is ' peculiarly timely in view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interstate commerce : The unions need no prompting ' to defend their rights . The courts will be sustained in hold ing them to their duties . Society ha its rights as well as the unions , an should be as mindful of its duties a it expects the unions to be . The reig of law is essential to , society . Obedi ence to the law is the first duty c the citizen .                     