@@688113

txt One of the leaders of the striking railway shopmen , in order to encourage his fellows , spoke the other day gloatingly of the misery which they were causing . Food was being kept from the cities . The farmers were suffering immense losses on their products , which they could not ship . Factories and furnaces were closing . The railroads were breaking down , and soon the whole transportation business of the country would be wrecked . Passing by the distortion of facts plain in such talk , what is to be said of its spirit ? Could the commander of an invading army talk more gleefully of the destruction which he was working ? The whole is a kind of exultation in terrorism , such as the German military leaders in Belgium and in France in 1914 so foolishly indulged in . The underlying idea is that a strike is nothing but an exertion of brute force , and that the weaker must be ruthlessly trampled upon . Now , who have been the weaker during , the strikes of this Summer ? Where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HoovEn told us yesterday . It is the public which has been the chief victim . The parties to the controversy entered Into it-as if they alone were concerned . They challenged each other to a trial of strength ; they refused to seek a peaceful settlement ; they excluded the public from all the negotiations , and when a final agreement was . reached the mass of the people were kept out of it as truly as if they were inhabitants of Mars . It was a flagrant case of industrial warfare attended by oppression and violence , with the American people left helpless as so many innocent bystanders who were most injured , who lost most , and who were expected to pay a huge bill of reparations , so to speak , when the struggle ended . As Mr. HOOVER says , this is the intolerable aspect of the entire longdrawn-out contest . And he justly adds that the lesson of the strikes will be lost if it does not lead to the working out of some plan under which the public may have " a rightful voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The talk of a general strike is dying That additional form of madness the nation will not have to face . But is it not clear that the very suggestion of such a step shows how the idea of force , with the compulsion of the majority by a small minority , has come to be the prevailing conception of a strike ? Against whom would a general strike be aimed ? Nominally , perhaps , against the courts or the Government , but in reality against the peace and welfare of the whole people . Organized labor itself could not escape in such a complete social upheaval . Workingmen and their families would be among the earliest to be drawn into the vortex and to undergo privation and want to the point of driving them to desperation . It would be worse than civil war , because there would be no excuse for it , and the sufferings of millions of innocent people would he all the more intense and bitter because they would feel that they had been dragged into a quarrel which was not their own and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general strike would be merely an appeal  --  a blind and unthinking appeal  --  to brute force . It could not possibly win , but in its early days it could inflict unspeakable misery .. To say that such methods are uncivilized is to put the case mildly . One of tile surest marks of the progress of civilization is the getting rid of fighting between private citizens , of vendettas between localities and groups , of the fierce assertion of in ? dividual claims without regard to the well-being of the community . Hence it is that such strikes as have troubles the nation since April necessarily ap ? pear to be survivals of barbarism They are wholly out of touch with the modern spirit of legal and peaceful ad. justment of disputes between individ. uals , organizations and classes . Undoubtedly , as Secretary HOOVER intl. mates , something has been shown to be lacking in our governmental machinery . A power has grown up within the State which occasionally acts as it it felt itself to be greater than the State . An industrial democracy threatened from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt is to make it take the place of arbitration or judicial settlement . This can not go on . Simply because the present evils seem to be passing away without having done irreparable damage , we must not comfortably close our eyes to future perils . If the people have taken to heart the mischief of strikes based simply on the right of the stronger , they will be keen to learn from this indefensible industrial warfare the motto which they took from the great war : " Never Again ! " It is the duty of all thinking citizens , of workers with hands as well as workers with brains , of Legislatures and of the Congress , of Governors and Cabinets and Presidents , to move betimes so as to provide the United States with laws and devices to prevent this country from continuing to appear uncivilized in both the origin and conduct of great strikes .                     