@@696522

txt This country may fairly claim , among other internationally popular phrases devised for the use of writers who are not strong on analysis . to have originated " Business in diplomacy ? ' The implication is that a businessman will find shorter and better ways of settling international questions than the professional diplomat . There is no need to call attention here to the fact that some businessmen make a mess of it and that the occasional successes are by those executives whose business has taua'ht them dinlomacv . But if we are to speak of business in diplomacy , why not walking delegates in diplomacy ? Philip Snowden , Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Labor Government , made up largely of labor leaders accustomed to negotiations with employers , talked to The Hague conference like a walking delegate . It ruffled the feelings of the French but at least he stated the case for his side without wrapping it up . Why not ? It may nut be good " diplomacy " so far as the labor unions are concerned , but it has often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience a walking delegate begins by asking more than he expects to get , and he calls his demands the minimum . But Snowden has a backing which makes his demands respectable . They have the endorsement of Winston Churchill , his Conservative predecessor in office , of Lloyd George , the Liberal leader , and his own chief , Prime Minister , and it is significant that they are all agreed on one point . This is that in three settlements , the preliminary impossibility at Versailles . the Dawes Plan and the Young Plan , Great Britain made the most substantial concessions because it was believed , especially by American critics . that she had the means to do so in spite of the fact that her people are more heavily taxed than those of France or Germany , and that she is meeting her international obligations while the other countries are ' ' stalling. ? Therefore . it is necessary to consider Mr. Snowden 's demands not from the point of view of manner , as typified by the walking delegate , but of matter . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hurt feelings ; perhaps the British taxpayer under Labor leadership has found that he also has feelings which the rest of the world should respect . Even if the Entente Cordiale becomes a trifle strained the Britisher has said " After you , my clear Alphonse , " - often enough for purposes of mere politeness . What is highly siknificant , and the most deadly criticism of the Young Plan . is the impossible proposal that Ambassador ' Dawes should be called in to clean up the mess .                     