@@687340

txt The Parliament of Southern Ireland met today and ratified toe treaty with Great Britain . As anticipated Eamon de Valera and his supporters stayed away , and the only surprise was that Michael Collins , and not Arthur Griffith , was nominated as head of the Provisional Government . Griffith , it was explained , if he led the Government as well ' as acted  --  as President of the Dail Eireann , would face the criticism of the Republicans , and decided not to take official part in the Provisional Government . Later in the day Edmond Duggan , as representative of Ireland 's new Administration , visited Dublin Castle with a copy of the treaty signed as provided in the terms . It was an historic moment when the representative of the Irish Free State made an official call on the building which has symbolized for so long British rule in Ireland . A large . crowd assembled outside to witness it . Duggan 's stay , however , was not. : prolonged , and the immediate transfer of administrative powers , which some had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried out in a few days . The Southern Parliament met in Mansion House . The 126 members , including the four from Trinity College , Dublin , were summoned to attend , but the abstention of Eamon de Valera and the other Republicans reduced the numbers to sixty-five . Alderman de Roisitie of Cork acted as Speaker and it was noted that as the roll was called Professors Thrift and Alton of Trinity answered like the bulk of the members in Gaelic . Treaty Is Ratified . Pierce Beasley moved and Joseph seconded the resolution " that the instrument entitled ' the treaty between Great Britain and Ireland  --  arti- : ties of . agreement signed in London on the 6th day of December , 1921 , ' by the members of the Irish and British .. delegations respectively be and is hereby approved . " The motion was put without debate and carried unanimously , it was 11:20 o'clock and the house had been in ses , sion barely a quarter of an hour . With 1 1 the same businesslike dispatch it was moved , seconded and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' by constituted composed of the following members : Michael Collins , William Cosgrove , Edmond Duggan , Patrick Hogan , Flnian ? Lynch , Joseph , John , Kevin O'Higgins and such other persons if and as determined from time to time by the ministers for the time being . " . , All are Ministers of the Dail'Cabinet with the exception Professor John , who is Speaker of the Dail , and Finian Lynch , who was Secretary of the Irish delegation at London . Arthur Griffith then stated that the provisional Government had been set up to supervise the carrying out of the treaty . The Dail Eireann , he ? said , would remain in being until the treaty had been executed and a general election held in Ireland . He concluded by making a plea for fair play for the new administration . " The provisional Government will meet and ' will deserve the support of every good Irishman . " he said . " Their task will be very heavy . There will be difficulties from the outset . but with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I non sure it will make no distinction between Irishmen , and that every guarantee will he made for fair play all round . We ore starting a new era and we want the old differences that existed between sections of Irishmen banished forever . New differences will arise , as they will in every community , but they will arise as differences be tween Irishmen . - Wants All Prisoners Freed . " With reference to a statement that a certain class of Irish prisoners would not be released , I wish it to be known that we know nothing about the statement and it will be the business of the Provisional Government to see that all Irish prisoners who have been arrested or who are incarcerated in connection with the recent hostilities are returned to liberty . " As he sat down , Professor Thrift of Trinity College arose and , speaking briefly , pledged himself to give the Provisional Government all the aid he could . He said : " As I represent some of those who have in the past held different opinions . it is due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I accept what he has said in the spirit in which it was spoken , and I for one will be ready to do my best to make this measure the success we all hope it will be for this country . Putting aside differences of opinion , we stand on one common basis and are ready to work for the prosperity of the country as a whole . " The Southern Parliament under the present Home Rule act had met , but it will never meet again . and so before it adjourned the minutes of its proceedings were read over and approved . All the members present signed them and then adjourned to a garden to be photographed as a memento of the historic occasion : Duggan , one of the members of the new Government , visited Dublin Castle after the meeting of the Southern Parliament and brought with him the articles of agreement duly signed . by ? the members of-the Southern Parliament . A statement was issued from Dublin Castle that it bad been transmitted to the Lord Lieutenant . In the corridors and rooms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranged in bundles for instant removal . A huge bonfire of waste paper blazed all morning and afternoon in the courtyard adjoining the upper Castle yard . Irish Free State Is Set Up . DUBLIN , Jan. 14 ( Associated Press ) . ? The Provisional Government of the Irish Free State is now a functioning body . Final formalities of approving the treaty with England were carried out late this afternoon when , after a historic meeting in the Mansion House of Representatives of the Southern Irish constituencies , they formally ratified the treaty . First on the list of eight men appointed as constituting the Provisional Government is the name of Michael Collins , and it is assumed he will be made the nominal head . As a matter of fact , however , the correspondent is authoritatively informed . that Arthur Griffith , as President of the Dail ' Eireann and Chairman of the meeting which ratified the treaty , made it plain that the Assembly had no existence as a Parliament . He pointed out that it had never met before and would never meet again . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which tile minutes of the proceedings could be submitted , the minutes were prepared on the spot , read to the meeting and adopted . Those present frankly admitted the necessity of technical accuracy in these matters , realizing that the opponents of the treaty will be keen critics of the new administration and will be quick to seize upon any action which in their view exceeds the license given by the Dail to put the treaty into operation . The speech made by Mr. Griffith at the meeting contemplated the complete suppression of the Dail upon the election of a Free State Parliament . The drafting of a constitution will he the most important task of the Provisional Government . The constitutional delegation that negotiated the treaty will be looked to . as its supreme authority . The position of Mr. Griffith is one of peculiar difficulty . As President of the Dail , that is , the Irish Republic , he occupies the same position as . did Mr. de Valera , and during the debates on the treaty in the Dail Miss Mary and Erskine Childers demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of the new administration perfectly distinct . Beeps Dail Authority . Miss , Mr. Childers and others of the Republican Party also stressed the necessity of keeping the Irish Republican Parliament under the authority only of the Dail Eireann . It is regarded as significant , therefore , that neither Mr. Griffith nor Richard Mulcahy , the Dail 's new Minister of Defense , has a nominal place in the new administration . The ministers appointed to administer the provisional government include , with two or three exceptions , all the members of Mr. Griffith 's Republican Cabinet . Thera is no room in the provisional government for the Minister for Foreign Affairs . George Gavan Duffy , because foreign affairs are outside its scope , but Mr. Collins , Mr. Duggan and William T. Cosgrave , as well as other departmental heads in the Republican Government , will head the departments in the provisional administration . Lawyers here and perhaps in England will probably be called in to assist . Dublin Castle authorities say the British Government will be glad to lend its experts to help in framing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoothing of the proceedings , which were entirely of a formal , perfunctory nature , with the exception of a few brief speeches . No opponents of the treaty were present and a spirit of cordial agreement and harmony prevailed . The Parliament met under Clauses 17 and 18 of the Anglo-Irish Treaty , which made the members of the Southern Irish Parliament elected under the Government of Ireland act of , 1920 the body which should ratify the treaty and take measures for constituting a provisional government . Michael Collins , in conversation with the correspondent later , said the first business of the Provisional Government would be , as Mr. Griffith had suggestedin his speech , that of securing the release of the Irish political . prisoners in England , India and elsewhere . A considerable crowd waited in front of the Mansion House during the . meeting . but it was quiet and orderly . The feeling in Dublin is highly optimistic and cheerful . This was evidenced today in the attitude of the auxiliaries , who drove through the streets singing and waving their hats . Pedestrians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resentment . The lorries the cadets are now using are the same as those in which their repressive operations were conducted last Winter and which used to bristle with revolvers , rifles and machine guns . This once dreaded corps is being collected from all parts of the country into Beggars ' Bush Barracks , which for next week will serve as a clearing depot from which they will be sent to England . Collins Explains Plnns . Copyright , 1922. by The Chicago Tribune Co . DUBLIN , Jan. ** the ratification of the Anglo-Irish treaty Michael Collins , explaining the new provisional Government , said : " This is a governing committee in which the members will not have distinct portfolios . It is possible and quite likely that certain functions may be assigned to individual members , but the same man may look after home affairs one week , for instance , and defense the next . There is no question of sacking the staff of the existing departments . I suppose that our next step will be to walk into Dublin Castle , take possession and make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure is yet to be considered . At any rate , we do not have to go to London for that . All that will not be done today , but perhaps on Monday , or at least early in the week , and no arrangements have been made yet as to whether there will be a public ceremony or not . The fact is we have not even considered min details yet . It is the intention of the Provisional Government to add men from the outside who are not members of the  --  Dail or the Southern Parliament . It is likely that we may ask help from Southern Unionists at jobs for which they are best qualified . We have the biggest task before us and we have to get on with the work . " Late this afternoon Lord Fitzalan , the Viceroy of Ireland , went to Dublin Castle expecting to hand over immediately the control to the Provisional Government , but on his arrival he learned that no arrangements had been made . Then , later , a record of the morning 's proceedings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty , was handed to an undersecretary , who transmitted it to Lord Fitzalan . This makes it almost certain that the handing over of control to the Irish will take place on Monday . One little act of courtesy by the Trinity College men won them a round of applause . The formal proceedings were in the Irish language and when the roll was called they answered in Irish . ' When Trinity 's turn came , Sir James Craig , who was called first , answered " Present , " but the others answered in Irish . This is a greater concession than appears , as the college has always been considered the centre of British control in Ireland . It was symbolic of the new feeling .                     