@@695982

txt Opposition has developed in certain quarters in Paris , as in Berlin , to the reparations experts ' proposal for the creation of a bank of international payments . That opposition is largely political and was foreseen . It does not come from financial quarters , but from extreme Nationalists on one side and Socialists on the other . Both sides unite in expressing fear that such a bank must by its nature and functions and certainly ? in future developments exercise political influences of a kind which , according to their sympathies , appear likely to do harm to Nationalist or Socialist interests . National antagonisms too have been aroused . The Echo de Paris writes : " Are we not in the presence of an ambitious enterprise on the part of American business men who are seeking to impose their hegemony ? It is possible that the project which is under examination by the committee may be the logical soliition of the problem of reparations as they view it . But in this political and economic uniyerse . the problem- of reparations is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether the inconveniences of such an institution as is proposed do . not exceed the material advantage of finding an issue for Geurnany 's creditors . At all events , the plan it marked by a megalomania which is perhaps unconscious but which nevertheless cells for the greatest caution . " Public Reaction Probably Sought . That statement of one side of the French ease was one of the reactions probably sought by the experts when yesterday they consented to the issuance to the press of an explanation of their proposal . They expected , too , to get from Germany much the same kind of criticism as today 's German press contains , All of them felt that while they as financiers were unanimous , or nearly so , in approval of the plan , it would be the wisest . procedure to discover before they committed themselves what the public reaction in the various countries concerned would be . For the German reaction there is Perhaps less concern than for that of France and England . During these past weeks the experts have exercised all their ingenuity to discover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany and at least in some ways satisfactory to her creditors can be obtained and today , as on the first day , they are faced with the situation that while the German delegates have been extremely helpful in elaborating means of payment they remain completely mute as to the final amount and allow the campaign to develop in their own country against the payment of any amount which would meet allied requirements . Means of Pressure Remains . Now a campaign has begun against the proposed bank , which in the committee has had the warm support and collaboration of Dr. 1-ljalmar Schacht . But on Germany there remains means of pressure . If this committee fails , the Dawes plan must continue to operate , and it may be extremely inconvenient for Germany to continue that system , for it has by no means yet been demonstrated that she can not pay the full annuities , and it will be interesting to see . what the result will be of application of the Index of prosperity to their . increase . On the other side , Germany 's position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this committee would be likely to have an immediate effect . Ever since the war American finance has proved generous , but it is felt here that an end may easily clime to the system whereby so far America has enabled Germany to meet her obligations . After tomorrow 's meeting Dr. Schacht will pay a brief visit to Berlin on the pretext that he has to attend the marriage of a member of his family . Until he returns it is likely that the committee will again mark time . From Belgium , where M. Francqui and M. Gutt have gone over the week-end for a visit , and from London , where Sir Josiah Stamp and Sir Charles Addis have gone , there will in the meantime be reactions . On the London side it is , however , possible now to say that at least big City influences , and especially bankers , favor ? the proposal .                     