@@689126

txt As it is to be assumed that many merchants and manufacturers appreciate the barometer value of the stock market it is fair to suppose that business is more or less sensitive to the course of security prices . If every secondary reaction in a major bull market , and especially one as severe as that in the recent past , inspires caution in , business circles , the stock market is fulfilling one of its functions . But the extent to which its influence is felt may easily be exaggerated . Certainly business did not take the stock market 's warning to any general extent when the major bear market set in at the end of 1919 . It is true that there has been a slowing up in certain lines of business , but many lines continue to show gains and the labor shortage is still acute . Had this country 's banking position been weak ; had the industrial corporations been carrying abnormally large inventories accumulated at , high prices ; had consumers been swamped with longtime commitments ; had bankers been burdened with enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrially or financially , the press would have recorded idleness in the great industrial centers a few weeks after the decline in stocks started . There is normally an anticipated slowing down in July and August , but this is a long way removed from industrial idleness . There is no question that inventories are abnormally low considering the pace of business expansion since the latter part of 1922 . Corporations never had more surplus cash and owed so little money to the banks . The conservative and constructive policy is evidenced in the U. S. Steel 's unfilled orders , which today amount to approximately 6,650,000 tons , compared with 11,118,000 tons at the peak of the 1920 inflation . In the following period of depression unfilled orders dropped to 4,830.000 tons on July 31 , 1921 , so that present unfilled orders are only 2.600,000 tons against that low level . It need hardly be said that the Steel Corporation has been operating as much capacity as labor conditions permit . Then , again , consumers have made no long-time commitments . They have bought conservatively and have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true of steel is true of nearly all branches of industry . If the great consuming plants continue to operate near capacity a buying movement in raw and semi-finished material will be under way before the early fall . To say that depression in the stock market could really bring about depression generally from a sound business basis is to endow a barometer with a - power it does not possess . Bear activity may cause unrest , nervousness and some financial distress . It is no excuse for this sort of propaganda to say that it has not brought about the business depression it predicted . " Anti-Saloon League turns its guns on Senator Underwood " ? and some day a real statesman , with something more than the courage of a rabbit , will have something to say about popguns.                     