@@696082

txt Renewed firmness in the demand loan market caused further unsettlement in stocks yesterday . Large withdrawals of funds were made by banks preparing for the state tax payments on April 15. and the substantial mid-month dividend and interest disbursements . These transactions caused the call rate to advance to 10 , , by early afternoon , compared with the renewal rate of Nervousness over this development started a fresh selling movement in the main body of stocks , which attained the greatest momentum seen on any decline since the drastic break of March 26 . Extensive recessions from their recent highs took place in Steel . Radio . National Cash Register , American Can , Lambert , Montgomery Ward and other trading favorites . Interborough broke to a new low on the movement on further selling induced by the Supreme Court ruling in the seven-cent fare case , and Kolster Radio dropped sharply on publication of its 1928 report showing a balance of 19 cents a share for the stockHowever , the , volume of dealings presented a striking contrast to the 6.200.000-share turnover which accompanied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices sold off , and offerings of the principal trading stocks represented relatively small blocks . Losses in the leaders appeared due to the lack of aggressive buying power rather than to urgent liquidation , and the manner in which selling dried up as the decline proceeded was about the only encouragement which the day offered to the bull forces . In the late afternoon this absence of important selling caused the bear crowd to become more cautious , and some short covering lifted prices generally from the session 's lows . Copper shares were subjected to further heavy selling on announcement of a cut in the export price of the metal . This reduction was necessitated by technical conditions in the industry . and trade authorities were confident that the price would be stabilized in the near future . Anaconda met strong support around 140 , and good buying was reported in Kennecott and American Smelting . People taking advantage of the recent substantial declines in these stocki felt that even with the price of copper adjusted around 20 cents , the principal producers would be assured of extremely attractive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the recent high the leading copper shares had failed to re ? sect the results of 24 cents for copper , and that an adjustment of three or four cents in the 1:BellivIg price of the metal would still leave repre ? sentative copper stocks attractive from an earn ings ' standpoint . Moreover , the trade was look . ing for bullish statistics in the next few day : regarding the position of the metal at the end of March . Despite the large amount of copper solc last month , further reduction in the stneks the metal above ground were made , causini well-informed interests to express considerablo confidence regarding the fundamental atabilitj of the price structure . Prospects for a future shortage of crude of indicated by Sir Henri W. Deterding in interview with Dow . Jones &; Co. , in which he urged prevention of waste and predicted oil would command $5 a barrel within five years if present practice is continued of bringing oil out of the ground when it is not needed , formed the basis of steady accumulation of oil stocks by farsighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crude and refined products above ground , as well as important holdings of producing and undeveloped oil acreage , such as Standard Oil of New Jersey , Standard of California , with 25,000 acres of fee lands in the heart of the California fields , Sinclair , Texas . Standard Oil of New York , Marland Oil , Union Oil . Midcontinent Petroleum and Skelly , are being favored as in a position to benefit by improved conditions expected to develop from stabilization of the industry on a healthy earnings basis . On careful reading the Supreme Court decision in the Interborough case was generally held to have no particular bearing upon other cases involving investment returns , such as the O'Hallon case . It was pointed out that the Interborough decision rested chiefly , if not entirely , upon the existence of a fare contract and the failure of the company to await a formal decision of the Transit Commission and then appeal to the state courts . As to the question of reasonable return , the court made only a cursory review of the evidence and remarked that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was practically nothing in the opinion dealing with valuation method , nor did the court express its opinion as to what a reasonable rate of return might be . While the decision seems to leave the Interborough little food for cheerfulness , it deals with a special case entirely unlike that of the railroads and scarcely paralleled in the utility field . The Interborough 's appeal failed because the Supreme Court found no reason why the federal courts should assume jurisdiction of a matter governed primarily by state law and therefore properly belonging in the state courts .                     