@@686584

txt After eight years of MErrocAt. in Cuba there are to be four years of ZAYAS , if the former Liberal leader can maintain order and manage the politicians of the coalition that elected him President . On May 20 , when Dr. ZAYAS took the oath of office at the National Palace in Havana , General MENOCAL , sailed away for a well-earned vacation in Europe . He had been a remarkable Spanish-American President . He stabilized the country , literally made two blades of grass grow where one was before , raised new revenue , put admirable laws upon the statute book , checked , if he did not stamp out , corruption , and gave Cuba a standing it had never enjoyed before . His influence determined the part the republic should play in the World War . On April 7 , 1917 , he signed the resolution declaring that a state of war existed between Cuba and the Imperial German Government . Many Cubans served overseas . A special hospital corps was sent to France . Vigilant surveillance defeated German intrigue . In short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MARL ? MErrocm , was the inspiration ; his was the guiding hand . In the rebellion of 1895-98 against Spain he had risen from a private in the ranks to Major General , and there could be no doubt where he would stand when the United States entered the conflict for the preservation of liberty and civilization . When General MENOCAL became President of Cuba in 1913 the failure of his Administration was generally predicted . He owed his election to the bolt of General ASSERT from the Liberal Party , which was controlled by JOSE MIGUEL GOMEz , an ambitious and selfish politician , who was not troubled with scruples . Soon after the inauguration it became the duty of President MsNocAL to see that General ASSERT and a Senator and Representative were prosecuted for their complicity in the murder of General AnMANDO SIVA , Chief of the National Police . SIVA , shot on the Prado , was the victim of a political feud . Losing the support of partisans of General ASSERT in Congress , the new President found he had so slender a majority that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without a quorum . Constructive legislation had to be . deferred . Character and resolution did prevail in the end , but it was uphill work . A corrupt President would have found ways to placate his opponents , to turn enemies into friends , but the man who had been educated at Cornell and who became a captain of industry In Cuba through sheer ability refused to compromise or to give ground . While Congress was coming to its senses President MENOCAL put down banditry in the island , and deported troublesome anarchists to Spain , Mexico and Argentina . He reorganized the army and extended the school system . He began many public improvements . Graft he faced fearlessly . The notorious ports improvement concession was canceled . He kept the civil Administration decent and the Department of Justice clean . The Treasury balance was increased from $6,540 , - 766 to $13,905,324 . The sugar estates seemed to be on the side of ' MENOCAL . There were bountiful crops in 1914 , 1915 and 1916 . He encouraged business of every kind and the merchants had faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tern ' he invited General Exocx H. CROWDER to frame a much-needed new election law . Only the wisdom and resolution of President MENOCAL had saved Cuba from intervention early in 1917 , when the Miguelistas took to the manigua to overturn the Government . His steadiness again averted intervention when General GOMEZ challenged the election of Dr. ZAYAS last year . MAare MENOCAL should go down to history as Cuba 's first progressive and capable President . He has blazed the way for his successor , who takes over the Government strengthened and purified by the application of the same democratic Principles that insure the general welfare in the United States .                     