@@692389

txt Ten and a half inches of snow , the greatest fall in New York since February , 1921 , blanketed the city yesterday , snowed in deeply the entire northeast and whitened the Atlantic Coast as far south as Georgia . Deaths and casualties were fewer in this storm than in that of last Thursday , because the wind and the temperature were moderate . Three men were drowned off Gloucester , Mass. , ' while trying to land from a sinking schooner during the blizzard . John C. Sloan , 65 years old , of Camden , N. J. , died of exposure at Camden while waiting for a trolley car during the storm . Overexertion in cleaning the snow from the front of his house resulted In the death of Marshall E. Smith , 85 years old , at Trenton . Nineteen thousand city employes and 4.000 transit company snow fighters fought the snow all morning while it was falling and had the main thoroughfares in good condition in Manhattan early in the afternoon . Drilled and hardened by their experience since ItIst Thursday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trains Blocked for flours . Trains all over Long Island were blocked for hours in eight and tenfoot snowdrifts . Subway and surface lines in Brooklyn were tied up for hours . Local New York and New Jersey trains were delayed for comparatively brief periods . Through trains from New itngland were retarded for hours . Conditions or . the Long Island Railroad were the worst in years . Wherever there were high embankments to cause deep drifts trains were buried In snow . Many Long Island commuters were unable to reach the city and some who started could not get home . Four stalled trains at Floral Park were dug out , the last one being released last night . Normal train service on all branches would resume between 3 and 4 o'clock this morning , with the release of a stalled train at Auburndale and two trains imprisoned in snow drifts for many hours at Great Neck , it was said last night . B. M. T. subway trains running to Sea Beach ' Waugh the cuts and elevated structures south of Kings Highway were alocked for several hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A shuttle service was started between Kings Highway and Coney Island . Passengers bound for Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn were delayed by having to use the shuttle to Kings Highway . North of the station , however , normal service was run . Crippling of the Fifth Avenue surface line resulted in an increased load on the Fourth Avenue subway , which was overcrowded and delayed by the heavier patronage . Long Delay in the Bronx . Thousands of persons on their way to work were delayed in reaching elevated and subways in the Bronx because of the tie-up in the surface lines due to the snow-covered tracks . The surface lines reported a delay from one- half to one hour . The Union Railway had thirty-five plows working all night to combat the new snowfall , and 100 men were stationed at switches and main crossings to keep the tracks clear . Fifty conductors were enlisted as additional inspectors to supervise the snow removal and try to keep the cars moving . Charles Griffin , Deputy Street Cleaning Commissioner of the Bronx , reported that he had a hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the job . but he said he could use as many more . The aide streets were said to be in a deplorable condition , as the previous snow bad not been removed . New Haven Shifts . In view of the decreased inbound commuter traffic yesterday morning , the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad announced that it was able to make abridgements of the train schedules for the afternoon 's commuter service , principally due to the fact that the whole line 's service was slowed up foriksafety purposes , and for the necessary conservation of power and to give the snow plows and track clearing machinery more opportunity to work . The abridgement of schedule , it was explained , only affected trains running between the Grand Central Terminal as far east as South Norwalk . Delayed train and ferry service resulted . at Jersey City from the storm . Trains on the Central Railroad of New Jersey , Pennsylvania and Erie roads were arriving half , an hour to an hour late , trolley service was operating on greatly reduced service , and captains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the river owing to the thick snow . In Jersey City . 1,400 snow shovelers were at work , the removal equipment consisting of 50 plows , 10 tractors , 6 bucket cranes , 20 snow conveyors . One hundred extra trucks were in operation . Jitney bus operation virtually suspended , with snow between four and five feet deep in drifts . A strike of jitney-men had been threatened for today , lalt was settled at 5 o'clock yesterday morning , after a conference with owners and city officials which began at 8 o'clock Tuesday night . Buses Are Held Up . The motor-driven landships that are called the De Luxe Interstate Buses , which run between Times Square and points in New Jersey , were tied up yesterday for the first time since they began to operate . They bucked their way through the snow of the previous storm , but the accumulation from the two storms stopped them . Three were thrown for losses on one short stretch of Hudson Boulevard . Air Mail Service was retarded for the second time within a week . The plane due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 o'clock yesterday morning lit on her skids there at 5:15 yesterday afternoon . Fire Chief Kenlon sent out the signal yesterday can : eling all leaves of absence and summoning all officers and men of the Fire Department back to duty , in preparation for any emergency . With thousands of tons of snow remaining on the streets from the last ' storm , conditions outside of the business district and the main streets of the city were much worse than they were last week . With many stalled trucks and automobiles blocking the narrow channels through the snow in many streets . difficulty was expected in getting to fires in some parts of the city . Citizens were requested by the Fire Department to clean off their fireescapes . Snow-covered and slippery fire-escapes have made it difficult for people to save themselves in several recent fires . An appeal to citizens to throw out food for birds was issued yesterday by T. Gilbert Pearson , President of the National Association of Audubon Societies , who said that a snow of cuch depth , falling on snow-covered ground , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The best thing you can do for birds , " he said , " is to tie suet on limbs . The next is to set out boards covered with rice , cracked grains or chicken feed . " For the second time in a week the city schools were closed yesterday on eccount of snow . Children floundered to school in the morning through deep drifts , but were freed at noon for the day . The heavy snow also brought a novel incident to the police . Detectives John Hickey and Henry Van Giluwee used Northwest mounted police methods to get their man . Finding the house of Frank Tortora at 5 Maspeth Avenue , Williamsburg , isolated by deep snowdrifts , they borrowed shovels and worked their way through six feet of snow to the porch of Tortora . Then they entered and arrested him on a charge of highway robbery . Many Accidents in City . Many minor accidents due to the storm were reported in the city . George Sherman Jr. , 18 years old , or the tug Crescent , slipped from a snow-covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street yesterday morning . Many saw him struggling against the current and trying to avoid being crushed between great cakes of Ice , but rescue efforts . were hindered because of the blinding storm . Without waiting for lines or buoys , the young man 's father , George , Sr. , shouting encouragement , sprang from the deck of the tug into the water , Both were swept out by the currrent , clinging to each other . Police from the Old Slip station and longshoremen launched boats , and after several minutes ' delay because of the weather the Shermans were rescued . They were taken to the Broad Street Hospital , where it was said that they would be all right after they had been thawed out . Crossing Grand Street at Mott Street yesterday morning Jemma Barcaggillata. 44 years old , of 230 Thompson Street , fell and fractured her right leg . She was taken to Bellevue Hospital . Matilda Steipman , 21 years old , of 356 West 145th Street , was taken in an embulance to Knickerbocker Hospital . : The is thought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps of the I. R. T. elevated etatIon at Sixty-sixth I Street and Columbus Avenue . Walking in front of 505 Pearl Street , John Gaffney. 62 years old , of 318 East Fifty-fifth Street , fell and sprained his I right knee . He was taken to Beekman Street Hospital . Thrown to the platform of the Ken- j ? . are Street station of the E. M. T. subway , as passengers surged from an overcrowded southbound train at 9 o'clock yesterday morning . Yetta Cristi. 18 years old , of 272 South First Street , Brooklyn , received a sprained back and contusions of the body when , several persons , unable to . stem the rush behind them , trampled on her . She was taken in an ambulance to Beekman Street Hospital and allowed to go home after treatment . Slipping on the steps of the I. R. T. station at Brooklyn Bridge , Henrietta t'ber , 24 years old . of 827 Herkimer Street , Brooklyn , fell and probably fractured her left ankle . She was taken in an ambulance to Beekman Street Hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he stood cleaning windows at 79 Cannon Street , slipped , Harry Vogel , 44 years old , of 151 Ridge Street , probably fractured his right leg . i He also received a lacerated scalp . Ralph Cossia ? 60 years old , of 759 East 213th Street , the Bronx . suffered a dislocated shoulder when the automobile lie was drivirK skidded on the icy pavement at 231st Street and White Plains Avenue , the Bronx , and collided with another automobile . He was treated by an ambulance surgeon and taken to Fordhani Hospital . Deris Englander , 20 years old , of 1.402 Park Place . Brooklyn , proved a poor picker of a day on which to run away from home in high-heeled shoes , thin stockings and a gold-spangled party dress . Policeman Hollaran found her at daybreak crashing through snowdrifts , " running away " at the rate of about 100 yards an hour . Magistrate Short sent her home . STATEN ISLAND SNOWBOUND . Storm Called Worst in 10 YearsC , ourts and Schools Closed . The tie-up on Staten Island was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of residents there . Because the snowfall , trains on the south shore of the Staten Island Rapid Transit system were six hours making the fourteen-mile trip from Tottenville to St. George , the first train arriving at noon . Few commuters living on the south shore were able to get to work . Those on the north shore , by resorting to buses and automobiles. were able to get through , although there were no trains for five hours in the morning . Trains were able to run only after steam locomotives . abandoned in favor of electrification last July , were brought into service . Snow had blocked the third rails . When a partial service was established in the afternoon , each train carried a steam engine , which took up the burden when the electric locomotives could not get through .                     