@@690270

txt The statement embodied in the protest handed to the American Government by Ambassador Hanihara. that " the sweeping provision of the new act , clearly indicative of discrimination against Japanese , have made it impossible for Japan to continue the undertakings assumed under the ' Gentlemen 's Agreement , ' " is said at the Foreign Office to constitute the formal notice of the termination of the " Gentlemen 's Agreement " on the part of Japan , and it is stated that Japan is now free to send emigrants to Mexico and Canada , since her obligations under the agreement are terminated . Since the United States has denounced the " Gentlemen 's Agreement " Japan feels that there is no further obligation on her part to continue to observe any of the provisions of the agreement , which , besides limiting Japanese emigration to the United States , undertook to exercise " strict control over the emigration of Japanese laborers to foreign territories contiguous to the United States in order to prevent their surreptitious entry into the United States . " Officials of the Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agreement " terminated , Japan will not change her emigration policy as yet and that the answer from Washington will be awaited before determining the date when laborers will be allowed to emigrate to territories adjoining the United States . The Government continues to restrain public opinion , but there is a strong undercurrent of resentment manifesting itself against the Immigration bill , and several large protest meetings are being planned within the next few days . A body of thirty-five university associations will hold a protest meeting tomorrow and another public meeting is scheduled for Thursday . Leaders to Counsel Caution . Influential Japanese will continue to exert every effort to keep the people in hand and prevent any violence against American residents or damage to American property . The tactics followed by these men , who will by their prominence be able to figure on all committees which organize these meetings , will be to side with the public on the main issue in condemning the American action , but to exhort the public to refrain from violence in the best interests of the Japanese nation . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outright the resentment of the pcsple at this stage . Officials feel that if the public can be held in check for the time being there will be little danger of an outburst in the future , when other events will in course of time detract public opinion from the immigration issue . The Police Department feared that the tragedy of the unknown man who cornmitted hara-kiri Saturday as a protest against the Immigration bill might rther stir up public opinion against American residents , and particularly American missionaries , and all police stations throughout Japan have been asked to report the public reaction to the suicide , which was given wide publicity in Japanese newspapers . Baron Sakatani , a member of the House of Peers and a former Minister of Finance , speaking at a farewell banquet in honor of Ambassador Woods last night , and referring to thy immigration question , said : " We are exercising strong self-restraint under the insult dealt us by Congress , which left an impression on the minds of the Japanese which needs no comment . Great harm has been done to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an atmosphere poisoned by re-sentment " At this difficult hour , to have Ambassador Woods with us Is indeed an unspeakable boon to the two countries . We Japanese confidently believe the Ambassador is equal to the task of improving conditions between the two countries . " Ambassador Woods , replying , said that the attitude of restraint and dignity of the Japanese people was in keeping With - their - rest sPiritual leaders of the past . " In your hands , " he said . " largebr rests the future of the Pacific . Your responsibility is a heavy one , but I know you will acquit yourself nobly . I have no fears when I consider that there Oalit be men of your stamp working in this country , as I on my part will be working in America . for the furtherance of the cause which has become the prime object of my life  --  the hallowed cause of friendshi- , etween our two ' countries . "                     