@@696043

txt For the first time in the history of Louisiana , impeachment proceedings were brought today against a State Executive . Included in the nineteen charges against Governor Huey P. Long in the impeachment resolution filed in the House of Representatives is one that he scught to induce a former member of the Legislature , H. B. ( Battling ) Bozeman , an ex-pugilist , to assassinate Representative J. Y. Sanders Jr . The resolution containing the charges was introduced after supporters of Governor Long failed in an effort to terminate the extra session by adjourning sine die . The Governor 's forces were defeated 55 to 38 . The impeachment resolution under the rules lies over until tomorrow before action can be taken on it . A majority vote in favor of the resolution will send the Governor to trial before the Senate . A-.two : - thirds vote of the latter body is riec'essary to find the Governor guilty and remove him from office . Rules Lifted for Debate . The action toward impeachment followed the most sensational session in the history of the Louisiana ' Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Governor Long to bring about ? an adjournment resulted in a m ? l ? e in which several members of the House suffered cuts and bruises in a general fisticuffs . When the motion to adjourn was introduced today , its sponsor , Representative Ellender of Terrebonne Parish , removed the bars to debate , ordinarily not permitted on such a motion . The House then heard more than two hours of argument by several former pro-Long men to the effect that to end the session without giving Governor Long an opportunity to defend himself would redound to the disgrace of the State . In addition to the charge of suborning murder , the impeachment articles charge that the Governor has unlawfully used the militia to subordinate civil authority ; through himself and State boards controlled by him has misused , misapplied and misappropriated funds of the State ; has removed public school officials for political purposes ; has used his appointive power with the hope of influencing the judiciary of the State and has publicly boasted that he controlled the judiciary . Also that the Governor habitually carries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Penitentiary ; has been guilty of gross misconduct in public places , and deported himself in a scandalous and indecorous manner at an entertainment in New Orleans on Feb. 12 . It , addition to the impeachment resolution , four others were introduced calling upon the Governor to submit to the Legislature an itemized statement of the disposition of certain funds dispensed by him and to furnish a list of all State loans made In addition to the formal - impeachment resolution in the " - State-  House of Representatives , another was introduced late today containing the sworn affidavit of Harry A. Bozeman , who charged that Governor Long attempted to ? hire him to murder J. Y. Sanders Jr. , member of the House , because Sanders opposed the Governor 's legislative program . Bozeman until recently was a personal attendant of Governor Long and recently was dismissed from the State Highway Department . Years ago he was known in the prize fight ring as " Battling " ' Bozeman . The resolution , which also went over until tomorrow , directed the appointment of a committee . to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nineteenth charge in the impeachment resolution . , The other charges were condensed in the resolution under the headings . " guilty of crimes and misdemeanors in office , incompetency , corruption , favoritism , oppression in office and gross misconduct . " and eighteen alleged specific instances were cited . ? Introduction of the impeachment resolution came as a sequel to stormy political controversies in which the Governor lost the support of virtually the entire press of the State and many of his former political allies , including Colonel Robert Ewing , Democratic National Committeeman from Louisiana : Tonight Governor Long , who was Swept into office eleven months ago with the support of strong political factions , apparently had . lost his control over the Legislature , which he called into special session last week to enact tax measures . Later he started a move to adjourn the session at once , but this failed last night when the Assembly broke up amid fist fighting and disorder . The impeachment resolution was prepared by a committee composed of Representatives Clark Hughes of Bossier Parish , Paul Chases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parish . The Governor 's opponents spent all of last night in the preparation of impeachment charges and today succeeded in introducing them after a long session . Resolution of Impeachment . The resolution of impeachment contains the following charges against Governor Long : First  --  That he has used the appointive power in an attempt to influence the judiciary and has publicly boasted that he controls the judiciary . Second  --  That while Governor he has bribed or attempted to bribe a member of the State Legislature . Third  --  That in violation of the Constitution he has habitually required l as a condition to appointment to public office . signatures of appointees to undated resignations . Fourth  --  That , he has , through him1 self and through boards controlled by him , wasted , misused , misapplied and misappropriated funds and property of the State . Fifth  --  That . in . the same way he has : contracted illegal loans for the State in violation of the constitution . Sixth  --  That he has " politicalized " the educational institutions of the State , including the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to intimidate teachers and pupils and for the suppression , of free thought . Seventh  --  That ' he has subordinated civil authority to the , military and as commander-in-chief has attempted to impose his own . will , through the militia , as superior to , .. the ? courts Without declaring martial law , causing the militia to loot and pilage private property and to ' take from- the person of certain ' individuals their private property and destroy private ' property without due process of law . Eighth  --  That as - Governor he has attempted to force official bodies - in the parishes , to follow . his ' dictation in regard to public litigation . Ninth . That he habitually carries concealed weapons upon his person , both in his office and : upon the public streets and highways . Charged With Abusing Citizens . Tenth . That he has repeatedly been guilty of violent abuse of officials of the State and ' private citizens visiting him upon public business . Eleventh . That he , while Governor , has been guilty of gross misconduct in public places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929 , in New Orleans , he " did participate in an entertainment where intoxicating liquor was served , at which entertainment the said Huey P. Long 0 0 did deport - himself in a scandalous and indecent manner . " Twelfth . That ' he has - publicly flouted the . Constitution of the United States and of the State and has usurped to himself the powers of the Legislature and of the committees and has on occasions commanded the breaking of the quorum of committees with the purpose of preventing the consideration of legislation by these committees . Thirteenth . That he installed ice Machines - valued at $20,000 at the Angola Penitentiary without competitive bidding . Fourteenth . That he intruded himself upon and attempted to intimidate Charles P. Manship , publisher of Baton Rouge newspapers , and threatened to make known the infirmities of a member of Mr. Manship 's family as a punishment . Fifteenth . That he demolished and destroyed the executive mansion without legal authority . Sixteenth . That without legal authority and making no accounting , he destroyed and disposed of the furniture-and fixtures of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house . Seventeenth . That he discharged a convict by the name of Elmer Dunnington in November , 1928 , Dunnington being ineligible for parole at the time and the discharge being granted . over the objection of the Parole Board . Eighteenth : That he has repeatedly appeared within the bar of the House and the Senate attempting to impose his own views on the members , all of which is in violation of the Constitution . Nineteenth : That he " while Governor , while in the City of Baton Rouge and in the Parish of East Bato Rouge , La. , did attempt to hire and induce one H. A. Bozeman to kill and murder one J. Y. Sanders Jr. , a member of the House of Representatives of the State of Louisiana , as shown and set forth in the sworn statement of H. A. ' Bozeman , March- 25 , 1929. "                     