@@686407

txt The reply of Secretary Hughes to the Russian Soviet proposal for the resumption of trade with America is received in Paris with deepest gratitude ; for , if Mr. Hughes had added one line specifying the recognition of the foreign debts of the former Russian regime , he would have penned an accurate statement of the French Government 's point of view . Two days ago I cabled that Paris believed that the Moscow leopard had not changed his spots , but was merely trying to camouflage them . That statement is characterized by the French Foreign Office as entirely correct . That the new Administration in Washington also believes it impossible to do business with the Bolshevist Government is extremely comforting to French statesmen , in view of the recent signing of the commercial accord between England and the Soviet leaders . It is the French view that Lenin and Trotzky , seeing that their boasted program is bringing them to ruin . as well as Russia , are now seeking to hold on to power regardless of all other considerations . Once firmly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The French are determined to throw no lifeline to Lenin and Trotzky , but prefer to see them drown in the flood of their own misdeeds . Auguste Gauvain , editor of the Journal des Debats , tonight pays his respects to Lldyd George 's Russian policy and , after speculating as to whether the House of Commons was laughing at hint or with him on Thursday , COrieltidell that it must have been laughing with him since the members voted with him . - However , " says M. Gauvain , " even in England there is little belief in the conversion of Lenin to capitalism . A policy founded on such a belief would lead to more deceptions . The signing of the agreement with Krassin is a great success for the Moscow dictators , since it implies the recognition of their Government . But it will not get England anything . In return for their consecration of the Soviet Government and for their good merchandise the English will receive confispated gold and the products of the sale of jewels and precious objects seized by the Commissaries of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrupulous . One might ask how their conscience could approve such a traffic . " No , Lenin is not converted ; but , seeing his Mayoxist house about to fall on him , standing amid heaps of ruins , he repaints his doctrine and presents it to the Russian people under another color . Not having succeeded , either by persuasion or force , in rounding up the peasants in his camp , he pretends to share their views . He re-establishes in principle liberty of exchange and replaces robbery with taxes . And then , inasmuch as he has need of the Western Governments to enable him to get mLchinery and supplies , the lack of which adds to his troubles , he wirelesses all over the world that Moscow has corrected its faults . " Lloyd George kills the fatted calf in honor of the prodigal son and invites British statesmen to feast . Does he really believe in the conversion of Lenin ? Certainly ' not , but he knows that banquets promote good feeling and calculates that the labor leaders will leave him alone while they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just plain comedy on both sides . It would be amusing if it did not tend to continue a system the domination of which , stained with blood , threatens modern civilization . " La Libert ? observes tonight that Americans will not bet one dollar on the conversion of Lenin , and says the Americans are right . The Temps disposes of the assertion of the Soviet authorities that French dealers offered to supply war material to the Soviets . The Berlin bank of Otto Markiewitach bought in France used military clothing on the pretext that it was for peaceful use , and then offered it for sale to'Moscow , and the deal was made . Learning of it through its secret service , the French Government stopped at the border many carloads of this clothing , consigned to Stettin . Special Cable to THE New YORK TIMES . LONDON , March ** on Secretary Hughes 's message to Russia , The Westminster Gazette says tonight : " Some months ago it looked as if the United States were going to be before us in reopening trade with Russia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether or not it is possible to trade on a large scale with a communist State only experiment can determine , and if it he true ' that Lenin is already modifying tile Bolshevist economic system , the experiment may perhaps never be made . " For our part , we think it abunlantly worth while to try to trade with Russia on the terms the British Government has laid down . We have waited too long as it p for a change in the Russian GoverMbent . There is no doubt that the break in intercourse with the outside world was responsible for much of the disorganization of Russia . Whether trade be possible or not under Soviet conditions , it is certain that only the possibility of marketing goods can stimulate their production . "                     