@@695462

txt The eagerness of the public to buy aviation issue recalls the frenzy of railtoad promotion and financing in Britain some 80 years ago . While it is encouraging to find financial leaders more receptive to aviation than they were to electrical enterprise 40 years ago , the following cautioning words from Harris M. Hanshue , president and general manager of the Western Air express , may be timely . " pursuance of a policy of overcapitalization. " he declared , " stock manipulation . paper promotions and unsound projects , merely to reap an early harvest from the inordinate and unstudied demand for aeronautical Issues can work only hardship and disaster both to the public and the Industry . Such a policy could bring the Industry Into such ill repute and under such : wee Melon as will retard Its healthy growth end tend to destroy its present sound structure . " Cites Present Conditions . Mr. lianshue points out that there are 17,000 miles of airways now being operated and perhaps 10,000 miles more which would warrant air transport operations in the next two or three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existing companies , Mr. Honshu. ) . says , " despite the fact that they have not as a group established . hemseive ; on a profitable footing , they ire , because of their air mail contracts , best able to expand and extend their services to meet national requirements . " The total capital investment of all the operators on the regular air lines now functioning does not exceed ; 5,000 , 000 . During the last year one capital issue equaling that amount and other Issues aggregating more than ten times that have been marketed . The Amer , lean people . : or . Hanshue declares , have absorbed air transport stocks , to the I tune of 10 to 1 of the present usable : capital In the field , and in a ratio of 20 to 1 of the capital needed to open up all of the potential sound airways of the nation . Present traffic will not support a rapllal ; 5,000,000 . Most of the established air companies operating regular schedules either are private ventures financed entirely by the operator or closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sale of stock . If they nave been unable to earn on an investment , 100 per cent of which was available to them , Mr. Hanshue asks , " How much further would the 's ? be from profits if 20 per cent of their capital stock had been taken out in promotion grants and another 20 pee cent paid in stuck sales commissions ? " Of course , Mr. lianshue , already In aerial business , has that point of view and he may underestimate the prospects of expansion , but on the other hand as the head of one of the few profitable air transport concerns In the world his views are entitled to close attention .                     