@@685641

txt A SAFE MONOPOLY A reader who writes demanding an exposure of profiteering by the diamond monopoly will have to hold us excused . There is no monopoly in the world more artificial or one whose single purpose is more obviously the separation of a fool from his money . There is , of course , plenty of legislation to save a fool from himself , and most of it does far more harm than good . The man who invests his money in diamonds , at a price which can he shown to be absolutely fictitious and arbitrary , is not worth protecting . The Do Beers company controls the trade in diamonds , and fixes the price , with the willing consent of its smaller competitors , It has paid great dividends on a relatively small capital , in the past , and its business has done something to build up the trade of South Africa . That grateftienuntry even protects the monopoly by a special statute against " I. D. B. " , which imposes imprisonment for ten years for illicit diamond buying , For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chooses diamonds for an investment , the market price is entirely artificial , So far from there being any difficulty about getting diamonds , the company limits its output to a quantity of rough diamonds which will not flood the market , There is enough diarnondiferous blue clay in sight in the Kimberley fields , all controlled by the De Beers company , to put diamonds at least well within the reach of the unionized worker , if not of the mere taxpayer . There is a hardness and sparkle about this precious stone not obtainable in any other at present known to mineralogists . Apart from those gems of purest ray serene in the dark unfathomed caves of ocean , to which the poet alludes , the principal diamonds of the world are too artificially precious to be worn with overalls or even bathing suits . They are wasting their rays serene in safe deposit vaults . It is even said that the royal jewels shown at the Tower of London are only copies . Lenine and Trotzky ate reported to have the finest collection in the world . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country . There are brokers in diamonds and even a curb market , up in the theatrical district . It seems to he well conducted and there is no immoral short selling . The specialists are really the pawnbrokers ; and , like other specialists , they make the lion 's share of the profits in the minor-movements , after the Dc Beers ring has provided for its dividend requirements . This is a monopoly with no danger from the public . It is no danger itself and could only be affeited by a general development of common sense and good taste , not at all likely for an indefinite time to come .                     