@@690937

txt The thirteenth annual appeal for the " Hundred Neediest Cases " is made in today 's TIMES . This fund reached a total last year of $177,08.07 , and may well be called one of New York City 's " institutions . " It has so far exceeded the goal in mind when the first appeal was made , in 1912 , that last year a second hundred neediest and almost a third hundred were provided for . The appeal is made this year in the confident hope that at least as many can again be helped on their way to independence . Of the more than sIx million men , women and children in New York City , those most in need are the " cases " reported to THE TIMES by the six great charitable agencies whose sole and constant service it is to know , advise and help the needy . These who are last in their ability to help themselves and many of them the least , being children , should be the first to be provided for as the Christmas season comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases " to the public notice , as it has done each year for the last twelve years , in order that every reader may know who his most needy neighbor is in this great city where one has so little opportunity to become acquainted with one 's neighbors . Those whose needs are presented here are persons upon whom misfortune has come in one form or another as it comes to all at some time or other , in some form or other  --  accident , illness , a sudden ' calamity which could not have been anticipated , or , perhaps , prepared against . To some , such disasters are but " a highway to valor . " They have the strength of body and of spirit to rise above them , or the means to endure them without anxiety as to their own fate or that of those dependent upon them . To others , despite all their courage of spirit and willing effort , the weight and extent of the ill fortune are so great that their reserve of physical strength or financial means is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help does not come to put them on their feet and lift the burden temporarily from the tired backs . It is people of this sort who are described in the " Hundred Neediest Cases " ? plain , ordinary self-respecting people who would be helping their neighbors under like condition if they could . They are in no sense " dependents . " And in most of the cases ' it is the children who are the chief sufferers . The blind mother with eight ; the frail mother of seven ; the nine fighting for life ; the hero 's family ; the four fighting starvation  --  these " cases " give suggestion of the drear Christmas and hopeless days beyond that await not only individuals but whole families unless relief comes through the channels which the " Hundred Neediest " columns open to their homes in the spirit of neighborliness . Each year the amount given has exceeded that of the previous year , starting at $3,360.88 in 1912 and reaching , as stated , $177,683.07 in 1923 . More than 2,000 cases and 8,000 individuals have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fund become that some have made permanent provision for contributions to it , and many give unfailingly year after year . It sounds the first call on the private charity of the people of this city , for it is the call of the greatest need . No one should fail to read these brief and tragic biographies to be found in Section 8 of today 's TIMES . Children as well as parents should become familiar with these stories , that they may be conscious of the brave battles and struggles going on here , and of the hardships and privations endured in the very midst of the plenty which so many enjoy . Every dollar collected will go to these neediest through the hands of those who are best able to give the needed help . The " Hundred Neediest " should be the first on every Christmas list .                     