@@695905

txt The answer of the Episcopacy in Mexico to governmental accusations of Catholic complicity in recent outbursts of violence was issued today under the signature of Mgr . Miguel de la Mora , Bishop of San Luis Potosi and spokesman for the bishops . The statement - denies that the clergy had any connection with the recent attempt to dynamite the train of President Portes Gil , and in fact condemns the act as contrary to Christian morality . It declares the governmental order that . all priests register their addresses does not con flict with church rulings , and that , therefore , priests are free to comply with the order on their . own responsibility . However , it denies that the order is sound at law and Warns that in registering their addresses the priests expose themselves to . possible -. injustice on ' the - part of ' " extremely radical elements " in the government . The statement acktihwledges - that " possibly four ? or five " ' &-tlia; lesser clergy have been assialated with armed rebellion against the government , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of instructions from the Holy Sce . Text of Statement . Following is ' a translation of Bishop de la Mora 's statement : " Serenely and calmly and with regard only to . reason ' and justice and not to passion . keeping before ' Our eyes ' only the welfare of the Church and the glory . of God . we herein make known to the government and to ' faithful : Catholics Our- attitude toWard . the recent Presidential declarations . - " The tenor of the docements : referred to indicates clearly that . the government considers the . Episcopate and clergy to have been involved in recent events which ' have so disturbed the public . In answer to that we declare solemnly that the Episcopate and clergy arc entirely unconnected with such ? excesses and that we believe they are the spontaneous result of the abnormal circumstances of the moment . " We declare that the conduct of the Episcopate and clergy has not been surversive : as regards the suspension of religious ceremonies , we have . conducted ourselves with the full authority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience . and not . by anything ulterior : out conscience is clear . Calles Quoted as in Agreement . " On that point General Calles , in his reply to the memorial of the prelates on Aug. 20 , 192i , said : " ' I consider , as you do . that the suspension of the exercise of religious rites is not an act of rebellion and that the suspension of Catholic rites in the churches . whatever may be its duration . is essentially a problem for the government . ' " Regarding the armed movement , we are also unconnected with that , although a very small number of the clergy , possibly four or five , have participated in it to some extent , entirely on their own responsibility . The clergy as a whole have received instructions from the Holy See not to participate in such activities . " We had even less to do with the attempt against President Fortes Gil and , indeed , we disapprove of it as being against Christian morality . " Dealing with the decree of the Ministry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not endanger the rights of the Church and that priests conforming to it do not commit a sin nor are they unfaithful to the sacred duties of their ministry , for the matter is simply one of giving their addresses without any relation to the exercise of their sacerdotal functions . Decree 's Legality Challenged . " It is true , however , that the decree has no legal basis , for the Constitution says in Article XVI that no one can be molested in his person , family , papers or possessions except by virtue of a written order on competent authority . It has even less legal basis in contending that those who do not give their residences shall be considered as accomplices of those in rebellion . Catholic priests obviously might have other and graver reasons for not giving their addresses , especially when it is remembered what they have suffered in recent times , and the government has no reason for branding as a crime what really is not so . Crimes are not invented . They must be clearly esta ' ished by law . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is further true that the decree of the Ministry of the Interior is for us a great humiliation and one totally undeserved , for the government has evidence that we are not dangerous persons , in that after the horrible sufferings In our lives , the clergy as a whole has remained apart from the armed movement and that a great portion of the clergy is subjecting itself patiently to impositions which are seriously injuring its welfare and interests . That shows our spirit is pacific and that it is an error to attribute to us any connection with the armed strife . Of this the entire nation 's conscience is well aware . assume the responsibility of affirming the legality of such action . " It is further true that the government has promised not to abuse its knowledge of the priests ' residences , but it must be remembered that there are elements in the government , radical in the extreme , whose judgment as to our responsibility might be adverse despite our innocence , and such elements would be difficult for higher ? authorities to control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is within its power to make a peace satisfying the just demands of the nation , without requiring cruel sacrifices , by reforming the laws , as has been petitioned on various occasions with millions of signatures . To those petitions no reply has been received . What is needed is generous reform . The reforms which the people seek are just , not excessive , and do not affect the government 's sovereignty . " Lastly , we protest that in making these declarations , based on truth and justice , we have not sought to wound any one , but have made them in a spirit of making peace by means of the truth , for only by the truth shall we be a free Mexico . " MIGUEL DE LA MORA , " Bishop of San Luis Pososi . " Feb. 14 , 1929 . " Confiscation to Proceed . MEXICO CITY , Feb. 18 ( IP ) . - Close on the heels of the statement today by Bishop de la Mora , the Attorney General 's office declared tonight that in accordance with the instructions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all persons convicted of giving aid to insurgents and that confiscation would be carried out only after thorough and impartial investigation of charges against those accused . Priests Declared Free to Register . " Therefore , as regards what is lawful , we can not prohibit the priests from doing what they wish , provided always it is in accord with what their respective congregations may decide . They may , therefore , if they think it convenient , subject themselves to this humiliation and make known their residences . But if they do so it must be as a result of their own decision , for we can not                     