@@694895

txt Rubber , the other day , went down to a new four year low point on the London exchange . It did so , according to news dispatches , because of concerted protests by the British Bast Indian rubber growers against continuing the Stevenson restrictions . It has been a long time since people in the United States have thought much about rubber , the:British and Dutch monopoly of rubber production , and the Stevenson system of rubber control . There was a period , beginning in 1922 , when the Stevenson scheme was inaugurated , during which many people , led by no less prominent a person than Secretary Hoover , ere conversant with and talked about the rubber situation . The Stevenson plan , it will be recalled , was put into effect in order to increase the price of rubber by limiting its export through a scheme of export taxes scaled to fall when the price warranted a release of rubber and to rise when low prices warranted export restriction . Secretary Hoover led in protesting against the plan as an unfair exploitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creating Its own rubber ' supply . The recent news from the rubber markets would seem to indicate that the Stevenson plan has not accomplished all that was expected of it . The buyers , it seems , are looking for It to bez diScontinned . So , technically at least , the American rubber manufacturers and consumers Should be well content . They will be greatly mistaken , however , if they consider lower rubber prices a sign for them to discontinue their efforts to build up an independent American rubber supply . Though not as firm in the saddle as it once was , British capital still controls rubber production and can still make itself felt through higher prices should the circumstances warrant . What . the United States should have is a reciprocity treaty with Brazil , native home of the rubtier tree , where the trees are still growing wild and many of them untapped . Included ' in the treaty should be a mutual gdarantee to keep communications  --  between the two countries open under all es* , nts . The difficulties of transportation and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rubber from Brazil 's wild trees . But with American capital going steadily into Brazil , transportation is sure to become easier and ' American business methods an be counted on to cut production costs . A treaty would encourage American rubber plantations In Brazil , which is near enough for us to protect our supply in case It were threatened .                     