@@686230

txt One feature of Governor Miller 's plan for the redemption of the transit lines in New York City which has been wholly overlooked in the discussion that has occurred so far , was brought to public attention today ' when a concurrent resolution- was introduced in the Assembly to extend for another year the life of the Legislative Committee which has given two years ' study to problems of taxation , to afford it time for a minute investigation of the special franchise tax law in its relation to public utilities operations throughout the State . The question of whether this statute , enacted when Theodore Roosevelt was Governor , over the opposition of corporations in the State , should be repealed is under serious consideration . Governor Miller has been discussing the question with experts on taxation problems . The collection of this tax has become so burdensome to State officials charged with that duty , and has resulted in so much litigation costly to the State as well as to the corporations involved , that the legislative leaders have decided the time ripe for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special franchises , which will yield more readily its share to the State 's revenues . It is asserted that repeal of the Special Franchise Tax law would involve a saving of approximately $13,000,000 a year to public utilities corporations , including about $10,000,000 to the corporations operating in New York City . Final action in the matter of repealing the law probably would have to be deferred to next year 's session of the Legislature , but the New York situation need not wait on legislative action . Should the plan proposed by Governor Miller for " a unified municipally owned " transit system in New York City be carried into effect , every traction line in the city would automatically become immune from taxation under the Special Franchise Tax act . Subways Already Exempt . The subways , which would form the backbone of the proposed unified municipally owned system , already enjoy such exemption , because of the city 's partnership in those lines . Should this partnership be extended to the surface lines and the elevated roads , as Governor Miller has proposed , they , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is pointed out that neither the city nor the State would suffer greatly from the exemption , because for many years the local authorities have not been able to collect the special franchise tax levied against the financially strained surface lines that enter into the Interborough system . In the meantime the amount of the tax , together with the heavy fees to counsel employed to fight or stave off its collection , have been charged against the earnings of the road , thus lengthening the odds against the ability of the city to obtain the share it should receive out of subway earnings under the contract clauses dealing with preferential payments . Elimination of the special franchise tax is expected to cut some figure , too , when the new commission proposed in Governor Miller 's plan gets down to the business of computing the necessity for an increased fare . While the bulk of the special franchise tax levies in New York City are against the lighting corporations , it was estimated this evening by an official of the State Tax Commission that , in round numbers , $2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippled surface roads in New York City , most of which are in the hands of a receiver . This is on an $80.000,000 assessment basis . Franchise N'aluation a Problem . The difficulty in arriving at the exact value of franchises is one of the features which has led to the desire of officials responsible for the fiscal policy ? of the State to have the special franchise tax replaced by some tax affording an opportunity for fixing the assessment on a more exact basis . It is this feature of elusive value which has enabled the . public utilities corporations to fight the State and local authorities at every point in connection with this particular tax . ' The special legislative committee to study the special franchise tax situation is headed by Senator Frederick M. Davenport of Oneida and Assemblyman Franklin W. Judson of Monroe . Assemblyman Judson , who is Vice Chairman of the committee , said tonight : " In the first place , there are invariably long delays in the collection of this tax , from which both the State and the cities , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suffer . The court dockets and the Attorney General 's office are crowded with cases growing out of special franchise tax litigation . The special franchise tax law is , in its administration , beyond all doubt , the most burdensome law on the statute books , and not the least troublesome feature is the equalization of the tax , many different processes being necessary to fix the tax in the case of a single corporation . It has been suggested , and might prove wise , to substitute for it some tax more readily collectible , one on earnings , for instance , where there would not be the same room ' for guesswork and consequent litigation in fixing the assessment as there is where intangible property as elusive in its value as a franchise is concerned . " As an " alternative " to the Governor 's plan Assemblyman George N. Jesse of the Twenty-third District in Manhattan introduced today , on behalf of the City Club , a bill that would empower New York and other cities to acquire and operate public utilities . As the powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would apply to New York City , they include authority to provide , either through resolution adopted by the Board of Estimate and ratified by the Aldermanic Board , or through a referendum , for the acquisition and operation of any public utility whatsoever . In carrying out the plan the Public Service Commission would be called upon to make an appraisal of the property to he acquired , or the cost of any public utility project to be . originated by the city itself . For this purpose it is provided that the Public Service Commission shall have access to all books and records of the corporation involved and shall have the right to take testimony to determine value . Its report would be a crepted as prima facie , but not necessarily conclusive , evidence of the value of eoroprate property to be taken , or the cost of any project to be initiated , and the city may reject a final award by the Public Service Commission . Once a public utility enterprise under municipal auspices had been chartered . the Public Service Commission would be eliminated from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it operates beyond the corporate boundaries of the city . For the financing of such an enterprise alternative plans are provided . The scheme may be financed through the sale of municipal bonds within the debt limit , through the issuance of service bonds exempt from the debt limit and a lien against the property acquired , or through the sale of utilities certificates , a first lien against the earnings of the particular municipal utilities operations involved . The latter ' is the plan under which the city of Seattle is operating public utilities un ? ! der municipal ownership and direction . Control of municipal utilities opera-tions would be vested in a municipal utilities director , responsible to the City Government exclusively , and with full power to make all appointments in his department , subject only to Civil Service rules . The bill provides that arrangement must be made for compulsory arbitration of all differences between the director and employes over wages or working conditions . Leasing of municipally owned public utilities projects to private corporations would be permissible under the bill TO BACK llYLAN ON 5c . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Municipal Campaign . Opposition to Governor Nathan L. Miller 's plan for solving the city 's traction problem will be offered tonight at a mass meeting at Cooper Union under the auspices of the Mayor 's Non-Partisan Vigilance Committee . The committee , which was organized to boost the Hylan administration , is to formu late plans to support the Mayor for reelection on the five-cent fare issue , and the meeting will be the first gun in the municipal campaign this year . The Mayor is to be the principal speaker . Francis P. Bent , a lormer ? business associate of Hylan and appointed by him to a Board of Estimate post , will preside . Other speakers will be Corporation Counsel John P. O'Brien , E. T. O'Loughlin , ex-Register of Kings County and a Hearst political lieutenant ; Borough President Connolly of Queens and Mrs. John Jerome Rooney . Aldermanic President F. H. LaGuardia , who is running a close race with the Mayor as the original five-cent fare Mayoralty candidate , is also on the program . The opposition to the Governor 's plan among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an increased fare will not play as large a part in the coming cam-paign as was first indicated and that the calibre of the men to be appointed on the traction commission proposed by the Governor may disarm criticism . It is not expected that the commission will take longer than sixty days to formulate a policy for the traction lines . Such prompt action , the leaders believe , will tend to take the traction situation entirely out of the campaign .                     