@@689708

txt The influence of such drugs has not been confined to the underworld  --  but has reached into the " upper etratas of society . " Dr. Herman N , Bundesen , health commissioner , warns , in a bulletin issued last night . Dr. Bundesen estimates that there are more than 1,000,000 addicts in the United States , while among them are many children of twelve and hundreds in their early teens . " The popular impression that ' dope fiends exist only in the so-called ' underworld ' Is a fallacy , " reads the bulletin . " While it is true that the majority of drug addicts are found within this lower stratum of human society , the reader should know that physicians , lawyers , judges , clergymen . prafessors , and highly educated , accomplished women also are numbered among these unfortunates ; also that many of them are being driven by the degradation of the addiction to swell the ranks of the ' underworld . ' " " Within the evil sphere of influence of narcotic drugs are as many women as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Age seems to be no factor I in its incidence . It even has invaded ' the grammar and high schools . Children of 12 years have been found to be victims as well as persons of advanced , years . ? " Because of its disgraceful and debasing nature , the habit ordinarily is kept , secret as long as possible by the addict . It is difficult , therefore , to arrive at an accurate estimate of the number of addicts . " The health commissioner contends the drug addict " is not a person to be punished . " " Neither , " he adds , " is be a fit subject for the reformer . Rather , he is entitled to the sympathy and couperation of social agencies and , more especially , to the best thought and highest skill of the physician . " It may be a question of only a few months when counterparts of the familiar Yellow cabs of Chicago 's streets will be darting about the bouleyards of practically every . European capital , if the plane announced yesterday by John Hertz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , upon his return from a six weeks ' visit abroad , said he has already closed negotiations for the delivery of 100 cabs to the largest taxi concern in London . Other cities where negotiations are under way , he said , are Paris , Stockholm , Lisbon , and Copenhagen . " Business conditions in Europe appear much better than I had expected , and I believe the outlook to be good , " he said . Mr. Hertz was a passenger aboard the Leviathan on Friday when that liner grounded while steaming into New York harbor . Mrs. Alfred Austrian , likewise a Leviathan passenger , also arrived in Chi . cago yesterday .                     