@@692134

txt Gerald Chapman will not be hanged on December 3 . He must be reprieved again by Governor Trumbull in order that a decision may be reached as to whether he is to serve out In Atlanta Prison the remainder of a sentence of 25 years before he is called on to pay the death penalty for the slaying of a New Britain policeman . It will he many months before a final decision is reached on this point , since ultimate appeal to the United States Supreme Court seems-inevitable by one or tribre , 4:31mi three parties involved in this latest move to save the highwayman , mall robber and murderer from the gallows . This move takes the form of a writ of habeas corpus which Federal Judge Edwin S. Thomas said tonight he would sign on Monday . ordering the Warden of Wethersfield State Prison to produce Chapman in the United States Court here on Wednesday , Nov. 26 , at 13 : : 30 A. M. , at Which time the legal battle to return him to , Atlanta Penitenitary or keep him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their argument Chief Justice William H. Taft 's own opinion in the Ponzl case , that the Federal ' Government zealously insists upon the complete fulfillment of a sentence imposed by a Federal Court , regardless of convictions and sentences recorded in State courts . His imprisonment in the Connecticut State Prison is held by Chapman in his petition to be unlawful and the change from confinement at Atlanta Penitentiary to the State institution a serious menace to his health . " There is very grave danger unless he is transferred ( and returned to the penitentiary at Atlanta , Ga. , " says the petition , " that he will quickly either lose his mind or his health . " This will be Chapman 's first public appearance since the prison doors closed on him on April 4 , when he was convicted and sentenced to die . It will also be the first time that a condemned man has been taken out of the State prison for court action after his appeal to the State Supreme Court has been denied . By bringing the Federal Government into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will go at least to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals and thence , in all likelihood , to the Supreme Court . The sentence which is now being convoked to save the desperado from the noose was imposed after his conviction for the New York mail robbery of 1921 . It was interrupted when he escaped from Atlanta . When Warden Scott presents Chapman In court next Monday the State will be represented by State Attorney Alcorn . The United States Attorney General will direct District Attorney Cohen to appear on behalf of the Government This is Chapman 's second reprieve from death . He was sentenced last April to be hanged in June , but Governor Trumbull at that time reprieved him , pending a Supreme Court appeal until Dec. 3 . Has Full Sentence to Serve . Should Chapman win his fight to be sent - back to Atlanta to serve out his full sentence he would remain there at least a full twenty-five years , for to the original sentence of that term there would be added penalties for his two escapes from the Federal authorities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ August , 1922 . He made his first escape from Atlanta Penitentiary the following March and his second from Federal officers at Athena in April . so that he had served lass than a year of the original twentyfive-year sentence . He has not been well , and should he be returned to Atlanta to serve the full Federal ' sentence it is unlikely that he would live ' to be sent back to Connecticut for hanging at ' the age of 62 , which he will attain in twenty-five years more .                     