@@693018

txt Great Britain intends to aid the United States to the utmost in enforcement of the Volstead act , and in accordance with the agreement reached by General Andrews in negotiation with the British Government Canada will follow the same policy and enact laws to check the flow of liquor by vessels from the Maritime Provinces and over the border . This became known here today when Secretary Kellogg was requested by General Andrews to arrange , through the Consul General at Ottawa , for a conference with the Canadian Minister of Customs to negotiate an understanding with that Government with respect to the character of registration of vessels and other matters incident to the illicit liquor traffic . It is probable that an official of the Department of Justice as well as a representative of the State Department will accompany General Andrews to Canada . Secretary Kellogg received the request last night and , it is understood , did not approve it at once , but will take up the proposed conference upon his return from Plattsburg . According to information here , General Andrews will spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his stay to the prohibition enforcement troubles that have arisen between the United States and Canada . Way Paved for Action . The reaching of an arrangement with Canada , it is said , is only a matter of formality , as earlier negotiations have paved the way for prompt action on the weakness in the Canadian regulations as to the clearance of vessels . Canada has been disposed to assist the United States for the last four years in this respect , it is stated , but no action has resulted because of a divided opinion as to its duty in respect to assistance in enforcing a sumptuary law of another country . The changed sentiment reflected not only in Great Britain but Canada has brought about a situation where both Governments are prepared to comply with any reasonable requests made upon them by this Government , it is asserted , respecting illicit liquor traffic . While abroad General Andrews negotiated an understanding with Great Britain by which , that Government will inform the United States of any shipments of liquor designed for the United States . Canada has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has promised to rectify . her shipping laws and strengthen her custom relations to aid the United States in enforcing the Volstead act at the border and on the coast . The agreements reached and those in prospect with Canada , it is declared by Officials here , represent the greatest advance yet made to stop the shipment in a wholesale way of illicit liquor into the United States . To Keep America Informed . After the agreements are in operation , it is . declared , no-ships can get clearance papers out of any British ports or have these clearances Changed by the Canadian authorities without the United States authorities being notified . The result of this , it is pointed out . will be that the United States will be informed long in advance of any ship movements of liquor in this direction and will be able under the treaty with England to pick these ships up In the twelve-mile limit . But the great advantage in the proposed agreements is that both Governments will cooperate to the limit in enforcing the prohibition law and keeping the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Coolidge regards the arrangements as the most effective moves yet made by this Government to enforce prohibition . It is believed that with the Canadian border made easier to guard under stronger custom regulations the Canadian Government offers to enforce , and in the refusal of that Government to sanction changes in registration of vessels , the United States will have all her coasts protected as effectively as possible . The next move will be to reinforce the patrol guard on the Mexican border and influence Mexico to assist in upholding the law . Treaties Already in Force . Treaties have been negotiated with Great Britain , France , Italy , Norway , Denmark , Sweden , the Netherlands and Panama extending from the three miles to twelve miles the zone in which vessels suspected of carrying liquor can be searched . A treaty also exists with Canada to prevent smuggling of liquor , narcotics and other articles . President Coolidge is of the opinion that General Andrews may continue as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury beyond the next session of Congress . It is thought here the General will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teeth " in the enforcement laws . If Congress fails again , friends of General Andrews say , he will retire , as he believes he is helpless to properly enforce the Volstead law under the present acts . The prohibition question is so interesting just now that President Coolidge may ask General Andrews to come here for a few days to confer on the situation before the conference with the Canadian authorities begine ,                     