@@695475

txt MISHAPS AND PUNISHMENTS Plea for Railway Workers Who Are Victims of Circumstances . To the Editor of The New York Times : To no person but a railroad man does the importance of care in his occupation appear so great . He is well aware of the number of lives that are dependent upon his every movement . To him railroad work and railroad safety are a religion . No law and no punishment for carelessness can make him more careful . He has a strange , deep conception of the value of life and his relation to it in the bodies of the persons entrusted to his care . A person , no matter how naturally careless or reckless he may be , undergoes a complete metamorphosis on becoming a railroad man and is , within a short time , imbued with that strange sense of duty to human life which characterizes the true railroad man . Around this concept of the immeasurable value of human life have been woven innumerable stories of sacrifice , daring and heroism . Occasionally , in any system that involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be wrong , and catastrophe will result . Nothing human is or can be perfect . When such a catastrophe occurs , we all forget to take a rational , considerate , understanding viewpoint and we permit our animal instincts to cry for revenge . Then our District Attorneys and our newspapers clamor unthinkingly for a fixation of blame , for a punishment of the human factor . No punishment of a switchman of signalman will make our subway employes more careful . The Times Square catastrophe itself did that ? if more careful they can be . Ow. law books tell us that the law seeks not to revenge or avenge ; it seeks to deter others or to reform the criminal . In the case of the Times Square disaster there is no need to do this . The accident will deter others from recklessness and there is no criminal to reform . Furthermore , when a man seeks a position with the Interborough , he does not contemplate being charged with homicide should an accident occur for which , though not actually , he may , apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now prosecute a poor workman who may be the victim of circumstances over which he had no control . Our experts surely can not tell exactly what happened down there in the tube . In this case discharge from the company 's employ would certainly ' be sufficient . HERMAN TOCKER . New York Sept. 25. 1928 . The Hurricane In Florida . 2'o the Editor of The New York Times : In your issue of Sept. 13 you have a diagram Map showing the course of the recent hurricane as passing north about twenty to thirty miles west of Ocala , Fla. , and that was correct . In your issue of the 19th , however , you have another diagram map showing Ocala , Gainesville and Lake City as lying directly in the path of the heart of the hurricane , which was far from being the fact . While we had fairly high wind here on Sunday  --  due probably to our being in the outermost reach of the hurricane ? it did no damage . In fact it was scarcely enough wind to cause comment . WILLIAM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1928 . Salvation Army Relief . To the Editor of The New York Times : In today 's TIMES I find a brief description of the Salvation . Army 's hurricane relief work in Florida . Clothing has been furnished 8,500 refugees by the Salvation Army , and three truckloads also were sent to Pahokee and Belleglade . The Salvation Army does not plead for funds . does not ask of People who need help , but relieves first . It is all done in a very quiet way , as in the hurricane of 1926 in Lauderdale and surrounding towns . They surely deserve help In money and encouragement . A RESIDENT OF FORT LAUDERDALE , FLA . New Pelts . N. Y. , Sept. 23 , 1928 . THE GROWING UNDERWORLD Education the Only Constructive Method to Apply , Mr. Geer Believes . To the Editor of The New York Times : The underworld has of late years come into great prominence . There is a secret government gaining strength and power in America of whose nature all good citizens should know . If this government be not understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . Our work for the last twelve years has brought us into most intimate relations ' with members of the mobs of New York . The friendships we have formed with gunmen , guerrillas , and men of criminal record of all degrees belonging to the most active mobs In the city convince us that it is not at all hard to swing this whole force of the underworld into the social order . This seems a revolutionary statement . I can not develop the subject within the short space of a letter , but have dealt with it at length in my book " Common Sense About Crime . " Steps definite , radical and new must be taken to lessen crime or our crime bill will be even more than ? thirteen billions yearly and the loss to the world in useful man-power will be great . Everything but common sense has been tried to reduce crime . Let America now try that which should have been used centuries ago . The first thing to do is to find out the nature of the people we are dealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to look at life from their angle . Personal contact must be close and cordial .. We have done this . Our pals of the underworld are many ? very many . To understand humanity is always to like mankind , for the essence of man is good . Good , right , every one can like ; evil , wrong , no one need like . The spiritual qualities of faithfulness , loyalty and human affection are even more prevalent in the underworld than in the upper reaches of society because the underworld suffers and hence it sees . The underworld responds to suffering and reacts naturally to injustice and oppression . It demands a square deal . Social conditions as they now obtain are wrong . Wrong brings forth its like . The social order has itself to blame for criminal conditions . They will always be with us till the system changes . But criminal conditions are here , so they must be dealt with . Force is not the answer to crime . A criminal is simply a wrong thinker on the laws of property . Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the answer . The only way to destroy a negative is to bring in the positive , as light destroys darkness . Cussing out , incarcerating , beating up , sweeping out or clubbing could never destroy one iota of darkness  --  nor of crime . Crime is dishonesty . Dishonesty is destroyed by its opposite , which is honesty . Once convince a man that honesty is more profitable than dishonesty and give him a chance and crime is destroyed . The education of the denizens of the underworld is provided by older criminals . While the sons of the well-to-do are enjoying the advantages of contact with noble minds , the youth of the congested districts are learning in the . gutters of our great cities and in the protectories and prisons , which are of course worse than the gutters . The foot of the lad coming from a family which can not protect him slips , and he is then started on his prison career , whereas the parents of the comfortable do all the early disciplining . Even should they appear in court they are dealt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense viciousness can be easily turned into the right way by right methods . We know because we have done it . The proof of the pudding is in the eating . ? ALPHEUS GEER . Founder of the Marshall Stillman Movement . New York , Sept. 25 , 1928 . CORRUPT AND CONTENTED ' ? Home Owners , Principal Victims in Queens , Have Voting Majority . To the Editor of The New York Times : A decidedly interesting condition exists in Queens Borough , for it so happens that the very Queens residents who are the financial victims of misgovernment in their borough are an overwhelming majority of the voters . Tho home owners , the actual , not theoretical , taxpayers , absolutely control the voting situation , and it will be of the most decided interest to see if they will use their voting power to free themselves of rotten administration . Last year there were 170,000 Queens votes cast . This year it is estimated that there will be a total of around 240,000 . There are a total of over 140,000 one ? and two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least , of these 140,000 houses represent single ownerships , or 112,000 . With an average of two votes to each ownership the taxpayers of Queens are an army of 224,000 . It is obvious that tho Queens victims have the voting power to clean out the stables . The qiiPstinn ist , will that ' so ? WM . DOUGLASS KILPATRICK . New York , Sept. 24 , 1928 . Officeholders in Massachusetts . To the Editor of The New York Times : Senator George H. Moses , Vice Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the Republican Party , Bald in Washington last Wednesday that 53 per cent . of the population and voters of Massachusetts were members of the Roman Catholic Church . If this is so , the Catholics of the Bay State should to highly commended for their tolerance and liberality . On their personnel of elected State officers from Governor Fuller down there is not one Roman Catholic on the entire list . All are Protestants  --  with the exception of a lady of the Jewish faith , elected a member of the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as are many of his appointments . And there does not seem to be much fear that Borne will or ever can dictate to American citizenry . When the Governor of the Empire State takes the broadminded stand he does and when a State of more than 4.000. - 000 inhabitants , of which 53 per cent . are Catholics and voters , take that stand , it should be an enlightening lesson to our sister States . ONE OF TRE 53 PER CENT . Worcester , mass. , Sept. zee , Ill " -4                     