@@692252

txt Information of a Science Has sort which most peo Final ple lack , as to what Conclusions . scientific men can and can not do in studying phenomena called psychic , is given in an excellent article contributed to the January Atlantic by Professor EDWIN G. BORING , the Harvard psychologist . He was one of the men who recently gave a good deal of time to attending the seances of " MARGERY , " deciding at last that they had seen nothing not explicable as the result of normal action on her part . Professor BORING says that there was nothing conclusive in this decision . They caught " MARGERY " doing with her hands and feet what it was claimed was done by spirits , but they had not proved thereby that all mediums are tricksters all the time , or even that " MARGERY " is . The task , , attempted , indeed , was an impossible one , so far as reaching a final determination as to the " genuineness " of any spirit phenomena . The proof of " genuineness " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observe the relation of phenomena to ' ' other phenomena and try to add a new chapter to knowledge . Its acceptance of hypotheses and theories is always provisional . Professor BoRINa uses present and past views of the atom to illustrate this . Not so long ago the atom was regarded by all scientists as a particle of matter so small that its further division was impossible or , as he says , inconceivable . But recently the assumption that the atom was indivisible had to be abandoned . Yet much that the older physicists had learned remained true  --  knowledge had been advanced , but no scientist had been abashed , for all of them had known that what had happened to the indivisible atom might happen . A passage in Pro.lie Caught fessor BORING 'S article Himself discusses " sincerity . " in Trickery . Time ? kid again it has been said of certain mediums that they could have no motive for cheating and to suspect them of it was outrageous . And how absurd as well as wicked to doubt the word of men like DOYLE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by saying that complete sincerity hardly can exist when there is a conflict of motives , either between two good motives or one good motive with another that would be called bad . The resulting insincerity may be unconscious . Then there ie the to believe , " - And where that is present Judgment becomes worthless to a degree proportioned to the amount of will . The professor even caught himself cheating when another of the Boston investigators was showing that he could do without spirit aid all that " MARGERY " did . At this exhibition , the success of which the professor earnestly desired , he was able to detect how one of the tricks was performed and it was his duty to put the discovery on record . He did not do so , and only because he was a psychologist , accustomed to study of his own mental operations , did he see , later , on thinking the thing over , that by the suppression of a fact he had tried to turn a partial failure into a complete triumph . In this he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bought ductions are drawn All of from the fact that Those Books ? the Chicago booksellers report that their sales in the last six months broke all records . And not/ only were the sales larger than they used to be , but there was an increase in the demand for books of the sort called " serious " ? biographies and autobiographies , with works of science and history . Also , there was a brisk demand for poetry , which is pleasing , especially in Chicago . No doubt all this is true of other American cities , and of our towns and villages as well . Before deciding just what the change means , however , it is well to remember that the year 1925 was notably prosperous and gave an unusual amount of money to spend . Larger purchases of books did not necessarily show improvement of taste , but merely greater ability to gratify old desires . But the sort of folk most likely to want to buy " serious " books were not those whose resources were appreciably affected by the prosperity of 1925 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was a poor specimen that did not cost at least $6 and a not very remarkable one that was in two volumes at 0 or more , per ? The intelligentsia of Chicago may have been able to make such expenditures for books , but their colleagues elsewhere were . not . The publishers presumably know their business , but it remains true that just why many of the new books cost so much is a dark mystery to the uninitiate . In the killing of the His Crime man KRANIN by the Has No policeman BRENNAN Palliation. there is presented to the new Commissioner a. case the treatment of which by him will supply an early test of his administration . Too often in the past there has been more regard in the police force for its reputation than for its character , and efforts have been made to protect policemen from the consequences of misbehavior or of crimes . Evidence of policemen against other policemen has been hard to get and of poor quality when it was available . In this case there seems to have been no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VMS shot down as he stood before a Lieutenant in the station house and with several other policemen close at hand . The man who used the pistol evidently is one of those whom drink makes violent and ferocious . His only known grievance was that his victim was reporting a less serious crime previously committed by the police : man . It is difficult to believe that a man capable of such atrocious behavior , even when drunk , never had given in the past evidence of his dangerous quality and of the need for putting him out of a body where the abuse of power and strength is a constant temptation to the unfit and the vicious . BRENNAN 'S trial should be prompt and his punishment as severe as the law allots for deeds such as his .                     