@@695708

txt President Hipolito Irigoyen , who - last night motored to the station'to meet President-elect Hoover , making the first time he ever greeted a foreign visitor at the station , broke another of his political traditions tonight when he arose at the State banquet in the Presidential palace and delivered his first public utterance , greeting Mr. Hoover most cordially . The early plans had neither President Irigoyen nor President-elect Hoover scheduled to speak . ' It was said that Ambassador Fletcher would read a prepared speech by Mr. Hoover in response to remarks by the Foreign Minister , Senor Oyhanarte . But when the banquet table was cleared , Senor Oyhanarte introduced President Irigoyen , who delivered a formal and cordial welcome ' to Mr. Hoover . When he closed Mr. Hoover rose and , taking the typewritten manuscript from Mr. Fletcher , amid an outburst of applause , read his own speech . His audience , which included the Argentine Cabinet and leading political figures of the country , received his address with great enthusiasm . Mr. Hoover spoke at length on the rise ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " frozen classes at the top . " He hailed the lessening of poverty with the new recruits to leadership coming up from the ranks of the people . He declared that the Americas were on the verge of as new era of social and political advancement . Nowhere , he said , did he see signs of decay in republics such as befall other forms of government . In conclusion , he pictured Argentina as taking an eminent place in the progress of the Western World . President Irigoyen , in his address , expressed his high esteem for the United States and his regard for Mr. Hoover . The President-elect conveyed his appreciation of the great growth of Argentina and expressed confidence that the country would play a vital role in the advancement of the peace and democracy . Mr. Hoover 's Address . The address of Mr. Hoover was as follows : " President Irigoyen , I wish to thank you for your warm words of welcome and to thank the people of the Argentine for the cordial reception which they have given me . " I come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendship and to extend my knowledge of our sister republics . It is a privilege to have traversed this great empire and to have seen this amazing city , for it Is a wonderful chapter in human endeavor  --  to have created the beautiful capital and to have raised it among the first in the world in practically a quarter of a century . " Its splendid buildings , its institutions . its parks , the culture of Its people all demonstrate the virility and capacity of a great and growing nation . " Mr. President I would be proud cheering crowds . The press is friendly and is making a big display of the occasion to sound visit , featuring full-page and halfof faith and hope page pictures of Mr. Hoover at the various functions . Mr. Hoover will leave Sunday morning at 8 o'clock for Montevideo aboard the Argentine cruiser Buenos Aires , which the government has put at his disposal . His sechedule in Montevideo has not yet been definitely arranged . ' . everywhere Mr. Hoover went today he was heavily guarded as a result of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground to believe that there is any effort now afoot to menace the life of Mr. Hoover , however , and the Argentinians resent any exploitation of the incident . The news of the plot was completely submerged today by the press accounts of the welcome to Mr. Hoover . A few more arrests were made for examination , but excitement had completely subsided . OF NEW DEMOCRACY By L. C. SPEERS , if I could use this a convincing note in the future of humanity . It has been no part of mine to build castles of the future but rather to measure the experiments , actions and progress of men through the cold ani uninspiring microscope of fact , statistics and performance . " But from these , I believe , not alone that the fundamental forces in the world are making for progress but that the world today , and particularly the ? Western world , stands upon the threshold of a new era of advancement . Holds the Outlook Never Brighter . " Never before has the outlook been ? brighter for the march of peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and liberal institutions , for opportunity , for achievement among men and growth of those things which dignify and ennoble life . " Economic prosperity is not the of life because a release from poverty is a release of the spirit , and I believe , Mr. President , that we can look forward with equal optimism to the improvement of the political , social and cultural edifice . " The liberalism which was born on the American continents has stirred all humanity with an aspiration for freedom and for that ordered liberty which gives full opportunity for individual accomplishment . " The great war gave a new impulse to the swing of the whole world away from its old conceptions until , as never before , is civilization now entrusted to democratic institutions of government . The hope and fate of humanity lies in its success . " I am one who has full confidence in the ultimate ability of the great American experiment of peoples to govern themselves . I know it is a long , toilsome path of trial and error , that its safety lies alone in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But , Mr. President , the fact that this ideal has spread steadily through the world over a century and a half should itself give us confidence . Arid when we survey boadly the unparalleled advance in human welfare of the Western Hemisphere over this period , we should be confident in cur optimism for the future of these institutions and ideals . Recruits for Leadership . " The outlook , socially as well as economically and politically , is hopeful . Education and learning , the decrease in poverty and the ideal of equal opportunity are providing imHoover 's Phrase Praised . When Herbert Hoover said yesterday upon his arrival here that " Argentina is the world 's bread-basket , " he coined a phrase which spread throughout the country in twentyfour hours because it gave to Argenworld the predominant economic feature of her greatness . Her beloved Buenos Aires has been called the " Paris of South America " ; her Iguazu Falls , the " Niagara of the Southern Hemisphere " ; her Mar del Plata , the " Lido of the Western World , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous agricultural production had not inspired until now any catchy word picture of what Argentina loves most  --  her golden grain of the pampas . Mr. Hoover 's simple words were spread in bold headlines in all editions of El Diario . " We are glad that such an expression came from Mr. Hoover , who is a highly qualified judge , " El Diario said . " Argentina likes the happy phrase , because it knows Hoover 's sincerity and ability ; and he had ample opportunity to see the limitless fields of grain as he crossed the pampas from Chile . " La canasta de pan del mundo , ' Mr. Hoover 's words as the Argentines know them in Spanish , will characterize Argentina as the ' Empire State ' does New York , and Mr. Hoover will be remembered along with Alberdi and Sarmiento as authors of famous Argentine epigrams . " Buenos Aires newspapers continually refer to Ambassador Fletcher as the future American Secretary of State and apparently such an appointment would meet with general approval here because of his knowledge of South American affairs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hoover 's manifest desire to obtain an appreciation of South American viewpoints Ambassador Fletcher 's experience would be a powerful asset in creating good-will after he assumes office . However , Argentina 's chief interest in Mr. Hoover 's cabinet centres in the Secretary of Agriculture , because most of the difficulties which have arisen between the two countries have been the result of regulations or recommendations by the American Department of Agriculture . President Irigoyen 's Address . BUENOS AIRES , Dec. 14 CO . ? President Irigoyen in his address to President-elect Hoover at the State , banquest tonight said in part : " You have seen fit to include Argentina among the South American nations you proposed to visit , and she , duly valueing your courtesy , has rendered its most fitting homage . " Held fast to the United States , by bonds of friendship since it was in the example , given by the ilustrious founders of your republic that we received the first lessons of democracy , we can not doutb that your visit must make closer the relations between our peoples . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the zenith of her greatness and at the very peak of its power , will radiate such high ideals as that which led your late President to convoke all peoples at Geneva so that at a solemn sanctuary they should reaffirm for posterity the eternal precept of the divine teacher , ' Love each other . ' " With the inspiration of such sacred vows , I raise my glass to wish you a happy return to the bosom of BUENOS AIRES , Dec. 14 . ? President-elect Hoover went sight-seeing through the streets of the capital today and appeared at several receptions , but there was no recurrence today of the anti-American demonstrations which yesterday caused a flurry . The authorities had taken every precaution yesterday on Mr. Hoover 's A group of sympathizers with the Nicaraguan rebel leader , General Augusto Sandino , suddenly made their appearance displaying banners referring to the Nicaraguan situation . The police endeavored to disperse the group , but the " Sandinistas " broke into acclamations of the Sandino cause . The newspaper La Prensa , in an editorial today , said that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the nations for its model civil organization and the great impulsion it has given to human progress The newspaper expressed the belief that this unprecedented tour of Latin America would help the moral understanding of the hemisphere . channel , Palermo , a residential suburb reclaimed from marsh land , and the Federal postoffice , a new building with the latest efficiency devices , most of them made in the United States . Then , with the fire chief , Mr. Hoover witnessed a drill and exhibition by the fire companies . At noon Mr. Hoover was the guest of the Houses of Congress at a dinner in the capitol building . The president of the Senate and the speaker of the House presided . Following the Congressional dinner Mr. Hoover and President Irigoyen had a confidential talk lasting an hour and a half , during which they frankly discussed problems affecting their countries , including the tariff controversy and the BoliviaParaguay boundary dispute . Mr. Hoover is said to have told President Irigoyen that he desired to get the latter 's point of view , and in turn the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning Mr. Hoover . Tomorrow Mr. Hoover will meet other Argentine officials , including the Minister of Foreign Affairs , and will confer with them . This afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Hoover received more than 1,500 members of the American colony at I a reception at the Plaza Hotel given by the American Society of the River Plate , the oldest American organization in Argentina . Mr. and Mrs. Hoover were deeply moved by the welcome . But Mrs. Hoover was visibly tired , and owing to lack of time , the receiving was suspended before all present were able to shake hands with Presidentelect and Mrs. Hoover . As they left the hall , tremendous applause followed them and they stopped to acknowledge greetings many times . Tomorrow afternoon Mr. Hoover is scheduled to make a thorough inspection of the port and in the evening he will be the guest of a gala performance at the Colon Opera House . qwq which we may build a finer edifice pulses of ambition in our peoples with the abandonment of aristocracy and , therefore , with no frozen classes at the top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we are witnessing a volume of new recruits to national leadership in every avenue of life such as was never known before . " For these reasons I do not fear the social decay which has been traditional in ancient nations of the past , who possessed other institutions and ideals . " And from all our system , whether it be political , social or economic , we shall have failed if we do not secure those satisfactions which come from cultivation of the charms and graces of life , the advancement of the moral and spiritual character of our people . " And with the vast increase in numbers , freed from the degradation of poverty , who receive through education the touch and inspiration of science , of art and literature , may we not rightfully expect that we shall uncover more of those rare flowers of humanity whose genius lifts all the world with their discoveries , their development of human thought and their touch of the divine through art and poetry ? " I know , Mr. President , that the preservation of these institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigilance . It requires that there may be many nations and not a few in order that each may receive refreshment from the experience of thn other . " And of those to whom the western world looks with confidence for its contribution to the future , the your illustrious country . " Argentine Republic occupies an eminent place . " Day Free of Untoward Events . After the banquest President Iri- By The Associated Press . goyen motored to the residence of Ambassador Bliss , where he again engaged in personal conversation with Mr. Hoover for half an hour . Then Mr. Hoover , arm-in-arm , accompanied President Irigoyen to his automobile . Hoover on Sight-Seeing Tour . During the morning , Mr. Hoover was the guest of the municipality of Buenos Aires . Accompanied by Mayor                     