@@694642

txt " Modern ' war is a war of machines ; modern ' war requires these machines in numbers heretofore undream of , " says Dwight F. Davis , Secretary of War , in an official letter urging Congress to take steps to revive the private manufacture of war munitions . The munitions industry , except in so far as it includes ammunition , has disappeared in the United States since the World War . Secretary Davis 's letter , addressed to the Chairmen of the Senate and House Committees on Military Affairs , is expected to result in the introduction of committee bills to carry out the purposes that the War Department has in mind . These purposes , in their primary aspect , are to enable the Government to place " educational " orders for arms and other war munitions with industrial concerns so as to encourage them to undertake munitions manufacture and train a personnel which will be available to direct an intensive output of munitions on a large scale in the event of war . A bill to carry out the policy of placing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the last Congress but failed of enactment . At the request of Major Gen. C. C. Williams and Brig . Gen. C. L'H . Ruggles , respectively chief and assistant chief of the Bureau of Ordnance , Mrs. Edith Nourse Rogers , I Representative in Congress from Massachusetts . offered a bill of similar purpose in the House , but that also failed . Calls War Plants Inadequate . The situation concerning'the manufacture of munitions in this country is such that the Government is obliged to depend entirely on its own arsenals and would not have the nucleus of private plants or the trained personnel for quick expansion if war should come . The War Department finds its hands tied as far as the manufacture of war munitions is concerned by provisions of the National Defense act of 1920 which require that bids for munitions shall be awarded , " except in rare cases , " to the lowest bidder , and that all munitions shall be manufactured in Governmentowned factories and arsenals up to the limit of their capacity . These provisions Secretary Davis finds " very detrimental " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procurement in time of war . Government plants , he points out , will not meet war requirements . It is evident from his letter to the two military affairs committees that the lowest-bidder requirement on such contracts for munitions required from private plants in time of peace is not working out in a way to enI courage such plants to engage in munitions manufacture . " Each plant , " he writes , " should receive in time of peace as far as possible a small order for the menu1 facture of articles which they will be called upon to manufacture in time I of war . Only by obtaining experience in such a way can it develop and keep alive the art of manufac1 ture , including the design for the necessary machine tools , gauges , I dies , jigs , fixtures , &c."; Davis Summarizes Situation . Secretary Davis 's letter contains ten . points pithily summarizing the situation concerning the munitions feature of our preparedness for war , including the two aphorisms quoted at the outset of this dispatch . The other eight are : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is small compared with the value required . The industry of the country must make up the deficiency . Modern industry is not familiar in time of peace with munitions ' manufacture . Without this familiarity valuable time is lost , when an emergency arises . Much cf this valuable time can be saved by placing educational orders for munitions with commercial concerns . The placing of these educational i orders will unquestionably add to national preparedness . The slight increased cost is cheap national insurance . The placing of these educational orders is not possible under existlag law . Because Government arsenals are going concerns they are capable of manufacturing munitions cheaper than private concerns which are ' asked to install plants so as to be able to undertake small orders for munitions . The legal requirement that bids shall be awarded to the lowest bidder gives the Government the inside track and shuts out the private plants . How this phase of the situation works is explained by Secretary Davis as follows : " It is desired to submit briefly several examples of this , one of which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! ' " These have been developed as a result of the lessons learned in the World War and these are the type which we would like to manufacture in another emergency . Pilot models of these guns have already been made and it is planned under the ten-year program to manufacture enough of them to equip a regiment or other technical command with each type . These can be manufactured more economically at an arsenal or elsewhere , but we think it highly desirable to manufacture at least a portion of them in the plants which we have selected for their i manufacture in war . This is not possible with existing laws . " Another example is that relative to the procurement of rifle ammunition . " The present type of rifle ammunition differs considerably from that used in the last war , being a very much improved type which none of the commercial companies has heretofore made . We desire very much to have these commercial companies learn to make this ammunition . Under existing laws , however , we can not place orders with them unless their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under Section 3709 , Revised Statutes , we would be obliged to award the contract to the lowest bidder , and there being five of these cartridge plants , it is obvious that four of them would not receive orders . Would Distribute the Orders . " We are now manufacturing much more of this ammunition annually than is necessary to keep the art of manufacture alive at Frank ford Arsenal and to maintain a nucleus of skilled employes at that arsenal , and we believe it would be to the best interests of the United States to place annually an order for a small number of rounds with each of these five cartridge companies . This can not be done in conformity with the present laws because of competitive bidding , and also because the prices at which these commercial plants can make ammunition are higher than the cost of manufacture at Frankford Arsenal . " Secretary Davis also stressed the difficulty of placing orders for searchlights with private industry in time of peace under the conditions noted . Among other things , he says that there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; hence they are only manufactured on Government orders and the production is confined to limited facilities . " At present , " he adds , " there are only two firms which manufacture the searchlight mechanism and component parts listed . Due to lack of orders one of these has virtually closed down the searchlight department , so that it can not meet competition along this line . " In concluding his letter Secretary Davis says : " The proposed legislation has been submitted to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget , who advises that the same is not in conflict with the financial program of the President . "                     