@@691560

txt Yemen M. Cox , former Governor of Ohio and candidate for President in 1020 , is an incorporator with William J. Bryan of the new Mlarnt University . They might join in endowing a chair to investigate whether creation or evolution best explains the inadequate supply of Democrats in the United States . It may be predicted of the imminent marbles champion of the United States that success is not likely to rush to his head and land him in the ' divorce courts . The Week . On Monday the maximum temperature in New York City was 88 . On Tuesday the maximum temperature in New York City was 85 . On Wednesday the maximum temperature in New York City was 92 . On Thursday the maximum temperature in New Yerk City was 95 . On Friday the maximum temperature in New York City was 06 . On Saturday the morning temperature in New York City felt like 212 . From Monday to Saturday nobody In New York City cared whether or not 400,000.009 Chinese were preparing to deetare war against Western civilization . Moilers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has been hailed as a novel in Joseph Conrad'a field , which frequently approaches the greatness of Conrad . Until opportunity brings Mr. Young 's book within reach , the present column will continue to hope that the author of " Sea Horses " has remained faithful to one Conradian tradition : and that is the late master 's refusal to litter his pages with the dreadful terminological truck that is supposed to constitute the " atmosphere " of the sea . Never in Conrad are you supposed to catch the brooding spirit of the deep when the tarpaulin abaft of the binnacle rises forty degrees to splice the mainsail with the spinnaker in a crescendo of royal t'g ' 1's'lX rattling against the belaying pins of the orlop scuppers , with the wind dead ahead . During the last fifty years there have certainly been more doctors and lawyers and preachers in the world than sailors before the mast : and probably more linotypers and electricians . But it has never been esteemed a peculiar virtue in a novel about doctors to write whole pages about the play of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in pronounced cases of aortal hemiplegia . In novels about lawyers the author has nearly always been careful to employ stare decisis and quo warranto and McCulloch v. Maryland merely for seasoning . Not since " Robert Elsmere " has there been any endeavor to depict the clerical life in terms of the Homoiousion grappling with the alb and the Unigenitus for control of the tithal usufructs of the Synoptics . The printer who should attempt to depict the development of a woman 's soul against a background of 24-point Old Caslon italics rattling into the hell-box would probably be called a bore . But that is precisely what an atmosphere of utterly alien taffrails and mizzen bits means to the lay reader who never began by being shanghaied in 1856 at the age of twelve and spending thirty-four years before the mast . The average layman probably knows more about an em or an alb or a pancreas or a nisi prius than he does about a t'g'l'e'l even with all the vowels left in . There is nothing sacrosanct about the lingo of the sea , and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his novel . Goths and Vandals All . All the signs pofnt to a great vogue for the New Barbarians as a name for the kind of people we do n't like . This raises the immediate need of a national conference which shall do for the New Barbarian game what has been done for ping-pong , auction whist and man-Jong . Terms must be defined , principles analyzed , rules of play laid down , and the best leads as practiced by experts enumerated . At present all would seem to be confusion in the game . Professor . Wilbur C. Abbott , who has written a book about the New Barbarians , seems to be rather uncertain as to who they are . At one time they are nonNordic immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe . At another time they are native literati from Chicago . Kansas and Baltimore , Md . But obviously it is hard to play a game in which the same term is applied to an Alpine immigrant from Italy who holds fast to the Church and . insists on having seventeen children , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now resident in Greenwich Village who denies the existence of God and practices birth-control . Even harder to grasp is the New Barbarian as defined by President Butler in his commencement address on Morningside Heights last Wednesday . Dr. Butler 's atteck is on two fronts . There are the " iconoclasts " and the " more brightly Illumined  --  a good phrase ? who refuse to take an interest in anything unless it happened within the last few days and who will have nothing to do with " the causal relationship of great events in life whether of mind or matter . " That would presumably , be the professionalized Young Generation which dates human nature , human history and human morals from about the year 1910 . On the other hand , there are the mobs of the unfit who would impose by sheer force of numbers their own ideas concerning Prohibition and Evolution upon the rest of us . But that means lumping together as barbarians The American Mercury and The Commoner . Yet it is established that The Mercury is against the old morals but for Evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old morals but against Evolution and alcohol . The Barbarians of the Atlantic Coast are for ferment and fermentation . The Barbarians of Tennessee are against ferment and fermentation . How can the same name be safely applied to both . Either President Butler is wrong or his Professor of Roman History is wrong . Dr. Butler says : These new and persecuting barbarians are quite of a. kind with their ancient forebears who , from their seats above the arena , gloated with joy as the stricken gladiator or the Christian martyr ended his life in agony . But when this department used to go to school it was the understanding that all the seats in the first sixteen rows in the arena were occupied , not at all by the Barbarians , but by the descendants of the best Roman families who had pretty well emancipated themselves front the old morals and were constantly nodding to their divorced wives and husbands in the neighboring boxes . And it was precisely the ) 3arbarians who came in from the Nordic North and did away with gladiatorial combats and the Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game of Barbarians will never amount to anything if everybody is permitted to make his evil ? , definitions and rules . An-Invisible Wall of Hors cl'Oeuvres . The greatest care Is being taken lest Hindenburg should come under harmful influences . To avoid this danger the Chancellor , Dr. Luther , is himself devoting much of his time both to conversation and conviviality with the President , around whom , so to speak , a kind of invisible cage is being built  --  Manchester Guardian . Of the three million swindlers who operate in the United States and net half a. billion dollars a year , according to Major Morgan E. Harris of New York , only one In fortyfour is ever *brouilit to justice . Nevertheless , college graduates who may be attracted by this exceptionally low rate of occupational hazard *should think twice before embarking on a profession which offers an average annual income of ON .                     