@@690432

txt Astraythe August issue of Far The American Mercury one of the fiercely slashing articles which evidently are to be its delight . But after reading it one can not help wondering if the two classes attacked ? officeholders and reporters  --  will not go on living happily . Given Mr. KENT 'S premises , his logic is sound enough , but he is rash in his assumption that his own view of the country 's officeholders , taken by and large , as a poor lot of incompetent men , will be accepted by everybody . He should have admitted the existence of at least a few exceptions , but he could not have done that , for if he did , his secondary thesis  --  that reporters as a class are in a conspiracy , half conscious and half unconscious , to make the pub-1 lic believe that its affairs are run by I men both noble and able  --  would not have served as explanation of the first one . Mr. KENT hints that he considers himself rather well up in Freudian psychology , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand the nature of " complexes . " Else would he not have presented , as one of two reasons why the political reporters , whether the great ones who " represent " their papers in Washington or the little , or littler , ones who merely work for their papers around city halls or county court houses , are the humble flatterers and guardians of men in office , his theory that they are all the victims of an " inferiority complex . " Such sufferers , if the Freudians are right , reveal themselves , not by the praise of others but , by constant and laborious assertions of their own superiority  --  o ( their own strength , courage and ability . One is ' almost tempted by what Mr. KENT writes to suspect him of mistaking good manners and the keeping of confidences for a more or less dishonest servility . A Freudian , too , might take his article as largely composed of disguised autobiography , and interpret it , after the Freudian wont , as unintended self revelation . ( In England there Give Them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . i r T belief that the hopes More which prompted the organization of international competition in sports . have been disappointed , and that the so-called Olympic Games , instead of fostering amities between Peoples , simply have provided a new opportunity for the dangerous display of ' vial animosities . So strongly do some of the London papers feel that these periodic gatherings of athletes are worse than useless that they earnestly advise the British take part in them no more . That- there are some excuses , if not some reasons , for taking this position hardly can be denied . Unpleasant episodes have marked all of the Olympics , and this year in France they have been more numerous than ever before . Of course , it is not always true that the better people know each other , the better they like each other ; but it is true that misunderstandings often arise from mutual ignorance , and the meeting of strangers at least contains the possibility of creating a sense of brotherhood . The British critics of the games in France are kind enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for courtesy and patience . The implication is that the seat of trouble lies elsewhere  --  that the nonEnglish-speaking nations lack the spirit of sport as those using that tongue conceive it . This is an ungracious position and one to be taken with caution . In both England and America , and when no foreigners were present , crowds have been known to conduct themselves quite as badly as any French crowds have done under the.strong impulsion of seeing native heroes beaten by aliens . The temptation to resent such victories is not weak anywhere , and occasional yieldings to it should not have their importance exaggerated . The revival of . the Olympic Games was so nobly inspired that it would be truly lamentable if they had to be given up . No necessity for doing so is to be found in a few squabbles . A notable passage in Not Seeking the speech by CLARENCE Evasion DAartow announcing . Justicethat his clients pleaded Of guilty of kidnapping and murdering ROBERT FRANKS was the one in which he declared that no more than himself were the Loeb and Leopold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or even be set at liberty . That statement should put an end to the rumors that in these cases ? ' oney was to play a great part  --  that wealth would interfere with the course of justice and Prove again that there is one law for the poor and another for the rich . Indeed , Mr. Daartow further said , and probably with some truth , that money instead of helping the two young ' men , added to the difficulty of their defense . In his opinion , if they had been Penniless , not only could their lives have been saved , but their imprisonment would have been less than life-long . Certainly , as it is , the court proceedings for and against them will be watched far more attentively than if they had been slum products , and any semblance of , undue lenience would be widely and bitterly resented . All this has been realized both by their relatives and by their ' counsel from the day of their arrest . As yet there has been nothing to justify adverse criti-1 cism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how Mr .. Dmw'pvi expects to harmonize a plea of guilty of murder . with an assertion of insanity  --  an assertion which in itself is a plea of innocence , as the insane can not commit murder , howsver dreadful their deeds may be . Nothing better Open-Minded could illustrate the Because new conceptions of matter now existing True Science . . in scientific circles than the tone in which the orthodox physicists comment on the reports from Germany of the turning of mercury into gold . A few years ago no real scientist would have had the patience to dignify such claims , even to the extent of denying them . The difference between the elements then was held to be essential and unchangeable . At present there is more than doubt if any essential difference separates any so-called element from any of the others , and to claims of transmutation the answer is , " Not im-possible ! " The old assumVions as to the indestructibility of matter and the conservation of energy  --  they , too , have fallen upon evil days , and the respect that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet science need not confess fallibility , since it never asserted infallibility . The old hypotheses fitted all of the known facts of their day and they met the pragmatic test --  they worked . It was said of HERBERT SPENCER that his idea of a tragedy was the overthrowing of a beautiful hypothesis by an ugly fact . In these days no horror at all , and not even disquietude , is caused by such happenings .                     