@@693002

txt That romance blossoms almost in the primal ooze , that even the humble marine bristleworm woos his mate in the moonlight and the male spider brings his inamorata a nice fly neatly wrapped in silk like a bouquet was revealed to an enthralled audience of scientists today by Professor Julian Huxley . Today was the last full day of the British Association 's gathering . Besides Professor Huxley 's interesting disclosures concerning the night life of the bristleworm , an announcement of great importance to scientists was made in the chemistry section , where J. J. Manley described a ' series of experiments which suggest that the inert element of helium can be made to enter into chemical combination with mercury to form helide . Sir Flinders Petri in the Anthropology Section made a report on the work he has done in exploring an important link between Egyptian ' civilization and religion and the Caucasus . Professor W. L. of Harvard University described an experiment in breeding rats which , he contended , confirmed the Lamarckian hypothesis of heredity and evolution . It was only an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments for twenty years . A paper on the " Hygroscopic Relations of Collodial Fibres , " presented in the Mathematical and Physical Science Section , proved to be a treatise that even the average man could comprehend . He would also find it interesting , since it stooped to explain such an everyday phenomenon as the reason why trousers wo n't keep a crease . Crab Poses Claw , Spider Jogs Web . Professor Huxley 's account of animal courtship was a record of his own observations which enabled him , he said , to assert with confidence that Darwin 's theory of natural selection . though wrong in many details , was right in the essentials . Down at the base of the animal scale . said Professor Huxley , courtship of course , did not exist Perhaps its first adumbration was to be seen in the nuptial dances of certain marine bristleworms in which at certain seasons of the 3 ear and phases of the moon these creatures swam up out of their crannies in the rocks and gathered in groups , the excited males wriggling around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtship , and not merely , prhaps , direct stimulus to fertilization , must be given were those of a few crabs and most spiders . Among the crustaceans the fiddler ' crab was characterized by the . presence in the male of one huge claw which might weigh almost as much as the rest of his body and was often brightly colored . In the mating season , when a female ' passed , the males threw themselves into a tiptoe attitude , with the big claw rigidly held aloft . If the female took no notice , the male again ran to where she could see him and again struck this statuesque pose . Among the hunting spiders the males performed strange antics . The webspinners , which are almost blind , did not dance , but the male came up to the web of the female and vibrated one of the threads in a special way , quite different from the vibrations caused by trapped prey . Runs Risk of Female Eating Him . Without this indication , the female probably would treat the male like any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she actually did so after mating , and the male , who is much smaller , had to be ready ' to run away in the early phases of the courtship . In one species of hunting milder , the male offered the female a nice fly neatly wrapped in a silk-like bouquet . In a few species of carnivorous flies , Professor Huxley noted the gift of non-utilitarian present by the male to the female  --  a leaf or a petal stuck into a glistening ball lareeP than the male 's own body , made of viscous material secreted by him and carried as he flew . Courtship and display , however , reached the highest elaboration among the birds with the well-known shore bird , the ruff , Professor Huxley said Darwin 's original theory has been definitely show to hold good . In the breeding season the males grew a , magnificent ruff around their cheeks and neck and two fine eartufts above . When no females were present , the male birds would be dancing and whirling around like dervishes and sparring and jousting with each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crouched down immobile . The hen might simply preen herself , stroll around and fly away again , on which the cockbirds would rise sheepishly from their prostrate posture as if pretending that nothing had hapPened . Ova the female might approach the male and nibble the feathers of his neck and then the mating would take place . Here was Darwin 's theory in practice . " Equal Sex Rights " Among Birds . Professor Huxley said that in allthe-year residents , which were - also territory birds  --  birds with a feeling for nesting territory  --  there was an engagement period in the Spring lasting for some weeks after the pair were in possession of their ? territory . He attributed this to the biologicalreason that , though it was advent tageous for a bird to be on its own territory early so as to be sure of find , ing one , yet it must not breed before the date which would give a probability of plenty of food for the young . Among a large group of birds in which the males and females shared incubation and nest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with both sexes developing bright colors and special structures for the breeding season and using them simultaneously in mutual display . And it was interesting that the family life of birds attained its highest development in those forms which had " equal sex rights . " One of the most interesting things about bird courtship was the frequency with which the birds would carry in their beaks a piece of material of which the nest was built . This held good for some penguins , whose nest held nothing but rim stones and , accordingly , the male presented a stone to his mate . Rats Wiser in Eight Generations . Professor of Harvard , describing his experiments with the breeding of rats , said they had con- ' firmed the Lamarekian hypothesis that species might change and undergo evolution through the efforts of individual parents to adapt themselves to the conditions of life . He had chosen white rats for the experiments and divided them for two different tests which were carried out with seventeen generations . For the first test he had provided a tank partly filled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of wire landing stages . One was charged with weak electric cur ' rent sufficient to give the rat an uncomfortable shock . It was lighter from beneath , whereas the other landing stage was dark . The rats of each generation were dipped six times daily in the tank and allowed to choose a way of escape . After eight generations , the rats showed a marked preference for choosing the iafc way , whereas the rats descended from the untrained half-section of the original group showed no Such preference . ' Even when the safe and the dangerous exits were transferred from one side to the other this held good . The other experiment consisted in training rats to escape from the tank of water by means of a zigzag course around which they had to swim a Icourse containing four blind alleys and two barriers , beneath which they had to dive . On the whole the rats from the stock trained in this particular way learned to escape more readily than those from the untrained stock . Mysteries of Wool Explained . The lecture on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of three British research workers , might have been called a study of wool and water absorption . It was stated that wool had the greatest capacity for absorbing motsture of all textile fabrics , and , consequently , the perspiring wearer of woolen underwear was less liable to catch cold and feel discomfort than the wearer of silk or cotton . The elastic properties of wool were said to be . extraordinary . Even if stretched almost to the breaking point , if kept wet it would return ' absolutely to its original length . A suit of clothes , put away for a time for a rest , came out again refreshed , since the stretched fibres returned to their original lengths . The loss of creases in trousers was due to the loss of a temporary set which had been achieved by ironing and the resumption of the old length and form . As regards the fading of dyed fabrics , the revelation was made that clothes are more apt to fade in damp than in dry climates , even if the power of the sun were the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ' lecture on acclimatization to high altitudes by Dr , J. ? S. Haldane , the interesting statement was made that whereas an unacclimatized person would die within a short time if brought to the height of 27 ; 000 feet for a stay of any duration , an acclimatized man would not even develop the syniii= toms of mountain sickness . In men who were thoroughly acclimatized there would not only be a great increase in oxygen secretion but also a great increase in the , volume of air breathed . This increase caused little or no inconvenience during a rest , but limited more and more the amount of muscular work which was possible without intolerable panting . Hence , the greater altitude at which a man was acclimatized , the less muscular work he could do , since his power of panting was limited . The relief for an acclimatized man produced by the supplying of oxygen was so small as to hardly be worth the extra weight carried . When , however , the wearer was only acclimatized at lower levels so that his breathing was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ net advantage was obtained from the oxygen apparatus . To account for the acclimatization of a Mount Everest expedition climber without the assumption of the active secretion of oxygen internally by the lungs appeared to Professor Haldane to be an absolutely hopeless task . Code Conduct Accidentally Moral . In the Psychology Section , Dr. William Brown of Oxford University said that in conventional morality one identifies oneself with a code of conduct because he wishes to do as others do , but such conduct is only by accident moral , if moral at all . In a truly moral action one realized its rationality and its value , he added , and one had a power of realizing its value , called conscience . ' talent , he declared in another part of his lecture , is inherited , but genius is not inherited . Genius is characteristic of the pure ego which is out of time , although it reveals-itself in time . ' Consideration by the agricultural section of the minimum mineral requirements of animals elicited from i Professor Kavanagh of Cornell University the statement that in Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of iodine , which affects people as well as animals , caus- ' mg what it called goitre . Steers brought from Kansas to New York State and fed on fish meal in ? a rich clover pasture in a short time developed in height and put on 200 to 400 pounds in weight . ? : Egypt-Caucasus Cultural Link . Sir Flinders Petrie , lecturing before the Anthropology Section on the links between Egyptian and Caucasian civilizations , reminded the association that last year he had given to them evidence of the so-called Badarian civilization in Upper Egypt . He believed there was long continuing Asiatic civilization which sent off branches from time to time even from the tail ends of Palaeolithic Age . In these branches was the Solutrian in Europe . The branch which went Southwest to Egypt declined in culture . Nevertheless , he said the Badarian civilization must be regarded as a branch of that Asiatic civilization . That implied a Northern origin and he said there had just come to light an important piece of evidence bearing on that . There has been discovered in.Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which were made of the straw of wheat , not of , the old wheat of Babylon or Egypt or the well-known wheat of Roman times , but of Northern wheat whose presence at an early date suggested the intrusive civilization from the North . Identical Place Names Cited . Sir Flinders called attention to a Second astonishing line of evidence . It was pointed out a year or two ago by an American that three names in the Egyptian Book of the Dead also occurred in the geography of the Caucasus in a very closely equivalent form . Sir Flinders said he had therefore extracted all place names from the Book of the Dead in their local connection with one another  --  East , North , South or West , upstream or downstream , as indicated in the next . These places were supposed in the Book of the Dead to be mythological places . Now these place names could all be traced in the same local connection in the Caucasus . He exhibited a map of the region and ' drew attention to the following re- ' markable correspondences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as he said , named in the Book of the Dead in their correct geographical relation in the caucuses as follows : Akred , Ekretike ; On , Oni ; Zesert , Tosarene ; Dedu , Totena ; Bta , Ptua ; Khalusa , Chalahi ; Kara , ' Kuy ; Bakhu , Baku ; Andesdes , Andish ; Astes , Ashti ; bora ; Sheny , Sanwa ; Fenkhu , Phanagoria ; Urmu , Urmia ; Tatnena , Tamen ; Masti , Maio- ' t is ; Desdes , Euxine ; Reu , Rha ; Restan , Resht . In the Book of the Dead the Lake of Fire was spoken of as occurring in a fertile valley and evidently corresponded with the existing naptha lake of oil region . Other points of evidence of a different kind corroborated the Conclusions to be drawn from the place mnes. ,                     