@@691611

txt In estimating the probabilities in the further course of the Nickel Plate merger hearing before the Interstate Commerce Commission , it must he borne in mind that the case necessarily sets important precedents affecting all future railroad consolidations . Conscious of the fact that , whatever it does , it will be subject to keen criticism , the commission naturally desires , a " full record " It does not wish even to appear to have closed the door on any ramification of the inquiry which might have disclosed pertinent facts . It is a strong tradition of the commission that functions require it to make the broadest possible inquiry into any subject brought before it , of course , within practicable limits . The Nickel Plate case is peculiarly one in which this tradition applies with force . On the other hand , the commission can hardly be indifferent to the obvious fact that a sufficient12. - prolonged delay in executing it will defeat any proposed merger . The statutory requirement that the commission must find any such proposal " in the public interest " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere obstruction might be carried on under the guise of consulting the public interest when purely private interests were alone involved . Purely as a matter of inference , it can perhaps be said that a recognition of the necessity of bringing the Nickel Plate proceedings back to the . public issues involved is growing among members of the commission . They are under a mandate from Congrress to facilitate the unification of the railroads into a smaller number of larger systems , the fulfillment of which mandate has already been delayed for something like five years by the legal necessity of preparing a comprehensive plan . As was remarked by counsel during the hearing on Thursday , the " public interest " functions of the commission have by common consent been held to include jurisdiction of the terms for security exchanges . The question which now confronts the commission is whether this issue shall be allowed to take first place or even completely to displace the question whether the proposed unification of the five roads is in the interest of some millions of users of transportation . It can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opposition of the C. Sr 0 . minority committee began with dissati , faetian over the terms offered them for their C. &; 0 . stock and that it is this party alone which is raising a hundred questions concerning the niece or less private affairs of the Van Ssveringens , on the ground that they affect the merits of the merger from the public point of view . To many close observers of railroad affairs , as dealt with by the commission , there is something inconsistent in this attitude . The point is made that a controversy among private individauls over property rights : . - hould be settled in the state courts , and particularly so as an action brought by these same C. &; 0 . minority holders is already pending in Virginia . To summarize : When the full commission hears arguments of counsel next Wednesday over the right of the opposition to go into a wilderness of side-leads on the chance of striking something pertinent , it will have to choose between its long standing inclination to admit everything into the record that parties to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeing railroad consolidations brought about under the present law . This does not mean , of course , that the commission will , in deciding this question of procedure , have to pass upon the merits of the merger plan itself. - but only that it must decide whether the record in any consolidation case can and will be held down to limits within which it is possible to get something done .                     