@@689755

txt The petroleum industry has suffered only a temporary check which " is nearly , ' if not quite , exhausted , " said , Greenway , chairman of AngloPersian Oil Co. , to shareholders . " The fact that the world 's consumption of oil products is yearly increasing'by leaps and bounds must necessarily accentuate the reaction towards a recovery in prices . " he added . Anglo-Persian 's annual meeting was a financial event of the first order as a bear drive had carried the shares ? issued at ? 3 15s. ? to below ? 2 . Rumors and reports were made of probable losses in high cost of tankers , capital outlays for distribution and exploration outside Persia . A veritable Anglo-Persian controversy had sprung up , all the more popular because of Shell 's negotiations to buy the government 's control of ' the company . Chairman Greenway stated thpt for ' the value and wide distribution of its assets the company was the biggest British industrial concern which exists iR the Empire today , notwithstanding that it has only BZen in existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during a period of difficulty without a parallel in commercial history . " SPENT ? 32,000,000 IN THREE YEARS Capital expenditure has been ? 32,000,000 in the last three years . Of this ? 12,000,000 was from securities sold , ? 12,000,000 was paid out of current revenue and ? 6,000,000 from funds on hand . All assets , which have depreciated have either been written down or reserved against to replacement value and no asset which has ? appreciated has been written up . Btfsiness in the past year had been disappointing because of ' troubles at the Abadan refinery and the lower prices obtained . Fire and cholera combined reduced refinery runs to 2,000,000 instead of the expected 2,700,000 tons . For the current fiscal year ( commencing April 1 ) the chairman predicted some gain from increased productibn3,775,000 ' tons , against 2,959,028 tons last year . Cost of distribution also will be lower , because of larger turnover and the general fall in prices . " I 'm afraid , " Mr. Greenway said , " we can not look for any improvement in results for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a - very substantial improvement , as the Abadan refinery should then be on full worsting basis , and refineries which are being erected in Scotland- and Australia will be in full operation . " FUTURE MONEY ' NEEDS As to future financing , Sir Charles reiterated his expectation of meeting capital requirements to a large extent out of revenue . " In . any case , should any further finance be required , " he added , " it will only be of a temporary nature and to meet this it is not considered necessary for the board to commit the company to any further obligations of a permanent character . It is , however , open to us under the articles of association to create ? 5,000,000 of debenture stock . " The shale oil industry in Scotland is a losing proposition and will be abandoned unless conditions improve . Program of distribution at home and abroad , he said , Was practically complete . The French refinery also ig finished and working , and those under construction in Scotland and Australia will soon be operating . Sir Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipping standpoint , has been expensive . " Not only have we written off customary depreciation so that the fleet  --  and it is practically a new fleet  --  now stands in our books at a very moderate figure , but any difference between this figure and the probable replacement cost today is fully covered by our reserves . " FAILURE IN ARGENTINA In the Argentine , tests at Santa Cruz and Neuquen have been abandoned and in the Conmdoro Rivadavia decision is held up pending result of drilling in five wells . If these wells prove satisfactory , question of the holdings and of state regulations will be discussed with the Argentine government . Test drilling continues in the island of Papua but has been impeded by heavy gas pressure and shifting formation . Tests in Hungary and Croatia have failed . to realize anticipations but have not been abandoned . ? PERSIAN MULLING RESULTS In Persia , the proved areas of Maidan-i-Naftun and Maidan-i-Naftek have been considerably extended . A 5,000 barrel a day well has been brought in in the adjoining valley of Maidan-o-Bibian . A new field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first well giving 1,000 barrels a day under heavy pressure . More tests will be made before money is spent for a new pipeline . Well ' F ' 7 , is still doing 12,500 barrels a day and has produced so far 5,250,000 tons . In several cases other wells , if allowed to produce fully would ' exceed this daily production , it was said Arcurate records of individual productions are not obtainable because of the danger of closing in the wells moles the high pressure .                     