@@684878

txt Victor L. Berger of Milwaukee , re-elected to Congress on the Socialist ticket from the Fifth Wisconsin District , was today , for the second time within two months , refused a seat in the House of Representafives . The vote was 328 to 8 , taken after Representative James R. Mann of Illinois , formerly Republican leader of the House , and a supporter of the resolution , ' had led a fight in Berger 's behalf . Those voting in the negative were Representatives Mann , and Voigt of Wisconsin , the latter the only member of . the House who had voted for Berger , when he was first refused a seat , and- Harrold of Oklahoma , Republicans , and Sisson of Mississippi , Sherwood of Ohio , and Griffin of New York , Democrats . Representative Sabath of Illinois , Democrat , voted " present . " The issue came before the House upon a resolution offered by Representative Dellinger of Massachusetts , who cited that " Victor L. Berger is hereby declared not entitled to a seat in the Sixty-sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House declines to permit him to take the oath and qualify as a Representative . " Convicted under the Espionage act and sentenced to twenty years ' imprisonment . Mr. Berger presented today the credentials of his re-election last thonth . When the House assembled Mr. Berger walked down the aisle from , the cloakroom and seated himself in the second row , immediately under the Speaker 's rostrum , on the Republican side . He appeared to be very nervous during the one-hour debate in which he was denounced as a " traitor and a friend of Uermany . " . He chewed hip gray mustache and moved uneusily . But when a Wisconsin member said that he had not recanted his disloyal doctrines , but continued preaching them , Mr. Berger was noticed to nod approval . Berger Elaye Ito Will Run Again . Following . the action of the House , Mr. Berger gave out a statement in which lie announced that he would again seek re-election , and that " he held the same Position that he did during the war " - opposition to war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rIspionage act . Anticipating disorder , special officers were stationed in the galleries , but while there was intense feeling against some of the utterances made in behalf of Mr. Berger , the only disapproval came from the House itself which hissed one or two points and demanded that the vote be taken after half of the one hour apportioned to debate had been consinned . As the champion of Mr. Berger , the former Republican leader of the House , Mr. Mann , opposed the resolution , which was supported by Mr. blondell , the present leaner of the House , and the other responsible House leaders . .. Berger , " said Mr. Mann , " has been elected anew to the House by a majority of those who vote in his district , and to me the question is whether we shall maintain inviolate the representative form of government where people ' who desire changes in the tunamental or other laws of the land shall have the right to be represented on the floor of this House , when they control a majority of the votes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point that a man who believes certain things can not be heard ? His people , his constituents , desire him to represent them . It is not our duty to select a representative from this Congressional district . That is the duty of the people back at home . We can not take the attitude of refusing to permit the voice of the people of a district to be heard by their own selection , with safety to the future of the country . " Representative Yates , former Governor of Illinois , asked : " I want to know if you think we ought to admit to this House a disloyal man . I do not think you do . " " After all , " replied Mr. Mann , " the question of what is a disloyal man is not to be determined by the gentleman from Illinois or myself . You may have the power to do it , but you will not be wise in exercising that power . The Constitution under its amendment gives authority to exclude a person for giving aid or comfort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplated anything which Mr. Berger has done or sought to do . " Representative Joe H. Eagle , as a member of the special committee which heard the case against Berger , assailed Mr. Mann 's argument . " Under the argument of Mr. Mann , " said Mr. Eagle , " if the people of the Fifth District of Wisconsin chose to elect some one- nineteen years old and send him here , the House must seat such a person , although the Constitution provides among other qualifications that a man must be twenty-five years of age . Under the same argument a murderer or a felon in prison , elected by the Fifth District of Wisconsin , must be accepted by the House . Although your special committee commended this man should be refused a seat , and this House , by a vote of 311 to 1 , judicially ascertained under your oaths that this man Berger in the time of his country 's woe was a traitor to his country , under Mr. Mann 's argument he must now be seated . Under Mr. Mann 's argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infamy , you must allow to sit in your company a man who , at the time the nation 's destiny was at stake , struck , in the interest of the Central Empires , treacherously against the flag which protected him . " The record taken at the hearings showed a continuing purpose , plan and conduct on the part of Berger from the time this country entered into the war until the armistice was signed to discourage recruiting , to cripple the efficiency of his country , to weaken its morale , to help Germany and injure America . " Unanimous convent was twice refused to permit Mr. Berger to speak . Half a dozen men objected , including Representatives Blanton , Texas , and Hicks and Snell of New York . Representative Isaac R. Sherwood , Democrat , of Ohio , a civil war veteran , and 82 years old , said that he was opposed to the resolution because he did not believe the House as a representative body had any right to decide " who shall represent a certain constituency . " Republican , said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first declared disqualified repeating " his disloyal and seditious utterances and declaring that his only regret is that he has not made them stranger . " Mr. Berger , seated a few yards away , nodded his head vigorously in approval . " He nods his head , " shouted the speaker , and the House hissed . Republican Leader Mondell eek issue with Mr. Mann , declaring that the argument that Berger must be seated because he received a majority in the special election runs counter to the fundamental law of the land . He quoted Section 3 of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution , which makes ineligible as a member or the Congress any person who has engaged in insurrection or rebellion or given aid or comfort to the enemies of the United States . After the House in one hour had rejected him Mr. Berger again defied its action by announcing that he would be re-elected again and that he maintained his point of view , the utterances of which brought his conviction under the Espionage act . " This is one or the worst attacks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Berger . " It is really a flat denial of the right of uie people to elect the citizen who is their choice as their representative . " It is charged in the House by all members who spoke that I was disloyal on account of the position I took in the World War . This position was not my personal position , bait the position of the Socialist Party If I was disloyal then a million Socialist voters in the United States were disloyal . It was also the international position of the Socialist Party , many Socialists in Germany , France , and England holding the same views . It might be said that I have been found guilty by twelve men and ( lentepeecl to twenty years for saying this was a capitalistic war . Mr. Wilson said the same thing on Sept. 5 , 1910 . The difference was that I said it in 1917 . If it was true in 1919 it surely was true in 1917 . " If opposition to a war in which we are engaged means disloyalty , then Abraham Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was disloyal , as they all opposed wars . The Fifth District of Wisconsin is not fighting for me , but the fight is for the socialist Party and for representative government in America . " I will run again and be elected . I hold the same position that I did during the war , and I believe that I am within my constitutional rights . " Berger Is Renominated . Special to The New York Times . MILWAUKEE , Wis. , Jan. 10 . ? Victor L. Berger was renominated today by the Socialist Executive Committee of the Fifth District to run again for Congress shortly aster the announcement from Washington that Berger had again been barred from Congress . " if a special election is called and Governor Phillippa should be compelled to call another election , Berger will be elected by even a larger majority . " said Edmund T. Melms , Secretary of till committee . " The people of the VIM District want him in Congress , and they are not to be disregarded by a crow ( in Washington . Governor Phillippa announced tonigh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the people is to ( great , " he said . " The district will re main unrepresented until the regular election next November . " The Socialist committee issued statement tonight which said : " We will keep on nominating Ber ger until Hades freezes over if that un-American aggregation called Con. gross continues to exclude him . " We want every person in this country to understand that the voters of the Fifth Wisconsin District know exactlj whom they want as their representativ ( in Congress and we do not purpose to let Gillett and his bunch of Wall Street fawners dictate to us on the subject . " Berger is our Congressman and th ( action of Congress in unseating him second time only starts the real filthi that will not end until every one day ' : disgraceful proceedings has been retirei by the ballot to the oblivion he so rich13 desreves. "                     