@@691716

txt The city will carry its fight to reverse the Appellate Division 's unanimous decision invalidating ' the Home Rule amendment to the Court of Appeals at Albany today . Argument before the State 's highest court is scheduled for 2 o'clock this afternoon , but postponement to Fall was predicted last night . On the eve of the appeal the Administration gave token of surrender in one respect . This was through the resurrection of the Board of Appeals and the Board of Standards and Appeals in their old form of organization , In June the boards ceaged to exist when the Mayor signed a bill of the Municipal Assem ? bly . Plans to reorganize the boards , in accord with the municipal measure , were blocked by the Appellate Division 's opinion that all city laws , enacted under the invalidated amendment , were voi4 . The boards met yesterday with the personnel they had before the Municipal Assembly acted . And they found that in the month of their non-existence more than 1,200 cases had piled up , with . many of the parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development was the hint that organized taxicab owners and operators might unite in a taxpayers ' action to halt Police Commissioner Enright in his control of taxicabs . This power was vested in the Commissioner by the Municipal Assembly and the opinion was expressed yesterday that if the Board of Standards and Appeals had to return to the " status quo ante " the taxicab industry had a fair chance of making the Police Department do likewise . Six Commissioners Reduced . Yet another outcome was the announcement of Controller Charles L. Craig that some of the city executives would receive a painful shock this morning , the city payday . Six of the Commissioners , whose pay was increased from $7,000 to $10,000 under Home Rule legislation , will find their monthly checks back at the old figure . They are Enright , O'Malley , Taylor , Mann , Hayes and Coler . Corporation Counsel George P. Nicholson will lead the city attorneys on Albany this morning . Ho will be reinforced by Bainbridge Colby , former Secretary of State . and Frank Laughlin , former member of the Appellate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William J. Schieffelin , President of the Citizens Union , author of one suit , is expected to be present . James Marshall , son of Louis Marshall , attorney for Stewart Browne , President of the United Real Estate Owners ' Association , whose broader action aimed to test the amendment in its entirety , will appear . Mr. Marshall , it was understood , will suggest postponement of the argument on appeal  --  pending the return of his father . The younger attorney feels that a case involving issues so important should be approached slowly and with full preparation . Mr. Marshall Sr. Is expected to return to this city from , Europe in September . The regular sessions of the Court of Appeals are scheduled to open in October , but just as Presiding Justice Frank Hiscock has expressed willingness to hear the appeal this afternoon it was felt his associates would assemble in September for - the same purpose . The meeting of the two city boards in the Municipal Building , one at 10 A. M. and the other at 2 P. M. , was undertaken , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and with the approval of the Mayor . Boards Bad Been Combined . Under the reorganization contemplated in the voided Municipal Assembly bill , signed by Mayor Hylan on June 10 , the plan was to combine the Board of Appeals and the Board of Standards and Appeals , reducing the personnel to five members , four to be appointed by the Mayor and the fifth to be any member of the uniformed staff of the Fire Department higher than the rank of Battalion Chief . This would eliminate Fire Chief John Kenlon. a member under the old organization . Before the Municipal Assembly sought to wipe out the existing order , substituting salaries of 87,600 yearly for the present fee system of compensation . the Board of Standards and Appeals was composed of thirteen members . They are the Chairman . William E. Walsh , who receives $10,000 a year ; Fire Chief Kenton , Fire Commissioner Thomas H. Drennan , the five Borough Presidents and five others , appointed by the Mayor , as is the Chairman . The appointed members are Henry L. Connell . structural engineer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 229 East Fiftyseventh Street ; John Dowd . 16 ' Montgomery Place . Brooklyn ; J. Sarsfield Kennedy . architect , of : 39 Orange Street , Brooklyn , and Joseph B. Gunnison , builder , of 1.724 Barnes Avenue , the Bronx . The Board of Appeals is composed of the appointed members and Fire Chief Kenlon . Both organizations were on the old alignment when they met at the Municipal Building , and there was considerable amusement among the members . The hearing chamber was full of appellants when the boards got under way . The opinion was ventured that it would be weeks before the boards caught up with their congested calendars . Michael Donnella , President of thaEmpire State Taxicab Chamber of Cormmerce. indicated that action by the members against police control would I wait upon an opinion from the chamber 's attorneys . He said that a meeting of members had been called for 1 o'clock this afternoon and would be held in the Empire Hotel , Broadway and Sixty-third Street . Dislike the New System . " The taxicab drivers , " he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of the law and his own instructions in a different manner . At present ninety-six policemen are doing the work formerly done by twenty-seven men of the License Bureau . And they are not . in the opinion of our members , doing it as well . Some policemen act absolutely on their own initiative without any instructions whatever . Police control of taxicabs may be systematized in time , but we venture to doubt it . " I think our organization ought to take advantage of this court decision if it possibly can . The only persons bene- I fited by police control are some chauffeurs who have not yet paid for their ' . badges or received their inspection cer-i tificates . Under the License Bureau this used to be done by May 31 . Further action , of course , rests with the taxicab organization as a whole , but I think something should be done at this time . " Stewart Browne , at his office , 280 Broadway . said : " We will not take any action , either directly or indirectly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then we will not take any action about the salary increases . We are interested only in knocking out the Home Rule act , and do not desire to injure any one who has benefited through the acts of the Municipal Assembly . We will not take any action whatsoever until the return of Louis Marshall , which will be some time in September . "                     