@@690810

txt The mythology of the recent campaign was one of its entertaining aspects . 4I1011 brows of the Davis and La Follette followings began.the campaign with a myth that turned out to be a reality so substantial - that it was given the approval of 18,000,000 voters . When we speak of mythology , therefore , we are not referring to " the Coolidge myth . " We refer , for one thing , to the myth presented to the ' American people by Senator La Follette . This myth depicted the American people as oppressed , economically enslaved , led in chains ruthlessly deeper and deeper into poverty , by a hand-. ful of sinister men , tagged Wall - Street or the money power . A hundred million people the most Intelligent , energetic , resourceful , and well to do in the world ; a people possessed ' of the universal , equal right of the ballot ; possessed of a great public school system and state universities which the poorest and obscurest of our youth have a chance to attend ; - possessed of d free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe they are the victims and dupes of a few men so much their superior in intelligence and force of character as to be able to put the nation in chains . So grotesque a nightmare could not be accepted by the American people . The other myth Mr. Davis tried to win the presidency with , namely , the total depravity of the responsible leadership of one of the two major parties . Mr. Davis asked the voters to believe that the oil scandal was not merely an affair of individual wrongdoing . He wished the nation to believe that it was evidence of a general depravity in Mr. liarding 's administration and , more than that , of a general depravity in the controlling organization of I the Republican party ; that It expressed a general willingness among virtually all Republicans likely to come to high office , and all Republicans who influence the conduct of public administration , to rob the public and to exploit office for private - profit . It is . not safe , Mr. Davis in effect argue , to elect Mr. Coolidge to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is personally honest , the Republican party organization or the men who dominate it have been shown to be corrupt . That did not appeal to the common sense of the voters in large numbers . It was drawing too Sweeping a conclusion from the facts , and it . must have offended the sense of justice of independent voters as well as roused the indignation of Republicans . La Follette asked Americans to believe they were so foolish as to be slaves to a handful of men , slaves with all the weapons of freemen in their hands . Davis asked Americans to believe that the Republican voters were so foolish or so dishonest as to maintain an organization composed either of corruptionists and thieves or so weak and blind as to be dominated by them . These were election myths and the winds of public discussion blew them away .                     