@@685834

txt Governor James M. Cox closed his 10,000-mile tour of the West by an address before a crowd in Convention Hall here tonight . In this speech , the ** since he began his tour , the Democratic nominee spoke at length on the question of Ireland as connected with the League of Nations . He asserted that Ireland would soon be free and- independent and repeated his promise that he would , if elected President , bring the matter to the attention of the League of Nations under the provisions of Article XI . He attacked the assertions of opponents of the League that Article X. barred the way to Irish freedom , pointed out that that article related to action in cases of external aggression only and insisted that Article X. was really of vital interest to Ireland because it would insure her independence when once attained . The Irish question bulks large in Missouri politics . Senator Reed , the Democratic irreconcilable , has gone to great lengths to stir up opposition among citizens of Irish origin against the League . It has been said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Article X. did not strike at the right of Ireland to continue her fight for freedom , they would swing the State to Harding . Aside from this utterance tonight in regard to Ireland , Governor Cox made an interesting suggestion in a brief afternoon speech at Pittsburg , Kan. , AS to his methods of going to work to have the treaty ratified . He stated that if elected President he would " sit down with the Senate and discuss the Treaty of Peace and agree upon any reservations that would clarify or reassure the treaty . " The nominee was greeted by large crowds everywhere today . He began campaigning at 7 o'clock in the morning at Miami , Okla. , crossed into Kansas , where he made several speeches , and wound up In Missouri . The meeting here was the largest and noisiest that the Governor has yet ad-dressed . The convention hall , which seats 20,000 persons , was packed to the roof beams , while thousands stood in the aisles and around the sides . Many who had been clamoring for entrance since early evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowd came to their feet and cheered five minutes while thousands of small American flags , waving in all parts of the hail , created a riot of color . Senator Reed was not present at the meeting but sent this message to Governor Cox : " I regret very much that I am tonight called from Kansas City by a previous engagement . Would like to greet you on the occasion of your visit . " Sincerely yours , " JAMES A. REED . " Ireland and the League . In his speech here regarding Ireland and the League of Nations he said : " A good many loyal Americans of Irish inheritance who sympathize with those who are struggling for freedom in Ireland , have been misled to believe that our entrance to the League would mean that we should have to give aid to England in suppressing an Irish rebellion . " Nothing could be farther from the truth . The deception is based on a tRise construction placed on Article X. " Whether through ignorance or Whether through intent to deceive , the assertion is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would obligate ourselves to preserve one another 's territorial integrity . Ireland , it - is stated , is at present an integral part of the territory of the British Empire , which , after we join , would be a fellow member of the League . Therefore , we are told , we should have to help Great Britain suppress Ireland 's attempt to free herself . Now , what is the precise lang-usive of Article X. : The members of ? the League undertake to respect and preserve as against external aggression the territorial integrity and existing political independence of all members of the League . " Ireland under this provision of the League of Nations has the right to separate from Great Britain and establish its own Government of any form pleasing to itself , and to that end may wage such internal aggression as it seems necessary ' to accomplish that result . This is a matter wholly without the purview of the League of Nations . Quotes Ex-President Taft . The purpose of the article is to protect one State from the aggression of another State and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any part of the people of that State the existing Government or existing territorial integrity , but the people resident therein may carve out of that territory as many States as they like and erect in these several States the form of Government desired by the inhabitants of each . " Listen to what ex-President William Howard Taft said on this question in a pamphlet published by the League to l ' : nforce Peace and widely circulated before the League of 3. ? : ations became a party issue . After reciting the claims made by opponents of the article on this ground , he said : " ' This is utterly unfounded , because Article X. is only an understanding to respect and preserve territorial integrity and political independence against external aggression . Nations must take care of their own revolutions , and if their conduct is such that revolutions occur and new nations are established out of the old ones , there is nothing in Article X. to prevent . ' " However , Article X. does have a very direct bearing on the British question , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if she becomes free and independent , as I believe she will , and that before very long , then , the . United States , along with the other members of the League , will be obligated by the terms of the covenant to mutually guarantee the sovereignty . of the new Irish republic . " For this reason , every Irish sympa. , - thizer in this country should not only vote for the League of Nations , but should - be its most earnest and enthusiastic supporter so that if victory shall come to Ireland after its many centuries of struggle , then that victory will be permanent and its independent nationality will be forever assured . " I want to call your attention to the fact that the Peace Treaty with Germany , signed June ' 25 , .1919 , was based on the armistice , signed Nov. 11 , 1918 , and the armistice was based on the fourteen cardinal points of President Wilson . announced Jan. 8 , 1918 . The basic idea that runs through all of these points and through the armistice ' is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Its own way , unmolested by nations possessing superior power and having ulterior purposes . " When the Covenant of the League of Nations is. universally acceded to ( and already forty-one nations have become bona fide members by actually depositing their ratification ) , it will mean tijat for the first time in history the right of people to self-determination will be recognized in international law . ' " The American Constitution recognized the ' pursuit of happiness ' as ' fin inalienable right of individuals , The League Constitution recognizes that the happiness of nations also is , as it should be , a fundamental right . There can be no. international peace unless there is happiness , and there can he no happiness unless there be justice . No World Peace While Injustice Exists . " It is folly for us to look forward to abiding peace in the world as long as the peoples of small or weak nations are held in political peonage by powerful or imperialistic Governments . There may have been some sense in making rivers and mountains the natural boundaries of nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when wars could be precipitated overnight . Before we substituted law for . war in community Life we had walled cities for the protection of the inhabitants . " Now that we are attempting to substitute law for war in international relations the need of defensive boundaries will cease . What is more , the central article in the League Covenant has as its principal purpose the principle of preventing violation of the bounddries of member nations by international agreement and co-operation . " I want to pause here just long enough to remind you that for a hundred years ' the three thousand mile boundary line of the United States and Canada has been protected , not by serried ranks of soldiers on either side of the frontier , but by a treaty to respect each other 's territorial integrity . " Do you realize- that the people of Ireland have- been sometimes hoping and sometimes fighting for freedom during seven long centuries and yet during all those seven hundred years she has not been able to present her case even to a Squire 's Court ? Well , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ease presented to the bar of the world 's opinion . Article XI . of the League covenant specifies that it is the friendly right of each member of the League to bring to the attention of the Assembly or of the Council any circumstance whatever affecting international relations , Which threatens to disturb international peace , or the good understanding between nations upon which peace depends . Pollock on Our Rights to Appeal . " And if - you have any doubt in your mind as to the interpretation of the authority conferred by this article , let me call to your attention the fact that one of the greatest authorities on international law in- the whole British empire is the Right Hon. Sir Frederick Pollock . His latest work is a constitutional commentary on the league covenant . In that book Prof. Pollock , an Englishman , says : " ' The problems of Irish autonomy can come before the League of Nations under Article XI . if the Government of the United States should declare IrishAmerican sympathy with unsatisfied Nationalist claims in Ireland capable of disturbing good understandings between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Irish question is settled before March 4 next I shall consider it my duty , as a friend of peace and as the chief executive , of ' a nation that is a member of the League , to invoke the right given me by Article XJ and present the Irish cause to the attention of the League . " In his addresses at Miami , Okla. , and Joplin , Mo. , the Governor called attention to humanitarian purposes of the League aside from its main object , ' the prevention of war . ' He said that these points had been put aside and the clamor centred on Article X. Not only is the League Covenant already functioning as the nearest approach to a guarantee against war . but also it contains the elements for promotion of world progress and the means for humanitarian advancement . " For example . " he said , " Article XXIII. is the world creed of humanity in the League . Under this article the members of the League agree to maintain fair and just conditions of labor for men , women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vocational diseases , to prohibit exploitation of women and children and to control the traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs . As you will find the munitions profiteer opposed to the League , because it provides for - disarmament , making future war impossible , so that he can not coin dollars out of blood , so you will find the profiteer of peace opposed to the League because of Article XXIII. , which prevents him from exploitation of humanity in sweatshops and unsanitary factories . He will not admit this as his reason , but will probably join in the clamor about Article X. " ' What a satisfaction it must be to the women of America to know . that their efforts for progressive , humanitarian legislation here have been formally recognized in the covenant ofethe League of Nations , which , by the way , in express terms in Article VII . gave to women full and absolute equality with men in holding every position or office in the League  --  and this months before they were granted the right of suffrage in our own country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found waiting for him at all the towns along the line . At Joplin he said : " I think you will agree with me that four or five months ago many people subscribed to the idea that this was to be a reactionary year . The tide has turned . It has been an uphill fight until now , but , boys , we are going back East and we are going to coast the rest of the way . ' Referring to the question of bonus or other aid for former service men , Governor Cox said : " I have been very much gratified to see that the American Legion in its sessions at Cleveland , has adopted what is called the , fourfold plan . It seems to be practical . it seems to be sensible and it seems to be fair , and I am very happy to give it my endorsement . " Will Start New Trip Wednesday . KANSAS CITY , Mo. , Oct. 2 ( Associated Press ) . ? Governor Cox is due at Dayton at 6 o'clock tomorrow night , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monday , Tuesday and Wednesday . To give him additional rest the engagements arranged for Monday at Fremont , Ohio , and Tuesday at Cleveland were cancelled . According to present plans the Governor will leave Wednesday night on another trip , including Elizabethtown and Paducah , Ky. , and Nashville , Tenn. , preceding visits to . Indiana and Illinois .                     