@@694565

txt The new Ford was introduced in New York City yesterday like a world celebrity . A quarter of a million persons saw it in the showrooms of seventy-six dealers in the metropolitan district and gave it their approval by signing 50,000 orders , according to estimates of Gaston Plantiff , Eastern . manager of the Ford Motor Company . It was the first public showing of the new Ford models . The same models had been shown privately at the Waldorf on Thursday . The rush for new Fords began from the minute that dealers opened their doors and continued till midnight , when the showrooms were closed . Mr. Plantiff announced that the number of orders was five times greater than the previous record for a single day 's sale of Fords in the metropolitan district . Crowds Block Traffic . Despite elaborate policing the crowds at some of the eleven Ford exhibitions throughout the city were so large that they at first blocked traffic and throughout the rest of the day caused traffic congestion and delay . When the local Ford headquarters at 1,710 Broadway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been there to see the new models . Similarly 65,000 were estimated to ' have inspected the new cars at the showrooms at 60 Broad Street . where fifteen policemen were on duty ; between 30,000 and 35,000 at the 125th Street salesrooms ; 12,000 at the display rooms of the Lincoln Motor Company , 45th Street and Park Avenue , and 10,000 at the Bronx display at the Winter Garden , Washington and Tremont Avenues . People of society and people of the workshop bought their Fords . Affluent customers bought five or six . Companies bought them by the dozens . Some of the largest corporations of the country which purchase motor trucks and cars by the hundreds advised Ford dealers in certain localities that they were going to buy Fords . At the headquarters of the Ford Motor Company here the large showrooms were so inadequate for the crowds that Mr. Plantiff hastened to hire Madison Square Garden for a week 's exhibition of the new Fords night and day from today throughout the six-day bicycle race . Walker Welcome Expected . Ford representatives here are all keyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new car today . He has been invited to inspect the new models at the Broadway display . He may take a ride in one if he likes . The man to buy the first Ford in New York City was George Engel , 113 East Seventeenth Street , according to the ? records . He bought a coupe . Another early buyer was Bishop Frederick Deane of Aberdeen , Scotland . A purchaser of a Tudor sedan was George H. Bogert , artist . William Harriman bought four Fords . George Cushman purchased six . Countess Waledvitch , 3 Sutton Place , ordered a sport coupe , which proved to be the most popular model . Former Assemblyman Sidney Scharlin also purchased one of the new models . Norman Felix , advertising , ordered twenty-five coupes and the Loening Aeroplane Corporation ordered ten . It was all that the forty-eight salesmen of local headquarters could do to take care of the orders . The regular force had been augmented by all the road salesmen who could be brought in . Indefinite promises of delivery " some time in January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Are Active . In the crush of buying sharpers soon became active . While the police and private detectives were distributed in good number with instructions to watch for pickpockets . they had no way of anticipating how crooks would try to victimize the Ford crowds . It was not until late in . the afternoon that a private detective saw a bareheaded man with a pad of order blanks and pencil and all the other requisites of a regular automobile salesman mingling with the crowds . He went from one model to another . The detective overheard a conversation between a customer and the man with the . order blanks . The customer gave the man with pencil and pad a deposit , and the man with the pad wrote out an order and a receipt , assuring the customer that he could expect his car within three weeks . That was the last seen of the bogus salesman , for after the detective had run upstairs to ask whether three weeks ' delivery was being promised , the swindler had pocketed $25 given as a deposit and disappeared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salesmen . The Brooklyn Ford dealers ' exhibition at the Brooklyn Ice . Palace . Bedford and Atlantic Avenues , attracted , according to estimates , 6.000 persons an hour , and it was said 80,000 would have been counted by the end of the day . D. G. Campbell , manager of , the Brooklyn Ford show , said that 300 orders had been taken . At the joint exhibition by Bronx dealers it was disclosed that 180 cars had been sold up to 5 o'clock . At the offices of the Caswell Motor Company , 651 West 125th Street , where the Harlem exhibition was opened , it was announced that forty purchases had been made in the first three hours . Samuel Abrahanis , manager of the Schildkraut Motor Sales Company , 18 Bergen Avenue , Jamaica , Queens , announced last night that of 10.000 persons whc1e , had come to see the models on display 123 had left orders . Because of the late delivery- of new models in Long Island City show rooms , the crowds were not as large there as elsewhere . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed for new Fords . With one car , a tudor sedan , to display at Pier 7 , Edgewater Street , Tompkinsville , S. I. , the Richmond County Sales Corporation receivc 6,350 visitors and took 112 orders . Literature All Consumed . The big crowd at the main show rooms at 1,710 Broadway quickly consumed all the literature which the Ford Motor Company had available for distribution . When the crowds kept asking for more the Ford officials sent out and bought newspapers by the thousands and distributed them after opening them to page advertisements run by Mr. Ford in his first week 's series of five pages , costing him between T.1,000,000 and 51,666,000 , according to advertising estimates The sales rooms at 1,710 Broadway will be closed tomorrow on instructions of Henry Ford . but the belief I was expressed there that other dealers throughout the metropolitan dis , trict would keep their showrooms ' open tomorrow . The exhibition will go on at Madison Square Garden to , morrow . The Ford Motor Company 's plant on the Lincoln Highway in Kearny . N. J. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations on a large scale after Jan. 1 . The 3,000 workmen , who were laid off when manufacture of the old Ford stopped , have been notified to be ready for work . According to Mr. Flantiff , Henry Ford designed practically all mechanical improvements of his new car , and Edsel Ford designed the 1body styles .                     