@@688686

txt Much to , the surprise of members , the Senate Cornmittee on Foreign Relations received from President Harding today a response to its inquiries concerning his proposal that the United States give its adhesion to the ? protocol , establishing the Permanent Court of International Justice under the League of Nations , and thereby become a member . The committeemen thought the President 's answer would not be submitted until the next Congress , but , confronted with , . the President 's communication . which included a long letter from Secretary Hughes , answering the committee 's questions in detail , they were forced ' to take some action . The decision was made to postpone all consideration of the subject until the December session . thus reaffirming its former position that there was no time in the few remaining days of ' this session to take up the matter . On its face the Administration has scored in its first bout with the Senate over the proposal for American participation in the Court of Justice . When the Committee on Foreign Relations on Tuesday adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harding I or further information concerning his proposal , it was well understood that this procedurawas " stall " intended to give the cOtrf. ' mittee an excuse for not Daseing. - ? mt , the world court question iti-tliglri'abfii session . In addition , the nature . of ' the questions in the Borah resolution made it clear that the committee was seeking to embarrass Secretary Hughes , although the resolutions themselves were addressed to Mr. Harding . Too Late . Committee Holds . When Senator Lodge called on President Harding Wednesday to submit the resolutions , he was told that they would be referred to the Secretary of State and answered " in due time . " From this and other things said by the President , the committee.was convinced that the World Court proposal had been laid on the shelf until December , at the earliest , with any blame for this delay resting on the Administration and not on the committee . But today the President answered the committee in a note to Senator Lodge . The committee Chairman felt that it was necessary to act quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice President Coolidge . Here he read the communication with considerable effect . , Later the committee met and decided that it was too late to take any step at the present session toward having the United States Join the League Court . So the Hughes letter . with the covering note from President Harding which expressed his " hearty approval of it , " was laid away in a pigeonhole of the committee . The first question asked by the Borah resolution was whether the President " favors an agreement obligating ? all powers ? ? ? to submit all questions about which there is a dispute . and which can not be settled by diplomatic efforts " relative to certain enumerated matters . Mr. Hughes answers this in the negative , but points out that unless the Senate has changed its traditional attitude It will be useless for the Executive to ' propose to the Senate that submission of international disputes to the Court of Justice shall be made obligatory upon all the nations participating in the court . including the United States . In other words , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate to answer , for the President could not commit the Government to compulsory submission without advance notice that the ' Senate had changed the position which it has assumed for many years . In many quarters this inquiry has been characterized as a trick question , designed for the double purpose of embarrassing the President and the Secretary of State and affording an excuse to ' Senate opponents of the World Court to delay action on the President 's preposal . Reviews Senate 's Treaty Action . In his letter Mr. Hughes goes into the . history of the Senate 's position regard- ' ing treaties of arbitration with foreign Governments , showing that the Senate . declined to permit the Executive to . submit any questions to arbitration unless the Senate gave its consent , and how this attitude made abortive various efforts at arbitration dating back toCleveland 's time and continuing throughthe . Roosevelt , Taft and Wil=-son Administrations . The Secretary then says : " In the light of this record it would seem to be entirely clear that until the : Senate changes its . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President to attempt to negotiate treaties with the other powers providing for an obligatory ' jurisdiction of the scope stated in the , committee 's first inquiry quoted above. , " If the Senate , or even the Committee : of Foreign Relations , would indicate that a different point of view is now  --  enter --  ' tamed you might properly consider the ' advisability of negotiating such ' , agres , ments . ' ! Another question propounded. : - rraiiitSanU intended to recognize the labor i3OctbrIn of the Treaty of Versailles . Secretary Hughes 's answer is in the negative . The Secretary states that of forty-six natiobs , which have joince the Permanent Court of Justice atedut fifteen have agreed to the optional cause for compulsory arbitration. ? but ssys it is his nnclerstanding that the called powers . Great Britain , Prance , Italy and Japan . have not yet assented to it . This Mr. Hughes believes to be an additional reason why the Unites States should not agree to compulsory submission of International disputes To the court , What course President Harding TA-1:1 Panparticipation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the fe ' - 7- e of the apparent opposition ef a inctjority of the Committee on ; rare= Relations has not been disclosed . It is taken for gran ; ted , howzver , that in his transcontinental tour Ilya Summer on zits way to and from Alap1r5t he will discuss his przpesal to Join the ' World Court In /some quarters the feeling prevails that the President can obtain considerable public sentiment for his proposal if ne makes tt an Issue and backs it up with strong utterances , but that he will not make headway unless he presses the importance of the matter to the preservation of world peace . On his journey the President , according to present intentions . will make speeches in twenty principal cities .                     