@@696096

txt Dr. Hjalmar Schacht 's reply which he is expected to make tomorrow to the allied reparations bill presented to the German delegates yesterday , will be neither yes nor no , though it is far more likely to be no than yes . Though Germany 's liability remains legally fixed at 132,000,000,000 marks ( about $32,000,000,000 ) and the Dawes plan would provide for payment of 47,000,000,000 marks ( about $11.280,000,000 ) , the German delegate finds 39,000s00,000 marks ( about $9,360,000,000 ) at about which this bill is estimated , far too high for his country 's capacity to pay . Dr. Schacht , however , is regarded by the French as too skillful a negotiator to take the responsibility of breaking up the conference , despite the warmth of his utterances yesterday and despite the clamor of the German press . He will , it is - expected , seek to continue the negotiations in such a way as to force the . creditor nations to a refusal or to try to place Owen D. Young , . the , committee 's chairman , and the.Amerjean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most anxious to avoid . Paris newspaper comment an the experts ' work is extremely mild and reasonable compared with that from beyond the Rhine . There is little or no criticism of the cutting down of the French claim which has peen done . There is no complaint that half the burden of the debt incurred by reconstruction of the devastated regions must , if this plan is accepted , remain on the shoulders of the French people . Further Reduction Doubted . From the start there has been a disposition to seek a solution which would he fair and possible . But there is very little hope that the experts will be able to go further in their reductions . They feel they are justified in adopting with respect to their claims the same attitude as the United States Government is re- ' ported to have adopted , and insist onl opposing any further reduction . They f eel that if Washington can not , in the desire to reach a settlement , make some sacrifice on the relatively small amount which is owing the United States , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduction and consequent hardship on their own people . Of the 39,000,000,000 or 40,000,000 , - 000 marks of their claim presented ye:terday , it is estimated that 26,000 , - 000,000 will eventually go to America . All the discussion and difficulty is therefore about 13.000,000,000 or 14 , - 000,000,000 marks , which is to be devoted to that restoration of France and Belgium which eleven years ago was so lavishly promised as the first charge on Germany by all the allied and associated powers . This situation , of course , offers a tremendous strategical advantage in the argument to Dr. Schacht . He knows that the creditors are themselves debtors . He knows that they are anxious at all costs to cover the annuities they must pay the United States , and so he is prepared to exploit that situation to the utmost and extract as the price of payment of the allied debt to America a further reduction on those payments which might serve to help rebuild the devastated countries . Attitude of American Experts . It has been reported here from Washington that the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression of opinion has , however , never been voiced on this side . The Americans , like all the other experts , are anxious only to obtain a permanent settlement . Their business has been to seek to secure it , not to take sides , and they have all from the outset been loud in praise of the reasonableness of spirit of all their colleagues . They are as aware as any of the difficulty of compressing further a claim which has to take account on the one side of the Balfour principle and Poincarii 's and Mussolini 's demands that the debts to America be Fevered and something at least obined for reconstruction , and on the other side Washington 's stand that there can be no discussion or reduction of the allied debts . Neither they nor the experts of the allied powers , however , are willing tonight to admit that the conference has failed . It is significant that during the whole past week 's revision of the allied claims , which was done in 1 he presence of Mr. Young , not a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or control its independent experts . The allied experts therefore feel justified in believing that they may yet be able to bring this conference to success , for they realize how much the peace and prosperity of the world depend on it . However , they feel , hat it is now for Dr. Schacht to make some offer which they can consider . MOVE BY HOOVER EXPECTED . President May Make Position Clear on Rhine Army Costs . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , April ** important decision by the Hoover Administration is believed to be pending as a result of the White House conference yesterday , when President Hoover had with him his chief advisers on foreign relations and reparations  --  Secretaries Stimson and Mellon and Under-Secretary of the Treasury Mills . The same secrecy that clothed the conference and the preparation of a memorandum by Secretary Stimson and Mr. Mills existed today , although it was admitted that the conference dealt with developments at the Paris committee on reparations . There was no indication that the American position on occupation payments due the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration will make its position clear on this subject through a note to be sent to the American Embassy in Paris for the information of Messrs . Young and Morgan , the Americans who are members of the reparations commission , but not officially representing the United States . Opinions expressed by members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee were that since Messrs . Young and Morgan were not representing the United States , they would have no authority to approve a reduction of the claims the United States has against Germany which are to be included in the reparations payments . Payments for the cost of the Army of Occupation were scaled down several years ago by an agreement sanctioned through Mr. Kellogg , who was then Ambassador to London . This caused a sharp debate in Congress , with some members contending that the administration had no authority in law to reduce the payments . But the matter was dropped , and this left the President of the United States in a position where his authority to approve a reduction was unquestioned . It is argued by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without approval by Congress , the precedent would permit the President to agree to another reduction . But those who weigh sentiment in Congress say tonight that Congress undoubtedly would insist on being consulted before another such move was made , inasmuch as the terms of the agreement were not carried out and the United States has not received the occupation costs as promised in the Paris agreement . This failure , it is argued , has created a condition which makes it almost impossible for the government to scale down any reparations payment without a legislative act . Republican leaders in Congress , while disavowing any knowledge of the import of yesterday 's White House conference , believe that if the United States interests are at stake in the Paris negotiations , and the President desires to approve any modification of this country 's claim . he will consult the party leaders before moving and follow a policy of " open diplomacy . "                     