@@686823

txt In spite of initial checks and persistent difficull , ies , the higher education of workingmen advances apace and is spreading throughout the world . Long ago England perceived that the granting of manhood suffrage made it necessary to " educate our masters , " but Ruskin College at Oxford , though an honorable pioneer , appears to have struck the wrong trail . Men from the trades unions do not feel at their ease in a city of spacious architecture and even more spacious leisure , swarming with flanneled and beribboned youths . Nor is the university , for all its liberalism and its flirtations with guild socialism , quite trusted to give unbiased instruction . The new " masters " also are Englishmen and shrewd ; they prefer to instruct themselves , and indeed to instruct their new " men , " by means of an Education Association of their own . At a recent meeting of the Universities Congress in London , at which the higher institutions of the entire empire were represented , Lord HALDANE faced the situation frankly . The problem is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who support the universities financially and at the same time progressive enough to suit the radical workingman . Mr. DARNLEY NAYLOR of Adelaide , Australia , who spoke in a similar vein , remarked that the lecturer in economics was usually beset by " a small but noisy party " of Marxians who insisted upon leading him to the light . Yet these are but casual rubs . The general spirit of the congress was hopeful . All over the ' world , as Lord HALDANE reported , those who work with their hands are calling for the higher knowledge . Not the least potent means of their education is the noisy argument of those who insist upon lecturing the lecturer . In the United States also the movement is afoot and making giant strides . In a recently issued pamphlet ARTHUR GLEASON tells of the foundation within the past two or three years of workers ' colleges in no less than ten industrial centres ? Boston , Philadelphia , Baltimore , Washington , Rochester , Pittsburgh , Cleveland , Minneapolis , St. Paul and Seattle . As yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the number is increasing rapidly . The instruction includes not only politics , economics and science , but literature , drama and even dancing . As in the British Empire , there is difficulty in striking an acceptable note in the instruction . The students insist upon the right to talk back , and in Seattle succeeded in having several lecturers from the State University returned where they came from . Mr. GLEASON , himself a Socialist , complains of a lack of " open minds " among available professors , but looks hopefully to the future for a more abundant supply . In all probability there will be more open minds than Socialists . Here , as in the British Empire , Marxians are a small and diminishing minority , however clamant . The essential thing is that workers shall receive every encouragement in the pursuit of advanced knowledge and free discussion . That they are apparently in a way to do . " There is a class division in knowledge , " said Lord HALDANE , " which goes deeper down than any other " division , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the unrest in the " industrial world today . " In so far as our institutions are based on truth and inspired by republican liberty they can only gain by a deeper knowledge of them .                     