@@688507

txt Secretary Hughes.in his speech at New Haven before the American Historical society referred to the tact that the United States had not been paid for the expenses of . the army on the Rhine . The army was kept there , and part of it unfortunately still is there , because the allies and the Germans wanted it there . The payment of the forces of occupation was made a first , charge upon money paid over . by Germany . ThO maintenance of the other armies On the Rhine has been met by money paid over by Germany . but the United States has not been Paid . Europe asks the United States for cooperation , but Americans feel that they are not treated fairly when they do coOPerate . They can not help feeling that wherever America enters European affairs it will be imposed upon and will be unable to protect itself : That is the basis for a ? great deal of the American desire for complete isolation . Prom the entrance of America into the war to the present the United States his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the con. cord which ought to exist . is hurt by the conclusions the American is forced to draw from what he knows of acts in Europe . America resents being called the . Shylock Of nations because it does not cancel ' obligations , some of which were contracted after the armistice . It . resents being treated now with disparagement and then with duplicity , Americans do not like to be chided and berated for alleged breaking of nonexistent moral obligations by nations which do not deal faithfully with plain contractual obligations . American disillusionment undoubtedly has been damaging to the well being of the world , but the responsibility is upon the people who changed an enthusiastically credulous country into a skeptical one . The Versailles treaty . destroyed American hope In an altered Europe ' and subsequent events dispelled the idea that the United States would be given any fair or generous consideration in Europe . In so small a particular as the American request that in one small island of the Pacific , where Japan gathered in so many , the United States be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when wars of aggression rollowed the peace the United States was expected : o organize relief , to harbor refugees , to give its money , and even to break down its safe immigraTon laws to remedy the damages done by intrigue . With all its patience , it finds its only compensaion is in being called a slacker . The ' effect of this management of affairs upon he American temperament has been to create pinion and sentiment hostile to coOperation with ) owers which the American thinks he can not trust or Lair dealing . Something would be done to improve that situaion if the nations which say they need American : oOpemtion would give evidence of asking for it n a fair spirit . They can not continue to establish listrust in the American mind and hope for much rom American leadership .                     