@@692931

txt While no official comment was authorized by President Coolidge today upon the fall of the French government and the propaganda for cancellation of the French debt , it is known that his pol1 Icy toward the settlement of the fort ' tkign war debts has not been affected by the situation in France and the attempts to arouse sentiment in this country in favor of cancellation . President Coolidge announced his policy not to annul these debts in ' his last message to Congress and since then has expressed himself . as of the opinion that they muss be settled as an obligation to the American taxpayers . He has not been moved by a recurrence of the demands of Americans for cancellation ? that have reached him recently and apparently intends insisting upon France ratifying the agreement readied by Ambassador Berenger . Instead of showing any signs of weakening President Coolidge , it is known , had along talk with Secretary ' Mellon before he left Washington , at which he stated his views in the strongest terms . He sent to Mr. Mellon the letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancellation , and the reply recently authorized by Secretary Mellon actually stated Mr. Coolidge 's views . In Accord With Mellon Statement . President Coolidge , according to his advisers here , is in entire accord with the statement made by his Secretary of the Treasury , which asserted that the United States had gone to the limit of generosity in dealing with France . The belief here ? is that the present agitation for cancellation will have anything but the desired effect upon the American public . If Senator Borah follows his plans and makes a number of speeches in different parts of the country in an ' attempt to arouse the public not only against the French debt terms but the attitude of the Administration on other issues , the fears of the Administration are that Congress will regret the settlement before it and demand more rigorous terms . President Coolidge is hopeful that the political situation in France will be composed during the Summer and a Government established that will accept the American policy and proceed to ratification of the agreement . If this is done in advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will readily adopt the present plan and remove the - settlement from the sphere of American politics . The opinion prevails here that it is not a political subject but economic and ought not to figure as political in this country or in France . The visit of Secretary Mellon to France , which is expected to bring him in contact with French statesmen , will it is felt , lead to a change in France on the debt program . That is the hope of President Coolidge , who wishes to be helpful to France and aid her in the restoration of her finances . It was reiterated today that ? American bankers would not be encouraged by the Government to make private loans to France until the situation there became less antagonistic to the settlement of the war debt to this country . Coolidge and Smith at Churches . President and iitErs . Coolidge and Governor and Mrs. Smith and party attended church today in Saranac . The roads leading there , twelve miles distant were filled with automobilists who waited along the roadside to cheer the Chief Executive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State . President and Mrs. Coolidge worSniped in the First Presbyterian Church , as on last Sunday , and were again greeted by handclapping as they I entered and left the church . The services followed the prescribed form and the prayer and sermon contained no reference to the head of the nation . The church ' holds about 200 persons , and to accommodate the overflow , seats were provided in the yard . Governor and Mrs. Smith and their party reached Saranac earlier than the Coolidges and were warmly cheered as their cars , preceded by motor police , rounded into the main street . At St. Bernard 's Church , which is on the same street as the First Presbyterian ! and not far away , the crowds were dense . Governor Smith was loudly cheered as he stepped from his car and when he left , an ardent admirer shouted , " Three cheers for our next President . " These were given heartily , but were not received with pleasure by Governor Smith , who appeared to resent their Impropriety . The Governor and his party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estates . Mr. Smith plans to leave here tomorrow for Bluff Point , Lake Champlain , and to reach Albany on Wednesday . President and Mrs. Coolidge spent the rest of the day quietly within camp , walking about the rhododendron bordered paths and visiting interesting points and admiring the panoramic view . They had a trying experience again last midnight , when a terrific electric storm , accompanied by high winds and rr.in put the electric system out of operation until noon today . The storm , one of the worst that has visited this section since the Summer White House was established , lasted for more than two hours . Many trees were demolished . Frank W. Stearns of Boston , and Mrs. Almira Goodhue , mother of Mrs. Coolidge. have been invited to be camp guests following the Plymouth trip . The first Cabinet member to confer ' with President Coolidge will be Secretary of War Davis , who has been invited to spend Monday night with the Presid ; following his inspection of Students ' Military Training Camp at Plattsburg . While it was said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became known today that President Coolidge will seek his advice as to the proposal to move several munitions depots now located near large cities-                     