@@696771

txt In a driving rain , a few moments after 10 o'clock Thursday night , a taxicab drew up in front of Victoria Station . Ten yards behind it another cab halted . Out of the first stepped a tall dark man who helped a demure blond woman in a gray fur coat to alight . From the second cab stepped two quietly dressed men . The man and woman moved through the crowd to the platform from which departed the train bearing passengers for Paris via Newhaven and Dieppe . The pair of watchers stood around until the train pulled out . The woman was the spy who stole the secret code from the Italian Embassy in . Berlin , ruining the careers of half a score of diplomats . The man with her posed as a friend . The two other men were Scotland Yard detectives . Ordered to Leave Britain . Six hours before , the woman had arrived from Paris , only to be told the British Government did not wish her in London , and so she was on her way back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerves wrecked by the attentions of Italian secret service men . Meanwhile ? her chief victim , the former secretary of the Italian Embassy in Berlin , pines on a lonely island in the Mediterranean , where he was banished by the Italian Government . The brain of the most imaginative fiction writer could spin no more lurid tale than that in which the chief role was played by the little blond woman who was driven away by the British Government in a London downpour . Secret service men of half a dozen countries know her story and are watching her . Some of them seek to protect her and others seek revenge . Early last Spring , Mme. N ? P ? , for such are the initials of this native of Yugoslavia , went to Berlin . She took an expensive apartment overlooking the Tiergarten . In a few weeks she was moving in the best Berlin society . Plentifully supplied with introductions , and with enough money to spend freely , she got into circles which diplomats frequented . She met the former Crown Prince of Germany and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . She met Ambassadors , Ministers and secretaries of embassies and legations . It was noticed her favors appeared to go to a handsome young man who was one of the secretaries in the Italian Embassy . It was presumed by his friends that they were in love . They frequentl ; were seen together at the opera , in restaurants and at theatres . Mme. P ? became a'regular guest at Italian Embassy entertainments . She Obtained Code in June . In June came the loss of the secret code by which the Italian Government communicated with its Berlin Ambassador . It was said she had persuaded her friend to lend it to her , promising to return it . But she did not return it . Despite all the efforts and entreaties of her secretary friend the code could not be brought back to the embassy . For three weeks the secretary was able to conceal the loss of the cipher book from his chief , Ambassador Marescotti , but finally a message ar- rived for the Ambassador personally . and ? ' when he demanded the code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to have confessed . The Italian Government naturally made no complaint to the Berlin police , but the secretary was sent back to Rome in company with three Secret Service men . It is said he was secretly tried by the Italian Foreign Office and received a sentence of exile to the Island of Ustica in the Mediterranean , where he is unable to communicate with friends or relatives . Other officials of the embassy also lost their posts and it is reported Premier Mussolini intends to revise the whole embassy staff . ' Two Italian agents keep Mme. under constant surveillance in an effort to recover the stolen code book . In August " she eluded her followers and got to Belgrade : Under an assumed name she felt safe for a few weeks but the Italian detectives found her . From Belgrade she made her way to Paris . Here the Italians soon found her again and for some reason not publicly known to the British Secret Service decided to keep watch on her . Night and day she was under guard , and it may be guessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discover for Whom she had taken the code book ? from the Italian Embassy in Berlin . Her nerves gave way under the strain and last Wednesday morning she went from Paris to London . But a telephone message reached London before she did . As she left Victoria Station at 4 o'clock in the company of a male friend , a tall dark man with a mustache and monocle. the two of whom had only one suitcase as baggage , she was trailed to the Imperial Hotel , where rooms had been reserved under an assumed name . The blond visitor had scarcely unpacked before an officer from Scotland Yard . called ? and told her he knew her identity and in curt tones informed her that the British Government desired her to . leave England at once . If she refused , it was added , the- police might feel doubt as to whether she . and her companion were married , and that it might lead to inquiries which would be followed by deportation under arrest . What did she intend to do ? She replied she would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that she did . ? What she will do now no one knows . She is being watched by Italian and French detectives . Doubtless the French would see that she received all the rights of asylum until some extraditable charge is made against her . Doubtless the Italians would like to get her over the frontier into the power of the Rome authorities . In any event , she is paying dearly from what ever reward she received - for abstracting the Italian code from the Berlin Embassy . Perhaps it was for , patriotism , perhaps.it was for money , or perhaps for both . In return she is a hunted woman . One wonders if the little blond woman gets any thrill out of being trailed by secret agents of three great European powers . Surely she can testify that all the romance , has not gone out of international relations .                     