@@685634

txt Mexican Petroleum Co. will earn $20 a share on the common stock during the current year at prespnt rate of earnings . During the first four months of this year it earned $4.39 a share on the $40,826,400 common stock outstanding at the end of April , after all charges , taxes and preferred dividend . The common stock has been increased by the distribution of a 10% stock dividend . The increased earnings are due to heavier shipments of oil from Mexico , and further expansion in shipments is looked for on completion of the company 's new 10-inch line from Cerro Azul to Tampico , which is expected to be about September 1 . Part of this line already is finished and in operation , which makes it possible for the company to ship out of Mexico 100,000 barrels of oil a day . On completion of the line the company will handle 125,000 barrels of oil a day . A few years ago this amount of oil would have been regarded as fantastic by most people , but this achievement is merely in keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fact it would have been accomplished two years ago except for the war which restricted the development of the Mexican fields and delayed the use of oil as marine fuel . Shipment of this quantity of oil means that the company must load more than a tank steamer every day . The larger tankers carry approximately 100,000 barrels of oil a trip but their capacity for the most part is 75,000 to 80,000 barrels . New tankers are being built capable of carrying about . 125,000 barrels of oil . Drilling campaign in Mexico is proceeding rapidly , the first well expected to he completed , Zacamixtle No. 1 , now - being down more than 1,900 feet . This is a new field so that the actual depth of the oil sand can be ascertained only by drilling . In the Casiano field , about a dozen miles to the north , the oil sand is reached at a depth of 2,100 feet . In Cerro Azul , a few miles to the south , Mexican-Petroleum struck its big-well at a depth of around 1,750 feet . Drilling , conditions. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no shallow sands exist which might form the basis of estimating the approximate depth . When oil is struck it gushes out without much warning . It appears that in drilling Zacamixtle No. 1 , a stray gas pocket was encountered which gave rise to premature reports of the successful completion of this well . This is only one of several wells being drilled by Mexican Petroleum Co. , and only one feature of the active campaign of drilling now under way in Mexico by all companies . Approximately 70 wells are being drilled in the various fields , mostly in the southern territory . Derricks have been erected for the drilling of about 15 others , while locations have been made for 70 additional wells , making a total of 150 on which work is proceeding .                     