@@693376

txt The Christmas holiday season is a good time , to remember the quail and other game birds that are passed up by Santa Claus on his annual trip to dispense gifts .. The season following the holidays is usually the worst of the year for the little Bob Whites , for during January and February the middle west Is likely to offer snow and sleet storms which cut off the natural food supplies of the game birds . With their food buried under a mantle of snow and ice the Bob 1Thites often perish . Farm owners , conservation organizations , and even individual sportsmen can play Santa Claus to the quail and have a lot of fun at the same time by establishing feeding stations for the birds . One of the most efficient methc , ds of presenting such a Christmas gift to the quail is to make one or more cornstalk shelters in which granary sweepings , wheat , rye , or other grains can be placed for the birds . Or grain may be scattered in thickets which arc the natural roosting places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may mean the saving of many Bob Whites during the severe winter weather . VEECK CALLED TO TESTIFY ON BASEBALL DEAL New York , Dec. 23 . ? ( Special. ) - William Week of the Chicago Cubs will be examined before Allan W. Cook in the Union Trust building in Chicago starting Jan. 5. in the suit of William F. Baker , president of the National league 's Philadelphia baseball club , against the New York Herald and William 0 . on account of an article about weak teams which wrote shortly before the Herald 's merger with the Tribune . Although neither lawyers for the defendants nor counsel for the president of the Mille &; would go Into details as to why the testimony of Week was necessary in defense of Baker 's suit , It was authoritatively stated that among the things on which Week is to be interrogated is the amount the Cubs paid Baker fur Grover Cleveland . Alexander and Bill Iiillefer , then catcher for the Phillies . The reported price was 155,000 for the famous pitcher and catcher . Week 's books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receipts of the games the Plantes played in Chicago , the allegations In the Herald article having been that Baker sold off his good players after winning Hie pennant In 1915 and was content to remain tear the bottom of the league . BOYLE BEATS DE MARCO. riffladelPiam . Der i2:1. ? iSpoelat.1 ? 73uek7 Boyle of Allentown , defeated Johan/ De Marco of this city In trn rounds tonight . ' no fudges diedKrt ,  - -  1. and Itef rave Gramm-an a , 11 the bout to the Allentown lightweight .                     