@@695892

txt Wall Street waited down town yesterday until long after the close to learn the outcome of the weekly Federal Reserve meeting . It was not until nearly 7 o'clock that word came there was " no announcement . " Stocks were subjected to further heavy selling In the morning hours of yesterday 's session . Large offerings were thrown on the market as a result of liquidating recommendations made by several Stock Exchange houses . Professional operators were also active on the selling side . due to the desire in trading circles to go lightly until the results of the Federal Reserve meeting were known . However . the principal trading stocks encountered good support on price recessions . Energetic attempts to extend the morning losses were resisted . and the general list developed strong rallying tendencies in the early afternoon This recovery was helped along by comfortable conditions in the demand loan market . Plentiful funds were available at the official call rate of GL. ' and some borrowers secured accommodations outside at Special strength developed in a number of individual issues . Anaconda was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split two-for-one . and the new shares offered on an even exchange basis for thilninority interest in Andes Copper . InternatioWal Mercantile Marine preferred also moved ahead briskly in response to rumors that directors were considering a payment of $10 a share on behalf of the back dividends on the issue . However , buying was hesitant about following prices up . and trading in the general hat during the last hour was characterized by great irregularity . The weekly statement of the Bank of England was studied with great interest , to learn the effects of the recent advance of 1% in the institution 's rediscount rate to 512% . Showing . as of February 14 , demonstrated that the increase had been effective in stopping the outflow of gold . Bullion reserves gained slightly to above 1150,000,000 , which is generally regarded as the minimum to which this item should be allowed to fall . Reserve ratio was strengthened to 50.2% , against 46% the previous week , bringing the standing up to around the highest levels reached at this season since the war . This improvement was regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , and was looked upon as one of the considerations which would guide the Federal Reserve authorities in shaping their policy regarding rediscount rates . It was pointed out that several methods already proposed would do more harm than good . Particular importance was attached to ad. vices that the administration was not in agree merit with proposals to stop trading in cotton and other commodities . The attitude of the government was outlined as being to the effect that the commodities markets permit of free working of all factors which affect values and that interference with the operation of these factors would be a grave mistake . Speculative sentiment was considerably cheered by intimations from high Administration circles that it %VW : believed impracticable to curb speculation through legislative enactments . Important Treasury official expressed the opinion that any legislation intended to go sufficient length to curb speculation would harm business .                     