@@696079

txt Strengthening of the hide market recently has been beneficial to United States Leather Co. and business currently is considerably improved over that at any time since the opening of the year . The company , of course , is not making much profit at present prices and results for the first half will not be startling . nor make any fair comparison with those a year ago . Considered for the full year 1929 , however , officials are optimistic and the company is expected to make a satisfactory showing . United States Leather was fortunate In having a supply of lower priced hides since it purchased all the way down to the bottom and its position in this repect is as sound as that of any tanner today . Since last summer the leather industry has been passing through a rather trying period . Hide prices receded to a point where is was difficult to maintain the selling price of leather on a basis which would yield a profit . As a result , leather prices fell off sharply and competition was keenly felt . Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leather industry in the United States is competition with foreign leathers which come into the country duty-free . In this connection . Canada probably is the principal factor . Our neighbors impose a duty on imports and their industry is protected . On the other hand they can dump into this market at prices considerably below those necessary to insure a profit to American producers . The American industry has filed a brief with the House Ways and Means Committee at . Washington seeking tariff protection on leather , but requesting that hides be kept on the free list . A 10. ; ; - duty has been asked on leather and 20 ,  - -  e on harness . Although United States Leather has scrapped numerous tanneries. it still has some in reserve which can be brought into operation quickly . Its lumber business has been dormant for several years . but this department recently has shown betterment . The company 's glue subsidiary has been operating successfully , but Its business depends upon operation of the tanneries . Financial Status Strong Net income of U. S. Leather in 192S amounted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the previous year . the best since 1920 . On a share basis , the 1928 earnings were equal to $1.54 on the 397,010 common shares , and $5.54 on 249,743 shares of A stock , after allowance for prior preference dividends Company was in a strong financial position with current assets to current liabilities in the ratio of 10.4 to 1 . Due principally to larger inventories , in fact , the largest for many years past , working capital on December 31 , last , showed an increase of $5,636,168 , and totaled $31,972,433.                     