@@694241

txt The fate of the transoceanic airplane St. Raphael remained a mystery tonight , and hope for the safety of its three occupants , Princess LowensteinWertheim , Lieut . Col. Frederick F. Minchin and Captain Leslie Hamilton , was virtually abandoned . It is believed that the monoplane fell into the sea . With general acceptance of the probability that the three adventurers had joined the lengthening list of fliers who have lost their lives in " stunt " flights , it was learned here on good authority that legislation probably would be introduced in the Dominion Parliament discouraging such flights in Canada . on the ground that they harmed rather than helped aviation . The Canadian Government steamship Beothic has been enlisted in the search for the St. Raphael . The vessel has been engaged for the last month in Hudson Bay , carrying supplies to three airplane bases which are being established and to Churchill , which is to become the port for the bay . The Beothic started back four days ago , and her captain was ordered by radio this afternoon to stand in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign of the plane . He was told to watch for " wreckage . " On board the ship are a group of fliers from the Royal Canadian Air Force . An added note of pathos was added today to the apparent tragedy of the flight of the St. Raphael when it was learned that the young wife of Captain Hamilton , who is at a hotel eagerly waiting for news that does not come , had come here to effect a reconciliation with her husband , from whom she had been separated . Mrs. Hamilton 's trip to Ottawa from New York City was unknown to Captain Hamilton when he piloted the monoplane from Upavon airdrome on Wednesday morning . Mrs. Hamilton , her face drawn and white , clung to her confidence that Captain Hamilton and his companions would come safely through . Refusing to discuss the separation , Mrs. Hamilton said that she had sailed from Cherbourg three weeks ago for New York City . Word had reached her in Paris that her husband planned to take off on the ocean flight and , with a maid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two weeks . When the news of the start reached New York on Wednesday , she left at once for Ottawa . She had planned to be at Lindbergh Field just outside this city when the St. Raphael came down and , in the flush of the successful accomplishment of the first westward spanning of the ocean , to rejoin her youthful husband , with all differences at an end . Faith in Fliers ' Skill and Daring . While she received one reporter today in her suite in the Chateau Laurier , she insisted before granting the interview that her domestic affairs be not gone into . Later , when reporters again sought details about her plan to have become reconciled with her husband , Mrs. Hamilton said : " Oh , there 's nothing to that report . It is nonsense . . I 've heard it before . " " I have absolute faith that Leslie will be found , " she said today . " Both he and Colonel Minchin are regarded not only as superfliers , but as men of tremendous personal courage and resource in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many tight corners in his tithe and has come out of each with flying colors that I feel absolutely sure that he will be found . He and Colonel Minchin are an ideal team . Leslie is dashing and never worried , while the Colonel is calm and cautious . " I am frightfully disappointed for Leslie 's sake and for all their sakes that they did no ? reach their objec- tive , because I know that Leslie had counted on being the first to cross the Atlantic from east to west . " Mrs. Hamilton , who is 26 years old , tall , slender and dark , said that she would remain in Ottawa as long as any possibility existed of news of the plane being received . Later she will return to England by way of New York . 1,000 Square Miles to Be Searched . John A. Wilson , Director of Civilian Aviation for the Canadian Air Board , said that the search for the lost fliers was being pursued diligently , but that the vast region to be covered made the hunt slow . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land , which is regarded as doubtful , an area greater than 1,000 square miles would need to be gone over by the searchers . He said that the employment of aircraft in the search must necessarily be restricted , inasmuch as the number of landing fields was limited in the great stretches of territory in Newfoundland . Nova Scotia . New Brunswick and Eastern Quebec . Weeks might elapse , he said , even with airplanes in use , before any trace of the fliers was found . Mr. Wilson said that it was the belief of the Government air officials that the plane never got near land and that it had been forced down by weather or by engine trouble . He was outspoken in his views on the use of land planes for ocean flights , declaring that transoceanic flights , while they testified to the bravery of the fliers and gave data on motor reliability , accomplished little else of practical value to the science of aviation . Flight Regulations Submitted . " I deprecate the use of land planes in transoceanic flights , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at sea , whereas if seaworthy aircraft were used the crew would have a chance to make adjustments and resume the flight . If repairs could not be made , a seaplane would float for a time at least and the crew have a chance to be picked up . " As it is , with land planes the engine fails , and all those aboard can do is to go into the ocean and take to the uncertain safety of collapsible rubber rafts , which would last no time even in a moderate sea . " The carriage of wireless is also important It may not actually help the airplane in its flight , but at least it gives the possibility of help being sent to the plane promptly , and it also minimizes the region in which to search . " Mr. Wilson said that he had placed recommendations looking to the regulation of long-distance flights , such as races for prizes , before J. L. Ralston , Minister of National Defense Owing to the fact that the matter was now under consideration . he declined to discuss the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stunt " flying , if not absolutely prohibited , would be governed under stricter regulations by the Air Board and that Parliament would be asked to delegate broader powers to the board . The supervision would be only over airplanes licensed by Canada . If the Dominion decides to take its step toward sterner regulation of flights , it was said that nothing would be done that would hamper the development of commercial aviation , since the aim of the proposed legislation would be to foster flying .                     