@@684849

txt I want to be the medium through which the friend in deed and the friend in neesi may be brought together . It may be you have some discarded article which has not outgrown its usefulness that will make some less fortunate one happy , and you would gladly give it if YOU knew how to go about it . Write to me and I shall be only too happy - to be of service to YOU . Please write on one side of the paper . When information is wanted by mail a stamped , addressed envelope should accompany the request . Please do not send parcels to The Tribune , but write for the address of the applicant and send direct . Short of Wool . " I am making wool ear protectors for our handicapped men in the army hospitals . Do you think any readers who have odds and ends of khaki wool left from knitting sweaters would be willing to donate them to me ? I will gladly call or pay postage . I was so confident that I could gather enough among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my first 100 protectors have been tested these frosty days I am swamped with ' orders ' and getting low on wool . I will more than appreciate seeing this in your corner at art early date , as I spend a great deal of time with these worthy men , helping all I can , and know how grateful they are for our thoughtfulness of them . " C. M. P. " It will give me great pleasure to furnish the address of this good friend of the soldier . The economy and simplicity of cooking samp or big hominy is not widely enough understood . Pick over carefully one cup of big hominy , being sure to take out the flinty pieces , wash it in several waters , and add to it eight cups of cold water . Cook it In an aluminum kettle with a cover like those used for fireless kettles , hermetically sealed . Bring slowly to a boil , and after that finish the cooking over a fire turned to the lowest point it will keep alive or it that is too much as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mat over a low flame or on a coal stove . If properly cooked from three to five hours , the little liquid will jelly perfectly when cold . Add salt and stir it in after the hominy is cooked . Properly cooked , and served with cream and sugar , this will be as delicate as a vanilla flavored blanc mange , although no flavoring has been added . Those who like hulled corn and milk will like to eat this in the same way ? the hominy hot and the milk ice cold . Mush and milk are best also with the mush piping hot and the milk cold . Boiled hominy and butter or bacon fat make a palatable vegetable . It is highly correct to serve it with pork                     