@@690372

txt The stage is all set for the nomination of Senator Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin as candidate for the proposed new third party for President of the United States at the convention to be held at Cleveland on July 4 by the Conference for Progressive Political Action . The Senator is aware that he will be nominated early in the proceedings , and it is learned that he will accept . He is preparing a statement , which will be taken to the convention by an Executive Committee which will call upon him tomorrow , presenting an address in which he will be urged to assume the leadership of the third party movement at the hands of the convention . It is understood that the reply the Senator will make to this committee is not to be made public , out of courtesy to the Cleveland gathering , until it is read in the otinvention , but , that it Will leave no doubt where he stands . It will deal with the political situation as it appears to the senior Wisconsin Senator following the adoption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regards the Republican platform adopted at Cleveland as reactionary and unsatisfactory and does not think that of the Democrats will meet the situation . Senator La Follette has been advised that the convention will not be in session more than two days and that efforts will be made to complete its major work , the selection of nominees for President and Vice President and the adoption of a platform , on the first day Friday . Probable Planks of the Platform . It is expected that this platform will advocate repeal of the Esch-Cummins art , declare for public ownership of railroads , favor abolition of injunctions in labor disputes and of the power to punish for contempt without trial by jury ; public ownership and development of the nation 's water power ; reconstruction of the Federal Reserve system to provide for direct public control of national money and credit ; legislation to permit and promote cooperative banking ; the creation of a Government marketing corporation ; lowering of taxes oil , smaller incomes while imposing higher taxes in the upper brackets ; direct primary election of President and Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment to vest Congress with power by a two-thirds vote to override decisions of the United States Supreme Court . It is understood that the proposed name of the party is ' ' Progressive Party . " It is the intention to present the names of its candidates to the voters in every State in the Union and to designate Presidential electors to go on the ballot in each commonwealth . In some States , it is said , it will be necessary to have the names of the third party electors placed on the ballots as independents , as that is the only way in which they can be designated under the election machinery now in vogue . Vice Presidential Possiblllties . Although Senator La Follette appears to be the unanimous choice of those in charge of the convention for the third party Presidential nominee , no one , so far as can be ascertained , has been definitely picked for his running mate . There was a strong intimation tonight that Justice Louis P. Brandeis of the United States Supreme Court was being seriously considered . Senator La Follette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although born in Kentucky , Mr. Brandeis was appointed to the Supreme Court by President Wilson , on Jan. 28 , 3916 , from Boston ; and the ticket of " La Follette and Brandeis , " it is being argued by some leaders in the movement , would be geographically correct , linking the East and the West . Others being considered for the Vice Presidency are Warren S. Stone of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers , senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana , Colonel Huston Thompson , Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission , and former Representative Victor Murdock of Kansas . Representative Huddieston of Alabama has been mentloned , but it is understood that , having been renominated for Congress as a Democrat , he does not feel that he ought to accept nomination on a third party ticket . In addition to the committee representing the Conference for Progressive Political Action , a committee headed by W. P. Raleigh of Freeport , Ill. , will call upon Senator La Follette tomorrow to present petitions from the " La Follettefor-President " clubs which are being formed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said , have been signed by more than 250,000 persons and urge Mr. La Follette to run as an independent . The convention at Cleveland will it is stated , be composed of representatives of sixteen railroad brotherhoods , the farmers ' National Council , various State federations of labor , the Non-Partisan League , the farmer-labor unions of Oklahoma and Texas . the Farmer-Labor Parties of several States , the Progressive Party of Idaho , many grain organizations , farmers , equity societies . cooperative organizations and other organizations of " progressive " voters . There are also committees of women working in close cooperation with the conference for the purpose of linking the woman auxiliaries of farm and labor organization with the masculine makeup of the convention .                     