@@691799

txt If the examination of prospective immigrants abroad , just inaugurated in England , proves successful , it will no longer be possible to charge that the administration of the restriction law works hardships on those admitted to this country . This charge , to be sure , has not been substantiated under the law of 1924 , but goes back to the temporary measure of 1921 and 1922 , under which it was possible for persons to cross the Atlantic only to be refused admission . Ever since July 1 , 1924 , there has been such complete control abroad that the number of persons rejected at Ellis Island has been very small . The latest experiment goes even further than had been anticipated , and enables the prospective immigrants to be examined before they sail , so that when itheY board the ship they will know that they , will be admitted , barring some unforeseen disaster or epidemic . It is hoped that the new methods will make it possible to dispense entirely with the Ellis Island inspection . The practice until the beginning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nearest American consulate , furnishing stipulated data about himself and family . He was then given a number on the quota . Upon purchasing his steamship tickets he was subjected to a careful examination by the shipping authorities , as , under existing laws , they are obliged to pay for the return voyage of rejected immigrants . Under the new practice the immigrant applies by letter to the consulate , and is given a number and an appointment to call for examination . He is then turned over to the medical inspectors . If their report is unfavorable , he is rejected forthwith . If it is favorable , he completes the examination and obtains his Immigrant certificate , which entitles him to travel within specified dates , depending on the monthly quotas . Students of immigration restriction have long been agreed that examination abroad was highly desirable . Heretofore there have been practical details which threatened to make an efficient examination impossible and which may still prevent the adoption of this system in some of the Continental countries . Under the old attitude toward emigration and immigration many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine prospective immigrants . The question was the subject of diplomatic interchange on numerous occasions , the foreign Governments resenting this apparent extension of American control . Great Britain today seems not to be bothered by these technicalities . She accepts the fact that examination abroad is the most humane and sensible method of control and does not see in it any desire of the American Government to usurp power . If , after a fair trial , the system works well there , it will undoubtedly serve as a precedent for those nations which have heretofore objected to such examinations . English papers , still perpetuating the myth of the " horrors of Ellis Island , " express the hope that this means that Immigrants henceforth will be landed in America without passing through that gateway . The station , never as bad as the English painted it , was modernized a year or more ago . If for administrative reasons it proves advisable to continue the practice of landing the immigrants there , no just criticism of their treatment can be made . It is only necessary to compare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see that everything possible is being done to eliminate all unnecessary obstacles and hardships .                     