@@685989

txt Evidence of an improved relationship between labor and capital which holds out promise of greater stability and prosperity after the present Period Of readjustment la accunmlating In the news . Herbert lIoovr 's speech before the American Engineer ing council , In which he pointed the way to closer cotiperatIon between employers and workmen , comes with practical and convincing , optImIsm upon the heels of the recent constructive action of the executive council of the American Federation of Labor . The federation council has acted to eliminate radlcaliszn from the leadership of organized labor and Put In its place a program designed to build up , not to tear down , prosperity . In so doing It perpetuates tho best features of organized labor 's progress luring the war . War conditions and demands gave labor an unequaled opportunity for improving its condition . It used this o1 portunity reasonably , on the whole . It demanded and obtained better wages and better working conditions and an improved standard of living , but In so doing It did not drive employers to the wall . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , with the exception of the outlaw tiwitchmen , stuck by their contracts In the face of what tit'emed a sacrifice at the time , and obtained a betterment of condidons by orderly methods . In the emergency of war most labor leaders advised and maintained production . It was only fair that they also obtained better wages and conditions , as the employers Were doing . The radical element , which might have threatened our success was kept In a small minority . The federation IS proving its consistency in the present period of readjustment . It is showing a realization of the economic fart that each workman can obtain from his labor only what some other xvorkinan produces . The IndlvId ? uai bricklayer is appreciating the fact that if tho individual shoemaker fails to make a good pair of shoes in a reasonable time a good Pair of shoes can not be bought at a reasonable price . The furniture maker is realizing that if a carpenter fails to complete houses as quickly and as well as possible there will be little demand for furniture for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both labor and capital make of the present readjustment period a rare opportunity for the cementing and strengthening of friendship between the two . Each is dependent upon the other . To a considerable extent each merges into the other . Many workers have become capitalists on a small : wale . They realize the importance of protection of property rights and the orderly processes of production and good govermnent . They are good , substantial citizens . If conditions were used to force such thrifty , loyal citizens to liquidate their savings because of lack of employment both business national interests would suffer . Both employers and employ &s; are nuiv of a mind to be , reasonable . A great opportunity for stabilization and assurance of mutual advantage is before us . : Mr. Hoover 's speech and the action of the fed ? oration council makes us hopeful that this oPPortunity Sir being grasped .                     