@@689561

txt Five years after the hoarse throats of the long line of cannon stretching from Belport to the sea thundered the final victory salvos of a war fought to make the world safe for democracy and to end all wars . Europe on . ArmistiCa Day 1923 faces a new crisis in which democracy is exceedingly unsafe and in which the danger- of war is not ended . On just such a Fall day as that on which ho and his father fled from their angry and disappointed nation to the safety of the Dutch dunes , the War Lord 's heir returned to the fatherland today , a short time before the allied Ministers presented to the Dutch Government a prayer to keep the Crown Prince away from Germany and trouble making . The allied Ministers called at the Hague Foreign OffIce this afternoon . ! but the bird had flown since dawn . Contemporaneously the German Gov1 ernment sent to Paris a refusal , polite but firm , to facilitate resumption in Germany of interallied military control . It is to be noted that England and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was England which asked France to co-operate in keeping the Crown Prince out of Germany , and the British Ambassador signed M. Poincard 's ultimatum on military control . The situation in Europe could scarcely be more confused . The Crown Prince returns to Germany , but returns twentyfour hours after a most lamentable of fort at the establishment of a dictatorship by his chief agent , von Ludendorff . Von Ludendorff has failed to establish in Germany a. militarist and monarchist dictatorship which France has declared she would not accept . But he was squelched , not by the soi-disant Republican Stresemann , but by the monarchist vch Kahr , who is working to place on the German throne a Wittelsbach King rather than a Hohenzollern King favored by Ludendorff . Von Kahr , who triumphs today , is an avowed opponent of the execution of the Treaty of Versailles and just as anxious as Ludendorff for a war of revenge against Prance . In the meantime reports come from Berlin that Stresemann may resign in despair at any time . The Paris papers tonight t tint sich , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wieringen and his fond farewell to the inhabitants in which he indicated he did not expect to be back for quite a while , and the allied note to the Dutch Government . At the same time is published the allied note to Berlin protesting against the granting of a passport to the Crown Prince . There does not seem to be any clear idea in Paris as to what the Crcwn Prince is planning -o do , but Paris takes the position , whatever it ' S. It bodes no good for Franc . ' The rapidity with white respectable sized armed bodies have come into lioing since the ? diltavv contr ? 1 was en led. following the occupation of the Ruhr , /las deeply worried the French as indicating how quickly Germany with t ' -e militarists in control r. - ? . trit be able to rebuild an army of rove : fp .. That erneasiness accounts for M. PoincarlYs demand that allied officers resume vierr duty of watching on the : snot to see thriA Germany does not have more troops than her army of 100,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to share the French idea t ' , at military liberty for ? o:I-many is as dangerous today as naval lberty was in the days when Get many started buildInv a fleet to rival Fngle.vi . It will be recalled that on Nov. 3 the Ambassador 's note signed by M. Poincard called on Germany to notify the Allies not later than today whether Berlin intended to take measures assuring the safety of the allied control officers and facilitating their task . German , in reply says in short this is a very bad time for allied officers to carry on in  --  estigations in Germany and asks the Allies kindly to wait until more propitious times . To wait is exactly what M. Poincar6 does not want to do . The German note further points out that Germany is pretty much in a condition of chaos today and expresses the opinion that control operations would produce not only foreign complications but domestic complications and ends , " Consequently the German Government prays the Conference of Ambassadors to adjourn its demands under the force of circumstance . " The Conference of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply . It is reported M. - F'oincare care is drafting a plan of action . Allies to Demand Expulsion of Prince . PARIS . Nov. 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? The entente Allies will insist vigorously at Berlin that former Crown Prince Frederick Wilhelm . who entered Germany today from his exile in Holland , be expelled from German territory , it was said in official circles this afternoolt . France and Great Britain have exchanged views during the past few days on this subject , it is stated , and are in entire accord regarding it . It is understood the measures the French Government intends taking , in accord with the Allies , have already been decided upon . Their nature has not been officially announced , but- no attempt is made to hide the deplorable impression which the event has created . The appaterit connivance of the German , Government in the Crown Prince 's return is regarded in official circles as particularly grave . indicating that Chancellor Stresemann is amenable to Nationalist influence and opening up the prospect of a possible coup d'etet in Prussia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success . The secretaries of the Council of Ambassadors met tonight to draft the agenda for the next meeting of the council , fixed for Monday . The vexed question of the former German Crown Prince 's return to Germany will be the chief subject discussed by the Ambassadors . " In the name of the Allied Governments represented in the Council of . Ambassadors , I have the honor to request you to transmit urgently to your Government the following note : " Press dispatches have announced that the German Government had authorized the ex-Crown Prince to return to Germany . Although the exactness of the information has been officially confirmed in Berlin , the Allied Governments refused to believe the German Government could have taken a decision of such gravity , whatever may be the motives advanced to justify it . The German Government can be under no misapprehension regarding the deplorable impression such a return would produced in all the Allied countries , whether it were officially authorized or merely tolerated . " Under these conditions it is the duty of the allied Governments to draw this situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to inform them with the briefest delay if the information they receive el is true . " The French Superior Council of National Defense , which includes Marshal Foch and all the high military authorities . was in session this afternoon at the Palace of the Elysee under the Presidency of President Millerand . The new situation in Germany was the subject for discussion at the meeting of , the Superior Council of National Defense . The Government is in possession of information showing rather widespread agitation in laver of the substitution of autocratic power for tale present Government , preferably in the shape of restoration of the monarchy , but the rivalry between the partisans of the Hohenzollerns and the Wittelebachs is greatly weakening the force of the movement . ' In any case , if such reaction is bound to come , the Allies would much prefer that it come now than ten years hence . There is great confidence in . French military and Governmental circles that the movement , if it became dangerous to the general peace or threatened to nulify the Treaty of Versailles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courteous talk with M. de Margerie yesterday , is understood to have assured the French Ambassador of his determination to put down any such movement . The Allies are none the less determined that the former Crown Prince shall not be allowed to remain in Germany if they can help it , because of the likelihood that he may at any time be chosen as the standard bearer of the revolutionaryparties . Although the Treaty of Versailles does not mention the Hohenzollerns other than the former Kaiser , it is held in allied circles that , they being on the list of war guilty , there is ample ground for demanding action by the Reich to prevent their bKorning a disturbing element . The initiative in the action by the Allies concerning the former Crown Prince was taken by Great Britain , whose proposition to intervene at The Hague was approved by Premier Polocare . Since that action proved too late , the Allies , through the Ambassadors ' Council , will decide on another line of action , which is expected to be a summons to Germany either to deliver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies as one of the war guilty or see that he is placed in a safe spot where his movements can be so controlled as to prevent another escapade.                     