@@696813

txt Joseph A. Broderick , State Superintendent of Banks , and a staff of bank examiners completed their check of the County Trust Company yesterday , an audit undertaken on Saturday following the disclosure that James J. Riordan , president of the bank , had committed suicide on Friday . Mr. Broderick said the trust company was unusually strong . " Our completed examination , " he said , " confirms what I said last night . namely , that the bank is not only liquid , but is in splendid corbeltion and:worthy of every public confidence . " The doors of the ' institution , at Eighth Avenue and Fifteenth Street . will be opened at the regular hour this morning . Few withdrawals are expected in the face of the official report of the State Superintendent , ' but a group of wealthy friends of the dead president stand ready to demonstrate their affection for him in a practical way . It was learned last night that the group expects to open the trust company 's day with deposits of . great sums . Some will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will open new accounts . The group , it was said , was prepared to put in a dollar for every dollar that might be withdrawn . Suicide Motive Undisclosed . While the bank was being shown as " even stronger than the average institution , " the motive that drove Mr. Riordan , reputed to be a millionaire several times over . to shoot himself through the temple in his home at 21 West Twelfth Street , remained undisclosed . Reports that he had overinvested in stocks persisted , as did his friends ' denial of speculation , but it was insisted that whatever his market ventures had been , there had been no link between them and the trust company he headed . Former Governor Alfred E. Smith , ? William F. Kenny , William H. English and John J. Raskob , all friends of the dead man , visited the trust company offices yesterday . They remained only twenty minutes and then left . Mr. English , who was elected on Saturday night to succeed Mr. Riordan temporarily , was asked about reports that funds had been supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles Norris , Chief Medical Examiner , acting , as he said , at the request of the family and of friends , had suppressed news of the suicide . Dr. Norris declared he had been requested to violate the rules of his office so that patrons might not put the bank at a disadvantage during the half-day banking period of Saturday . " It is absolutely untrue , " said Mr. English . " that any director , officer or other person put any money or securities into the bank for any purpose after Mr. Riordan 's death . " So far as I know . Mr. Riordan was not involved in the stock market , but , whether he was or not , I do know that he did not borrow a penny from the bank or from any director for the stock market or for any other purpose . " Calls Cause a Mystery . Mr. English said that he had talked to former Governor Smitn and to Mr. Kenny on the death of their friend . He declared that he was utterly at a loss to account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mystery to them ? all . He said that he did not expect withdrawals today . Mr. Raskob , who was elected temporary chairman of the board of directors , said that he had merely dropped in at the bank for a moment or two . He asserted that he knew nothing of any stocl- speculation by the dead hanker and added that Mr. Riordan had not borrowed from the trust company for any . purpose . The State examiners also reported this . ' temporary Insanity , Says Norris . ' Mile the Catholic ecclesiastical authorities were issuing a dispensation lifting the church 's ban on burial of suicides in consecrated ground . Dr. Norris was officially reporting that Mr. Riordan was of unsound mind when he shot himself . The death certificate filed by the Chief Medical Examiner attributed the banker 's death to " a gunshot wound in the and head , selfinflicted while he was in a condition of temporary insanity . " Dr. Norris had not treated Mr. Riordan prior to his death . He first saw the dead man at 7:30 P. M. on Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slumped in a chair in his bedroom , at 5:50 P. M. The discovery was made by J. P. Geagan , a brother-in-law of Mr. Riordan and a director of the trust company . Mr. Geagan and his wife occupy a floor in- the Riordan home . The medical examiner 's theory of insanity , he admitted , was based on conversations he had had with Dr. James Clarke and Dr. Raymond P. Sullivan . Dr. Clark had been treating the banker during the two weeks preceding his death for an extreme nervous condition , bordering on melancholia . Dr. Sullivan , a prominent surgeon who has attended Governor Smith , was called in when the body was found .. " I arrived at that conclusion , " said Dr. Norris , " after considering all the facts available to me . All of his friends to whom I had talked and his attending ? physicians . Dr. Clark and Dr. Sullivan , reported to me that Mr. Riordan had been terribly depressed for a period of about two weeks . " The phyiscians said they ' - feared that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breakdown . At no time did I glean any information that would explain his mental condition . That he may have lost heavily in Wall Street may account for it , but I do not know granted by Bishop Jchn J. Dunn , acting in the absence abroad - of Cardinal- Hayes . It was issued on the application of the Rev. Patrick Drain . rector- of St. Bernard 's Roman Catholic Church , of which Mr. Riordan was a parishioner . The application declared that Mr : Riordan had committed suicide while of unsound mind . The church prohibition does not apply against persons who take their lives while insane . Mass to Be Said Tomorrow . The solemn high mass- of requiem for the dead- banker will be ' said at 31 A. M. tomorrow in St. Bernard 's , which . Is in West Fourteenth Street . between Eighth and Ninth Avenues . It is probable that there will be no ' honorary pallbearers. although a final decision on that was left until today . The . wishes ? of . the family are that the funeral be private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the home to view the body . Hundreds of ' floral pieces were delivered and messages of condolencepoured in on the family , which consists of two daughters , Elizabeth and Florence ; two sons , James and Robert . and two sisters . Mrs. Geagan and Mrs. John J. Murray . Governor and Mrs. Roosevelt were among the callers . They were followed shortly after by Lieut .. , Goir . Herbert H. Lehman , who remained in the house fifteen minutes . During the afternoon the lines of automobiles on both ' sides of the street extended virtually- from- Fifth to Sixth Avenue . Among - those who called at the home lass night were former Governor and.Mrs . Smith and Alfred E. Smith Jr. , John F. Gilchrist , chairman of the Transit Commission ; Public Service Commissioner . George R : Van Namee , William F. Kenney and his brother . - rE .. J. Kenney ; t.andDaniel J. Mooney , MrRiordan s - attorney.                     