@@696240

txt The west side improvement is rapidly approaching final agreement . There are still irreconcilables on the subject . of Borough President MILLER 'S motor highway , and the experts are divided as to the best way of routing it along the Hudson north of Seventy-second Street , but the arrangement with ? the New York Central for the removal of its tracks from " Death Avenue " and the underlying features of the plan itself have been widely approved . Current criticism*. relates mainly to details , especially to - design . The Mayor 's special committee made the novel suggestion that ' where the new elevated freiglit railroad on the loWer west side , crossed city streets it should be by means of covered bridges , to hide the trains from view . When the representative of the Citizens Union , ? discussing the treatment of these structures from an architectural point of view , proposed that their design be referred to the Municipal , Art Commission , ' Mayor WALKER remarked : It has taken us forty years to bring about this improvement , and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red tape . Because this is a vast public improvement , consummated only after many years of effort , it is all the more important that the plans should be carefully scrutinized . Already they have had the benefit of expert analysis on the esthetic side at the hands of the committee headed by Park Commissioner HERRICK , which dealt chiefly with the landscape features along Riverside . Normally the new Structure 's involved in the elevated road to the south would come before the Art Commission for approval . The law requires that they take that course . Perhaps the Mayor has not read over lately the provision of the charter giving the commission , jOrisdiction , not only over " pliblie buildings and monuments but over " arches , bridges , " structures and approaches which " are the : property of any corpora " tion or private individual , and " which shall extend over or upon " any street . " Apropos of Mr. suggestion , the'Mayor revealed the fact that three different portraits of Mayor MITCHEL had been submitted to the Art Commission by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . had been rejected . That must have been a disagreeable duty for the commission , but if it regarded the portraits as clearly unfitted for the collection in City Hall , it had no other recourse . One of its principal tasks is to protect the city from well-intentioned monuments and memorials lacking in artistic distinction . The Mayor need have no fear lest submission of the west side structures to the commission should result in undue delay . To be sure the old State Art Commission used to vex Governor SMITH on occasion by haggling too long over the designs submitted to it . The city charter deals ruthlessly with any such possible manifestation of the artistic temperament on the ' part of its commission . If it fails to decide upon any matter submitted to it within sixty days , " its decision shall be deemed unnecessary . " ?                     