@@686258

txt Great Britain has made several advances to the United States government with a view to cancellation of that country 's debt to this country . This information was disclosed to the senate committee on foreign relations today by David F. Houston , secretary of the treasury . The advances were made during the Versailles peace eon .. ferule ? and have been repeated since. , In every historic ? proposed negotia- ! tions have been disapproved by the treasury department . The Information given the committee today by Secretary Houston confirms the statements recently made by J. Austen Chamberlain , the British chancellor of the exchequer , Mr. Chamberlain said that the British government had proposed it cancellation of allied indebtedness and added that the proposition had ' not received . favorable the support of the United States , whereupon the proposition  --  was dropped . Secretary Houston appeared before the committee at his own request . Prance Did Not Ask Action . France has not proposed the cancel-lotion of her debt , although the French government , sounded this government on the matter . Owing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal requests . The sounding was done during the time that Senator Carter Glass of Virginia was secretary of the treasury . ? Secretary Houston explained his position with respect to foreign loans and the negotiations for the replacement of short time securities with long time I obligations . Secretary Houston repeated the assurances he recently conveyed by letter to Chairman Lodge of the committee ' that no more credits would be established during the short period that remains before Secretary Houston quits office , NVIISMI Offered Help ? : Members of the foreign committee let it be known today that they have had in their possession fur some time information to the effect that President Wilson at the Paris Peace conference premised to use his Influence , after ratification of . the treaty . to induce congress to agree to the cancellation of the allied Indebted ? ness to the United States amounting to about $10,000,000,000 . According to the information ; the British representatives first proposed the cancellation of the debt . President Wilson declined to agree to this on the grou nd that he lacked authority , hut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter before the American people and congress immediately alter , the ratification of t he Versailles treaty . The information , if correct . throwi interesting light on the desire of Dig ? itritish to get America to ratify the treaty and their willingness to accept . any reservations , according to one member of the committee . After the rejection of thrr treaty , the British proposals were renewed , but the administration held that it airs not bound to take any action .                     