@@686587

txt Pope BENEDICT ' S appeal for conciliation in Ireland follows the general lines of the proposal lately urged upon the British Government by Sir HORACE PLUNKETT and others . The essence of it is that both murders by Sinn Feiners and reprisals by the Crown forces be called off and that another Irish Convention be summoned . The previous one , over which Sir HORACE himself presided , was openly spit upon by the ' Irish Republicans and came to nothing . A similar attempt might have a better chance now . For one thing , Ulster has ceased to be sworn to the Union and is soon to have a separate Parliament of her own . She will strongly desire to arrive at some basis of living and trading with the South of Ireland . If Irishmen of all parties and sections could ever get together amicably in order to debate and agree upon a national policy , it might seem that the present occasion would be most inviting . The sticking point is in Sinn Fein . Till now , the stern ' and unbending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an absolutely independent Ireland . If they should persist in that attitude , they would wreck any Irish convention . ' Ulster would split off from them . England would never submit to the initial demand of entire independence . In his recent rejection of LLOYD GEORGE 'S advances , Mr. DE VALERA declared that any negotiations would be futile which did not begin by conceding an uncontrolled Irish Republic . After that , Ireland would be very magnanimous toward England . Englishmen would be ? allowed to purchase all that Ireland wished to sell to them and to send to Ireland such goods as the Irish desired . And the Irish Republic might graciously promise not to allow its ports to be used as submarine bases from which to attack England . In a word , just grant to the Sinn Feiners their whole case , and they will be both decent and charming about all the rest . If the Pope has information that there may be a retreat from this impossible position , he is quite right to urge a meeting of minds in Ireland . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicion and abuse have at once showed their heads , even as against the highest dignitaries of the Church . Yet all must hope that Pope BENEDICT 'S words will fall gratefully upon the ears of both Irish and English ready to seek an adjustment , and so help to lead to the ending of the long misery and reproach in Ireland .                     