@@685390

txt TOPICS OF THE TIMES . All good citizens will commend both the sentiments expressed in a resolution introduced last week by Senator THOMAS of Colorado and the action it proposed . That is because the resolution denounced " all indignities toward the official representatives or the flag of any foreign nation with which the United States is at peace , " and called upon local authorities everywhere " to utilize pm lawful means " for preventing such violations of the international proprieties . The Senator , of course , was moved to prepare this resolution by the burning of a British flag in front of the Treasury Building by some misguided women who thought thus to promote the cause of Irish independence . At first thought one inclines to see in the Senator 's exhortation to " the authorities " more than an intimation that those of Washington had not done their duty by Inflicting deserved punishment on the perpetrators of what undoubtedly was a serious offense  --  an offense which , in easily imaginable circumstances , might have most deplorable results . On further reflection , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seeming failure to vindicate this country 's intention and power to guard friendly nations from insult . While it is obvious that " all lawful means " were not utilized to make the flag-burners realize the gravity of their transgression , the fact that there has been as yet no further insulting of Great Britain by the women who had started out with the obvious purpose of making trouble between England and America if they could show that something certainly effective and presumably lawful was done to make them behave themselves decently , at least for a time . Resort to milder methods , whatever they were , than prosecution in court , and fine or imprisonment after the inevitable conviction , was the exercise of a permitted discretion . in all probability beyond reasonable criticism of the adverse kind . While the Washing ton authorities are to be commended for not getting more excited over the flag-burning incident than did the British representatives in our capital , it is nevertheless well that the Thomas resolution was introduced . Its adoption may be needless , but even its presentation will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international peace and good-will by insulting other Governments that there are penalties for such acts as theirs , and that if occasion should arise those penalties could and would be imposed . It would be too much to hope that the members of the particular group that burned the British flag were convinced by argument that what they did was foolish from every point of view , as well as wrong . They probably are beyond the reach of logic or persuasion , but at any rate they have seen cause of some sort for suspending their lawless activities . That will be noted with satisfaction by the real ' friends of Ireland  --  the friends whose efforts in behalf of a settlement of her ancient feud inevitably are hampered by crimes committed in her name . Among the New York Guard regiments that are finding more difficulty than they should , just now , in getting recruits is the famous Seventh . Certainly the appeals of its officers to the pride and patriotism of the city for men ' with whom to fill the Seventh 's honorable ranks should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was never claimed that the Seventh was the only good New York regiment or that its members were braver than our other guardsmen . But they did rank always with the very best , and the regiment 's record as a school of officers for other military organizations , in both peace and war , is one which the word " creditable " inadequately describes . At the time of tile war with Spain the Seventh passed through a period of harsh criticism , which was followed by a brief season of popular disfavor . Both the criticism and the disfavor , however , were for the most part due to misunderstandings of the facts , in as well as out of the regiment , and the services rendered by it , then as always , deserved the appreciation they received from the well infornied . Any young man who realizes the needs and dangers of this time should be eager to seize an opportunity to Join a regiment with such a history as that of the Seventh . Incidentally , the young man properly can give a little thought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , track athletics , tennis , baseball and an armory with all the advantages  --  and facilities of a good club . There is just about as much chance that the United States would buy , as that France would offer to sell , her two islands in the West Indies , and that chance is no chance at all . Still , such a transaction has been suggested in Paris as an easy way to pay a part of France 's debt to this country , and from some points of view it would be such an easy way that it Is sure to receive more attention than , as a practical proposal , it deserves . The Danes could sell St. Thomas because it was so very small , and the ' great part of its white population was not of Danish blood . Martinique and Guadeloupe are different . For one thing , they are big islands , as islands in the Lesser Antilles go , and their inhabitants , all of them , white and black and in between , are as French as French can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , in historic associations , and the disposal of them for money would be bitterly opposed wherever French is spoken . If we needed some more West Indian islands we could n't do better than take these , as quite the finest in the whole string running down from Porto Rico to Barbados . But we are well supplied both with islands and with race problems already , and we would n't be likely to take any more , even as a gift .                     