@@695985

txt Stock market yesterday continued to reflect the nervousness - which exists at the moment . There were periods of reaction and rallies , following each other closely . When stocks moved forward they encountered pressure from traders and profit taking from outsiders , which halted the upward movement and started reactions . On the setbacks . short covering and some new buying developed , but there was no attempt to rally the market substantially . Call money was easier again . The rate went to 6es on the Stock Exchange during the afternoon , and it was reported that loans had been made in outside circles as low as St. ' e . However . this had little influence , it being argued that the case was only temporary , and that call funds would be scarce and much higher beginning next week and running to the end of the Insath . Sentiment is more mixed than ever . Many students admit that the market has them puzzled . and they are unwilling to made a prediction as to what the next important movement will be . Quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should depend almost entirely on technical conditions within the market itself . Conservatives favor taking profits on the upturns and thus reducing long holdings . so that any sharp break will find accounts in position to withstand the shock without forcing the sacrifice of securities . Professionals who are optimistic maintain the good stocks should be purchased on reactions for higher prices later on . but admit that few are willing to follow this advice just now . Trading Commission houses were less active in the market than in some time . There was some new buying on the reactions , but this was more than offset by profit taking during minor rallies , and the leading firms again were credited with having sold on balance . Professionals and floor traders contributed most to the day 's dealings . They were on both sides of the market , but the short covering was said to have been greater than the pressure , and as a result this element bought on balance . Ineestnient Trust liquidation That there has been liquidation of investment trust holdings in some stocks is the growing opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is anything heard of selling by these trusts , but profits frequently are taken without much publicity . The action of many of the leading stocks recently has convincea observers that profits have been taken on at least part of their holdings by some of the investment trusts The Reser% e Rate The number of market interests who would welcome some action by the local Federal Reserve Bank on its rediscount rate is surprising . These operators contend that the uncertainty which has been created by this possibility hanging over the market has been responsible for many of the reactions which have developed With action taken , the factor will be out of the way and the market could right itself again . they argue . Contentions made in these quarters are that an advance in the rate would be merely meeting a condition that has been known and has existed for a considerable time . It would be one of the steps taken by the Federal Reserve Board to curb excessive speculation , but quite a few observers believe its effect on the market would be only temporary if business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past few months . The English Rate An advance in the Bank of England 's discount rate was made five weeks ago for the purpose of helping sterling which was under pressure and which resulted in a gold export movement from England . The raise in the rate had for its purpose also the conservation of England 's gold . Any upward revision in the rediscount rate there would put the English situation back where it was . It probably would start another gold movement from other parts of the world to this country and result in another advance by the Bank of England . There is no doubt that this factor bas been getting consideration of the banking element , because it is viewed as important for the entire world . Business Conditions Satisfactory All reports on industrial and commercial business conditions have continued satisfactory in the past week . So much is believed to depend upon this that many are inclined to pick up leading stocks on reactions . It is felt that in the long run the influence of industrial activity must overshadow other factors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been unusually large , point out that the Federal Reserve Board is not likely to take steps to curb speculation which would have an adverse effect on the business of the country . They do not believe that an advance in the rediscount rate alone would check industrial activity . Over-Selling Quite a number of observers contend that the recent selling has not been of a substantial character . In this view they disagree with those who insist investment trusts have been liquidating . It is contended that many traders have oversold on the theory that the market must have a substantial reaction . This has increased the short interests and a covering movement could develop which could bring a substantial recovery for several days . That Last Quarter Annual reports coming out indicate that the last quarter of 1928 was an especially good one for most industries . While there is usually a speeding up in many lines during the final three months , last year seemed to have been particularly favorable in this connection . Steel and mining companies , and , of course , merchandising concerns benefitted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the usual slump after Christmas did not develop , and many lines of industry have been remarkably active thus far this year , indicating favorable returns for the current quarter and probably for the first half year . Rails Railroad shares again have displayed greater resistance during selling in the past few days . Naturally as there has been a smaller outside following in this group the liquidation from the public has been moderate . Traders also have not attacked rails as they have industrials . The action of the carriers again can be taken as confirmation of the views of many conservatives that this group at the moment is safest , because it involves a much smaller risk . Copper Considerable selling came into the copper stocks recently as a result of the views in Wall Street that the next change in the price of themetal would he downward rather than upward This opinion . however , was not shared in lead- ' mg trade circles . It was pointed out that the statist:IL:RI position of copper was se strong that an advance was altogether likely arid this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of February were down to approximately 000 tons , a drop of 17.000 tons from the end of January . Rubber On the theory that important developments In the affairs of LT . S. Rubber will come under the du Pont ma9agement , there has been a tendency in several quarters to pick up this stock on reactions . Attention is being directed to the item in the last annual report showing that a reserve of $10.000,000 is set up out of surplus to provide for the disposition of factories already shut down and of those which the present management contemplates closing , together with improvement of manufacturing facilities at other plants . This is looked upon as significant . Equipments Announcements that railroad orders for nee equipment in February exceeded any previous month for some time finally has attracted increased interest to the equipment stocks . There is no doubt that conditions with these companies have improved to a greater extent than even the most optimistic had hoped for , and all the leading car builders will report handsome gains in revenues this year . This reversal of the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market for the shares . American Car &; Foundry American Car &; Foundry 's strong financial position will be one of the factors which will recommend the issue to discriminating buyers . The company maintained its $6 a share annual dividend during the years of small railroad buying . It has been expanding its activities to other lines which have been contributing toward earnings and which promise to grow in importance in this connection . General American Tank Car Advices from Chicago state that interests close to General American Tank believe the earnings this year will be in the neighborhood of $12 a share on the stock . The company has shared proportionately in the increased equipment buying by the railroads . Stock is on a dividend basis of $4 a ; share in cash , with extras in stock , and thus far this year two extra stock dividends of 1% already have been declared , giving the holders an excellent yield at current prices . General Motors Scale buying is reported to have been more important in General Motors recently than in some time , probably due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders when the motor group starts forward . There is still a substantial short interest is most of the motor shares . Production of General Motors just now is making the most favorable showing since the beginning of the year . Last week the production , including General Motors trucks amounted to 46,095 , compared with 87,171 in the preceding week and with 42,842 cars in the corresponding week a year ago .                     