@@695674

txt In his annual report , Secretary of Labor DAVIS advocates several changes in the immigration laws . The most important is an increase in the number of Europeans who maybe admitted , with a limitation of the Latin Americans and Canadians . He reprints a letter which he wrote to Senator JOHNSON last Spring commenting on a proposed bill embodying these and other changes , His explanation indicates that he is anxious to give all concerned the most favorable possible consideration . For example , he would adhere to the present quotas for European nationals where these quotas are larger than the allotments under the so-called national origins provision , which has been deferred until next June . Where the quotas are larger under the national origins provision he would accept them . As for immigration from the American nations and Canada , he favors a quota which would reduce the Mexican influx by 90 per cent , but postulates one for Canada in excess of the average immigration from that Dominion . These details will be thoroughly discussed in Congress . Many points are sure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present quota system ? The law provides that the national origins clause is to come into effect on June 30 , 1929 . This diminishes the total immigration from Europe , and reduces the German and Irish immigration at the same time that it increases the British and Italian . Congress has been unwilling to risk the animosity of the foreign groups which oppose it . A strong movement exists to discard it . If this is done , the present quotas , based on the census of 1890 , will remain in force until modified . Is it wise to change this basis so drastically as the plan which Mr. Davis approves ? The Davis project would increase the total European quota immigration from 164,000 to 204,000 . The national origins plan would reduce it to 150,000 . The next point is whether it is fair as well as expedient to make an obvious discrimination between the quotas of Canada and the countries of Latin America as compared to the countries of Europe . The latter quotas are based on 2 per tent of the foreign-born residents of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For Canada and Mexico the basis is 10 per cent of the 1890 census and for the Latin-American countries a figure much in excess . An additional provision is made for an annual influx of temporary laborers from the two neighboring countries amounting to 10,000 . It has never been claimed that the use of the 1890 census as the basis of establishing quotas was either ideal- or altogether just . Those who have studied the national origins figures are inclined to believe that their obvious errors more or less cancel each other , and that the results more nearly approximate the avowed purpose of preserving the present proportions of various racial strains in this country than does the present law . Another system has apparently been overlooked  --  to use the records of the immigration service as far back as they exist , including the figures of the latest year , as a basis for determining the quotas . This would be somewhat unfair to the old American stock that made up the bulk of population a century ago . But as in the case of the national origins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . No foreign group could feel that it was denied a fair basis for its quota .                     