@@694756

txt To Dr. Stresemann 's invitation to France to clear out of . the Rhineland and to those of his critics who accused him of having too lightly embarked in compro7 mising peace compact proposals with the United States , Aristide Briand replied today in the Senate in a speech of which the spirit was greater than the letter . To Dr. Stresemann his reply was in brief : " Locarno gives us all the security on the Rhine we need , but the small force we keep there is there by virtue of the Treaty of Versailles and so long as the Treaty of Versailles is unfulfilled we must regretfully stay where we are . If you Germans want us out sooner than 1935 you will hurry along with the commercialization of your reparation debt and the fulfillment of all disarmament conditions , then we will be only too pleased to go . " To those who had reproached him with having made a mess of his proposal for a Franco-American perpetual peace compact he replied that probably on Monday there would be signed a treaty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which would be includee all= he wanted to say in his proposed treaty . Our Proposals Another Story . As for Washington 's proposals and what became of them , that was an entirely different story about which the only thing that should perhaps be regretted was that ? it was conducted rather too much in public . He himself believed in open diplomacy and in taking the public into his confidence , but even that might be overdone . He had made reservations which he m believed he must make so long as France was a member of the League of Nations . The Americans on their side had made certain reservations in their appeal . If he had succeeded he believed the cause of peace would not have lost by it and he added : " The conversations continue in perfect cordiality . " The French Foreign Minister had been the subject of some sharp criticism before he rose this afternoon to make his reply . Henry de Jouvenel was anxious to know why France had not taken immediate steps to have the affair of the Hungarian machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if Germany wanted evacuation of the Rhineland she had only to seek an international settlement which would include commercialization of the Dawes plan payments and a settlement of interallied debts , and in an eloquent peroration he raised a plea for furtherance of the spirit of arbitration and peace in the world , which seemed to him to be again embarking on preparations for war . M. Briand is never pessimistic and has always ' this advantage over his ? critics that all he has done and hopes to do is in logical sequence to ' the Treaty of Versailles . He has never sought for an instant to revise the treaty . That would be tab dangerous . He has tried only . to evolve out of it what was best in it and what he asks of Germany is to try to do the same . " My critics , " he said , " are either skeptical of Locarno or regretful that events have not moved quicker . Yet none of.them has suggested anything better . " He recounted what had been the benefits and what had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and France , but in stabilizing Europe . Then of Dr. Stresemann , in a tone which was almost bantering , he said : " When he takes a walk in the olive garden of Locarno he has the habit of stretching out his hand to receive rather than to give . " As a result of Locarno Germany had already received extremely gratifying compensation . Occupation of the Rhineland was not what it was . By her admission to the League of Nations Germany had obtained another result which was far from negligible . Now Dr. Stresemann was asking that the Rhineland occupation should end and in his speech told France to clear out and everything would be arranged . To this invitation M. Briand 's reply was couched in these words : " Since you desire evacuation of the Rhineland sooner than is provided by the Treaty of Versailles , you have only to fulfill the terms of that treaty . 1 told him that at Therry and I say it again . I told him then to examine every means by which he could advance payment on reparations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily permit that being one , and we are willing to listen to any proposition . " Dr. Stresmann then . told me he would get his experts to study the question and would submit proposals . But these proposals I never received . I do not complain , but I have the right to say that in this matter France has acted with perfect loyalty , perfectly correct . " For Dr. Stresemann. however , I will say this , that the general state of the world 's financial markets has been against him . HEt has not been able to mobilize his debt payments . That , however , is no excuse for him or any one trying to represent France as having made promises wh ; ch she has not kept . " As soon as he can fulfill his part we are willing , with our allies  --  for in this matter France is not alone ? to examine any proposition he has to make , for we have no desire whatever to prolong occupation of the Rhine . " M. Briand then continued in emphasis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his speech long enough to separate any apparent connection between his statement about reparation payments and evacuation and what was to follow he added this reply to one question of De Jouvenel : " Like him . I believe that this problem of peace should be linked up with that of reparations , and I hope that the year 1928 will not close without a settlement of the grave question as a whole . and in a manner which will consolidate all hopes of general peace . " Defends Proposal to America . In defense of his proposal to America to make on the 150th anniversary of the signing of the first treaty of friendship with the United States a new treaty marking again that friendship and excluding all possibility of war , M. Briand declared that his conscience was entirely clear and that he had acted for the good of his country . The United States had sought to extend to several nations its projected declaration against war . " I did not refuse , " said M. Briand . " We carried on a public discussion . I made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League of Nations . From the first I knew the enterprise would be difficult , but I believed it was worth o tryin , and we have had with the United States a very cordial discussion in which each has made known his views . " We will try with every confidence to reach an agreement . The principal difficulty has come from the fact that the negotiations have been public , for public nervousness complicates every diplomatic negotiation . And yet I think it is always best to keep the people informed every time anything is possible . " M. Briand 's speech , which was at times lighted by bursts of what the French always call " evangelicalism , " but which kept soberly enough to texts and treaties when he was discussing the actual situation , was a score of times interrupted by cheering by the whole house . Finally the Senate , with one dissenting voice , voted a motion expressing its confidence that the Government would " strengthen in every way guarantees of peace and maintain respect for treaties and national security . " Poincaro Defends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier Poincare was declaring in the Chamber that the franc was now safely fortified against every eventuality except the extremist form of financial folly . He thus opened the long awaited defence of his stewardship of France 's finances . Both the Bank of France and the Treasury , he said , held reserves of foreign currency which would meet every emergency . The franc was stabilized in fact , he declared . But to that the Premier did not add any indication of whether he intended to stabilize it legally , and it may be taken for granted that he will not do so now before the elections . At the start of his speech the Premier prudently declared that he was not going to discuss the past and who was responsible for what came to a climax in July , 1926 , when the Treasury balance stood at a bare 1,000.000 francs . But he could not refrain from crowing slightly over those many prophets of disaster who , when he took office , urged that he must at all costs and without any transfer or safeguard clauses ratify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once and at any price , with the help of London and New York or the franc would never be able to hold its own . He Tells of Health of Franc . Ratification and stabilization , he had been told , he said , were his only possible course . He had not ratified and had not stabilized , and yet the franc was so healthy that he had great difficulty in preventing it from rising to 20 to the dollar and upsetting the whole economic situation of the country . With more humor than he has ever before been known to display on the tribune in the Chamber , M. Poincare twitted Leon Blum and others with having been too hasty in their prophecies and warned them against venturing further in that role . With pardonable pride he told the record of his achievement , how the limit of the legal advances from the Bank of France to the State had been reduced from 38,500,000,000 francs to 31,000,000,000 and how the Treasury had 6,500,000,000 francs on the right side . The discount rate , which was 7% per cent. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the floating debt had been in large part consolidated and no longer weighed like a nightmare on the Treasury . From 7,500,000,000 francs the repayments had been reduced to 2,500,000,000 . The budget had been passed two years in succession before the end of the year and properly balanced , he went on . The Premier then reviewed the increase in the cost of living and the increase in State salaries , showing that the State 's servants were at least no worse off than they were before the war . When a Socialist raised a grumble about a General 's pay lie retorted that even one Marshal of France was being put out of his house because he could not afford to pay the rent . Paying Off Internal Debt . Nine billion francs yearly was going toward paying off the country 's internal debt , lie went on . During this year and next , the Premier said , the Treasury would have to meet heavy maturities , Shut the first of these would come after the elections , and he had tried his utmost to work for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be met , The debt had been reduced and payments spaced out so that there would be no acute crisis , he said . During most of the past year the franc , M. Poincare continued , had always shown a tendency to rise higher . This he considered in the interest of the workers and the general economic situation of the country . The Bank of France , however , had succeeded in keeping the situation stable and there was nothing to fear , either that the franc would rise too high or fall again too low . The Premier spoke for nearly four hours and will continue his explanation of his policy tomorrow morning .                     