@@686193

txt In the week just ended occurred the semi-centenary of the founding of the German Empire . If seven years ago one had been asked to look ahead to that event , it would have been predicted that it would be celebrated with such triumphant jubilations as the world has rarely seen . The Gentian dynasty , Government and people could have been counted on to do something colossal on an anniversary which could so truly he called golden ; and from every nation in the world would have come congratulations representing either the expression of honest friendship or the unwilling tribute of fear . But last Tuesday saw no expressions of friendship coming in from foreign peoples . It found a Germany universally regarded with resentment and suspicion , and so weak that its ill-will to the world , though everywhere taken for granted , aroused no particular apprehension . The dynasty glorified in 1871 was in exile , the military caste which had glorified it was in at least temporary eclipse . Such commemoration of the day as openly took place in Germany was regarded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a treasonable demonstration against the existing Government , and the memory of 1871 was equally bitter among those who saw in that great day a splendor such as Germany might never attain again , and in circles where it was regarded as the beginning of the march to destruction . In all history there can hardly be found so complete a peripety as the story of the rise and fall of the German Empire . Deutschland fiber A lles was not a mere pious aspiration of the German chauvinist on Aug. 1 , 1914 ; it represented , in most fields of human activity , an incontrovertible fact . The nation which was united in 1871 was pre-eminent in nothing but military and political strength . At that moment BISMARCK and the army seemed Germany 's only qualifications for the attainment of material greatness . The German mind , to be sure , was known , and on the whole favorably known , abroad ; but it was not regarded as the sort of mind adapted to great practical accomplishments . Germany was the land of great musicians , of pleasantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of universities where pure science and destructive criticism had been developed to a degree that amazed and sometimes rather startled the outer world , but where the best intellects seemed devoted to the worship of abstractions incomprehensible to the more practical intelligence of other nations . Germany was a poor country , a poorly developed country . The revolutionary efforts culminating in the few years following 1848 had shown an almost complete absence of political intelligence among the people ; and , largely on the showing of the poets of the time , the Germans were supposed to be possessed of a gentle melancholy , a polite pessimism inclined to relieve itself by song or to drown its sorrows in the mild brews of the country . To be sure , that was not the sort of nation that could strike down the greatest military Power in Europe and raise itself at once to a position of surpassing strength . But the men who had written sentimental poetry and sung melancholy songs were not the men who had made the new Germany . These were hard men  --  poor men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aristocrats devoid of the amenities of aristocracy , impervious to the sentimental deliquescence so prevalent among the South Germans , and sincerely devoted to a narrow but intense ideal of military autocracy sanctified by religion and supported by the loyal devotion of a warmaking nobility . The cavernous dimness of German philosophy was as foreign to the temper of most of these men as was the sentimental languor of German song , or the profound revolution in all music which was being made in their time by RICHARD WAGNER . The link between the old and the new Germany was German science , and t science which the military men were the first to apply to practical ends . What NAPOLEON did by virtue of his genius , and NAPOLEON 'S Marshals by his example and instruction , the German Generals of 1866 and 1870 did by virtue of painstaking and intelligent application , of thorough study of the fundamentals of their science and disciplined application of the principles of their art . By this same process Germany advanced hi the forty years following the unification of the empire to unforeseen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thrift , frugality inherent in the German people were not unknown ; they had been exemplified abroad by the great numbers of Germans who had fled from political tyranny or been attracted by the opportunity of a fresh beginning in America . On that foundation , the makers of the new Germany began to build with the scientific thoroughness that the military men had shown in previous decades . Their success was no less astounding . When the long period of peace and prosperity ended in 1914 Germany stood at the front of Western civilization . Industrially and commercially she seemed as strong as any of her rivals , and her progress was more rapid than that of any competitor . German business men were going all over the world , sometimes opening new markets , more often developing or attracting trade that others had opened up . German factories produced goods which German merchant ships carried everywhere . In the work of applying modern discoveries and inventions to the meeting of the material needs of the world the Germans were far in the lead . German industrial chemistry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1914 as German military science . The profits of this astounding development had on the whole been wisely distributed . There were poor in Germany , and many of them ; but their poverty was not destitution , and a fatherly Government had seen that their immediate wants were met and that they had little opportunity to develop new cravings . Germany in 1914 was a happy country . There were complaints about the taxes ; there was a certain amount of restlessness at the overbearing manners of the military caste ; but even this was tempered by the conviction that the military caste had made Germany great and that taxes were a useful investment for the preservation of that greatness . And Germany had won not only the substance of success , but still more its show . Great as was her accomplishment , her reputation was still greater . The brilliant work of the German university had led the world to accept university products which were not brilliant but only German . In the business world occasionally and in the 2 cadmic world almost universally an inferior article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ; less widely advertised trade-mark . German efficiency , deserving of much respect , was respected in 1914 even more widely than it deserved ; for the world did not realize just then that in certain fields it ? had not been operative . The Germany of material wealth and power was a great success  --  such a success as no other nation had attained in a like space of time in all history . What was left of the old Germany ? German music still held first place , though by 1914 it was living chiefly on the accumulated merit of the past . German philosophy , for a long time pre-eminent , was only slowly losing its primacy . The poets who in the early decades of the nineteenth century had written sad but graceful songs had vanished ; their descendants had either gone in for something more profitable or slipped down from ineffectuality to decadence . Something of the same sort had happened to the German liberalism which had flourished between Leipzig and Sadowa ; its devotees had gone over to the new and triumphant cult or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in most of the fields which Germany had cultivated so profitably in the days of her political backwardness triumphant Germany was still honorably eminent , and the prestige of her more material achievements operated strongly to maintain a reputation in other fields which if left to itself might have been ap ? preciably dimmed . Germany 's greatness in 1914 was undeniable , it was well founded , and it was not begrudged by her neighbors . In only one field was it a sham greatness , insecurely based , and that was the field where BISMARCK and MOLTKE had shone so brilliantly years before . The German Army was still the greatest in fife world , still the most highly rated by all military students ; and m'hen it came to the test it did indeed perform brilliant exploits for more than four years . But it failed to accomplish its purpose , and failed largely through inherent defects of its own system and its own leaders . Germany had an imposing position in international politics from 1871 to 1914 , but for the last twenty years of that period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power which she was constantly threatening to use . A nation which talks war on every occasion has a certain advantage over nations which do not care to think of war unless there is no possible alternative . While BISMARCK held office Germany 's political predominance rested on his genius ; when he was removed , German international policy had no recourses but the incessant shaking of the fist and rattling of the saber . Germany must have her own way , and let those who opposed her be prepared for the consequences . A day came when they concluded that it would be better to take the consequences than submit to this eternal bullying , and the Germany of 1921 is the result . Germany was ruined in 1914 by the same dynasty , the same class and the same methods which magnified Germany in 1870 . They were methods fundamentally bad , for they made friends into enemies , and even for material success they depended on the control-of a genius . Perhaps the most important lesson of the war , for the German people at least , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corollary of that is that no nation should so conduct itself that it will presently need a Bismarck to save it from ruin . Today the nation which in 1914 was the strongest and on the whole the most contented in Europe lies in the hands of those whom she attacked without justification . Her territory is occupied by foreign troops , she is to be compelled to pay a huge indemnity for the wanton destruction which her armies did to her inoffensive neighbors . What is perhaps more serious still for the future of Germany , her industrial and commercial life is in chaos , and there is grave suspicion that this chaos has deliberately been intensified in the hope of evading her obligations . If a reduction of the indemnity could be bought in that way , the price would be far too high ; for Germany might find that recovery too long delayed is impossible . The ruin of Germany was brought about by her dynasty and her ruling class , but the German people stood by and were consenting . In an editorial article published in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the German people could gain nothing by a successful issue of the war ; that such an issue was in any case out of the question , for a world which had lived in friendship with a great and prosperous Germany would not permit Germany to destroy without excuse the greatness and prosperity of her neighbors . The German people were warned that if they continued to tolerate the dominance of the men who had made this needless and ruinous war they must pay for the damage they had done , and they were urged to throw off that dominance while there was yet time . To counsels of this sort the Germans remained deaf so long as they thought they would win the war . Disillusionment came only when the great war machine at lost broke down ; then indeed the Germans threw off the monarchist and aristocratic leadership that had ruined them , but they did it in the hope of escaping payment for the devastation that Germany had brought upon Europe . Yet the republic has survived more than two years  --  survived against Bolshevist risings and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not yet secure ; the men who made the victorious Germany. , of 1871 , and who brought to ruin the great and prosperous Germany of 1914 , are not converted from their ideals ; to all appearance they never will be converted . They are still plotting , still waiting for the day when they can begin once more the old process of military conquest , and they still hope that in , the future as in the past they can drag or drive a docile people with them . The world can tolerate their overlordship no more in the future than it could in the past . If they regain control of Germany , they can only lead the German people into still deeper abysses of misery . For the injury done under their guidance from 1914 to 1918 reparation must be made ; that is the first and chief requirement laid on the German people . But unless that people has lost the qualities by which it rose to such heights in the latter part of the nineteenth century it will consider the causes of its downfall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a Germany that is willing to be a good neighbor , and it - will resolve that the old Dunker domination is ended as definitely as the rule of the Hohenzollerns , that the leadership of the Baltic aristocrats stands condemned by even the most elementary selfish consideration  --  it cost more than it was worth .                     