@@693285

txt Members of the Board of Estimate will try to reach an agreement on a policy on bus franchises , it was learned yesterday , at a conference next week , at which it is hoped a start at awarding the franchises may be made . George W. Olvany , leader of Tammany Hall , was credited with having inspired or stimulated this conference , which probably will be held on Tuesday , but it was learned that he would not attend , although Ise has let it be known that he believes action by the board on the approximately sixty applications for franchises should be taken as quickly as possible . Judge Olvany has told city officials that he believes there has been too much delay in the consideration of the bus situation and that the Administration is likely to be subjected to considerable criticism if much more time elapses without some action . The chief point of difference among the members of the Board of Estimate is on whether one franchise shall be granted for the Boroughs of Manhattan , the Bronx , Brooklyn and Queens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borough-wide operation shall be granted . Mayor Walker is known to favor city-wide bus operation and the Borough Presidents , with the possible exception of John A. Lynch of Richmond , who is not personally interested , favor the grant of borough-wide franchises . Controller Charles W. Berry has expressed the belief that bus lines will be valuable chiefly as " feeders " for rapid transit lines and he stands with the Borough Presidents . ' The latter and the Controller constitute a majority of the board . McCooey Also Counsels Action . There is no difference among the , members of the board as to the advisability of an early decision on the award of franchises . John H. McCooey , Brooklyn Democratic leader , also is understood to be in favor of a speedy determination of policy , because , like Judge Olvany , he believes the Democratic organizations in the city are responsible for the City Administration and might lose popular support if the delay is protracted much longer . When the City Administration took office on Jan. 1 last it was hoped that the franchises might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Summer . An agreement on the policy to be followed would make it comparatively easy to decide on the applicants to whom the franchises should be awarded . Several members of the Board of Estimate expressed belief yesterday that this might be done before the . end of the year . In its report to the Board of Estimate , the Board of Transportation in effect recommended a grant of a city-wide bus franchise and indicated that the Equitable Coach Company offered the terms that seemed most advantageous to the city . The present indication , it was said , was that this course would not be followed and that the board would adopt the borough as the bus operation unit . Another difference of opinion , it was said , is likely to arise in determining to whom the borough-wide franchises shall be awarded . There will be a strong effort to have these franchises go to companies affiliated with existing transportation lines , both because sponsors of this method believe it would result in better service and because such a course would avoid litigation , already threatened by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Terminal Plans . Announcement that he had prepared plans for three central interurban bus terminal stations in Manhattan was made yesterday by Alfred C. Bossom ; architect , of 680 Fifth Avenue . Mr. Bossom said that support for his project had been assured but withheld the names of his associates . The architect 's plan proposed to utilize basements for bus storage and to lower and raise each bus on an elevator . Elevators , he said , were more economical than long ramps descending into an underground terminal because the ramps took up so much space . One proposed terminal , he said , would be built west of Broadway for New Jersey buses , another east of Broadway for Long Island buses and still another for Westchester buses . Each terminal will have a waiting room with lighted bulletin boards announcing the time of arrival and departure of buses . " By taking these enormous buses from their parked locations on street corners , traffic congestion will be relieved considerably , " Mr. Bossom said . " A stationary bus occupies the space of three ordinary automobiles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a street , waiting to be filled up , they block and paralyze traffic . " Mr. Bossom said that capital was available to put his plan into effect and that it was proposed to have the terminals in operation by 1928 . He " aid that the officials of several bus : Ines were interested and that existing bus companies would be invited to use : he terminals . The exact location of the terminals had not been determined , he said , but they would be near he shopping and theatrical districts .                     