@@685094

txt The need for optimism in the garment trade has never been so urgent as it Is at present , in the opinion of R. Sadowsky , one of the largest manufacturers of coats and suits in the country . Continued bad Weather , he stated yesterday , has naturally , brought a lull in retail buying and discouraged the purchase of new apparel even when women found it ' possible to do a little shopping . ? Once the weather improves , he believes there will be a buying spurt that will more than make up for the temporary setback the trade is now suffering . Unless the merchants of the country prepare for this return to normal conditions , he said , it is quite possible that the merchandise they need later will not be available , owing to the sale of large stocks now for sales purposes and the curtailment of operations by manufacturers . " The weather for the last two or three weeks , " said Mr. Sadowsky , " has created a feeling of pessimism in both retail and wholesale circles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying as it might , but the lull in business Is only temporary . I look for a complete change in conditions in. the retail field before long . When the Spring weather comes along the women of the country will want new apparel and they will buy . lip to the present time they have been closed indoors and no need existed for them to purchase new and stylish garments . Women wo n't dress in their best under such weather circumstances . " Despite reports of large stocks in the hands of wholesalers , they represent only the usual and actual requirements of the retailers for the Easter trade . There should be no cause for uncertainty , but the trouble is that business men today are given to looking beyond so natural an explanation of quiet trade as weather conditions in order to find a graver reason and one that better satisfies the exaggerated views of the times . " Easter is early this year and consequently it will register the beginning of Spring . There will be no need for sales of Spring merchandise after Easter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring the retailers into the wholesale markets for more goods . But there must be a feeling of optimism among the wnolesalers or there will not be enough merchandise to satisfy the retail trade of the country . If wholesale stocks are unloaded now at prices that mean they will be used for sales purposes , and the manufacturers feel themselves forced to curtail operations , the only outlook is for a sub-normal output and higher prices . No right-minded merchant wants either , and that is why it is necessary for him at this time to provide for his normal needs and not to consider that the women of the country are going to purchase less than they have been accustomed to . " The ? situation that developed in women 's coats last season is a good illustration of what will happen during the present season unless there is greater optimism . The small manufacturers and jobbers sacrificed their stocks of these garments tinder the impression , encouraged by retailers , that there was a surplus of goods and a curtailment of aemend . Later on the leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit of their foresight , which told , them there would be a normal demand and not sufficient merchandise to meet it . " Production is the only salvation of the trade both retail and wholesale if prices are to be kept on a reasonable basis , and production can only he maintained by taking a brighter view of the future . Otherwise it means andertaking the task of readjustment all over again . "                     