@@690154

txt The Board of Estimate . by action taken at its meeting yesterday , blocked all new subway construction , and even all new transit routing , for many months . John H. Delaney , Mayor Hylan'a principal adviser on transit affairsawho presented a report that prefaced this inhibitory decree by the Board of Estimate , charged that the present Transit Commission was preparing to bring about an increased subway fare , rats ' ing the present charge from 5 to S or 10 cents . George , Chairman of the Transit Commission , declared the statement utterly umounded . He added that , " in the technical terminology of the Mayor , it is what is known as ' bunk . ' " Mr. Delaney is now Dock Commissioner , but for a long , time has been Mayor Hylan 's chief of staff in all matters of transit strategy and tactics . He has been a Transit Construction Commissioner , is well informed on all city ? railway affairs and has acted for the Mayor on the conference commission which was believed to have arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Transit Commission for an early advancement of the Brooklyn Crosstown line and the Washington Heights trunk lope ro , pid transit railroads . All those ' amicable adjustments were wiped off the slate yesterday with a blanket resolution which Mr. Delaney presented and advocated .. Delaney Represented Hymn . Mr. Delaney represented Mayor Hylan in the City Administration 's recent drive in Albany in favor of the extreme in home rule in the building and Opel ating of subways . He was largely instrumental in obtaining for the Hylan Administration the " half loaf " which the Legislature/ vouchsafed when it paused the bill authorizing the Mayor " on July 1 next to name a new Board of Transportation to which goes all power in the routing and building of new subway lines . That bill was signed by Governor Smith yesterday and became a law . And it is Mr. Delaney , as the City Administration 's highest transit authority and as a close associate of the Mayor , who is generally expected to be Chairman of the new Board of Transportation . Mr. Delaney took the position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a partisan and hostile Legislature . He undertook to justify the postponement of all progress on the Brooklyn crosstown line by reiterating the declaration that the City Administration would build no more subway I lines to be tied up in operating agreements with or under the domination of either the Interborough or the Brooklyn Manhattan Rapid Transit Corporation . For those reasons he advocated the postponement of all further action until after the new Board of Transportation shall have been appointed and qualified by the Mayor next July . He even repudiated such routing agreements as had been already approved and re= opened them for later adjudication . Sees Peril of ** Fare . A sensational incident of Commissioner Delaney 's address to the Board of Estimate occurred when he departed momentarily from the typed text of his report to say : " I speak with authority and knowledge when I say that the Transit Commission is preparing to exercise its prerogatives and arbitrarily to , raise than price of subway fares in New York to 8 or 10 cents . " Following Mr , Delaney 's declaration . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed subway construction In Brooklyn which might augment the existing B. M. T. lines , including the Bedford Avenue and the Ltefe , yette Avenue alternative routes . It was for an important section of this new line that the Transit Commission awarded only two days ago a contract to the lowest bidder at a cost of approximately 54,000,000 and forwarded the contract to the Board of Estimate for approval , together with a. request that the requisite funds be voted , in order that work might be begun within fourteen days . The new Board ' of Transportation can not be made operative before July when the law becomes effective . It must then organize , make surveys of past recommendations and routes , hold hearings and do 4 thousand and one other things preliminary to the point where it can begin to " say it withshovels . " Men familiar with the various causes of delay and obstruction in the past predicted yesterday that new subway building in New York had been de= ferred by yesterday 's action at best until . after next Jan. 1 . Special Session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Estimate without a dissenting voice . It appeals to Governor ' Smith to call a special session of the ' Legislature before New Year 's Day for the purpose of voting again on the Twomey-Taylor bill , which , if passed : woula be the first step toward obtaining a subway construction bond issue of 4275,000,000 in excess of Abe city 's constitisticinar debt Unlit . This Is the Susi union , which- Mayor JHaiari , as he exPlained ' - an a. ? recent letter . lies - beeri counting to effect not only some new construction but also to recapture for eta- ownership and operation large porta:iris of the lines now controlled by the le  --  R. T. and the B. M. ' 1 " We must have these additional funds , " declared Commissioner Delaney to-the board yesterday . " We want to recapture the existing , lines and end the odious dual contract , We battled up to the last minute in Albany , but the Republican Legislature , with malice aforethought , refused to give the elected city officials control over their own sub , - Ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission , wheel he heard of Mr. Delaney 's assertion that the commission was preparing to sanction an advance in city ? subway fares , was incredulous . " The commission has no such purpose , " he said . " Mr. Delaney undoubtedly has been misunderstood or misquoted . " After adjournment of the meeting - of the Board of Estimate , Mr. Delaney Was accosted by a group of reporters in the corridor of the City Hall . The brief denial made public over the telephone by Chairman was read to him . Commissioner Delaney then Sited , stressing his words with emphasis : it "  - -  1 have neither been misunderstood lid misquoted . I repeat now , upon ktaowledge and authority . that it is the Pllaaan of the Transit Commission to raise City subway fares to 8 or 10 cents . ' aavhen Chairman heard of this latest reiteration he was about to htilTy away from the offices of the Tiansit Commission , 49e-e- Lafayette Street . to an uptown meeting . He said taat on his return later in the evening he probably would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Delaney 's assertion , if he really made it ; as reported , was- wholly devoid of basis in truth . Repudiated by MoAneny. - phairman later in the evening made public this statement : ' ' There is no foundation whatsoever Or Mr. Delaney 's statement . The TranatteCommission has no such plan or puriihie such as he has indicated , nor has ireven discussed such a thing . When the statement was reported to me this afternoon , I ventured to say that Mr. Delaney had either been misunderstood Marnisquoted . I could account in no other way for the crediting of such declaration to him . I understand , however , that Mr. Delaney later declared that he had been neither misunderstood nu e misquoted ; and that , he added , ' upon authority and knowledge ' that be ' believed ' the Transit Commission is preparing to raise the subway fares to 8 or-. ** cents . ' " The proper ' authority ' - for any report about the purposes of the Transit Commission is the Transit Commission itself . Ain speaking for It , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. Delaney has not a shred of truth in it . " When the present commission t004 office , three years ago , the Hylan Administration raised this same cry . We were appointed to raise the fares to 9 cents , the Mayor declared , and to do it right away . The whole history of the Commission has been a refutation of this story . , Its constant effort has been to preserve the present fare , and against the- long odds it inherited , it has managed to do so . The story then was what , in the technical terminology of the Mayor , Is known as ' bunk , ' and it is still ' bunk . ' " Mr. Delaney 's Report . ; The text of Commissioner Delaney 's report , which precipitated the salon of the Board of Estimate , follows , though if'does not include his extemporized in-terpolations : May 2 , 11 ) 24 . To the Honorable the Board of Estimate and- Apportionment . Re : Rapid Transit Routes : Sirs : Your honorable board referred to the Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor , dated March 21 , 1-424 , which proposed some changes in the crosstown route , in Brooklyn from the plan of route which had been presented by the Transit Commission for approval , and had been examined and recommended for approval by this committee . In effect , the Mayor proposes- : alai That the crosstown route be ex tended from Bedford Avenue and Hancock Street through Franklin Avenue , ae oss hastern Parkway to the southerly end of Brooklyn ; lb ) That the crosstown route pass through a tunnel under the river to NS I , . attan from Greenpoint , instead of . Proceeding to a connection with the pres , el , tunnel in Long Island City which is now operated by the Brooklya-Manhatt. e Transit Company ; ( c ) That no approval lie given to any connect ; on of the crosstown route either in Flatbush Avenue Extension or elsewhei e with subway operated under contract by the B.-M . T. Company . The Brooklyn Route . ' ( a ) Route through Bedford and Franklin Avenues , to southernly Brooklyn : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - " relish Commission in the conferences held the adoption of a route through Bedford anti Franklin Avenues from Hancock Street to at least Flatbush Avenue , with the further plan of extending trat route further through the southerly Part of Brooklyn in some street that had not been determined . The Transit Commission submitted a route bwinning on Bedford Avenue at Hancock Street and passing through private right of way of B.-M . T. Company to a connection with the Brighton Beach line at Prospect Park Your committee notified the Transit Commission that it would not recommend Such a. route because of its connection with a non-recapturable privately owned transit line , and proposed that the Transit Commission would substitute a route extending through Bedford and Franklin Avenues across Eastern Parkway to Flatbush Avenue , but with no connection with the Brighton Beach line , it being the desire of your committee to make it possible to have independent operation . As a result of this objection the Transit Cornmission withdrew the plan submitted , but has not presented the plan as suggested by your committee . The suggestion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of your conference committee to the Transit Commission and would be the most advantageous route to adopt . There being no formal proposal before your board covering such a route , there is no action toebe taken at this time , except to refer the suggestion to the new Board of Transportation that will be established after July 1 . ( b ) Change of crosstown route at Greenpoint Section : This matter should be referred to the new Board of Transportation for study and consultation with the Conference Committee . ( e ) Rejection of routes that connect with present subways that are under lease for private operation : Although it is tantamount to a withdrawal of the recommendation in favor of approval of route through Lafayette Avenue to a connection with the existing subway at or near the De Kalb Avenue station the failure of the Legislature to grant to the city control over its existing subways and the dual subway contracts requires concurrence with the views of the Mayor ' ' . as expressed in his letter . The Recaptnrable Lines . Some consideration of the actuating motives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made must be given to understand the situation that has developed . When your Conference Committee began its conferences with the Transit Commission last June , the first subject discussed was ' the relation of the subway routes which had been recommended by the Transit Commission to recapturable lines already constructed and included in private opertion by the terms of Contract No. 4 . It was agreed by the Transit Commission and your conferees that the complete system of lines operated under the terms of Contract No. 4 could be recaptured by the city not later than 1910. and portions of it at much earlier dates . It was also agreed that the policy of the city should be directed toward a recapture of these lines , and the Transit Commission presented for consideration the advantage that would accrue from the creation ter a loop system , with the crosstown line as the Brooklyn side and the Broadway line as the Manhattan side around Vhich trains could run in both direcUons with frequency . ? The advantage of such operation appeared to be indisputable , and , taking into ' consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crosstown lines would be practically the same the time that must elapse before recapture , your committee concluded to recommend the construction of such a tine connected at both ends with this recapturable system . W 's were impelled to recommend the immediate approval of the lines thus proposed by a desire to expedite the getting of consents of property owners , and I with the belief that legislation could be procured at the then forthcoming session of the Legislature which would transfer , to the city authorities full control over ; the existing rapid transit lines and the 1dual subway systems . We were justified in having such a belief in view of the public expressions of Speaker Machold and other prominent members of the majority in the Assembly. - At the same time we were cognizant of the continued power of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment to decline to appropriate funds for the construction of such conriections , unless the remedial legislation should be adopted . Defeat in the Assembly . When the Legislature assembled , the city presented carefully drawn bills , which , if adopted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transit lines . These bills were passed by the Senate and went to the Assembly Committee on Rules . Every effort was made to induce the Assembly leaders to accept the bills which had been passed by the Senate , but without avaiL Then ensued conferences in which the Chairman of your Conference Committee participated . Speaker Machold and his associates who conferred on this subject refused to grant to the city any control over existing subways or over existing operating contracts , and specifically and definitely refused to repeal , the legislation adopted in the regime of Governor Miller which vests the present Transit Commission with power to nullify the existing rapid transit contracts , to postpone the time of recapture for ten years , and to increase the fare from 5 cents to any amount that the Transit Commission may decide . It is the admitted intention of the Transit Commission to revise the dual subway contracts , and the determination with which the Transit Commission fought to preserve its power to increase fares and postpone the time when the city can recapture , is a warning of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In view of this condition ; your committee must withdraw its recommendation that any connection be made with any existing subway that is privately operated . The Legislature authorized the city to establish a new Board of Transportation and to construct new subways , which law will take effect on July 1 of this Year . Obviously , the new board only be constrained to adopt and construct nly such routes as are susceptible of independent operation so long as the present Miller legislation remains upon the statute books . Yours very truly , JOHN H. DELANEY , ARTHUR S. TUTTLE , Transit Conference Committee . WOMEN WOULD CURB HYLAN 'S AUTHORITY Federated Clubs Ask That Power to - Name School Board Be Taken From Mayor . Without a dissenting vote , the New York City Federation of Women 's Clubs , holding its sixty-fourth convention at the Hotel Astor , adopted a resolution yesterday protesting against the removal of - Dr . William L. Ettinger as Superintendent of Schools and proposing legislation to take from the Mayor the authority to appoint members of the Board of Education . The resolution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Education , was accepted without discussion . A. call for dissenters was met by silence . All the 1,600 women , representing 400 clubs with a membership said to be 100,000 , voted for the resolution . After saying that politics should be kept out of the schools , that the Ettinger action had demonstrated that merit and conscientious service went unrecognized and that education was a State not a city function , the resolution con-tinued : " Resolved , That . the New York City Federation of Women 's Clubs , representing 100.000 women , goes on record as protesting against the removal of Dr. Ettinger and as urging the passage of a law taking from Mayors the power of appointing the members of school boards and putting the power of electing them into the hands of the people , so that school officials need no longer bow to the wishes of political leaders but may be made directly responsible to the people . " Late in the afternoon the delegates heard both sides of the theatrical controversy , when addresses were made by Augustus Thomas , executive chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of the Actors ' Equity Association . ' Hecklers constantly interrupted Mr. Emerson and it was with difficulty that he continued speaking . Women were so insistent upon voicing their opinions that at one point Mrs. Thomas Slack , President of the Federation , asked the delegates to give Mr. Emerson a chance , while at another interruption the speaker threw up his hands , orying : " Oh , what 's the use ? You do n't want to listen to me . " Mr. Emerson 's first conflict with his audience came when he attempted to show the difference between a " closed " shop and the " Equity " Shop . He said the " propaganda " of the managers who called the terms synonymous was untrue . The words " closed shop , " said Mr. Emercon , " carry disagreeable implication to many people , and they use the phrase in the hope it will arouse Public sentiment against us . We regard the propaganda as unfair , unsportsmanlike and dishonest . " Mrs. Jack W. Loeb , chairman of the Ways and Means Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Equity players could be in a cast , it was a " closed " shop . He pointed out that it was not " closed , " but open to everyone who wished to join the Equity Association . " That 's the same thin ' a delegate shouted . " You ca n't foo the women . " V Similar remarks came from different Parts of the room . Mrs. Loeb asserted that , since the actors were affiliated with the American Federation of Labor , " they would have to go on sympathetic strikes with ray union belonging to the Federan . " I say they wo n't , " shouted Mr. Emerson . " The trouble is you do n't want to accept the facts I am giving you . The stage hands and musicians can strike until they are black in the face , but no one on earth can force us to join them . That is part of our contract . " Mr. Thomas said his interest in the controversy was " ethical and not personal . " He told the histcry of the conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people , working in an industry , assumes that the industry belongs to them . ' " If all the managers and the producers and all the actors and actresses were wiped off the earth . " he added . " the theatre would rebuild and rediscover and reestablish itself . lit does not belong ' to this little ephemera/ group . The actors have joined the American Federation of Labor .. I am not opposed to unionism ; I was a master worker in the railroad years myself and belong to a union . But when the unions federated they commenced a class division , which arrayed every man who produces against every one who pays . " Mrs. D. Leigh Colvin , Chairman of the Temperance Committee , spoke on epee. ; Half of One Per Cent . " She criticized newspapers for publishing unusual'happenings , saying that while ministers every Sunday were preaching prohibition the newspapers printed the sermons only if they favored the wets . While college Presidents had universally advocated prohibition , Mrs. Colvin charged the newspapers with aplayingup " only Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation to " compel manufacturers of all explosive or inflammable articles to mark such articles , distinctly " was adopted , it ; vas charged that a hair goods establishment here was selling hair beautifying contrivances made of celluloid . Mrs. James Murray , formerly of Pittsburgh , showed her scalp . Her hair was burned off two years ago when she used a " cold-water curler . " Her husband , an engineer , died from the shock , she said . The delegates adopted a resolution urging " advertisers to confine all display advertising to commercial localities , where it will not injure scenery , civic beauty , or residential values . " They also adopted unanimously a resolution protesting against using Central Park as a site for a war memorial .                     