@@695637

txt Suggestions that a conflict existed in the matter of proceeding in the Senate with the fifteen-cruiser bill and the Kellogg anti-war treaty were contradicted today by Senator Hale , Chairman of the Naval Affairs Committee , and Senator Borah , Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , alter they held a conference . Senator Hale said that the cruiser bill would be brought up immediately after the Boulder Dam bill was disposed of and Senator Borah asserted that he would go ahead with the antiwar treaty just as if there were no naval bill pending . Apparently there was an understanding between the chairmen that each would do his best to suppress whatever opposition might arise between the proponents of each measure . Some friends of the anti-war treaty , especially Progressives , have no particular sympathy with a cruiser program . European reactions to President Coolidge 's Armistice Day speech , on the other hand , have stiffened the attitude of the cruiser bill 's advocates and lessened the enthusiasm of some . of them . for the treaty . That Mr. Borah would not make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him today in a statement in which he said that while he thought fifteen cruisers too many , he would not seek to postpone a vote on the bill . " I see n reason why the treaty and naval bill should be brought into conflict in the matter of procedure , " he said . " I feel that the naval bill is larger than necessary , but I do not intend to seek to delay a vote upon it , and I hope no friend of the naval bin will seek to delay a vote on the treaty . " Each should stand upon its merits . My idea is to proceed with the treaty as a matter of procedure the same as if no naval bill was up for consideration . " How many cruisers Mr. Borah favored instead of fifteen could not be ascertained . But he wishes only enough cruisers to replace obsolete vessels . Senator Hale thinks the cruiser bill will be passed without substantial opposition . He thought Mr. Coolidge 's Armistice Day speech had done much to waken public sentiment for the cruiser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty will be sent to Congress as soon as the session convenes . It will be referred to the Foreign Relations Committee ; for how long a time , Mr. Borah was unable to forecast , although he hopes for speedy progress . Secretary Kellogg will be asked to explain the treaty . No other witnesses have been scheduled as yet . No request for a hearing has come from any organization opposing the treaty .                     