@@695868

txt Fear that political fortunes would be affected at the Feb. 26 elections if bond issue proposals I were submitted to the voters prompted the aldermen to refuse authorization of such a referendum . Most of the defeated issues were to pay judgments on property condemned for street improvements . If the . money were available it would have been used to fulfill obligations which must be met . The motive of the aldermen , however , in denying these issues right of way was not ' unfounded . The voters object to giving more money to the present spenders . The association of moral responsibility with the bonds has been somewhat confusing : Their approval has been urged by the administration in the argument that to fail to do so is to repudiate a debt . There is no repudiation of the debt but only of the administration . By its works it has discAdlted itself and the voters will not trust it , even to pay for property taken for public use . It is an unfortunate situation , but the city hall made it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The judgments must be paid and they will be Paid when the voters elect an administration in which they have confidence . There will be an accumulation of interest , but it will be cheaper to pay this additional cost than to trust the distribution of the original amount to men whose past record does not agree with their promises of future conduct . MR . FERGUS TRIES AGAIN . John B. Fergus is attempting again through the courts to force the state legislature to reapportion its membership in accordance with the state constitution and the census . Previous attempts have failed . The courts have said , in effect , that the judicial branch of government under our system can not coerce the legislative branch by any of the means thus far attempted though the legislative branch is manifestly derelict in its duties . Mr. Fergus ' patience and pertinacity in the defense of representative government constitute a remarkable evidence of the virility of the man , now more than SO years old . He is convinced that the constitutional provision for reapportionment is enforceable and he proposes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means to enforce IL The new suit , if it serves no other purpose , will emphasize again the failure of our constitutional theory of the separation of powers to function under all circumstances . Situations arise from time to time in which there is no apparent check of one department upon another derelict in its duty under the constitution . Mr. Fergus is exploring this no man 's land with a view to determining title . Had the framers of the constitution foreseen the wholesale oath-breaking which has been practiced In the Illinois legislature since 1911 , It may be assumed they would have outlined a remedy . They did not do so beenuee it did not occur to them that the representative principle would be repudiated . They thought It was too deeply ingrained in the consciousness of the people ever to be violated . The fact that-no remedy is specifically mentioned in the constitution does not , of course , preclude the possibility that one may reasonably be read into it . Mr. Fergus has set htmstlf the task of finding that remedy . BOULEVARDS AND REGIONAL PLANNING @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chi-I cage Regional Planning association is. ' a ' large scale Idea in keeping with the traffic needs of modern times . It will be a superhighway , 160 feet to 200 feet in width , and grade crossings will be eliminated . It will run around Chicago 's rim from Wisconsin to Indiana . Within thja outer belt highway other highways will be needed in concentric loops In order to give the Chicago district a regional integrity and colordination . As H. it Olsen , highwaT engineer for the Regional Planning association , says , our streets were bunt for the horse and buggy age . A great ! net of superhighways without grade crossings beI comes more and more necessary as the city grows . I The Chicago urban district will extend eventually one hundred miles or more north , south , southeast and west , and a great regional city of this sort must have traffic arteries double and triple the size of those days . The regional city of the future will demand an enlarged conception of street planning . Materially the city street congestions are a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In other fields .                     