@@696282

txt The commission election recount under way in Jersey City halted yesterday afternoon as a result of disputes in the bi-partisan Board of Elections , in whose offices and under whose supervision the recount is being , conducted in the Spingarn Arcade Building , Jersey City . Partisans of the Hague forces , who defeated the Fusionists by 24,500 , and equally ardent Fusionists , who were present in large numbers at the board headquarters , threatened several times to come to blows . Clash Over Books . The first clash came in the morning when William E. Sewell , Chief Deputy superintendent of Eletclons , and a half dozen aides appeared to continue their independent investigation of alleged election frauds . Their investigation is being conducted under an order by Supreme Court Justice Kalisch . They had compared the signatures on polls books with those in registry books in eight districts of the Third Ward and were waiting until the recount officials caught up with their districts . Mr. Sewell demanded that the poll books of the Ninth District be turned over to him . John J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused . After further argument , Mr. Sewell departed to confer with his superior , John Ferguson . The board then resumed its recount of the Ninth District ballots . The completed retally added slight gains to the Fusionists . New Argument Arises . After a recess the board reconvened to begin the Tenth District . Patrick Sullivan , a Democratic board member ber , objected to the presence of John Reynolds , a justice of the peace , an active Fusion worker in the campaign , who signed the complaints against eight members of the two election boards ordered arrested . Following another argument , Paul Leglie , Republican , offered a motion to go on with the recount , on which the board deadlocked . J. Emil Walscheid , County Counsel , was summoned , and it was finally agreed that the enclosure would be cleared of all but board officials , candidates ' representatives and two Fusion unofficial talliers . The recount will be resumed this morning . Meanwhile Mr. Sewell and Mr. Ferguson went to Newark to confer with Justice Kalisch on their rights . The result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Elections to turn over to the Superintendent of Elections duplicate registry books and poll books without delay . The order will be served on the board members this morning . Mrs. Viola C. Soule of 276 Varick Street and David Cohen of 2401,1 ; Fourth Street , Republican members of the election board in the Fifth District of the Third Ward , surrendered to Judge Thomas H. Brown on warrants charging them with conspiracy to violate the election laws . Mrs. Soule was released on 41.000 bond to await the fixing of a date for a hearing to determine if she will be held for the grand jury . Cohen was unable to furnish- bail and was paroled until this morning in his counsel 's custody . The four Democratic members of election boards who are also sought on the same charges have not been located by Prosecutor 's detectives .                     