@@685683

txt The Serbians are fighting in Albania and the British are in more trouble in Mesopotamia . No sooner does a peace conference assemble in one part of the world than a fresh war starts elsewhere . Mesopotamia and Albania are not so important as Poland , but the world at large has a considerable interest in a durable settlement of their troubles . Reports of the Arab rising against the British in Mesopotamia have been coming in now ? and then for weeks past  --  some time ago there was the announcement of a. fight in which the British suffered 300 casualties  --  but now comes the news that 10,000 more troops are on their way from India to reinforce the 70,000 already in Mesopotamia , and there is fear . in London that still mare troops will be needed . It looks as if the British may need as large an army to hold Mesopotamia , against the natives as was required to take it from the Turks . Arab troops raised in. the country are apparently fighting on the British side , which indicates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a serious nature would require so large an army to repress it . The British have already called a " constituent assembly " to frame the constitution of the new Arab Government which under British influence is to rule the country , but in the meantime British administrators have been conducting the business of government , and ? apparently without the talent that the British have usually shown in dealing with Oriental peoples . Colonel LAWRENCE , the English archaeologist who established the alliance between Britain and the Arabs of the Hedjaz and acted as the personal representative and shock-absorber for Prince FEISAL at the Peace Conference , has lately protested against the British and French disposition to crowd the Arabs out of the picture . No doubt both French and British were surprised and pained when it appeared that the Hedjaz dynasty wanted a great deal more than European diplomats had been disposed to ' assign to it , and that the Arabs in general seemed to , regard that dynasty as the head of the national movement : But it appears that a more conciliatory attitude toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been more moderate than a good many of their followers  --  might have accomplished a working agreement ? in which the British and French got the economic . privileges and political guardianship which they wanted , while leaving the prerogatives of sovereignty and - the job of ' government to the Arab princes . Meanwhile Serbian troops holding Mount Tara.bo- sh , overlooking Scutari , are engaged in a fight with the Albanians , and the Serbian Government fears Albanian raids in the Macedonian territory , where the two races are commingled . The Italians decided that suppressing rebellion in Albania would cost more than it was worth , so they got out : The Serbs were no ; doubt rejoiced at this , and now it appears that some Serbs , at any rate , hope that they can get some profit out of the Italian withdrawal .. That Rail/an agents are stirring up Albanian dislike for Serbia is only natural , and the new Jugoslav kingdom has trouble enough on fts hands without taking on a new fight on the southern frontier . None of Albania 's neighbors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by interference , but , if the Albanians are left alone they will probably be no more able to govern themselves than they have been . in the past .                     