@@686155

txt The management of one comparatively small railroad has served notice to its employes of a general reduction in wage scales , effective February 1 , by which the men will be asked to give up one-half of the total increase in rates of pay since Dec. 31 , 1917 . This is the first of the " Class 1 " railroads to make such a move since the wartime wage scales were put in effect and , with one exception , is the first railroad of any description to attempt a downward revision of wages . The one exception is a railroad of about 300 miles in length , which has been usually classed among the so-called " short lines . " The road made a reduction January 1 and apparently has " got away with it . " It happens , however , that this road is not only in receivership but is in particularly bad financial shape . Both of these roads are located in a section of the country where living costs are understood to be substantially lower than the average over the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were generally lower than in other sections . The action of the Railroad Administration ' in standardizing rates of pay for the entire United States resulted in a proportionately greater advance there than elsewhere . For the larger of the two roads referred to , the one which has decided upon a reduction halfway back to the 1917 schedule , the payroll for 1920 was almost three times what it was in 1916 , although the volume of traffic moved was practically the same in the two years . This road 's traffic has undergone a considerable shrinkage during the past two or three months and in a quarter thoroughly informed upon its affairs it is stated that without a reduction in labor cost the road would - unquestionably have to suspend operations when the usual slack season comes in the Spring . Railroad officers who were asked whether the action ofthetiative roads presaged similar action by other roads , were quick to point out that the circumstances of the two carriers in question were so exceptional that their course would not necessarily have any general significance . One or two leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the carriers , wage reductions were out of the question just now and would remain so until there had been a substantial lowering of retail prices of food , clothing and other necessities . In railroad circles it is expected that the wage reductions here referred to will be promptly brought before the Labor Board , as would any similar steps on the part of other roads if taken . The question whether there is to be arty general reduction in railroad wages therefore rests with that body . On Monday the Board opens hearings upon the question of working conditions and agreements between carriers and their employes . This is a matter apart from , though more or less closely related with , the matter of wage scales and will be handled as a distinct issue , unless same unexpected turn of affairs brings the rates of rely into the controversy .                     