@@686808

txt It would have taken a group of supermen to have made a satisfactory peace treaty at Versailles , Viscount Bryce declared today in a lecture before the Institute of Politics at Williams College . As it was , he said , ' the work of the negotiators has received nothing but censure in Europe and has resulted in sowing the seeds of future wars . " There is , " declared Lord Bryce , " no blacker cloud pregnant with future storm hanging over Europe now than that which darkens ' the bank of the Rhine . " He said that Europe 's sore spots are many , and predicted that the slightest Irritation of any of them may lead to armed conflict . " The war ' has shown one unprecedented feafhre painful in the prospect it opens , " he ? asserted . " The victors bear as much resentment against the vanquished as the vanquished do against the victors . " Reviews Problems of Versailles . Discussing the peace treaty and the events that led up to it Lord Bryce said : After the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers assembled at Paris ; not a fortunate spot for the kind of deliberation needed . Of them and of the methods they employed this is not the place or the time to speak . Their work has received in Europe nothing but censure . Comparing the treaties they framed with those which were made by the congress at Vienna in 1S14-1M.5 , European critics observe that the men of Vienna . Alexander anti Metternich , Talleyrand and Ha rdenberg and Castlereagh , may have had bad principles and employed despotic methods and misconceived the interests of their peoples , but they at : 1st knew what they were doing and effect to their principles . " Their work bestowed upon Europe a tolerable peace , which lasted for more than thirty years . But there is not one of the treaties of le10-20 which is not now already admitted to need amendment , while some are seen to lead straight to future wars . One hears people 1. - qty " rill ! sort of peace that those negotiations have given us is as bad as was the Near . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar , and you can judge how far they are deserved . But against these severe judgments let us give consideration to the difficulties which faced the negotiators ' at Paris . " The men of Vienna had a common ground in their : faith in monarchical principles and in their reliance Upon force to carry out their principles . They had only monarchs to consider , not the will ofpeoples , and could do what they thought best for the interest of those they served . Bur the negotiators at Paris differed in their principles and ideals , and at least some of them do not seem to have believed in the principles then professed . European critics have buggested that some of them may have thought they must play down to their own electorates , and regard not what ought to be done , but also what Would help in their next electoral campaigns . Popular prejudices , popular passions and cupiditles had to be humored or gratified . " Moreover  --  and this is an ' excuse which must not be lightly brushed aside  --  the task before- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be created , territories redistrrbuted , indemnities secured and all on a scale incomparably greater than any International congress ever before had attempted . Says Supermen Were Needed . " A task so great needed not politicians of the usual type , but persons of the class which we now call supermen ; Persons who possoazed not only a profound and accurate knowledge of the facts the l ' had to deal with , but also a wide v ion , a gsa.sp of fundamental principles , a calm judgment raised above the revengeful passions of the moment ; persons who loved and sought justice , looking beyond the present to the future , seeking the good of mankind as well as the advantage of their respective nations , able to appreciate the workings of those better forces which alone can bring reconcilement and peace to a distracted world . " Such men did not appear . Why should they have been expected . There is no saying more false than the saying which declares that ' the hour brings the man . ' " Taking up the position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Peace Treaty , Lord Bryce said : " Germany . which though reduced in area , is still Germany and continues to call herself the reich I the realm.1 , albeit now a republic instead of a monarchy , Germany is still the most populous of European countries niter Russin , with highly educated and industrious inhabitants and great productive Industries . Between her and France the ancestral antagonism , dating back to the days of . Louis XINa 's aggressions , is nary more bitter than ever and seems likely to last in France as long as the generation lives which remembers the devastations w relight in Pala by the retiring Germany Army and in Germany as long ns her Government continues to pay immense sums in reparations for the losses in the war by France . This war has shown one unprecedented feature painful in the prospect it opens . The victors boar as much resentment against the vanquished as the vanquished do against the victors . There is no blacker cloud pregnant with future storm hanging over Europe now than that which darkens the- banks of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after Gravelotte amyl Sedan and the capitulation of Paris in 1872 has the prospect of reconcilement between two neighboring " peoples seemed to distant . Germany 's Ability to yea Doubtful " Into the tangled question of indemnities and their payment I will not enter . Enough to say that , through every one agrees hat the claim of indemnities is based on recognized principles , it remains doubtful what will be Germany 's ability to pay . " Of Austria and of Italy 's aspirations in regard to Tyrol , he said : " Italy had , of course , no historical title whateser to the purely Germanic region she sought to acquire . ilowever , the principle of nationality was in this case thrown overboard by the allied powers and a quarter of a million of German Taroiese , countrymen of the heroic Andreas Hofer , who had led their forefathers in a gallant resistance when Napoleon turned them over to Bavaria in 1805 , were delivered up to Italy as if they had been so many cattle . The British and French Governments defended their action . by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1915 , when they were endeavoring to induce her to enter the war on their side . It was a promise that ought never to have been made . The other allied powers had no such excuse to offer and do not seem to have offered any . " Voralberg , a small region on the eastern bank of tile Rhine before it enters the Lake of Constance , and one which is usually treated tot a part of Tyrol , expressed its wish after the collapse of the Hapsburg monarchy , to be admitted as a canton into the Swiss Confederation . which it adjoins , but the Swiss Government did not accept the offer , opinion in Switzerland being divided on the subject and opposition on the part of France apprehended . And hero it must he noted that the treaty of St. Germain forbids Austria as a whole to unite herself with Germany , a , di ? regard of 1.11 An-cufilled principle of determination which the powers seek to justify on the ground that such a union would strengthen Germany . " In the case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kingdom of Bol emla were adhered to on the north and southwest , although these included several millions of men who speak German and deem themselves Germans . This departdre from the principle of nationality may perhaps be defended on the ground both of antiquity and of the difficulty of ignoring the natural frontier established by the mountain masses on the northeast , on the northwest and on the ' south ' and the President of the Czechoslovak Republic , one of the most thoughtful and wide-minded men of our time , has assured me of the wish of his State to treat ? as it will be truly their wisdom so to do  --  the German element with full friendliness and justice . Nevertheless there is a possibility that difficulties may hereafter arise from the desire of That element to be added to their GerManic brethren on the other side of the rieun tains. " ? moans Partition of Kungary . Ion rue provision in the Peace Treaty *Itch strips Hungary of more than half her territory Lord Bryce declared : a'No explanation has ever been given of his policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confirmed by proof to make it right for me to state them . You are doubtless aware that a thick shield of secrecy was , from the first , hung before the proceedings of the negotiating powers , and though subsequent revelations , not always discreet , have given some light much still reMalan matter for conjecture . It is a singular fact that though no diplomatic ) proceedings for three generations have been so important as those of 1919-1920 and though never before was there so general a demand Tor publicity , no previous negotiations have been shrouded in so deep a mystery . Many things were clone which could not have been done in public had those in England , for instance , who knew the facts and desired justice , been able to express their I VieWS . " I come now to otser sources of trouble likely to arise between the South Slays and their neighbors on the South and - West . The Allied powers prudently refused to divide Albania . between Jugosla.via. and Greece , leaving this interesting group of tribes to work out their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wild way , but it may be softened down now that the barbaric Turk has been removed . " On the east Jugoslavia , is confronted by Bulgaria , whose people , though they speak : t Slavonic tongue which differs little from Serb and from Russian , are not of Slavonic but of Finnic stock . Descending from the middle course of the - Volga in the eighth canhwy A. D. , they adopted the tongue of the Slays , whom they conquered , but in physical structure and character they are sharply contrasted with the Serbs , their bodies more solid , their intellect less imaginative end susceptible , a Pc0-pie of patient industry and steady will , good fighters and able to support defeat and rise from it with a resolve to recover what they have lost . - Asserts Bulgaria has no Friends . " A hitter rivalry doting back to tile short war of 1S85 has unfortunately created had relations between them and the Serbs and become one of the factors in preventing the formation of that confederation of the Balkan peoples , to include Serbs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends of the races liberated from Turkish tyranny dreamed of forty years ago . Bulgaria has at present no friends anywhere , for the Rumanians have taken territory inhabitated by a Bulgarian ; population in tile 1 ) ohrudsha , south of the lower Danube ; the Greeks have received parts of Thrace , where there is a large Bulgarian element , and occupy the seaports on the north coast of the Aegean Sea , and the Serbs have appropriated a large region 111 Southern Mose ( 10111a , Where the Bulgarian element is in a large majority . " TI : ' , was one of the errors committed by the allied powers assembled at Paris . Disregarding the appeal of the Bulgarians to the principles of nationality and self-determination , which would have given Southern Macedonia to Bulgaria , refusing even to constitute that region a small and more or less autonomous State under the direction of the allied powers or of the League of Nations , they assigned most of it to Serbia , which had conquered it limn the Bulgarians in 191:1 , arid the rest to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither they nor their brethren in the Kingdom of Bulgaria have renounced their aspirations : so one may fear trouble in this quarter as soon as a prospect of satisfying those aspirations rises over the horizon . " Turning to Russia Lord Bryce said : " If the experience of States which have in past times lapsed into anarchy or fallen under the dominion of a group of adventurers ruling by mere force Without a snrea of constitutional or moral authority were to furnish any ground- for a forecast we should expect the rise of military despotism like that of Bonaparte . But whence or when will the deliverer appear ? Three attempts have been made and have failed . ' Whoever re-establishes order will find a country from which most of Its best men have been removed . some by starvation , many by murder , others by exile , so his task will be all the more difficult . " But it must be remembered that Russia herself , once her internal troubles have subsided and she is again a-military power , will probably endeavor to reconquer all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Finland . ? File Russian exiles , survivors from the old regime , who have escaped into Western Europe make no secret of their desire to recover the Baltic lands which had been largely Russified before 1917 , and even the territories beyond the Caucasus in which the native races had been only superficially affected by Czarist rule , " Such an attempt would raise a whole crop of new questions capable of furnishing materials for new wars . A RUSSIA . of 80,000,000 people , with the immense natural wealth of Siberia added to her own , would be formidable to her neighbors . Before the war she was formidable enough to alarm Germany , and would have been more than a match for any European ' power had not her administrative system , military and naval as well as civil , been worm-eaten by a corruption which crept up into the very highest circles like a hidden dry rot . " Continuing this survey , Lord Bryce found also much inflammable material In Turkey and said he wondered why ' " the Turkish Government , which had in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children as well as ' , men : and had treated the British prisoners whom it had captured In Mesopotamia with an inhumanity which caused the death of more than half of the private soldiers  --  the officers would probably have suffered equally but for the intervention on their behalf by Germanl officers  --  why after these - crimes that Government should have been treated WI the Allies with such extraordinary lenity and should now have fresh indulgence offered to it by proposed modifications in the Treaty of Sevres  --  these are mysteries the explanation of which is probably known to some of you as it is to me . But the secret is one which as Herodotus says of some of those tales which he heard . from the priests in Egypt it would be improper for me to disclose. , "                     