@@687756

txt Perhaps District Attorney Banton . Joab ELI- has been told , by some misguided friend , that he has a great career before him , and can pose as the people 's friend with the New York Stock Exchange as a safe and converant target . The assumption is that this institution has been so accustomed to being libeled by politicians in search of notoriety that he is perfectly safe in attacking it , where he might make political enemies by exposing the bung'ing of the police department . The Tribune , at least , thinks Mr. Banton is worth reporting on its front page . He is worth consideration here-for reasons quite other than any merit in himself or his arguments . He has all the cheap politician 's contempt for the intelligence of his audience , and even presumes on their ignorance . When he announced that " the New York Stock Exchange would be under legislative control before the end of the year " he must have known that he was talking an impossibility if he was speaking of the state leg , slature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was . The legislature does not meet before January 1 , 1923 , but perhaps Mr. Banton assumed that the Oil Trade Association did not know even that . It was necessary to point out in this column , a short time ago , that what Banton described as bucketing was not that at all but common stealing , recognized , in Wall Street or anywhere else , as such and easily punishable under present law , as a recent confession and conviction shows . But is it for any purpose of law enforcement thvt Mr Banton wants to see the books of stock - exchange houses ? Transactions between the broker and his etn -- tomer are , most properly , confidential . No law can make it morally right that they should be made public or submitted to the supervision of an outside official , necessarily a politician . When in the administration of justice such examination becomes necessary , there exists a way to secure it with which competent pre'vious holders of the District Attorneyship are entirely familiar . But what Banton wants is that enemy of all liberty , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is why even Joub H. Banton finds a place on a newspaper 's front page . He does not want what he says he wants . No license issued to a broker would really give his office or the law any power which does not exist now . It would open the way to meddlesome , ignorant and dangerous direction under pretense of regulation . It - would create a number of new crimes , of which extortion and blackmail would be merely samples . It would put in the poz-ession of underlings the power to sell business secret ' . It would not convict a single crook , and even if it were made unconstitutionally retroAtive it would not give the District Attorney 's office any instrument of crime detection and punishment which does not exist today . Mr. Banton 's reasons for failures in the Stock Exchange are ridiculous . The " excessive overhead " of brokerage houses is none of his business even if it exists , because it Is not a crime . You can not send men to jail for lack of business judgment . As for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money and bucketing orders , " Mr. Banton can not produce against the institution he attacks a single case of anything of the kind . He may not know that the Stock Exchange is the greatest and m ? st effective foe of bucketing . But he should have some elementary knowledge of the powers and limitations of the District Attorney 's office . " Taking Russia by the throat " sounds valiant . bat taking the Soviet government by the throat is a job for the Russian people and for nobody else , if Russia is to regain the world 's sympathetic respect .                     