@@692707

txt There are now going on informal conversations looking to the finding of a formula which will permit t  --  e ending of the British general attire . Neither the Government nor the Trades Union Council officially are represented , but those undertaking the effort are in touch with both sides . While secrecy surrounds these talks , tt is evident that tney are centring about the coal industry and there is a report that they hope to persuade the miners that their best chances lie in the ending rather than the continuance of the strike . Should it be possible to satisfy the miners of this the way might be opened for the strike leaders to rescind the general strike order , which would fulfill the essential condition Prime Minister Baldwin makes for the resumption of negotiations with the trades unions . This does not mean any weakening of the Government 's determination to show that a general strike can not be used to force the Government , but the idea back of the effort ie that a way can be found to end the struggle without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the next few days will mark an advance in the endeavor to arrange a method for ending the strike . It is the idea of these intermediaries that if the struggle can be ended in the way they plan , there will remain clearly the Issue aroused by the difficulties in the coal industry with what hats been called the constitutional strike banished into limbo . gays Sir Herbert Samuel Is Active . The London Times will say tomorrow morning : " There need be no difference of opinion about the value of the conversations , informal and unofficial , but none the less important , which have been taking place since the return of Sir Herbert Samuel on the future of the coal mining industry . " That industrial problem , already half forgotten in the great industrial struggle which has succeeded it , will remain to be settled whenever the general body of the trades unions restores the only condition on which negotiations are possible , " It is all to the good that men of peace in every relation with the mining industry are looking ahead to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preliminary should be considering how best to get to work when once the general strike is abandoned . " The miners and mine owvers alike should welcome the effort , fol popular sympathy with their common difficulties runs some risk of disappearing under the present conditions . It was high time that the economic issue resulting in the deplorable but legitimate strike should be revived and plainly distinguished from the illegal and intolerable challenge to constitutional government . " May Call Dole Receivers . If any of the strike leaders say they have not shot their last bolt the same may be said for the Government . Today the Cabinet discussed at length a proposal to call to work the million and more workers who have been receiving doles from the Government . The proposal was to the effect that these men be summoned to go to work as needed or forfeit the sustenance the Government has been supplying them . The move was suggested on the ground that since the general strike represents a fight between the striking unions and the public , the public has a right to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been paying out for years to workers because there were no jobs for them . Since jobs exist now it is argued that the idle workers have only to fill them . It is reported that the proposal had the support of Lord Birkenhead and Winston Churchill , but , however , the Cabinet took no decision , reserving the matter for future discussion . The Government also had before It the issue raised of whether the Government would be justified in-impounding the funds of the trade unions on the ground that their strike calling for the use of these funds was illegal . While no decision was taken , sentiment appeared agai#st this measure . The Cabinet had before it a note from leading bankers stating that unless the Government took steps the bankers would treat the unions with regard to their funds on deposit as ordinary customers . It is understood that the Government is favorable to this procedure . However , it is - understood that the bankers have turned rather a cold ear to the unions ' request that they make advances up to 80 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which most of these funds are invested . The reply is said to have been that these securities must be sold if the unions desire to realize on them . This would represent some loss to the unions , as the marketing of these bonds in the present conditions and at the existing rates would mean a loss . loss .                     