@@691445

txt The Mayor 's defiant announcement that he is going to demand another term in the City Hall is admitted by even his friends to have been a tactical mistake . Probably the learned HIRSHFIELD drew him aside and reminded him of the poet 's warning that " though we take what we desire , we must not snatch it greedily . " If a great sensation was intended , it fell Painfully flat . Tammany remained " most unusual calm . " From the tight-lipped Democratic boss of Brook-lyn no comment could be got . It is clear , in fact , that there is to be no Immediate change in the policy of ab-solute silence applied to the Mayor by those who have the power of nominating him or retiring him . No strategy could be better calculated to get on the nerves of a flurried and eager candidate , and it is obviously having that effect . Even more must the Mayor be astonished by the failure of the people to rise and insist upon his being kept in office . He has carefully and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public servant like him . It is true that they never have . He has demonstrated to them the imminent peril in which they will stand if their sacred persons and interests are ever committed to the care of another Mayor . Moreover , he has pointed out the horrid plottings to get rid of him . and has called upon the people to rebuke and discomfit the conspirators . But it is one thing to call for a popular uprising from the vasty deep and quite another to get it . One of the extraordinary features of the municipal campaign  --  to the Mayor it must be peculiarly distressing  --  is the apparent indifference of the people of the city to his sufferings . struggles and present dire emergency . Where are the mass meetings in his favor , except those staged in the City Hall ? Why are not the political clubs and the district organizations adopting resounding resolutions in the Mayor 's behalf ? In previous years we have seen all sorts of mysterious associations speaking in the name of the people and demanding the continuance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be brilliantly cons'Picuous by their absence . No vehement action is reported by the Flatbush Furnishers . The Staten Island Stationary Engineers have not been heard from . No report has come from the Williamsburg Waiters . Such political restraint is symptomatic , but it is also pathetic . The Mayor confidently casts himself upon the people , but they coldly stand from under . It is enough to make a simple-minded and devoted Mayor despair of the Republic . We can but hope that he will bear up with his customary dignity , even though he is learning how sharper than a serpent 's tooth it is to have a thankless electorate .                     