@@692369

txt One sign that President COOLIDGE is impressing himself on Congress is seen in the fact that he is now more often attacked in Congress . This is in line with the saying of the old French statesman to an aspiring politician : " Will you rise ? Then make enemies . " The increasing number of the President 's enemies in Congress is an indication that he has risen . There was an unaccustomed outburst against him last week , on the day after he had issued come uncommonly pungent statements through that convenient dummy , his " spokesman " at the White House . Indignant Senators rose up to denounce him for attempting to forestall their action and to warn the country that their speeches were so filled with partisan animus that they need not be regarded . But in the midst of a diatribe against the President , Senator HARRISON of Mississippi paused to say that Mr. COOLIDGE is one of the smartest politicians who ever sat in the White House . This praise might be higher if it came from a better judge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of politics it is that President COOLIDGE has " played " and why he has thus far been so successful . Needless to say , it is not a case of a magnetic and exuberant personality . Mr. COOLIDGE has made no pretense to individual traits which he does not possess . He has offered the people a new type among Chief Executives , and they seem to like it , if only , as the Sheriff of Nottingham said , " for variety 's sake . " But everybody knows that it is not the personal qualities of the President , but the policies that he has advocated , which have made him rank among the skillful politicians of his time . He had the sagacity to note a great oncoming change in public sentiment . He had the skill quietly to anticipate it and to align himself with it . What he perceived was a sort of phase of war weariness , a reaction against high excitements and the blowing of the nation 's horn . He early detected a vague popular desire for economy and thrift in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taxation . And it was because he steadily responded to this public sentiment that the people rose to give him a support which confounded all the plans and prognostications of his political opponents . This is the kind of statesmanship which is of the essence of the best politics . There is nothing petty about it . It is not the sort of political manoeuvring which wins here and there assent and a scattered following . It proceeds , rather , on large lines of approach to large masses ; and when . t succeeds , it does so on a tremendous scale . Exactly what the instinct is which enables now and then a public man to note and profit by the stirrings of a great popular movement , it would be hard to say . It seems to spring from something like a special sense . But it is closely akin to political genius . Fortunate is the political leader who is thus able to read clearly in advance the signs of the time . Even those who are closest to the great body of citizens , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of revolt , as well as upon coming changes of opinion , can not explain what is occurring . About the best they can do is to say , as the old Ohio farmer did to GARFIELD at the time of the swesping Republican defeat in 1874 , " Well , I guess the . people had " been laying ' so long on one side that " they thought they 'd like to turn over . " Certainly one test of the calibre of a politician of the higher order is that his ideas should have vitality enough to rise and prevail Liter being rejected at first . The most conspicuous example of this before the eye of the country just now is Secretary MELLON . A little more than two years ago he put forward plans for reducing and equalizing taxation . His argument was buttressed by knowledge and experience . . It had in general the approval of tax experts . But it was received by the small fry politicians  --  many of them in his own party  --  with cries of derision and indignation . When his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But he quietly held his ground . He renewed his recommendations and at last he has lived to see Congress not only accepting his original proposals , but in some respects going further than they did . As the Tax bill has been making its way through the Senate , the wonder has been more than once expressed that a majority stood ready to " out-Mellon MErzoN .. " There could be no more conclusive proof of good polities . Mr. MELLON preserves his usual calm and reticence . But it would be strange if he did not feel an inward satisfaction at thus seeing the work of his hands established upon him .                     