@@695665

txt CAUSES OF THE WAR . What Professor Fay Has Written and What Omitted . To the Editor of The New York Times : Professor S. B. Fay 's extensive work , " The Origins of the World War , " affords . much information of interest to those who have followed the " revisionist " controversy - in this country . Judgment that Germany and her ? ally were - principally to blame for the outbreak of the great war- has - been said to be based on . war hysteria and ignorance , prejudice and stultification , and was possible from propaganda in wartime and . - suppression. - of documents - by Germany 's foes . Again and again has it been hinted or proclaimed that great ' accessions of newly revealed information and more thorough Scholarship - exposed Entente " lies " and showed the futility of charges formerly advanced . The- matter did not - stop with attempted defense of the Central Powr. ers , but a " historical sociologist " and a former United States Senator , among others , have dismayed more cautious " revisionists " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by . Russia and France . Generally there has . been implication that such ideas were supported by Professor Fay , and this has doubtless been embarrassing to him . Now , on publication of his work , " revisionism " is said to- be vindicated by his researches . Professor Fay explicitly adverts to the extremes to which revisionists have gone , and while generally ignoring the most widely advertised book on the genesis of the war he notices that its author has suppressed a portion of a document and so arrives at a false conclusion . Professor Fay presents an able , sympathetic treatment of the German case , and if sometimes he seems to - go to - great lengths to do this , in comparison with his treatment of other matters , yet evidently he intends to give fair and proper account . It - is very desirable that sympathetic exposition of Germany 's cause should be made by a competent scholar . For the most . part , however , conclusions of conservative students are upheld by what these volumes contain . There is no controversy about the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Serbia and ' line first . of the greater declarations by Germany on Russia and France . The German thesis that " mobilization means war , " - so that Russia was responsible for ? the larger conflict , is accepted though not emphasized by the author , but his treat. ; ment of this- doctrine . is : brief and apparently he has made no extensive study of conflicting evidence - perti-  ; nent to it . His considered conclusion , however , is that " Austria was more responsible for the . innnediate ' origin of the war than any other power . " He declares that " Germany- did not plot a European war , ' did notwant one , - and made genuine , though tao belated , efforts . to avert one . She was the - victim of-her alliance with Austria ' and of her own folly : " He seems to place the responsibility of Germany next after that of- Austria , though he- does . not specifically say that . Many have assigned the principal blame to Germany , because Austria abetted. and ' encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . her course , and because ' Germany made the declare. - ' tions of war that began the greater struggle .. . . In Professor ' Fay 's narrative there is detailed.account . of Austria 's inquiry as to what support Germany . would give her , if she took measures against Serbia ? an inquiry , of course , that had in view- the possibility of intervention ' by Russia . He tells again how Germany promised un- , conditional support , and it is now known that this assurance was given In connection with conferences held at Potsdam July 5 and 6 , 1914 . He makes it abundantly plain , as has often been asserted , that Austria drafted her ultimatum to Serbia with the- avowed ' intention of causing war with Serbia to result . He shows that ' thereafter Austria would hear of no compromise whatever , even when Germany , who at first urged her on , made ' some efforts to restrain her toward the end . . And he relates how when statesmen were.frantically trying to find a solution , when Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria declared war on Serbia to forestall the possibility of a compromise . Professor Fay believes the Treaty of Versailles ought not to be revised , since ? he thinks ? it is founded on the doctrine of the sole responsibility of Germans for . the great war . I know of no historian.of repute who asserts that Germany was solely to blame , even for the immediate causes of the war . Professor Fay refers to Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles . Surely that article has nowhere an assertion ' that Germany was responsible " entirely " or " solely . " ' With respect to ? violation. of : the neutrality of Belgium , Professor Fay 's treatise con- . tains little more than statement of the doctrine of Germany 's military need . Of German - militarism , which so long , hung over Europe like a threatening Cloud , and of , whose effectiveness such ' fearful proofs were given , during the struggle , the author-says . tually- nothing , though behind what - documents declare there was often meaning-caused by its shadow . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the great war , that growth of German power and military might was one of the principal factors leading to the war . But from blood relationship. - and more ' largely through indebtedness to German : music and literature , I will go - far with Professor Fay if hope is ex- , pressed that a more liberal Germany will , in future , have all the place in . Europe which her great contributions deServe . RAYMOND TURNER . Johns Hopkins University , Nov : 30 ,  - -  - 1926. ?                     