@@694451

txt With a single disputed point re . maining , Ald. E. I. Frankhauser 's council subcommittee will meet either today or Monday to complete its draft of the new legislative program whereby the city hopes to unkink its transportation tangle . Three of the five proposed new Dills  --  the subway , consolidation , and transit commission measures  --  were completed ten days ago ; while the fourth , or terminable permit bill , was approved by the subcommittee members while in the east with the council 's gas-oil committee this week . All of the aldermen were due home last night and the meeting has been called to act on bill No. 5 . It is a. snag in this bill , which amends the cities and villages act by raising its twenty year limitation on term franchises , ' that is expected to cause trouble . Connell Given Free Rein . Under the corresponding Insult Measure , senate bill No. 437 , defeated last June in the state legislature , a forty year limit was provided , but the Subcommittee tentatively struck out even this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit for seventyfive , ninety , or any other number of years as an alternate to a terminable Permit . A storm of criticism ensued on the ground that such power would make the council dictatorial . A corrupt council controlled by a traction magnate , it was pointed out , might some time issue a ninety-nine Year franchise , saddling the streets with a mode of transportation that might become obsolete in half that period . Proponents of the no limit plan replied that bankers will not finance a short time franchise , and that if the city had the right to issue a fifty or Sixty year grant its leverage would be greater on the local companies which Want a ' terminable permit . To Submit Several Drafts . , " I am going to submit to the subcommittee several drafts of the bill and let it choose what it wants , " said James W. Breen , the group 's attorney . He added that he will recommend that the subcommittee take its full set of bills before the full transportation committee in an executive session , excluding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the aldermen will stick to the job , the bills will be ready for the legislature , which the councilmen hope will meet in special session next spring to consider them . FOUND DEAD IN MS Room , Oliver Anderson . 50 years old , 234 East 61st street , was found dead in bed by his wife . Jane . yesterday . Pollee believe that his death was due to heart disease .                     