@@685085

txt Assemblyman William C. Amos , representing the Eleventh District of Manhattan , made public tonight a letter he had written to Will H. Hays , Chairman of the Republican Natiot . " Committee , urging him to repudiate , in the name of the party , the action of the Assembly in moving to unseat the five Socialist members . Mr. Amos , who voted for the suspen- , sion resolution , was one of the leaders in the effort to have this action reconsidered . In his letter . Mr. Amos wrote that " the high handed action of the Assembly " was being charged up against the Republican Party , and that it would be impossible to evade responsibility , as they controlled the Assembly by more than a two-thirds majority , 110 out of the 150 members being Republicans . The fact that the recent unofficial Republican State Convention failed to adopt a resolution in approval of Speaker Sweet and the Assembly was proof that a majority of the Republicans in the State did not regard the action as " IOU per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative Government that the founders of the Republican Party held . Mr. Amos continued : " Whatever the final action may be , resenting or expelling the Socialists , it should be clearly set forth to the country that the Republican Party has never approved and does not now approve the overthrow by legislative action of the result of a peaceable and lawfully conducted election . In other words , the Republican Party respects the result of an honest election and does not believe that the result of such election should be stolen because the party has a ma- jority enabling it to commit such tnievery , a direct embezzlement of the results of an election through legislative action , misdirected and misconstrued as being constitutional . " You are aware that all aspirants for President of the United States on both tickets have come out openly declaring their disapproval of this act of the Assembly excepting General Leonard Wood , who has , as far as I have been able to ascertain , remained silent on the subject , and Mr. Bryan , although it will be difficult to imagine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are also , no . doubt , aware that most of the leading clubs , bar associations , labor unions , community councils , women 's clubs , men 's clubs , civic clubs , neighborhood centres , and , in fact , organizations representing all classes and ideals of citizenship , condemned the un-American proceeding of the Assembly. ? " I trust that you may find It consistent and agreeable to take this opportunity of openly expressing your opinion on the , subject , by doing which I am confident you nay gain for the Republican Party the renewed confidence of the people that it is a in , rty that stands for representative Government . the protection of the ballot box and that its silence so far on this ; subject does not commit it to an approval of the action of the Assembly , but rather must be taken as an expression of its humiliation and disapproval of this wanton act of misguided and visionless party leaders . " The " trial " of the five Socialist Assemblymen which has been in progress for six weeks will end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the final argument for the " prosecutiOn . " Both sides have been dire  --  ted to file briefs ' , vith the Judiciary Committee before the end Of next Avt'ek . The most optimistic are looking for a report by the Judiciary ComMittee and final action by the Assembly during the week following . While it is predicted that the committee will divide on the question of their eligibility to contnue as members of the House , it is regarded as-certain by those best informed that the majority report will recommend the expulsion of all five , and that the minority will be divided , some urging the ' seating of all the Socialists and others the expulsion of Ascemblymen Solomon of Kings and I.Claessens and Waldman of New York , ; against whom there were individual charges , anti the seating of Assembly- men De Witt and Orr of the Bronx , who were not individually assailed by the testimony . There is even less uncertainty regard ; ing the course of the assembly . Friends of Speaker Sweet who have etinve.ssed the situation predict with the utmost confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . expulsion of the five Socialists . Of the thirty-five Democrats in the Assembly , it is predicted that at least a score will vote with the He publicans to expel the Socialists if the party leaders keep their hands off .                     