@@685591

txt Last evening at the Princess was Tj sorn6thing more than the in ) 17-fensive approximation which is the most- that one can hope from actors ' embodiments of great and non ! . men . - Each member of the audience , no doubt , had in his mind his own individual tradition of the appearance and personality of the President , formed r ? - om reading , perhaps , or the vague operations of his imagination , or from scrutiny of the statues and statuettes in the public parks . Against those traditions Mr. Hall had to work . He had to mold the various mental pictures of his audience into the ' one that he him . self was making , lest he should displease . That he performed this undertaking successfully was indicated by his popularity with those present , none of whom , so far as a reporter could see , was offended . Its doing so , Mr. Hall , of course , en . deavored no innovations . His Lincoln N1 as drawn along the safer lines . From the conventional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humor , the tragedy , the never-failing underclogism. the courage , the conflict , and the triumph that always win in the theater . A man of considerable charm , not rugged enough , it may be . with a voice a bit too high and an intonation too sanctimonious , he was wise enough to banish all unnecessary histrionism . He was dignified and unstagy , he exhibited a gift of declamation consonant with actuality and he strove for no unhuman and majestic heights . He was more than a satisfactory Lincoln , and several of us who went to scoff remained to applaud . He and the Rev. Mr. DLxon , the author , I suspect , have put a crimp , so far as this neighborhood Is concerned , into Mr. Drinkwater 's more famous drama upon the same subject . For Mr. Dixon has contrived in " A Man of the People , " a play which acts much better than Mr. Drinkwater 's play reads . The Drinkwater opus , in the reading , is merely a series of the , more obvious of the Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for whom as a dramatist I have had no regard hitherto , essays to put a " punch " into his recital , making climactic emphasis of two or three of the less known crises in the President 's career . One of these is a scene showing the Republican national committee , headed by Henry Raymond of the New York Times , demanding his withdrawal as the presidential nominee in the gloomy days of 1864 . Another shows Lincoln and McClellan In a secret intervffw in the White House , wherein Lincoln indicts his discarded . marshal for a vengeful treason . Both are effective episodes ; and the first enables Mr. Dixon to Rsnew the venomous animosity toward Thaddeus Stevens which was so evident in " The Birth of a Nation . " He causes poor old Thaddeus to limp about the stage ' like the murderous Mr. Hyde in one of his snarling paroxysms . He is unfriendly , too , to Mrs. Lincoln , conceiving her as nosy , somewhat of a shrew , ' and so ' extravagant as to have a charge account of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New York . Mr. Dixon ( who made a speech , identifying himself as the reconstructed progeny of a secessionist and slaveowner ) explains in the playbill the aim of his composition . This , he says , is to emphasize that emancipation of the slaves was merely an incident of the HOWARD HALL AS LINCOLN . war , and that Lincoln 's first policy was to preserve the Union . In only a few places do the lines suggest Lincoln as the showy demagogue that the stage might easily represent him to be ; and there is a commendable minimum of the frayed jokes and stories . One felt sure that Mr. Dixon would repeat the phrase about Grant and the whisky , but , unlike Mr. Drinkwater , he did not . There is , however , plenty of legitimate hoakum in " A Man of the People . " The lugubrious widow , and the little girl pleading effectually for ' her brother 's pardon , both are present , as is the rebel belle who wishes to go through the lines tv see her wounded father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of whiskerage , resigns the war-portfolio , and a brooding young . captain pulls a gun on the President , becoming later the faithful spy who saves the 1rninn . The4 is , also , a dramatic ; telegraph instrument in the executive ? Moos , over which the harried President leans . wet d n g for the news that Sherman has captured Atlanta . And the crowd sings " The Battle Hymn of the Republic " upon the arrival of those glad tidings . A cadaverous prologue , repre.sentin the deathbed of Lincoln 's mother , with the youthful Abraham lisping the Twenty-third Psalm to her : and an epilogue revealing the fulfilltnent , of her vision of his greatness seemed to me to be soppy and to be well worth omitting . The actors were good and unknown .                     