@@687517

txt There was delivered today to Roland W. Boyden , the Afnerlean representative on the Reparations Commission , a reply to the American request for the payment of $241,000,00 Army ' of Occupation costs which 1117.1 . Boyden transmitted to the Finance Ministers ? of Great Britain , France , Italy and Belgium March 10 . The reply of the allied Finance Ministers states : Firht , that the American communication was received . Second , that a ciause has been inserted in the interallied agreement on reparations distribution reserving American rights as they may be determined . Third , that the Finance Ministers are not capable of dealing with the American request , which belongs to the competence of the allied Governments , to which the American Government is ad.vised to address itself . The French Government is extremely desirous that there been effected an agreement between America on the one hand and the Allies on the other - deHfiningtheir respective rights under the Versailles and Berlin treaties . It 15. the French contention that as matters stand from a legal point ' of view the Allies are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America is bound by the Versailles Treaty terms . However , the French Government recog , nizes that America has high moral rights , and in order that these moral rights may he put on a legal basis France , I am informed , hopes that Washington will at once Soin the Allies in straightening out the situation , which it fears may in the future give rise to unpleasant incidents . Basis of Agreement Outlined . The view is expressed in Paris that the- tangle over American occupation costs could be straightened out by an agreement , the preamble to which might read about as follows : " The United States of America , and Great Britain , France , Italy and Bel-gium : " Considering that by Articles 235 , 249 and 251 of the Treaty of Versailles signed June ' 28 , 1919 , Germany agreed to pay the costs of the armies of occupation of the Powers described in that treaty as the Principal allied and associated powers , to wit , the United States , the British Empire , France , ' talk , Belgium and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on German payments prior to general reparation claims ; " Considering that the benefits accruing to the United States under the aforesaid articles of the Treaty . of Versailles were confirmed by . a treaty be-. tween the United States and Germany signed Aug. 2 ? , 1921 , to restore friendly relations between the two countries ; ? ' " Considering that the allied powers have , through the Reparations Commission , collected certain sums from Germany on account of reparations and have made various concessions and modifications of payments as prescribed in the Treaty of Versailles ; " Considering that the United ? States did not ratify the Treaty of Versailles and did not participate in said concessions and modifications of the treaty , particularly as regards the payment costs of the occupation : " Have resolve to conclude a convention for that purpose and to the end that . the United States shall he relm ? bursed for the costs of its army occupation , &c."; The language of this is not new to Secretary Hughes . It is a paraphrase of the preamble to the Yap treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America and Japan . " Considering ; that by Article 119 of the Treaty of Versailles signed June 28 , 1919 . Germany renounced in favor 9f the powers described , in that treaty as the principal allied and associated powers , to wit , the United States , the British Empire , France , Italy and Japan all her rights and titles to overseas poss  --  ssions ; " Considering that the benefits accruing to the United States under the aforesaid Article 119 of the Treaty of Versailles were confirmed by the treaty between the United States and Germany signed Aug. 25 , 1921 , to restore friendly relations between the two nations ; " Considering that the said four powers , to wit , the British Empire , France , Italy and Japan , have agreed to confer upon his Majesty , the Emperor of Japan , a mandate pursuant to the Treaty of Versailles to administer the groups of former German islands in the Pacific Ocean lying north of the Equator in accord with the following provisions : ( Here follow the mandate provisions of the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . did not ratify the Treaty of Versailles and did not participate in the agreement respecting the aforesaid islands and in particular the Island of Yap ; " Have resolved to conclude a convention for that purpose , &c."; ? America Reserved Many Rights . It is pointed out here that not only does the Berlin treaty reserve for America rights with respect . to the payment of occupation costs but that America may ava.11 herself of the provisions of parts 5 , 6 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 14 and 15 of the Treaty of Versailles. , which relate to almost numberless things . For instance . Part 5 relates to disarmament . Nothing would please the French better than to have America avail herself of her right to see that Germany keeps disarmed . They think that , the uncertainty of this shows the necessity of some definite arrangement about two treaties with a country which changes its Government and its opinions from time to time . Paris ' takes the view that a clear agreement would be a great mutual benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes her occupaticn costs claim under the Berlin treaty . If it be true , as some Washington dispatches said today , that she makes it under the armistice terms , the situation is different . So far as the Allies are concerned , the armistice ended when the Treaty of Versailles went into effect that is , the armistice lasted fourteen months , from November , 1918 , to January . 1920 . But for . America the armistice lasted from November , 1918 , to November , 1921 , or thirty-six months . Anted Concessions to Germany . That is one difficulty . Another diffi : culty is that while under the Treaty of Versailles Germany was to pay 20,000 , - 000,000 gold- marks before May 1 , 1921 , out of which the occupation costs were to be paid , the Allies , with out the United States saying anything , forgave Germany 12,000,000,000 of this sum , but it is generally believed here that America bases her claim on the Berlhf treaty . Another point made by Frenchmen is that ' four-fifths of what Germany has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future payments In cash will continue small . The Commission on Reparations now drafting the- schedule of 1922 pay-. meats , . will call - for the delivery of 720 , - 000,090-marks cash and 1,500,04000 in materials . If America is to share in these payments , It . is urged . she can not expec , t all tha cash to be handed over to her . Of the materials which Germany will deliver , which would she choose ? So the question has- no end of complications . As the . Finance Ministers ' : note to Mr. Boyden indicates , the Allies. , thInk that the next move - istini  --  to America ; - III the meitnwhile. the'llnande cation of the ism and 1922 payments stands unless overturned by the chiefs of the allied Governments .                     