@@696009

txt There is still no word from Larry Gould , Bernt Balchen and Harold . June , who have been at the Rockefeller Range now for eleven days . Time means very little down here , however , and there would he no worry as to their situation if it were not for the silent radio set . The dog teams will start in a few hours . just as soon as careful preparations have been finished for a journey which will be at best extraordinarily difficult . Commander Byrd was all ready to take off yesterday afternoon in the first few hours of clear weather we have had in many days , but the motor of the plane would not start . It is the first time it has balked in all the weeks we have been here and that it should have quit at such an important time ? was a great disappointment . Weather Balks Rescue Flight . When adjustments had been made and the motor was turning , the sky had clouded over , the wind was blowing , and flying was out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bare chance that the Commander may be able to go today , although conditions are not so good as they were yesterday . Consideration of all the conditions which have existed since the last messages from Gould makes it seem more than ever likely that their silence is due to some damage to the radio set which June was not able to repair . Barring some unlikely mishap , they should be as safe there as we are here at the base ; safer for a limited time , because they have solid land under them somewhere and a base on the Barrier is at best a home on a potential iceberg . None of those who have flown over the mountains has seen anything resembling a crevasse . The snow slopes are firm and on the mountainsides are drifted smooth . With food for more than two months , a sled to get home with , tent and sleeping bags and fuel , there is no reason to worry about the mountain survey party if they have not met with a mishap . But a mishap may be the explana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duration , and , when the causes of that are considered , we become more puzzled than ever . Byrd Invites Wilkins . Captain Sir Hubert Wilkins 's announcement over WJZ 's network on Sunday night that he was planning to partake of dinner next Christmas with Commander Byrd at Little America met with prompt response from Antarctica . A wireless message was received about two hours later at . THE Nmv YorsK TIMES station . Manhattan , from Radio Operator Howard Mason of the Byrd Expedition , which said that Sir Hubert 's proposal had been accepted in the name of the expedition and that a " penguin leg " would be saved for him . Sir Hubert 's message was carried to the receivers at Little America between 8:15 and 9:15 P. M. by way of the short-wave broadcast of Station KDKA , Pittsburgh . which was linked with the WJZ network . The reply , picked up before 11 o'clock , was addressed to George A. Wendt. of the Canadian Westinghouse Company , Montreal , for delivery to the KDKA officials . and was as follows : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hubert Wilkins tell us he is corning down for Christmas dinner . Tell him we will save him a penguin leg . We had two big penguins in a pen here but they got away . " We have a couple of hundred seal. ; for the Winter . We are eating seat and whale now and like it . To catch seals here we first chase them up the trail so we do n't have to drag them so far . " We are hearing more signals here than I ever thought existed before . Here comes Pete ( Peterson , the radio operator ) , who has been flying kites for MP ( Malcolm P. Hanson ) Mason . " Mr. Mason was experimenting with kites to carry wires into the air for use as emergency radio antennas . Snatches of chatter between the station operators , revealed that much radio experimental work is beinp carried on at the main base cam ) ? by the expedition 's engineers . The radio apparatus is installed in a. corner of the mess hall . Mason 's ex plenatory message follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antenna against the ground ? I mean the snow  --  and are getting an antenna output of 1.6 amperes with an input of 400 mils on the tube plates . Pete and I sleep right by the set . The Kohlers ( gasoline-electric generators for transmitting power ) are about twenty feet away , out in the machine shop . It looks like a ' young NAA with our three steel towers . " Station NAA is the naval transmitting station at Arlington , Va. , near Washington . D. C. , the antenna . Sytern of which is held hundreds of feet in 1.1 air by three . large steel tower : , , Radio Operator Howard Mason at Point Barrow , Alaska. , with Sir Hub- wt Wilkins before the SCA.7011 of the successful flight across the North Pole to Spitsbergm . It was said thai the KDKA broadcast afforded to Maser ) the first opportunity of hearing Sir Hubert 's voice since they parted in Alaska .                     