@@686468

txt ? The Reparations Commission has verbally notified the President of the German War Burdens Commission that the gold reserves of the Reichsbank and other German issuing banks must be deposited before May 1 , either in Cologne or Coblenz , as security for reparations , it was semi-officially announced today . The Reparations Commission required that a pledge be given not to dispose of the gold to other creditors of Germany without the permission of the commission . The German Government , it was semiofficially stated , had declared , the demand to be unacceptable under any circumstances . The total gold holdings of the Reichsbank on April 7. as shown by the bbmk 's statement for that date , were 1,001,00 , - 000 marks . Copyright , 1921. by The New York Times Company , By Wireless to THE YORK TIMER . BERLIN . April Th. ? The newspapers without exception advise the Government in no circumstances to submit to the Reparation Commission 's demand for the remaining gold reserve of the Reichsbank . It is argued that other creditors have the first right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserve is not State property , but belongs to the Reichsbank , whic'a despite its name is a private institution , the German Federation being but one of several shareholders . The new customs regime established in the occupied territory of Germany under the Interallied Rhineland Commission 's ordinance of April 8 " constitutes a new and flagrant violation of the Versailles Treaty , " says a note transmitted by the German Government to the Council of Ambassadors here today . Copies of the note also were transmitted to the French , British , Belgian and - Italian Governments . A mixed military and civil " General Staff " made up of Marshal Foch , Major Gen. E. A. Buat and General Weygand and Louis Loucheur , Minister of Liberated *Regions ; Paul Tirard , French High Commissioner of the Rhineland , and M. Seydoux , who represented France as financial expert at the Brussels Conference , met this morning and listened to several financial , economic and technical experts on the reparations problem . The utmost secrecy was maintained concerning the meeting , but a semi-official communication issued later said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon and elaborate a general plan for coercive measures , both economic and military , eventually to be enforced against Germany , in order to submit the plan in all details to the allied Governments before May 1 . " Germany has given up the idea of finding an intermediary to transmit her reparations offers . accord  --  ng to the latest reliable information reaching Paris . The German Government will decide on new proposals Tuesday and communicate them Wednesday or Thursday either directly to the Allies or to the Reparations Commission . They will he published in Berlin immediately after their delivery . The proposals , it is understood , are a repetition of those upon which the German delegation finally decided in London on March 7 . Andre Lefevre , former Minister of Finance , in the course of a debate in the Chamber of Deputies , today on the question of the reconstruction of the devastated regions of France , declared that two years after the cessation of hostilities Germany had- paid scarcely 2 per cent . of the amount of the ruin she had caused . M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . said the war sufferers up to the present had received 15,000,000,000 francs in cash or kind , equaling about 3,000,000 , - 000 francs of the 1914 money value . The total claimed , he said , was between 34,000,000,000 and 35,000,000,000 francs at the 1914 value . Reports current in Lille today to the effect that the military classes of 1915 and 1919 had been summoned to the colors for a period of preliminary training , before being called upon to aid in the possible enforcement of the allied repartions decision , were declared by the Ministry of War to be baseless . No call for the mobilization of these classes for any reason whatsoever had been sent out ; the Ministry said .. " Lloyd George States Ms rosltion . LONDON . April 18 ( Associated Press . ) The German Government , said Prime Minister Lloyd George in the House of Commons today , is still in default with regard to reparations , the trial of persons accused of offenses against the laws of war , and disarmament . The Germans , continued the Prime Minister , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for carrying out the Treaty of Versailles in these respects . Therefore it was imperative for the Allies to confer with regard to the further steps which might be necessary to enforce compliance with the treaty . Mr. Lloyd George 's statement was in answer to a question by Commander Kenworthy , Independent Liberal member from Hull , as to whether the Prime Minister 's attention had been called to the pronouncement of Premier Briand of France that France , as the questioner construed it , intended to use force against Germany after May ? 1 , and whether British troops would be- involved in a new demonstration . The Prime Minister said he could not state whether there would be a meeting of the Allied Supreme Council before May 1 . but that undoubtedly there would be communications between the Allies . The Government , Mr. Lolyd George declared , in dealing with the matter would proceed on the assumption that the people of this country wanted to see the treaty of Versailles enforced . Must Consult Allies Before Acting . CoPyriglit. 1921. by The New York Times Comparta Special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. ? Plans for an advance on the Ruhr , of which so much has been heard in the last few days from Paris , are part of a. scheme which the French section of the Allied Military Commission has drawn up for putting pressure on Germany in ease she has not fulfilled her treaty obligations by May 1 . This scheme must receive the sanction of the political authorities of the Allies before it is put into operation . Moreover , ? as France would certainly not take any drastic action without obtaining the approval and support of Great Britain , there must be consultation with Downing Street before Marshal Foch gives the word to advance . So far Paris has not approached the British authorities on the matter , although some communication is expected this week . Meanwhile there is a tendency here to believe that Germany will bow . to the inevitable and make sonic kind of offer to the Allies that will be worthy of discussion . Her tactics in her last appeals to neutrals ana talk of mediation are considered to be a typical example of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she is in an awkward position and must strain every nerve to wriggle out of it . Just such tactics the German Foreign Office employed in their " peace offensives " during the war and their reappearance now has notified the Allies that Germany is apprehensive . The suggestion emanating from Berlin that Germany should assume the allied debts to the United States as part payment of reparations is regarded here as having been deliberately put forward by German authorities to see how America ana the Allies would take it . If it is seriously advanced of course this Government would examine it , but it is not prepared as yet to express a view on a proposal which may never be really made and is at present so vaguely worded.                     