@@691421

txt James W. Gerard , former Ambassador to Germany , declared last night that the election of von Hindenburg was a menace to world peace in that it mains a return of the German people to . militarism and monarchism . " The election is due partly to the swing toward conservatism which has been in evidence in this country and in England , " said Mr. Gerard , " and also to the fact that von Hindenburg Is the only Person whose reputation survived the war in . Germany . " Nevertheless , it constitutes a menace to the peace of the world , and is a flat declaration by the German people of a return to militarism and- monarchism . " Prominent Germans , however , iriterviewed here last night , expressed hopes for a united , peaceful nation under von Hindenburg 's Presidency . One commentator saw in his victory a ? - strengthening of religious ties against the influence of Soviet Russia , another discovered a protest against the Versailles Treaty , and still another haile ' the result as the final defeat of Socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General would not take any orders from his former Kaiser . Prominent Germans here , interviewed last night on von Hindenburg 's election , expressed hopes for a united nation under his Presidency . VieWS Result as Treaty Protest . Alphonse G. Koelble , a lawyer , 51 Chambers Street , said : : The election of von Hindenburg is a protest of the German people against the Versailles treaty , which did not incorporate the fourteen points of President Wilson and did not realize the promises ' under which the Germans submitted to the armistice . " In my opinion , it does not mean the restoration of the monarchy . It is not so much a question of the republic or the monarchy as a question of phychology . The German people made a great fight against overwhelming odds and they were led by von Hindenburg , who was a central figure in the conflict ; " Von Hindenburg 's election shows a resurgence of the nationalistic spirit in Germany , shows that the German people want to remain Germans , and perhaps is an indication to the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William Popcke , pastor of the Evangelical Lutheran Church , 341 East Eighty-fourth Street , said : " I believe the election of von Hindenburg will result is a united Germany . I i believe he will consolidate the various factions , because of his great popularity and because he has the confidence of the German people . Although some persons I may be inclined to be fearful , I believe the result of the election will Iv , for Peace . Von Hindenburg will not be for war , but for what is for the good of Ger- I many and the promotion of the prosperity of its people . " Discerns Anti-Russian String . F. H. Knubel , President of the United Lutheran Church of America , said : " From the religious point of view there are considerations in the election of von Hindenburg which can give-us genuine satisfaction . " The best elements of American citizenship have always rejoiced In the definrte religiousness of our own President . We can not but be satisfied , therefore , to see another nation choose as its executive one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is above all valuable for the development of the new German republic , since her religious and educational situation is so critical a one at the present time . " The separation of Church and State has been completed only in part . As ; this proceeds , the presence of a leader of the State who is sympathetic with the Church is valuable . " As a final and most important fact it must be realized that the election of a man of von Hindenburg 's type means  --  a greater resistance in Germany against Russian influence . with the latter 's irreligion . The world , and America especially . must welcome the strengthening of anti-Russian convictions in Germany . George Sylvester Viereck said : " The election of von Hindenburg- means that Germany has regained her selfrespect . It also means that Socialism has finally been defeated in Central Europe and that construction and conservatism are gaining the upper hind . It should increase the confidence of the world in the stability of the German Government . " Hindenburg resented the infamous insinuation that he should take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mental reservation . Hindenburg often brushed aside the wishes of the Kaiser whe the Kaiser was in Berlin . It is not very likely that he will take orders from him at Doom . " Like many Germans , Hindenburg feels that a country like his own should be served by the form of government under which it prospered so marvelously since 1871 , but the German people must decide for themselves by constitutional means under what form of government they desire to live . He is under no oath of allegiance to the Heiser , since the Kaiser released all his subjects from allegiance when he left Germany . Hindenburg took the oath to the German Government when he led the troops back to Germany . " The whole world respects the character and achievements of Hindenburg . It may safely be assumed that he will accept no affronts from the French or any other Government . No one will dare address him in the tone adopted by Poincare against Ebert. because he has a united nation behind him . While Hindenburg will accept no insult , he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being a soldier and knowing the realities of war and having a clear conception of Germany 's military impotence , he will swallow anything except dishonor before he resorts to the sword . But Germany 's honor is safe in his keeping . "                     