@@688070

txt Despite the failure to agree on methods of settlement of the rail shop strike , B. M. Jewell has signified his intention to call together . the 90 general chairman of the shoperafts union to consider the , question whether those organizations shall authorize the making of settlements with individual railroads . It is predicted in railroad circles that the big four mediators who have been m acting this week will appear before that meeting of chairmen and urge the making of individual settlement ' . Conference between minority rail executives and mediation committee of unions is definitely off . Labor representatives stood pat for reinstatement of strikers as of June 30 , no matter how the principle vets worded , or in effect restoration of full seniority rights . This the executives would not concede . EXECUTIVES EXPLAIN THEIR Following announcement was made by executives of minority roads after their meeting : Following general meeting of Association cf way Executives in New York Wednesday . group of rail- ? road pregidents representing 52 companies , and 83,000 ? miles of lines , continued conference . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to season of year and anxious on that account to do everything that might be possible and practicable to bring about settlement of existing controversy , wete hopeful that further discussions might develop some plan or message for settlement which would not require sacrifice of principles deemed sentimental by either party to the controversy . " Having in mind normal requirement : of carriers for men of shoperafts at this season of year , . together with increased requirements resulting from the reduced working force for nearly two months , these companies , while ' unwilling to agree to any prcgram or method of adjust. : merit which would affect rights Abr privileges of employes ' of 114 ** ** thIce ? or thd.4* who had been employed since July 1 . were willing to pledge themselves to find employment for all of striking employes not guilty of proven acts of violence , at their usual class of woe-k , at rates of pay fixed by ' United States Railroad Labor Board and at same terminal points . " The committee of mediators worked earnestly and helpfully with carriers in effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire to take advantage of situation to curtail pension rights or other privileges which striking employes had earned by virtue of their terms of service with company . The roads In this conference agreed to take back all employes with such privileges unimpaired . These railway companies felt at liberty to do this because such action on their part wound not in any way affect or prejudice the rights or privileges of others who did not participate in the strike . " Railway executives who took part in conference sincerely regret that representatives of striking employes , although definitely assured the - substance of all that they asked for , were unwilling to agree to a settlement except under conditions which railway executives were unwilling and unable to accept . FAIR COMPROMISE BASIS OFFERED " It is difficult to imagine any fairer basis of compromise than the one developed at yesterday 's conference and agreed to by the carriers represented . It must be assumed , therefore , that the present controversy can not be settled , by that method . " Further agreement by railway executives to bring about settlement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any unsettled disputes growing out of situation which companies and representatives of employes were unable to settle in direct conference , such matters should be referred for final determination to commission of ten members to be made up of chief executives of five train and enginernen 's brotherhoods who were arting as mediators , and five railway executives experienced in matters such as would naturally come before a committee of that kind . " Railway presidents also proposed that if an agreement could be reached along lines substantially as indicated above , they would endeavor to carry out agreements in a spirit of conciliation and sincere purposo to effect a general settlement of all matters in controversy resulting from strike . Railway executives were certain , while making substantial concessions to men on strike , such settlement as proposed , would in no way sacrifice the right or privileges of the loyal men now employed on the properties represented , " Statement was signed by twenty-six large roads having about 50 subsidiaries . These roads participated in conference and agreed to proposition submitted by the carriers and declined by striking employes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , issued at the Woodstock Hotel relative to the breakup of the conferences says : " The conferences have shown that the group of roads which has been conferring will at present make no concessions . They stand firm on the position of the Association of Railway Executives which refuses seniority rights . " This refusal of seniority rights to union men , it is now clear , is not for the purpose of keeping promises to strikebreakers , but solely for the purpose of disciplining the men for a legal and justified strike . This is a position in which the men can not compromise . " To go back under such terms would mean defeat when , as a matter of fact , we are victorious . The breakdown of equipment and the shortage of cars and locomotives is now shown ? by governthent statistics . It will be obvious to every shipper and farmers within the next few-weeks . We shall be content to let condition of equipment prove that the railroads can not operate their shops with unskilled strikebreakers and bring executives to a more reasonable frame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable executives who have evidently yielded to pressure . We believe that the next few weeks will enable them to bring home to their hard-shell colleagues the entire railroad situation in its grim reality . " We can and will fight for our minimum terms and for a nation-wide settlement as long as the managements can and will . In behalf of the public 's interest we have offered to compromise on everything but our existence . Now that we are compelled to fight our victory will bring with it victory in all the issues for which the strike was called . " EDGE OFFERS COAL BILL AMENDMENT Washington  --  Senator Edge offered an amendment to the coal bill providing that Congress declare the existence of an emergency resulting from the economic and industrial conditions in the production and distribution of coal , and in order to provide coal for the various branches of the government of the United States , and for the execution of the Jaws of the United States and the welfare of the people , the President , if he deems it necessary , is authorized to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of the coal mines within the United States and to operate them and distribute coal from them , and to em- , ploy or create such agencies as he deems necessary . The amendment also appropriates the money necessary to make just compensation for private property taken to carry out the provisions of the measure .                     