@@688347

txt Important amendments to the railroad law known as the Esch-Cummins act will be brought before Congress within the next few weeks , Senator Cummins , Chairman of the Committee on Interstate Commerce , said today . The Senator will confer with President Harding regarding the proposed new legislation tomorrow or Thursday . Senator Cummins said he would favor the incorporation in the law of a clause guaranteeing a " living wage " to railroad employes . A few days ago the Railroad Labor Board In Chicago handed down a decision in which it held that legalizing the so-called living wage " theory might mean the bankrupting of many important rail systems . It is the view of Senator Cummins , however , that the living wage theory can be put into the law without in any way affecting the earning power of the roads , Other proposed amendments to be considered are . an anti-strike provision and the creation of a holding corporation or some other agency which would hold all rail equipment , just as the Pullman Company now controls practitally the entire sleeping and parlor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This , it is claimed , would operate in fa vor of efficiency as well as et economy . The anti-strike provision , if prop000d , is certain to draw the fire of the many powerful railroad labor organizations . To Change Labor Board 's &talus.; It also will be proposed that the Labo ? Board be made an adjunct of the Interstate Commerce Commission and its headquarters transferred from Chicago to Washington . ' rho group organization of the board would be discarded and , instead of one member of the board representing the Public , another the railways , and another the workers , the board would be reorganized so that all members would reprusent the public exclusively . One of the major faults of the law as now in effect , in the opinion of many Senators , is the fact that no penalties are provided for in the ease of individuals , labor organizations or corporations who violate the decisions of the board . An amendment is expected to cure this defect . In the existing law it is suggested that in the interest of efficiency and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into seventeen regional VB. terns . An amendment to make this reorganization compulsory is under con-sideration , When the bill comes before the Senate in its amended form it is certain that au effort will be made to insert a clause which will be a mandate to the Interstate Commerce Commission to lower freight rates . Another floor proposition to be brought forward will be to repeal the guarantee clause in the present law . Senator Cummins hopes to bring the railroad proposition before the Senate before the Christmas holidays , There may be hearings on the proposed changes , but , if so , every effort will be made to expedite them to a quick conclusion . Hoover Urges Rate ' Readjustment . WASHINGTON , Nov. ** for a reconstruction of the railroad rate structure of the country  --  in some cases with upward readjustments  --  will be brought to the attention of Congress by Secretary Hoover , it is understood , in his forthcoming annual report . Sonic relief both to the railways and to the farmers , in the Secretary 's view , . nay be obtained through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drafts already completed , is planned to present a comprehensive discussion of the national transportation problem covering car shortage , regulation , weaknesses in the Transportation act , rates and labor regulation . Losses through short transportation , Mr. Hoover finds ; are a tax on the community , stifling production , introducing speculation , and disturbing price levels . Despite the lack of equipment , he maintains , American railroad management is the most efficient In the world , in so for as it is not limited by uncontrollable circumstances . - Regulation in some form is necessary , he contends , but constructive development of this regulation  --  to preserve the initiative of railway executives and at the same time to secure public protection and assure adequate service  --  is vital and not necessarily ingpmpatible . Calls Nationalization Disastrous . " Nationalization would be a social and economic disaster , " drafts of the report say . " Free operation would reconstruct . the vicious practices of thirty years ago . The present transportationact possesses many constructive features and some weakness . It was the result of compromises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its weakest points . " Failure of the carriers to earn the amounts provided under the . act as a. fair return , Mr. Hoover asserts , disproves the " current fiction " that earnings are " guaranteed , " while the recapture provision , whereby earnings above 6 per cent . would be turned oiler to the Government to be loaned to railroads , would not seem to extend to those " anaemic carriers " who are unable to give the , Government the color of assurance 3f repayment through their own Inability to produce earnings . Consolidation , however , he suggests , might solve the problem Rates , according to the report , are a " vivid question " in the transportation situation , a heavy burden on . agriculture in an era of wide disparity between the farmers ' income and that in an.1 of industry , srehile at the same time railway earnings are not large enough to assure railway expansion . " Some classes and , areas of traffic are carried , " the report declares , " at actual loss ; others are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodities warrant , and a series of scientific upward readjustments should be made in some cases in order to give the railways and the shippers of primary commodities and agricultural produce some relief . " Holds Wage Control Provision Unsatisfactory . Wage control and strike prevention phases of the act are considered unsatis-. factory by Mr. Hoover , on the ground that failure of the local adjustment boards for direct contact between employers and employes has thrust all labor disputes upon the Railroad Labor Board , resulting in practically Government fixing of all wages and conditions of labor . " There can he no question , " the report says , " that action in some direction is imperative if industry and commerce are not to be further strangled by a shortage in transportation . Whatever may have been the sins of . railway finance in the last generation , , we are not only suffering from them , but we have maintained an attitude of bitterness in our public relationship to our railways for which we pay thrice over in prevention of their proper development . " We must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' We must ; therefore . find a way out of the cycle of systematic starvation of a large part of our mileage and the denudation of our railway managers of Weir-responsibilities and initiative . "                     