@@690811

txt That the United States is face to face with the " immediate necessity of formulating a clear and permanent policy " with respect to immigrants was emphasized last night by James J. Davis , Secretary of Labor , in an address broadcast by Radio Station WEAF . " The United States today ' faces the immediate necessity of formulating a clear and permanent policy in regard to its treatment of the stranger within our gates , " said Mr. Davis . " In ? the matter of immigration we have definitely established restrictions , and in our present immigration law we have taken a step toward the selective , system . Despite our restrictions , however , we are still receiving many immigrants from foreign lands . " During the last fiscal year we admitted 879,302 aliens . Of these , 414,363 came from countries which must comply with quota limitations . From countries which are not limited under our quota law we received 464,939 . Our law exempts from quota limitation British North America , Mexico . the independent countries of Central and South America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries from our quota limitations simply leaves the back door open while we are putting up the bars at the front door . It operates to make these continuous countries the basis for smuggling operations on a large scale . " Our restrictive immigration law is working well . Through the examination of aliens seeking.to enter the United States by American Consuls at their home ports we have begun the selective . system . I favor the adoption of a complete selective system . I would see to it that only those aliens who can qualify for a place in American economic , social and political life and who are needed in our national development should bo admitted . " While the present law is operating well we are discovering ways ln which It might be improved . I believe that the Congress ( luring the coming Winter should take Steps to provide means for preventing the separation of families through the operation of the law . Humanity demands that our immigration code shall not operate to keep husband and wife , brothers and sisters , or parents and children apart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But ' lye owe a duty to the alien after ne has been admitted to this country . 1 am alien born . All my early .. fe was lived among the foreign born . In the community where I spent my boyhood thirty foreign languages were spoken . Today the third generation of these foreign born families still speaks the languages of its forefathers and still clings to the customs of the lands they long ago left far behind . " Today we offer the alien in America little or no help along the road to making him a real American . From the time he leaves the Port of entry through which he enters this country he is practically an his own resources . Usually he is almost totally ignorant of our language , our traditions , our Ideals and our institutions . I want every foreignborn resident of the United States to have an opportunity to learn what an American is and what it means to be an American . I want it made easy for him to learn our language , our customs and our methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not suffer in comparison with any country on earth . " I would provide for the enrolment of the alien upon his arrival in the United States and for an annual census of the unnaturalized alien . I would provide a system of education in Americanism woich would give every alien an opportunity to learn the English language and something of American history , traditions , ideals and institutions . I would enlist the cooperation of every civic and fraternal organization and would reach the alien through schools and churches . " Committees could be organized In every community for each local foreign language group . These I would control through a national committee working under the Bureau of Naturalization , and representative of the native born and of the foreign born of every racial group . I would weld these nearly eight million unnaturalized aliens into a ' Uncle Sam 's fraternity . ' I would say each of them , ' Here you may learn what . America is , and what America means . ' I would finance this plan by an annual enrolment fee charged against each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay their own way . They do not want charity . I believe they will welcome the opportunity to provide the proper facilities for educating themselves in Americanism. "                     