@@696582

txt Organizations opposed to the pending transit settlement program and , in particular , to the companies ' plea for a variable rate of return on capital in the proposed consolidated cornPanY. had their day before the Thompson " deadlock " committee yesterday . Spokesmen for the " anti " groups testified during almost the entire session . 1:12.1 " 01a icses , cnammaa OL People 's Traction league , read a statement telling the committee it is merely wasting time . Delaying Settlement , Charge " I do not charge that this committee was created for the purpose of delaying a settlement , but I do say that had that been the object sought , no better method could have been devised to accomplish it , " Mr. Ickes said . " I doubt whether the members of the committee know what or whom they represent , or why . It is significant that when the traction interests were being pressed to place their cards on tho table , face upward , this committee suddenly sprang into being . " Mr. Ickes added that the council transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of return , fares , and other financial questions referred to the Thompson group . The league will have more to say when the council committee reassumes jurisdiction , be said . Other Schemes licard . Cyrus K. Mohler , engineer for the Public Ownership league , occupied two hours propounding a municipal ownership plan , while A. W. Stanmeyer , representing the Cook County Real Estate board , offered a statement proposing that- the surface lines be revalued and dealt with apart from tho elevated and bus companies . E. H. Burke of the Property Owners ' Itaction association , a south side group , explained that his organization favors a liberal ordinance speedily adopted . Chairman Thompson announced that all interested parties would be heard , but that he hoped the committee 's session would end this week . A retania , in making her speCdy trip complaint that the Cunard liner Maufrom England to New York on Aug. 8 , kicked up waves of tidal proportions when passing Coney Island and thereby endangered bathers , has re ? suited in a letter of warning Veing addressed to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambrose channel . Col. G. M. Hoffman , United States army district engineer , who sent the letter , said that if further Violations of the war department regulations concerning the speed of vessels using Ambrose channel occur " the matter will be placed in the ' hands of the United States district attorney for Proper action . "                     