@@693503

txt Chicago 's police hbrses are going to stay . During the rest of 1927 , at least , and perhaps permanently , the 85 still remaining and their blue coated riders will continue to patrol the loop as In The past . Yielding to popular demand , as voiced in recent TRIBUNE ) articles , Chief Collins , who had decided the horses should be replaced by motor . cycles , announced last night he is willing to submit the question to an unbiased body , the new city traffic com ? mission , and its engineers . Even if this body should approve the change , ho explained , It would be Ineffective until Jan. 1 , 1928 , as this year 's budget pays the horses ' keep until that time . Meanwhile , ho said , the public 's " four footed friends " will continue on the force . Dever Defends the Derses . A few minutes before Chief Collins announced his decision , Mayor Dever had commended the work of the mounted squad and indicated that he would use his Influence to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question Chief Collins ' sincere belief that his stand is practical , " said the mayor , " but there are many people , I among them , who love horses and would hate to see them all relegated to the country . " Chief Collins ' announcement read as follows : " Due to the increasing need for motorization of the police to cope with modern crime and traffic problems , I recently decided to gradually eliminate the mounted force , replacing the horses where needed with motorcycles . Still Thinks It Itest. " ! ' felt . and still feel , that this plan would result in economy and greater efficiency . Motorcycle officers move faster , care for their conveyances more easily , and can be concentrated at a point of danger much more quickly than horse mounted men . " Since the proposal was made , however , there has arisen a demand for retention of at least some of tho horses , based chiefly upon public sentiment . In view of these objections , and the fact that the horses are assured until Jan. 1 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am suggesting that all of the facts , together with those prepared by Miller McClintock , the Association of Commerce traffic engineer , be laid before the traffic commission , which may make a recommendation which it feels is wisest and most satisfactory to all concerned . " The wave of protest against . Chief Collins ' order became so high yesterday that a /molest massmeetthg bad been planned by horse lovers .                     