@@693497

txt THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT . Professor Seligman Takes Issue With a Statement by Senator Glass . To the Editor of The New York Times : In the eighteenth article on the Federal Reserve act by the Hon. Carter Glass , published in The Evening Post on Jan. 28 , he brings me into the discussion in such a manner as to call for a reply . Senator Glass is in error in ascribing to me the statement that " Mr. Warburg wrote the Federal Reserve act . " I have never made such a statement . What I have asserted , and what I continue to assert , is that Mr. Warburg is the father of the Federal Reserve system , and in that sense the creator of the Federal Reserve act . From the early ' 80s , when the subject was first seriously broached , up to 1907 the entire discussion of currency reform concerned itself with the endeavor to remedy the defects in our banking syytem by methods designed to secure elastidity in the note issue . Although scholars like Professor Dunbar had called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency of discounts as well as of notes , this aspect of the problem was soon overlooked and had no repercussion whatever in the political field . It was Mr. Warburg who began , after the crisis of 1907 , to call attention to the pivotal point in the situation , that of a general reserve which might convert our chaos of unrelated institutions into a unified system . This idea , which , as he recalled to our minds , was the secret of all the successful European systems , had hitherto entirely escaped attention in this country . Mr. Warburg preached the doctrine in and out of season and finally compelled conviction . Senator Aldrich was for many years the head of the committee charged with the duty of framing financial legislation . It was he who created the Aldrich Commission and sponsored the Aldrich bill . Shortly before his death I was privileged to attend a private dinner at which he gave a history of the bill . Confessing that , although he had been Chairman of the committee for years , he had never really grasped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " There is the man who has taught me the truth , and who has enabled me to see the fallacy underlying all of our preceding legislation on currency ref , rm . " The fundamental feature of the Federal Reserve act consists , as the title of the law itself indicates , in the reserve provision , and the creation of a note issue resting on commercial assets , but tied up with this reserve . It is this which distinguishes the present law from the old National Bank act . All else is of secondary importance . This basic idea was taken from the Aldrich ' bill . The changes that were made by the party in power were no doubt politically necessary . But the consensus of expert opinion today is that , from the economic point of view , the Aldrich bill was superior to its successor . However that may be , the fact remains that the changes did not affect the fundamental basis of the law  --  the creation of a central reserve as a unifying factor in the banking structure . For this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Paul M. Warburg . It is true that Senator Glass supervised the drafting of the bill and piloted it through Congress . But does that suffice for a claim to the real authorship ? We speak of the English law of 1844 as Peel 's Bank act because Peel carried it through Parliament . But every tyro knows that the real author , as Peel himself acknowledged , was Samuel Jones Loyd , soon thereafter raised to the peerage as Lord Overstone . What Overstone was in England Warburg has been in this country . Were we in the habit of conferring titles of distinction on our creative thinkers he would long ago have been accorded this honor . As it is he is secure of his position in the estimate of all well-informed students of fiscal science . EDWIN R. A. SELIGMAN . New York , Jan. 29 , 1927.                     