@@694608

txt At 4:30 o'clock this afternoon three airplanes appeared in the sky above Washington and circled rapidly ? over the downtown section of ' the City , performing a series of . diving manoeuvres as they did so . Their pilots evidently were ' in , joyous , celebrating humor . ? Tens of thousands of Government employes pouring out ? of department buildings , their day 's work over , knew what the circling , diving planes symbolized . They carried the message to the capital ' of the United States that young Chan:es Lindbergh had reached the capital of Mexico in safety , adding another . star to the crown of glory that sets so modestly on his head . Less than half an hour before ' then , authentic news had come that Lindbergh had reached the destination of his non-stop flight . It reached the State Department over the telephone from the American Embassy in Mexico City at 4:03 o'clock , and was announced in the following informal communiqu ? : ' " The American Embassy in Mexico City has just advised the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official telephone message from the flying field at Valbuena to the effect that Colonel Lindbergh had landed safely . " So confident was President Coolidge of Colonel Lindbergh 's ability to make the flight successfully that ha bad prepared a congratulatory message in advance . News Swiftly Spreads Over City . The good news spread rapidly through the Capitol and the Government departments and did not take long to reach all parts of the city , and no wonder , for newspaper offices , public offices , every place which might have superior means of getting quick information from Mexico City ? were swamped throughout the day by . telephone , calls from anxious inquirers . The hold of Lindbergh on the hearts of the people of the city where he , first landed on American soil in his triumphal return from Europe after his non-stop flight from New York to Paris was as potent as ever . The joy-ride of the three circling , diving airplanes was not necessary to let a myriad of Washingtonians know that Lindbergh 's skill and daring had , won again . The State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Kellogg . Secretary of State , was out in the near-by coun- try playing golf when he got the news . Curtis F. Wilbur , Secretary of the Navy , and Edward P. Warner , Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Aeronautics , were being interviewed by a group of gloomy newspaper men when they heard about it . Wilbur Dances With Joy . Mr. Wilbur , ' who sat in judicial dignity on California 's highest courtl for twenty-one years , danced around the room clapping his hands and shouting : " Wonderful ! Good ! " Harry S. New , Postmaster General , who looks upon Lindbergh as his very own because of the latter 's experience in the air mail service , sent off a congratulatory telegram instanter . Other Cabinet officers followed suit . All the Assistant Secretaries for Air did the same . There was jollification among the employes of Government departments . A bit of comedy was mixed with the official aspect of what took place in Washington . The humorous side of it was not apparent , however , until that telephone message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representatives played the comedian 's role . The House twice cheered Lindbergh 's " arrival , " first on a false report that caused anxiety , and then on the real thing , whereupon Speaker Longworth was authorized to send the flier a congratulatory message . Rumors Grow Like Snowballs . The false rumor which set the House to cheering was only one of many of the same fictitious kind . The first came at 12:20 o'clock . One of the difficulties of the situation was that mere reports that had no authentication were accepted as gospel because apparently they were official . It worked out this way : There would be a rumor that Lindbergh had reached Mexico City . When somebody would telephone to a Governmental department for news he would be told that all the department had was a report that Lindbergh had arrived safely . Then this somebody would spread the news that this Government department had been notified that the Spirit of St. Louis and its pilot had made a successful flight . Pretty soon the news would be all over town that the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definitely established that Lindbergh was in Mexico City . Embassy Clerk Causes Worry . Press association bulletins brought the truth at last , a short time in advance of the State Department 's telephone call from the Mexico City Embassy . The State Department had established communication with the embassy by telephone when it failed to get any confirmation of the early afternoon report that Lindbergh had arrived safely . The voice at the Mexico City end of the ? wire ' said that Ambassador Morrow and all the embassy officials were at the flying field and that only a clerk  --  he of the voice  --  was keeping shop . But the clerk added that he was sure that the report of Lindbergh 's arrival was not true . The worry began in earnest then . Another telephone conversation with the embassy in Mexico brought the information that Mexican officials were alarmed and had sent out planes to search for Lindbergh along the air route from Tampico he was supposed to have taken . They returned unsuccessful . Worry became intense . After that the State Department arranged that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have priority . This meant that there would be no delay in making connections . Through that arrangement the news of Lindbergh 's arrival got to the department twenty-four minutes after he came down upon Valbuena Flying Field . Sinclair at Trial Asks News . A human sidelight was thrown on the intense interest in Lindbergh 's Mexican flight at the local court house , where proceedings are taking place in connection with the alleged attempt to tamper with the jury in the Fall-Sinclair trial . Harry S. Sinclair and his co-defendants , Sheldon Clark and Henry Mason Day , both vice presidents of Sinclair corporations , appealed to newspaper men for word of Lindbergh . Sinclair said that he had been all over the Mexican region where Lindbergh was supposed to have picked his route and it was the most desolate territory that he had ever seen . He expressed the fear that if Lindbergh had been obliged to land in that part of Mexico it would be difficult for him to make his way out . It was sparsely settled and without telephones or telegraph , he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost impossible for people in this part of the world to comprehend , some of them having an altitude of 20,000 feet . Clark and Day echoed the anxiety of their chief . They said that they , too , were well acquainted with the desolate Mexican region in which it was feared at the time that Lindbergh might have come down .                     