@@685232

txt Eighty-nine hunger striking prisoners have been released , apparently unconditionally . Moreover the Prisons Board has received an order that henceforth under the Defense of the Realm act prisoners are to receive ameliorative treatment from the date of their arrest until their trial for a specific offense . As a result of the release or the hunger strikers the general strike called by the trade unions has been declared off , to the great belief of the citizens . Following negotiations by the Lord Mayor it had been announced officially at Dublin Castle late in the afternoon , when only four men had been removed , that those prisoners requiring medical treatment outside the prison would . be released on parole for periods to be specified in the case of eacti individual by the prison doctor . All the prisoners refused the terms on the ground that it was U. reapplication of the " cat and mouse " policy . The Lord Mayor thereupon went to the Vice Regal Lodge and appealed to Lord French personally . On his return he announced that the hunger strikers would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in conference with General Sir Nevil Macready , the new commander of the forces in Ireland , who arrived in Dublin today . Labor Men Paraded Streets . During the morning a procession of labor men had marched through the streets carrying banners condemning the authorities for their attitude , but only a small gathering assembled outside the prison in consequence of the action of Archbishop Walsh , who had urged through the newspapers that the people stay away and not expose themselves " to serious and profitless danger . " In the afternoon , however , the Lord Mayor , addressing a crowd , announced that the Viceroy had informed him that the hunger strikers were to be removed to the Mater Misericordia Hospital , and the people began to troop toward the prison and great crowds watched the coming and going of the ambulances . The absence of military from the streets today was conspicuous . There were on tanks or armored cars posted . at the jail , and the barbed wire barricades had been removed . The ' Irish volunteers assumed charge of maintaining order outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Mater Misericordia Hospital say that the prison staffs and ordinary officers at Mountjoy were kind in their treatment of them . Their worst hardship was uncomfortable beds . They were indignant at two proposals made to them by the authorities , which implied that certain of the men should desert their colleagues . Their attitude was " All or none . " Strike Was in Full Force . The ; release of the prisoners is regarded as a complete triumph for the hunger strike and its ally , the general strike , which was in full force today . If funerals were in progress , hearses and the chief mourners were allowed to proceed , all other vehicles in funeral corteges were turned back . Art indication of the universal sentiment regarding the prisoners , apart from political bias , was shown by an appeal from Chief Rabbi Herzog to the Viceroy for clemency for " the unfortunate men at grips with death in Mountjoy . " The visit to Dublin of James Henry Thomas , General Secretary of the National Union of Railwaymen , and TJabor Member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some share in the decision for the release of the men . It is said that an attempt was to have been made to bring about a strike in England in support of the Irish case . Mr. Thomas made a speech from a window of the labor executive offices this afternoon indorsing the action of the hunger strikers . As the eighty-nine hunger strikers had been starving themselves for ten days , the form of the official announcement that those requiring medical treatment outside of the prison would be released was taken to mean that all of them would be released , and that this would . be a way for covering the Government 's retreat from its former position . Eighty-one of the hunger strikers had not been tried . Twenty were imprisoned under the defense of the realm act , without an indication even of the charge against them other than that their detention was merely preventive . Sixty were awaiting trial , mostly by courts martial for sedition. though no charges had been made against them , and they were virtually in the same position as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general strike today . Constable Harry Kells was shot dead while on plain clothes duty in Camden Street this morning . The constable 's assailant was an unidentified young man . He fired two shots from his revolver and ran away from the scene before ho could be apprehended . In the afternoon Sergeant Lavin was found shot to death at the constabulary depot , a revolver lying by his side . Dramatic Scene at the Jail . Copyright . 1920. by Tim yew York Times Company . Special Cable to THE NEW YORK Tmim . DUBLIN , April ** was a dramatic scene at Mountjoy Prison this afternoon . A crowd of 40,000 people had assenibied at the jail , where the hunger strikers were lying in grave condition . It was known that the Lord Mayor while on a visit to the jail had been summoned to the Viceregal Lodge , and that the authorities were modifying their policy was evidenced by the fact that soldiers and tanks , machine guns and barbed wire had been removed from the precincts of the prison . Suddenly a man clambered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the authority of the Lord Mayor to state that the hunger strikers who were in danger were to be released . A deeply emotional scene followed , and shortly afterward the Lord Mayor arrived and confirmed the announcement . " On Sunday the Lord Lieutenant refused to see me , " he added . " Today I received an urgent message to go to the Viceregal Lodge . " Patriotic songs were sung and flags were waved . A hush fell upon the throng as ambulances began to arrive , and the crowd appointed voluntary traffic controllers . When the prisoners were about to be released , however , a document was presented to each man in which he was asked to declare that he would return at the end of si:s weeks . This document the men absolutely refused to sign . On learning this the Lord Mayor proceeded to the Viceregal . lodge . Much excitement prevailed among the crowds . The Lord Mayor returned at 8:30 P. M. , and word was passed around that everything had been satisfactorily arranged . It was intimated that relatives would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it was learned that every cell door was open .. A cordon of young men was organized across the jail gates , and they examined the credentials of all who wished to enter . At quarter to 9 the first batch of prisoners was released . The first twenty-five men were taken to the Jervis Street Hospital . The men are being released unconditionally , and are not being asked to sign any document . The executive committee of the Irish Labor party met this afternoon and declared the general strike at end . Tonight the workers are hurrying back to duty and trains , trams and vehicles are I expected soon to run as usual . Says Macready Ordered Release . LONDON , Thursday , April 15 . ? The release of the Irish prisoners was by direct order of General Sir Nevil Macready , and marks the beginning of an entire change in the Irish policy , according to a prominently displayed statement in The Daily Mail . When it became clear some time ago , says this paper , that the policy of repression was leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy and if necessary get rid of the men associated with the old ragirne . He suddenly and without warning told J. 1 . . Chief Secretary for Ireland , that he was to be transferred to the Pensions Ministry , and appointed General Macready in command of the troops , without consulting the Irish office . General Macready , adds The Mail , was instructed to inaugurate a new policy of conciliation and a free hand was given to him . In other words , he was to supercede the existing heads of the Government in Ireland . General Macready arrived in Dublin yesterday morning and ordered the release of the prisoners after an exchange of wireless messages with Premier Lloyd George , who is on his way to San Remo , the paper continues . Inasmuch as General Macready reversed the policy for which Viscount French was responsible , the Viceroy , the paper believes , wishes a clear definition as to whether he or General Macready is the chief power in Ireland , and may come to London to inquire . Viscount French May Resign . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to his resignation  --  a contingency for which the Premier possibly planned . Names of a possible successor ate being discussed in the lobbies of Parliament , the favorite being the Earl of Granard , although , as he is a Catholic , a special act of Parliament would be necessary to enable him to act as Viceroy . " Andrew Bonar Law , the Government spokesman , had said in the House of Commons yesterday that the Irish Government had decided to treat those prisoners in Mountjoy Prison who were arrested on suspicion by competent military authority differently from other classes of prisoners , and that they would receive ameliorative treatment . He made this announcement in replying to a question by T. P. O'Connor , the Irish Nationalist leader . The Mail assumes from Mr. Bonar Law 's speeches that he was not informed of the decision for the release of the prisoners , and says that the peculiarity of his position is being discussed in political circles . Press Relieved at Government 's Action . Copyright , 1920 , by Tho New York Times Company . Special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , April 15 . ? There is little disposition to inquire too closely into the reason for the Government 's change of attitude toward the Mountjoy hunger strikers . The newspapers generally have shown an uneasy feeling that , while the Administration had logic and strict justice on its side , it was almost impossible for it to resist to the bitter and . The London Times , indeed , urged " with all the emphasis at our command that whatever the cost to prestige of the Irish executive and pride of ministers , broader and more merciful considerations should be permitted in this instance to prevail . " Other newspapers that do not go so far have shown equally great concern . Thus , , the Evening Standard yesterday asked what , after all , the Government had to gain by making martyrs of these men .                     