@@695012

txt An official welcome on behalf ? of ? the United States was extended . today by President Coolidge and other dignitaries.to the German-Irish.crew. of the Junkers monoplane Bremen , who were decorated with the Distinguished Flying Cross by President Coolidge at the White House , under special act of Congress , for being the first airmen to make the westward crossing of the North Atlantic . Arriving from New York by train at 5:35 o'clock this morning , and stopping only for breakfast and a brief rest , the three airmen , Baron Gunther von Huenefeld , Captain Hermann Koehl and Major James C. Fitzmaurice , were whirled through a series of events , including a tribute by them at the tomb of America 's Unknown Soldier , that kept them moving from sunrise until well after midnight . They are returning to New York by airplane tomorrow morning , preliminary to taking a tour of the United States . Day Is Pleasant for Fliers . Today 's trip of the - distinguished fliers to Washington was in happy contrast to their hurried visit of last week to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aviator who gave his life trying to help them forward on their epoch-making flight . At Bolling Field . where they received their first official welcome from Secretary of State Kellogg they were greeted by some 3,000 people . Under the . personal direction of General H. 0 . Williams , commanding officer of the Army 's military forces in and around the District of Columbia , preparations had been made for a state welcome with soldiers , including cavalrymen , drawn up at attention or guarding the lines that held back the crowds . Those waiting in reserved spaces included Major Gen. Charles P. Summerall , Chief of Staff of the Army ; the Deputy Chief of Staff , Major Gen. Bryant Wells ; Major Gen. James E. Fechet , Chief of the Army Air Corps ; Secretary of Labor James J. Davis , Assistant Secretary of War F. Trubee Davison , Assistant Secretary of Commerce William P. MacCracken Jr. , Timothy Smiddy , Minister of the Irish Free State ; Herr Friederich Wilhelm von Prittwitz and Gaffron , the German Ambassador ; Edgar L. G. Prochnik , the Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were boomed tor each official entitled to such honors upon his arrival at the field . Greeting by Secretary Kellogg . Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh went to the field with Assistant Secretary MacCracken and Captain Emory Land , Assistant Chief of the Bureau of Naval Aeronautics. - He chatted while waiting for the Bremen crew with Captain Eddie Rickenbacker , American ace in the World War . Only the radio audience could have heard the official remarks of welcome extended by Secretary Kellogg . Few of those at the field , because of the noise , largely by airplanes , realized he was speaking . " It is with feelings of the deepest admiration for your magnificent exploit , " the Secretary said , " that I welcome you today on behalf of the Government and people of this country . Your task was indeed one to test the powers of human endurance and its successful accomplishment has stirred the entire nation . " You have marked another milestone on the path of man 's conquest over the forces of nature . Moreover , I like to consider your achievement symbolical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern world , both in a real and in a figurative sense . . " Your undertaking itself was an example of international co-operation and its happy outboine is all the more gratifying to this country , to whose upbuilding the German and Irish nations have so richly contributed . " Followed by Mr. MacCracken and Captain Rickenbacker , Colonel Lindbergh walked to Baron von Huenefeld , bowed and grasped his hand , but not until the Baron had first saluted with all the rigor and strength in his power . Major Fitzmaurice was next , and he , too , saluted . The ceremonies over , the fliers started for waiting machines to be driven back to their hotel , the Mayflower . The motor trip through Washington was under police escort at from twenty-five to thirty miles an hour , and few on the streets realized the fliers were coming . But at one place the people did not forget . It was at a school that Lindbergh attended part of the time his father was in Congress , where the children had been drawn up on the curb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at White HOLIER . Crowds jammed the White House grounds and wzAched the ceremonies from Executive Avenue when the members of the Bremen 's crew called on President and Mrs. Coolidge . The fliers arrived at the Executive Offices at noon and in a brief ceremony in the White House grounds were awarded the first Distinguished Flying Crosses to be bestowed upon any foreigners . The bill authorizing this was signed by the President only this morning . The fliers were accompanied by the German Ambassador and the Free State Minister . Colonel Osmun Latrobe , Military Aide to the President , read the citations and the President then pinned the crosses upon the fliers : The citations , after naming the individual honored , were the same . Baron von Huenefeld 's citation read : To Baron Gunther von Huenefeld , the Distinguished Flying Cross for extraordinary achievement while participating in an aerial flight . Baron von Huenefeld , with hiS two companions ; April 12-13. 1928 , by ? their exceptional skill and resourcefulness , succeeded in making the first westward nonstop transatlantic flight by airplane from Europe to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three airmen left the White kouse grounds to attend a reception in their honor by newspaper ' corensnondents in honor .. The roadway in front of the White House was again jammed when the fliers returned at 1 o'clock for luncheon . When they left at 2 o'clock to go to Arlington fully.1,500 persons . lined the ? roadway and cheered them as they drove by . Those at the White House luncheon were : The President and Mrs. Coolidge , - the German Ambassador , the Secretary of . State , the Minister of the Irish Free State , Everett Sanders , secretary to the President ; Captain Koehl , Colonel . Fitzmaurice , Baron von Huenefeld , and Colonel Osmun Latrobe and Captain Wilson Brown , aides to the President . Lay Wreaths for Unknown . The visiting airmen made their second visit to Arlington National Cemetery since they reached the United States , when the afternoon they , went to the amphitheatre to pay their respects to the Unknown Soldier , whose tomb is separated only by a vale from the knoll where Floyd Bennett was buried on ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribute to the Unknown who. fell fighting against theirjatherland . The wreath was wrapped with : the German black , ' gold . and . red colors . Captain Fitzmaurice placed beside it the Irish wreath wrapped colors of orange , White and gree . The return to Washington by Motor was via the . Speedway , where the JaPanese- cherry- blossoms are still blooming.As , they were roundinga curve that . overlooks the 11ying. field where they had been ' received in the morning , there swooped down gracefully over them a silver . gray monoplane with markings like those of Colonel Lindbergh 's new plane . It was the famous flier . He had taken off only a few minutes bee fore for New York . Visit Senate and House . Just as the automobiles conveying the transoceanic fliers and their party wound ? up Capitol Hill , a quorum call summoned Senators to their seats . The galleries were crowded . By . previous arrangement the Senate was declared in recess for ten minutes . After a few minutes , the fliers entered the chamber , escorted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor leaders , and Vice President Dawes , who took his seat on the rostrum , as the airmen advanced and stood in front of the dais . Senators stood , as did occupants of the galleries , as the chamber resounded with applause . A line . of handshakers , led by Attorney General Sargent ; started past the aviators . Behind Mr. Sargent walked Senator Fletcher of Florida and Brig . Gen. Herbert M. Lord , Director of the Budget . All Senators filed by , many - stopping for a momentary word . Senate pages and other Senate employes followed . Fourteen minutes after the fliers entered the chamber the ceremony was over . They walked down the centre aisle and out the main door , accompanied by Ambassador ' von Prittwitz and Minister Smiddy , to the House of Representatives . - As Major Fitzmaurice crossed the threshold he waved his hand snappily to applauding spectators A . full chamber and packed . galleries confronted the three members of the Bremen 's crew as they entered the House chamber . The House was in the midst of a lively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Republican leader , moved a recess in honor of the " distinguished transatlantic fliers . " Greeted by Speaker Longworth . As the aviators , led by Fitzmaurice and escorted by Representatives Tilson , Garner - and Porter , appeared , they were wildly cheered . The fliers were conducted to the speaker 's rostrum , and introduced to ? Mr. Longworth who , after shaking hands with each of the visitors , turned to the House with this statement : " We are . honored to have with us as our guests , this afternoon , the three heroic and intrepid aviators , representatives of two friendly nations . who were the first to conquer the Atlantic by air from east to west .. " The Speaker introduced Baron von Huenefeld . Fitzmaurice and Koehl in the ' order named , and each received an ovation from  --  the occupants of the galleries and members on the floor : The fliers then proceeded to the " well " in front of the Speaker 's rostrum , and shook the hands . of House members as they passed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were guests . tonight at a reception given at the Mayflower by the three secretaries for air in the United States , and also . at the German Embassy . A dinner was given by Minister Smiddy for Major ' Fitzmaurice . ? . Baron von Huenefield later issued a formal statement in behalf Of the fliers , saying their visit . tc*Washington , was the climax of . their-. tour .. . " We are deeply impressed , " ' he said , " by the wonderful reception that has . been accordedus in Washington and ask you kindly to transmit ' our appreciation and sincere gratitude to the people of the District of Columbia . " This visit of our 's to the national Capitol represents the climax of our sojourn in the United States and the crowning feature in the sequence of happenings which we have been fortunate enough to experience since we left our homes in Germany and Ireland . "                     