@@694009

txt Yesterday talking about charm , we staked which you would rather be ? beautiful or charming  --  and pointed Out the advantages of cultivating the ** of charm , since they outstripped and outlived the mere pos ? session of pulchritude. " roday , we 'd better try to analyze what charm it and see If it has to be born ' with one , as some hold . but with : which idea I do not agree . The reason more people are n't charming Is because they do not realAze they are not charming . They do trot try to discover where a lack of it might tie . They 're not conscious of An ungracious manner , a displeasing Voice . or a curt mode of speech . They Will not ask an honest friend if they have some especially ugly mannerism or habit that robs them of charm , however pleasant they may be to gaze at . ? Of course , it takes a brave soul to put such queries to an honest friend and a braver one to answer them honestly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one may go and pay out Money to hear the truth told from an impersonal outsider . - So one will have ' to look about for that stencil friend who loves you enough to care for you , regardless of your irritating mannerisms , but is willing to tell you what they are . Outside of mannerisms that irritate , voices , unbecoming dress and style of speech , there are other barriers to charm , chiefest of which is self-consciousness . The really charming women you know , those people who make a room seem brighter when they walk into it , are women who never seem to be thinking about themselves . They 're never seen patting at their hair , smoothing out their skirts , twisting their rings and bracelets , hopping up and down , pulling open their vanities every few minutes to see if all is well with their makeup . All the details of their dress are Properly arranged at the proper time and then they forget them and give ear to what 's going on about them , listening well , giving a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keenly alive to what is said . They 're not exactly poised for " quiet , " but there is a soothing graciousness about their manner that is restful . You may get at the secret better by comparing a charming older woman with a flippant , hard voiced , flat figured , eigaret smoking , slangy young modern . Of course , charm is n't to be mistaken for an asset of age . We could just as well have taken a charm . In young woman for the comparison . Party for Young Folk . The South Shore Country club announces Its mid-year junior Party this evening for the South Shore 's high school , academy and college young People .                     