@@689782

txt The " enemy " fleet tonight rules the Garibbean . The shattered American fleet lies huddled in Cristobal harbor and the mimic war has ended with a vivid demonstration of the indefensibility of the Panama Canal without radical reinforcement of its armaments . This is the final outcome of the joint manoeuvres to determine the defensibility of the Canal Zone , and while Purely theoretical , the manoeuvres were marked by spectacular major engagements , with much of the grim beauty of a real naval clash of first-class Powers . Admiral Robinson , charged with getting through the canal from the Pacific and joining the hypothetical Atlantic fleet , brought to bear every resource at his command and played his hand gallantly , but the cards were stacked against him from the start because the coast defenses were outranged and the men and material of the mobile army were unable to prevent the serious crippling of such guns as were available . Admiral McCully , commanding the " enemy , " seizing the advantage of the foe 's weakness , struck sudden and brilliant blows in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while they were massed in the cramped harbor unable to manoeuvre and struggled ' vainly to concentrate an - effective fire on the attackers . Part of Admiral Robinson 's fleet was still in the canal when a great black cloud from the " enemy , " enjoying the windward advantage , suddenly rolled in , changing the gentle'blue tropic landscape to a grizzly gray picture of Northern waters . As the deep blue waters darkened while smoke thickened overhead , Admiral Robinson on the flagship California , unwilling to let his fleet dle'like rats in a trap , ordered his submarines and destroyers to up anchor and steam at full speed through the hostile fire to open sea . Meanwhile behind the breakwater he endeavored to manoeuvre five first-class battleships  --  all that got that far  --  into effective firing positions . It was a hopeless job for the most skilled commander . Behind the breakwater one or two managed to swing around for a broadside and bring all the starboard or port guns to bear , but the others were forced to fire only the forward batteries . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw the great guns slowly elevated to firing positions , watched the tense figures in the fighting tops and gun stations directing the operations , saw the white-clad gobs straining to execute orders , and then watched the puffs of saluting powder issue from the one-pounders mounted alongside the fourteen-inch guns . The actual firing was by these small guns . The big ones were in operation theoretically . ) By then the supporting craft had deployed outside the breakwater and had put up a smoke screen of their own . This was whipped by the trade winds back upon the defenders so that night came suddenly as it does at evening in the I tropics , and searchlights stabbed through the murk like gun flashes . Like Voiceless Monster to Death Grapple The battle then took on an uncanny aspect because of the muted guns , as if some voiceless monster were in a death grapple in the midst of a rolling sea , ' and went on for two hours . The Black " enemy " fleet , driven In by Admiral McCully to deliver its last punishing blow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guns , and as the radio news of their firing reached Admiral Coontz and General Hines , the joint chief umpires , they knew in advance of assessing the detailed damage that the question for which the manoeuvres were , held to answer was decisively settled . The Pacific fleet was smashed to bits while lying . helpless in Cristobal harbor with some ships still going through the canal , and long before they could take to sea to deploy . Fort Randolph , eliminated by the marines ' daring landing yesterday , was silent during the engagement . Fort Sherman offered the utmost resistance , but the defenders ' combined land and sea gun power was hopelessly weak . Bombers , scouts and pursuit planes took to the air in great groups to support the defenders but they ( Were unable to render sufficient assistance to neutralize the tactical advantage of the foes . The manoeuvres , however , did not prove the air force inadequate as anticipated . " nnemr " Withdraws Victorious . At noon , Admiral McCully , satisfied ' that the foe was impotent , - withdrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marshaled his full force Sa battle =Mr. giud . : Ittitlipilt waiting ' ter the coming of the remainder through the Canal , sailed to sea , but the umpires recalled him and the fight was over . Aside from the main engagement , two sensational exploits of the last few days ' combat were revealed today . The " enerny , " , . just after contact was established and under cover of a smokescreen , sent ashore a small force on Chiriqui Lagoon . Disguised , these men proceeded overland and reached vital parts of the canal , including the Cratun locks , and hurled theoretical explosives calculated to make ; the interoeean waterway impassable . Late last night the transport Henderson of the " enemy " train slipped ' into the canal behind a commercial shin running the gauntlet of ship and shore fire and the commander gallantly " sank " the vessel , The umpires held that the entrance was partly blocked . Before dusk tonight Admiral Robin. , son 's fleet , all in goorl order  --  the hypothetical damage being Invisible  --  with the Stars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle gray sides unchanged , and with ' big guns looking angry and menacing , steamed back into Cristobal harbor , where . framed by the Palm trees fringing the sea Wall , it made a martial picture , inspiring every American who , viewed it . Tomorrow the friendly ' enefitY " is expected to make port , - all his " casualties . ' wiped out by the decision of the war lords of the umpires ' office : In the ensuing couple Of days conferences will be held over the lessons taught . by the mimic encounter and then the fleet will take aboard fuel and Supplies and bid the army adieu ' and sail for Ste- owe aeparate manoeuvres : .                     