@@693816

txt Judges of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals and other leading members of the bench and bar gathered yesterday morning in the Federal Building to pay tribute to the memory of Charles M. Hough , late presiding Judge of the Second Circuit , who died three weeks ago . The exercises took place in Room 434 , where Judge Hough had sat for many years . On the bench were Circuit Judges Learned Hand , Thomas W. Swan and Martin T. Manton , who succeeded Judge Hough as Presiding Judge . The speakers were Judge Manton , Charles Evans Hughes . Drury W. Cooper and Charles C. Burlingham . Among others who attended were Augustus N. Hand , senior Judge of the District Court bench of the Southern District ; Judge Robert Inch , of the Eastern District Federal court ; Judge Edwin C. Thomas of the District Court of Connecticut and Chief Justice Edward K. Campbell of the United States Court of Claims . The room was packed with lawyers , friends of the late Judge and former associates in the Federal Building . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , opened the series of eulogies with brief reference to Judge Hough 's career as an admiralty lawyer and a man who had achieved distinction in all branches of the law . He paid tribute to the clarity and wisdom of his decisions while on the bench of the Court of Appeals and declared that that bench had lost " one of its greatest " in his death . " For the fourth time within less than two years the summons to God 's judgment by the hand of death has touched former members and members of this court , " said Judge Manton . " Judge Noyes , Judge Mayer , Judge Rogers and now Judge Hough have been summoned . We have gathered in this tribunal of justice to do honor to the memory of the last . " We may not come here and dismiss , in a few summary paragraphs , the character of one who has filled such a place in the judicial life of this circuit  --  one who holds such a place in our hearts . It would be a disrespectful familiarity to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his rich endowments , his long and honorable life , to endeavor thus to weigh and estimate them  --  a few short minutes of words for twenty-one years of great decisions in the administration of justice in a high place . " Judge Manton then outlined his predecessor 's career . He referred to his extraordinary style of writing and called him " a citizen with the vision of a prophet . "                     