@@690064

txt The Emporia Daily Gazette , of which WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE is editor , got off to a running start on the plan to oust the Secretary of the Treasury . In an editorial printed last Monday under the title , " Mellon Next , " it confidently stated that " the " roar that forced DENBY and DILI/on " ERTY out of the Cabinet will be a " whisper* compared with what MEI , - " LoN will get . " It added : These remarks are printed here to warn stand-pat editors who now have to gig back on DEN 'S ? and DAUGHERTY not to get tearful about poor Mr. MELLON . He will walk the plank In due time , or if he stays aboard he 'll sink the ship . The ship does not deserve sinking for Mr. MELLON . What was the reason for the roar which the premature Kansan was going to let loose against Secretary HELLOS ? It had nothing to do with the Secretary 's character or conduct in office . The Gazette admitted that " he is straight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability is anywhere questioned . The only trouble is that he has not the right belief about wealth and taxes . He belongs to the wrong wing of his party . He should be removed from office solely on account of his " attitude upon public questions . " Able as The Gazette is to read the thoughts and intents of Mr. MELLON 'S heart , it says that " feeling as he does , he has ne place in his job . " Hence the roar which was to have put him out of it . It is hardly necessary to point out that the roar ludicrously failed to come off . After the vigorous defense of the Secretary made in the Senate , his opponents took to roaring as gently as sucking doves . Senator MCKELLAR , who started the fracas , allowed his resolution of inquiry to go without protest to the calendar , whence it is expected never to emerge . The result is to leave the great Kansas specialist in anticipating and swelling a popular roar looking a bit foolish . The matter would scarcely be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed to exist particularly in the West , where demagogues are all the time appealing to it . It is the feeling that the East is rich , and for that very reason takes delight in oppressing the West , which is poor . Observe the roar which HIRAM JOHNSON emitted in Chicago when the news came of the President 's selection of Dean STONE as Attorney General . The California Senator found in It one more reason for attacking the President , since in this case the man chosen to be the head of the Department of Justice was a " child of the prosperous East . " There you have it . The East is rich and therefore without sympathy or love of justice . With such an Attorney General , inquired Senator JOHNSON , " to whom " are the deflated farmers of the West " to look for support of their case ? " Well , there is one man to whom , if they are wise and have a memory , they will not look . That man is HIRAM JOHNSON . What is the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their own showing ? It is that tariff legislation has made them pay more for all the necessaries of life , and for the machinery and other equipment used on their farms , while keeping the prices of the main products which they have to sell on a free-trade basis . It is their perception of this fact which leads them to demand some form of governmental subsidy for agriculture , just as manufacturers have been subsidized by protective duties on imports . w we ask who the men are who grind the faces of the poor on Western farms , the answer must be that it is the Congressmen who enacted the Fordney-McCumber tariff . A protagonist among them was HIRAM JOHNgoN . For the sake of getting higher tariff rates on California lemons , he was ready to deliver his log-rolled vote for the most'outrageous sehedures in the bill  --  the safedules which mean that the farmer must buy clothing and boots and shoes and all articles of household use at a higher cost . He could stand deflation of farm prices , if all other prices had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growing realization of the way in which he has been caught between the upper and nether millstones of tariff laws which makes him bitter . Yet Senator JOHNsoN seems to think that this bitterness may turn to sweetness toward him , though he was one of the prime movers in bringing about tariff discriminations against the farmer . In reality , Western people are not so blind or unreasonable as some of their professional spokesmen would have us think . The rapidity with which the announced roar at Secretary MELLON died out ought to open the eyes of some Western politicians and editors . West as well as East , the people have sense enough to know a capable and useful public official when they see him , even if he is rich .                     