@@685468

txt It will be a long step in advance to fix definitely the sum Germany shall pay to the Allies in reparation for the damage she caused in the war . The amount of the indemnity discussed on the first day of the Boulogne Conference , from 110,000,000,000 to 120 , - 000,000,000 marks gold , is not far from the sum provisionally demanded by the terms of the Treaty , but that was subject to increase by the Reparation Commission in proportion to - what it might judge to be Germany 's ability to pay . The Conference has adjourned to meet at Brussels on July 2 ; according to press dispatches it is said to have left the questions under discussion undecided . Inasmuch as the question of reparation was referred to financial experts , who will report at Brussels , it would seem to be more probable that the Conference has agreed in principle upon the sum to be paid , leaving the details to be worked out by the experts . Having determined how much Germany is to pay , the question remains how she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept her agreement to disarm . Will she in like manner disregard the demand that she issue bonds cr otherwise provide for the payment of the Indemnity ? Marshal Foci ' and General WILSON , it is understood , are to warn Berlin that if the agreement to reduce her armed force to 100,000 men by July 10 is not kept more German territory will be occupied . It is intimated that that form of constraint will be applied to compel her to provide for the payment of the indemnity . The requirement that she pay at least 8,000,000,0000 marks gold in thirtyseven annual installments is certainl- , , moderate - enough . These terms can not be considered harsh for a nation that has so mo . strously sinned against other nations , and her resources are undoubtedly equal to the exaction . It is high time that this question were settled , once for all . It is just to Germany that it should be made known to her how much she must pay ; it is to the financial interest of the Allies that they should know With precision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determination of this vexed question will remove a cause of difference and also a clash of interest that have visibly threatened the good relations of the Allies , particularly France and England . France , it has been agreed , shall receive 55 per cent . of the indemnity . For her it Is a financial necessity that she realize as promptly as possible upon Germany 's promise to pay . England 's need is not so pressing . For centuries commercial expansion has been the motive and maxim of England 's foreign policy . France has been increasingly apprehensive that in England 's calculations - future trade with Germany might be put above the benefits immediately accruing from Indemnity payments . There has been reason for this apprehension . It took shape immediately after the publication of Mr. KEYNES 'S book , which was notoriously and indisputably a piece of propaganda for British trade . A little later came the news 9f the organization in London of a powerful banking combination , including six great banks and banking houses , " for restoring the ? industry and economic life of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Austria , later to be ex tended to . the adjoining States ; raw materials were to be supplied to Central Europe under guarantees that they would be manufactured for export , and the plan was reported - to have " the moral support of the British Government . " ConfirmatPiu of this theory , or fear , of the tendency of the new British policy was supplied by Mr. LLOYD Gcono S continual roping after an opening for British trade in Russia , which , after many twistings and turnings , finally ripened into the open conferences With KRA Ssly. the representative of the Soviet Government . A few days ago , The New Russia . published in London , warned the Russian correspondent of The Morning Post that it was useless for him to recite the details of . the murders and assassinations by the Bolsheviki ; the British public was not interested in the wickedness of the present rulers of Russia ; it was interested only . said The New Russia with bitter irony . in the question whether " trade " could be opened with Russia under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be aggrieved by these negotiations since it was perfectly well understood that for any goods she might import Russia could pay only in gold , most of it stolen ; and whether stolen or not , it was gold that formed a part of the security underlying the billions of Russian bonds owned in France . The report cabled from London yesterday that negotiations with Ke.ssiN are likely to be broken off because of LLOYD GEORGE 'S insistence that protection must be given to British financiers having vested interests in Russia will be received with a good deal of satisfaction , and not alone in France . Our own position has been steadily to oppose these unseemly negotiations with the representative of a Government that is the declared foe- of every civilized Government on earth . k division of sentiment and divergence of policy on the part of the Allies would be Germany 's opportunity . If any indemnity whatever is to be recovered from her , they must DC united and firm . An agreement upon the amount of indemnity and a joint notification to Germany of the terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best possible evidence that the Allies are . acting ? as one . It is a good augury for Europe and for a continued friendly understanding between France and Great Britain that the matter has reached a Stage where it can be committed to technical experts for detailed working out .                     