@@687534

txt An unexpectedly vigorous assault on the FourPower Treaty , in which three Senators , Borah , Robinson and Johnson , took part , enlivened the - debate in the Senate today . As the discussion ' progressed , evidence accumulated that the treaty battle would not ' end with the expected ratification of the treaty on Friday . but will be kept up when the naval treaty and the two Chinese agreements are taken up for ratification . Fully a dozen Senators took part in the running fire of argument and assertion during the day 's session . The reported statement of Sir Auckland Geddes in Los Angeles yesterday that negotiation of the Four-Power Treaty averted a conflict in the Pacific , was referred to by Senator Shields , and was later taken up by Senator Robinson , who made the first important speech . Senator Johnson interrupted to ask : " Does the Senator mean to say that the British Ambassador is engaged in making addresses for this treaty ? " Senator Johnson said he knew no more than what had been published . He added : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington conference , a purpose to violate rights in the Pacific existed in the policies , secret or public , of any one of the other powers parties-.to this compact , I ask , Senators , if they are willing to accept the mere promise of that party that is that we shall have the navy in the ratio of five to three on the part of Japan . So far as any dependence is concerned , I would place it to a considerable extent upon the willingness of the Congress to maintain a navy upon the ratio and basis provided for in this treaty and to maintain it efficiently . " " I had hoped , " replied Mr. Robinson , " and still hope , that such arguments as those made by the Senator from Washington will not drive me to the ' conviction that it is my duty to vote against the naval treaty , but if his premise be correct , if the statement , which has been ' attributed to Ambassador Geddes be correct , that the Four-Power Treaty averted an attack by Japan against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then instead of disarming I would call upon the people of America to arm . " I have not mrerstood that war in the Pacific against the United States was imminent : I have not understood that any one of the other three powers , parties to this compact , was planning or designing to attack the rights or possessions of the United States in the Pacific . Ocean . If it be true that they were , it is a dangerous thing to scrap our battleships and refuse further to fortify Guam and the Philippine Islands . " Senator Robinson  --  Does the Senator from Washington believe , as the British Ambassador apparently believes , that Japan really had a purpose before this treaty was negotiated to attack our possessions in the Pacific ? Senator Poindexter  --  I have no such belief , but opponents of the treaties have said a great deal about the agreement in the naval treaty not to further arn ? Guam and the Philippines . Senator Robinson , who was urging his amendment , binding the signatory powers against secret diplomacy , said there had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted that if Secretary Hughes had not gone to Bermuda when the treaties were before the Committee on Foreign Relations , but had remained in Washington and appeared before that committee , the Senate might have " learned what secret influences were guiding this great achievement of modern diplomacy " and whether or not " secret agreements , " to which this country was not a party , were still in force . Whatever may be the motive , " he added , " the Senate now knows we are lacking information which the Senate is entitled to and ought to have to reach an intelligent understanding of this treaty . " What About Franco-Japanese Treaty ? Senator Johnson backed the amendment to pledge the powers against secret diplomacy . He said : " The hobgoblin that-is to frighten us into the Four Power Treaty is the Anglo-Japanese alliance , a treaty which on its face does not affect at all the region of the Pcifie , but which applies specifically to Eastern Asia and India .. If we can be affected by the Anglo-Japanese alliance , we certainly can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . I inquired this morning from one of the delegates that represented us at the arms conference whether the question of the treaty concluded between Japan and France was considered in the negotiation of the Four Power Treaty . He replied that in the later stages of the conferences it was considered by the American delegation , but not thought applicable to American interest and , therefore , was not brought to the attention of the conference . " Mr. Johnson asserted that the FrancoJapanese treaty was much wider in its application than the Anglo-Japanese alliance . Senator Borah assailed the Chinese treaties . He contended that they did not restore the sovereignty of China and he predicted that within two years after the Four-Power Treaty was ratified a movement would be under way in this country to increase both the army and the navy .. When he said that China remained " helpless " Senator Poindexter pointed out that China 's policy in the past had been one of non-resistance adding that such a policy as a result , produced the helpless state referred to . " Yes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borah , " relied on the asininity of another compact that guaranteed her independence and her integrity . " Then he went on : " I ' do not rely upon political compacts and I do not rely upon the good faith of other nations , so as to encourage our nation to go without any defense at all . My idea is the same policy we have followed for 150 years . and that is to remain aloof from political askociations and politicial connections , and political arrangements with every Government and take care of ourselves as best we can as an independent , self-governing people . These-political pacts are never of any more worth than the character of the nation which is behind them . I do not know of any political pact of this nature which was ever observed after a change of condition in the nation 's interest . " The aggressions which are now the cause of disturbance in the Far East which are what might be conceived as as the seeds of war in the Far East . are aggressions which took place under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . rights of China and Korea . " Says Borah Is Behind the Times . Senator Lonrocit suggested that the Idaho Senator was looking at the situation from the viewpoint of the world of twenty years ago and not from that of a world , the conscience of which , lie declared , had been awakened by the World War . Senator Borah declared that , Japan went home with her grip on the coal and iron mines of China unweake  --  ed . He insisted that it would be impossible , under existing conditions , for China to meet the terms of the Shantung agreement and that in the end the Japanese title to the Shantung Railway would be confirmed . Ratification of the treaty was urged by Senator Jones of Washington and Senator Capper of Kansas . The remarks of Sir Auckland Geddes , referred to in the Senate debate , were made in an address before the City Club of Los Angeles Thursday night . He Is said to , have declared that ratification of the work of the arms conference would " remove the serious menace to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is directly quoted as asserting : " It was only a few months ago that serious-minded men of affairs looked out over the Pacific with grave doubts of what might happen there . Fears were felt that something , which would mean great troubles for the United States , even bloodshed , was near . "                     