@@693978

txt I have read THE TIMES report of the action of the Northern Baptist Convention in endorsement of the AntiSaloon League of America and your editorial comment thereon . Both the news article and editorial are written under a misapprehension of what took place in the Northern Baptist Convention on June 2 at Chicago . The Resolutions Committee of the Northern Baptist Convention is made up of representatives of all the State Conventions composing the national body . These delegates meet and elect one member to the Resolutions Committee , thus making a committee of about forty members . The resolution endorsing the AntiSaloon League of America received unanimous and hearty approval of this committee . There were four paragraphs in the resolution . The first was a sweeping endorsement of the Anti-Saloon League , both national and State ; the second referred to the Anti-Saloon League as the agency of the churches in the ' prohibition fight ; the third recited the hatred for and the opposition of the wet forces to the Anti-Saloon League and declared that the churches should all the more love and foster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subcommittee of the United States Senate for allowing ac-:ess by the wet press of the country to the records , correspondence files , &c.,; which the subcommittee had se:zed and still holds in its possession , which records and files cover the entire history of the national league of thirty-four years . When this report was made to the convention on Friday morning , June 3 , the program was exceedingly crowded and effort was made to eliminate debate and save time for the regular order . The objection made by one of the ministers to the AntiSaloon League resolution had to do with the second and third paragraphs . Inasmuch as the first paragraph contained practically all that was needed for a complete endorsement and recommendation of the Anti-Saloon League , the Resolutions Committee consented to the amendment striking out paragraphs two and three . Personally , I have no doubt that the resolution as submitted would have been overwhelmingly adopted if the committee had insisted upon its original form . The amendment was agreed to , not to prevent discussion but to save time . The amendment did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree the complete endorsement of the activities of the Anti-Saloon League by the Northern Baptist Convention . To fasten upon a brief discussion and an inconsequential amendment shows the immense poverty of the wets in their desperate effort to find something that reflects upon the honor and integrity of the official* of the Anti-Saloon League . ( Rev. ) M. P. BOYNTON. 4 Chicago , Ill. , June 17 , 1927.                     