@@689814

txt Is himself a collector this book will be like meeting a certain friend . IColonial Interiors . A volume of much interest to those who specialize in colonial interiors has Just been compiled by Leigh French h an introduction by Charles ; Over Cornelius , assistant curator in the department of decorative arts . Met ' ropelitan museum , and himself author of " Furniture Masterpieces of Duncan Phyfe . " " Colonial interiors " is the simple title of the expansive volume . There are trore than 100 plates , mostly photographs of famous rooms , ' and a number or practical measured drawings of details of woodwork . It is published by William Ilelburm Inc .. of New York . A rues an Idiot . England is , they say , lapping up the story of the faithful Ann , who is labeled by her creator as an idiot . " Ann 's an Idiot , " by Pamela ' Wynne , is really popular in that land where popular novels are those which are called for most at the renting libraries . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In England . Any fairly well written story of Anglo-Indian life is sure to find a hearty audience among those who have lived or visited in India . And any love story is , ipso facto , bound to appeal to a certain percentage of the population , mostly feminine . " Ann 's an Idiot " is appealing , strangely , to a wide audience of men , however . And that , too , is n't hard to understand . Many women will agree with the title of the book , but no tian ever would . The great , str lig , sturdy dears like to bellow that they inspire in women the coRtpleto and passionate love which thrilled Ann at first sight , and that drove her into a physical decline when it did n't go well , and they like to see themselves pictured as noble souls , rescuing beauty  --  and always ' youthful beauty-4m horrors too terrible to think of . It is a book simply dripping with flattery of the proud and conquering male , and radiant with a sweet innocence which may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but certainly ' Is n't here . Ann is the most unsophisticated creature of 17 summers that ever lived in anything but a Grace Miller White novel . She looks like : a. child of 12 , and acts like it , except that she needs no tutoring in the technique of osculation . The story ; is really something of a th-irer . It sfar:s out very quietly , on shipboard , with Ann falling in love with a man who had made . love to her Mother in the unforgotten past , but ! who , being a gentleman . had ac'ed so finely as to make it certain to everyone who knew anything about the of ' fair . that no harm has been done . It progresses less quietly , however , and there are a few chapters of pretty ex'citing stuff about an Indian raid and an abduction . and an almost consummated native wedding . Americans may not be so thrilled about the boplt as the English , but it is certainly going to slow down a few of the , modern flirtations for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ca n't find an Ann , and If they start looking for her the poor flapper will have to get an entirely new line . " Ann 's an Idiot " is amusing ; and not at all a bad dime novel . The New Beerbohm . To those who delight in Max Beer . bohm 's caricatures there is joy indeed In " Things New and Old . " Ills draw ; Inge are always delightfully funny , ' but his captions are inimitable . They have the same quality as his essays , which are what I believe Percy Ham . rn-nd I  --  sea to call " cerebral . " They ' demand intelligence from the reader , and that demand is one which makes the difference between books one forgets and books one remembers . The creative audience : . the audience that gives as well as takes , Is the appreciative audience . But about Mr. Beer ' bohm 's latest  --  the pictures which caused such a rumpus when they were shown in the Leicester galleries  --  the ones about the intimate life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the published collection . Collectors may have " Things New and Old " in a special edition , autographed by the incomparable Max and concealing in a pocket n drawing done especially for this de luxe edition . A Good Cook Book . For the benefit cf the library of the Woman 's City clut. its members , have contribnted their favorite recipeg to a " Woman 's City Club Cook Book , " a handy little paper covered volume that contains the secrets of some of Chicago 's most alluring dinner tables . If I were the Iltrary committee I should make little oil cloth slip covers for the rather fragile books , and sell the outfit                     