@@691667

txt The Defense Day test of 1925 wal carried out under the handicap of limitation to five weeks of time for working out plans , and the day set for mobilization , parades , patriotic meetings and exercises was the Fourth of July  --  a Saturday this year . Duty conflicted with the desire for outings , sports and a Friday-to-Monday lionday . Under the circumstances it would have been surprising if the people had taken as much interest in Defense Day and turned out as numerously as was the case last year . It is said that the returns of what was accomplished , totals of participation , that is to say , will not be received by the War Department foi- official tabulation until two months have elapsed . Figures in round numbers were the wish that was father to the thought in September last , when the first test was held . The country was told the next day that more than 16,000,000 persons responded " in one way or another , " but it had to take the calculation on faith . Major J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compilation and study " in the Journal of that arm for July-August , 1925 , says that last year " more than 10,000,000 individuals " took some part in the defense test " throughout the United States . " It is to be presumed that he had access to War Department records . The part of industry and business was voluntary . Its resources and working capacity were known , and on Defense Day men like Judge GARY went through the form of ordering supplies and transportation as if the emergency of war had come . The rapidfire computation of Sept. 12 , 1924 , seems to have been based on the fact that 7,000 localities observed the day . This year it was unofficially announced on the night of July 4 that 8,040,359 had taken part in the test . Monday brought tho total up to 15 ,  |p00,000  . A lightning calculator with a nimble fancy must have been at work . Of course no one believes that a people whose habit it is to make Independence Day the greatest holiday in the year had assembled 15,000.000 strong to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General HINEs . Chief of Staff , is quoted about the falling off in participants : It is due to various adverse factors . Several Governors did not feel that they could require the participation of the National Guard of several States . The fact that the Fourth of July was a Saturday naturally reduced the total participation . Obviously , General HINES had in mind the approximate 8,000,000 total given out on Saturday night . That was made up of the regular army , 81,089 ; National Guard , 110,149 ; Reserves , 56,636 ; one-day enlistments ( enrolment of persons offering themselves for war service ) , 628,090 ; " others not specially classified , " 6 , . ' 164.430 . From these numbers the Fourth Corps Area was omitted . Its commander reported , however , that 1,000,000 persons had taken part in exercises and parades , and they went into the alleged total . The exact figures of the Defense Day test this year should be forth-. coming , properly tabulated . It ought to be known how many National Guardsmen actually appeared at their armories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one-day enlist ' ments were by districts , and in what capacity the other 7,000,000 and more persons took part in the test . The country will be living in a fool 's paradise if the totals of actual partioipation , as contemplated by the National Defense act , are not subjected to scientific analysis . What it has a right to know is the actual state of military and industrial preparedness , year by year . The bodily presence of National Guardsmen and other effectives , and not their projection by radio , should be required . The War Department has a plan of separate musters of arms of the services on different days . The country could then fix its attention upon these unit tests . A day might be set apart for taking stock of industrial war resources , products and workers . We should probably get I trustworthy figures . It would be well to seek results on dates that were not national holidays .                     