@@694171

txt Chicago formed hasty plans last night to welcome the Junker plane , Bremen , in case Capt . Herman Koehl and his crew are successful in their attempt to make a nonstop flight from Dessau . Germany , to this city , a distance of 4,100 miles . The Bremen may be expected some time Tuesday evening if no mishaps occur . It will almost certainly be dark when the plane nears the end of its long journey , pilots agreed , and the only landing field in the vicinity of Chicago which is lighted at night is the Checkerboard field at Maywood . Air mail pilots asserted that the pilot of the Bremen could not miss the field , which has beacon lights and ground lights . In addition , rockets are sent up at regular intervals . Five air mail planes arrive and leave the field during the night , bound from and to New York , Dallas , Minneapolis , Omaha , and other cities . Chicagoans Show Interest . " Chicago will stage a celebration if the Bremen arrives which will make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor Thompson declared . " I 'll make arrangements to have an official wet . coming committee but the whole city itself will probably be there . " That his ? prediction will come true appears likely . Even before news- , papers had appeared on the street last night giving details of the flight , queries were pouring into THE TtunUNE in regard to the probable landing field to be used by the Bremen if it reaches its destination . New ' York Prepares . ( Chicago Tribune tress Service . New York , Aug. ** that the two German Junkers planes , Europa and Bremen , had taken off from Dessau , Germany , for America was the signal today for preparations at Mitchel field . Long Island , for their reception . While cables a n. , dnced that the plane Bremen , following the forced landing of the Buret , ? , would endeavor to keep on , with Chicago as its destine . tion , it was generally felt that the slowness of the westward passage would force it to land on Long Island and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia . The airmen are expected here about 9 m . Tuesday . Formal reception to the aviators of the Bremen , if they reach here , will be given by the mayor 's committee for reception to distinguished guests and the Von Steuben society , David Meyer , chairman of the New York state council of the society , has arranged for a welcoming banquet for the flyers on Thursday evening at the Hotel Astor . Tobacco War to Give Norway Good 5 Cent Cigar ( Chicago Tribune Press Service . OSLO , Aug. ** tobacco war which has been going on for years between the British-American Tobacco company and the Norwegian company , and recently reported ? ended , has flared up again . The Norwegian corn . piing already has reduced the price of tobacco considerably .                     