@@694783

txt The memorandum prepared by the three rapporteurs of the Arbitration and . Security Committee , with its introduction by the Chairman , Dr. Benes , the Czechoslovakian Foreign Minister , as a result of their ' recent ? meeting ' in Prague , was issued by . the Secretariat of the League of Nations this afternoon . It will form the basis of the'discussions of the full committee , which will meet on Feb. 20 as a preliminary to the reunion of the Pre , . paratory - Disarmament Commission . As was stressed throughout the last meeting of . the League Assembly and repeated in notes of yarious Governments members of the League , and in the majority of European comment , the recent American peace manoeuvres for security are now recognized as a vital factor upon which eventual world disarmament must depend . The report , which is sixty pages long , admits , however , at the outset that a general treaty of arbitration and conciliation ' should not ' be ' rejected outright , and says if ' the committee desires to prepare a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be adopted  --  that is , juridical disputes subjected to obligatory arbitration and other disputes to conciliation procedure . Model Treaties Are Planned . Models ' of special ? arbitration treaties will ' also be ' prepared . If it is not " considered necessary to recommend a general arbitration treaty , the report says , then a general conciliation treaty might still be considered , safeguarding the League Council 's rights to intervene . The memorandum of the  --  rapporteur on policies covering the main theme of security declares that no general security compact ' is at present possible . Regional compacts are suggested along the lines of the Rhineland compact , and model compacts flexible in character might be prepared  --  admittedly more useful if such compacts had third power guarantees , such as in the case of the Locarno ones . The main points for inclusion are given as follows : 1 . Exclusion of resort to war . 2 . Organization of pacific procedure for the settlement of disputes . 3 . System of mutual assistance linked with the functions of the League Council . To insure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without being expressly recommended , that the Council , in the event of failure to reach unanimity , be empowered to take a decision by a specified majority in its capacity of arbitrator . Or it could be provided that the Council , if it failed to reach unanimity , would refer the dispute to a body of arbitrators , determining by a specified majority the constitutional procedure and powers of such a body . Way to Decide Aggressor . In every case there would be a final decision , any violation of which accompanied by resort to war would come under Article nVI of the Legue Covenant . As regards the determination of an aggressor the Council might order belligerents to observe an armistice and agree that any belligerent refusing such an armistice or violating it should definitely be regarded as the aggressor . The question of the Council taking a decision by a majority vote or otherwise called for the closest consideration . Concerning the articles of the Covenant , the memorandum considers it inadvisable to draw up a rigid and complete code of procedure for times of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression " and " resort to war " are not considered free from danger . The entire document stresses the fact that the Covenant already gives general security and that while regional agreements should now be made , they should be carefully coordinated with the Covernant . In other words , a bilateral agreement made outside the sphere of the Covenant might be considered a danger rather than a step toward peace . League Peace Work Is Lauded . GENEVA , Feb. 10 ( P ) . ? Aggressive wa : - must be outlawed , but war for legitimate defense in the application of the Covenant of the League a Nations or in the execution of a Leagu. decision is justifiable in the view of a committee of noted experts ' who presented today a report on the means of the promotion of international security . The recommendations of the committee have aroused special interest because of the recent American initiative looking toward the outlawing of war and the new treaty just signed between the United States ant .. France . But what is deemed to be of special interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming more and more caught in the network of measures for the prevention of war and that there - is- constant . improvement in the methods of the League Council to maintain peace " so that resort to war without responsibility for such a step being manifest to the whole world becomes increasingly difficult to imagine . " Declaring that before the existence of the League of Nations national points of view were virtually the only ones of which the public had cognizance in times of crises , the committee asserts that the effect of holding the Council 's debates in public is that all viewpoints become better known and that the peace recommendations of the Council furnish the public of all countries a means of forming a judgment , thus tending to force the Governments in dispute to a pacific settlement . Hailing the League Covenant as a pillar of international peace , the committee urges nations which think that the covenant provides inadequate security to negotiate special or regional agreements of arbitration , conciliation , securit , and compacts of non-aggression . As proof of the progress of the peace movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration are now in force , affecting thirty-eight countries , of which twenty-four are in Europe ; that fourteen nations have signed the compulsory arbitration clause of the World Court , and that there are twelve separate treaties of non-aggression , fifteen treaties of political cooperation without alliance and three agreements establishing neutral zones  --  all additional to the Locarzto compacts .                     