@@688653

txt A physician of note That Cure who read what was for Colds printed in this Amended . col-Is umn yesterday about the soda " cure " for colds did so with the frown to be expected when the amateur invades the field of the professional , and especially when self-dosing for a serious malady is advised , no matter how cautiously . Yet the physician of note admitted that he believed in the soda treatment , in a somewhat modified form , and that he used it with success in the treatment of his own patients  --  when he in his wisdom thought it , and not something else , was needed . The first of his criticisms related to the suggested frequency of the halfspoonful doses . Soda administered in that quantity for every half hour , except one , for three hours , he said , was likely to make trouble in the digestive apparatus . A half spoonful every two ' hours , and continued till relief came , ho decreed , would be better and safer . Also , he declared that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such soda , he said , while good enough for the kitchen , was not good enough to serve as a medicine , and instead of it the resort should be to the pure bicarbonate as put up by trustworthy mannfacttfring chemists . And there you are ! The formula as first presented was given on high medical authority , too , but , as has happened once or twice before , the doctors disagree . Differences of opinion are ' What make medicine an art instead of a science , just as they are what make horse races interesting . With a story on A Newcomer one page of yesterin Air day 's TIDIES of an . avigationairplane driven by a N French aviator at the rate of 233 miles an hour , the achievements detailed on another page of the " helicopter " at Dayton  --  rising fifteen feet from the ground and remadning there for less than three minutes  --  did not seem to the uninitiate very ? impressive . And yet it may turn out that what was done then at Dayton marked the beginning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frenchman did was only the making of what for ai few days or weeks will be the last of many speed records with machines of a now familiar type . Airplanes such as everybody has been ' able to build since the brothers WRIGHT taught the world how to do it certainly still count among the most wonderful results of human ingenuity and courage . They have possibilities which no helicopter is likely ever to surpass or even to equal . They are simple , compared with the helicopter , and therefore I What the public sees in A Latter the past , present and Day future of the little girl Romance , who was adopted when a baby , nine years ago , by Mr. and Mrs. WARNER M. Lames is a change of condition as remarkable , almost , as a fairy story  --  quite as remarkable as any of the old romances that dealt with the elevation through royal caprice of the humble to places of wealth and power . Once " a waif in a children 's hospital , " with no prospects except those of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made her daughter by formal process of law , and ever since has had the sort of care and the abundance of " advantages " which can be attained only by the offspring of the very rich . She also evidently has had more than that  --  a love indistinguishable from parental  --  and now the continuance of all except the maternal affection has been assured for the child by the provisions of Mrs. LEEDS 'S will . For ' her upbringing a definite sum of $250,000 is set aside from the estate , to be held in trust for her tin she is 35 , and ' afterward she becomes the residuary legatee of a great fortune . She is to be educated " in an atmosphere of culture and among people of refinement , " and " she is to get the best of instruction in those accomplishments for which she manifests aptitude and interest , including such sports as befit her age and position . " There will not be many to question that the KATHERINE KENNEDY who became JOY LOUISE LEEDS is among the very luckiest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much should be spent on the upbringing of a single child , when to so many a fair chance in life could be given by the division among them of $250,000 , that is an inquiry which ignores , in all probability , the way in which Mrs. LEEDS looked at what she had done and at her for whom she did it . In adopting t h e Her Trustee Kennedy child , what as Well Mrs. Lams sought . as Her Heir . presumably , was a daughter , not a chance to raise a. child from the uncertainties of poverty to whatever of certainty there is ih wealth . And she sought even more . That is shown by the passage of the will in which the testator defines her strongest desire . It is not that a plenitude of money shall be assured for life to the object of her affection , but that " her mind be directed toward the conditions and needs of the human family  --  that she may be interested and trained intelligently in the beneficent work to an extent such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a position to do . " In other words , the adoptive mother hoped and expected that the adopted daughter would use her wealth as its former possessor did  --  as a trustee and agent rather than as an owner . The realization of this hope and this expectation depends on more than the command of money ; it depends on the temperament and quality of the legatee and on the wisdom of the training which she ; as a very rich girl , destined if she lives to be still richer , is going to receive . But at least there is a chance that the use of the money will be in accord with the testator 's desire ; and litiav much better was her lavishing of her affection on a child she deemed worthy of it than would have been the endless fondling of a little dog or the wasting of energies on the so-called social activities which are about the most unsocial of all the activities there are ! they - PrOM s0 ' to re ' thuah . the faster of ' the two . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as . some of their defeeta are obViously irremediable. their- rival , utilizing another principle of flight , may beat them as regards just those faults and so become a highly useful contrivance . ' there is tialn advantage In the ability of the helicopter to make vertical ascents and descents , for this renders it independent of the present " flying fields , " so expensive and so few . Moreover , - the helicopter will be able to " hover " ? to maintain a fixed position in the air  --  which the airplane of the usual type never tan do . That , too , is an ability often highly desirable . So , the latest achievement at Dayton ? venerable and illustrious name !  - -  should be regarded as a beginning , not an endIng -- as a credible promise of great things to come . The theory of the helicopter is sound . and a domain is Waiting for it .                     