@@685302

txt To what nation or group of nations in the Old or New World , to what man or group of men anywhere , not excepting the Republican Party , will Mr. KNOX 'S resolution and the arguments with . which he supported it in his speech on Wednesday bring any shadow of benefit , advantage or comfort ? What people , racked by the calamities of war and now under deep discouragement because of the slow coming of assured peace and stability , will take new hope from anything Senator Kxox has said or from any promise he reads into his peace resolution ? Does he offer the slightest contribution to the economic settlement or the political readjustment of the affairs of a distracted world ? No , for all that he says or proporges is hollow , illusory , a sheer , barren futility . ? The Pennsylvania Senator declares that t ' we must not dare longer to " delay a return to the ordered gov " ernment of peace ; we must not " hazard a further postponement in " turning our undivided deliberations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible proposal of peace by joint resolution there is nothing but delay ; there is , so long as his program has the attention of Congress and of the country , only a further purposeless postponement of those settled conditions which will permit us to take thought about our home affairs . Mr. Kxox is a man of distinguished ability , experienced in international transactions , for he has been Secretary of State , and his speech supporting the joint resolution is laborious and learned . Citations and precedents he marshals and arrays in scholarly form to sustain his contention that the existing state of war between the United States and Germany may be ended in this manner . At once we must question either his intelligence or his sincerity . What boots it that 200 years ago a war between France and Spain was ended without a treaty , that in other more recent instances wars have simply died because the belligerents stopped fighting , yet made no treaty ? These few insignificant exceptions . : prove the rule , and Mr. Hbrox knows the rule that wars end by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely to listening Senators but to the American people , and they are a people who have a deal of common sense in their makeup . It is amazing that even for a partisan purpose a Senator from a great State , a Senator of high honors and distinction , should risk his reputation for wisdom and balance and understanding by the delivery of a discourse in which Irrelevant and futile arguments are advanced to- support an impossible case . Mr. Kxox knows very well that the President will veto , must veto , his resolution , should Congress be ill-advised enough to pass it . It must be vetoed , for the " state of war can not be ended , the conditions of peace can not be restored by resolution . It avails him nothing that the resolution requests the President " imme " diately to open negotiations with the " Government of Germany with a " view to re-establishing fully the " friendly relations and commercial " intercourse existing between the " United States and Germany prior to " said war . " Mr. Kxox does not need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , business of the President . He has already negotiated one treaty , which the Senate rejected . Mr. Kxox now proposes that we negotiate a separate treaty with Germany , a proceeding of which Senator LODGE wrote in December , 1918 , that " it would brand us with " everlasting dishonor and bring ruin ' " to us also if we undertook to make " a separate peace . " Mr. KNox argues with painful elaboration that ' the war is already ended . Nobody knows better than he the difference between acts of war and the state c war . Hostilities ended with the armistice , but the state of . war contnues , and it is quite impossible to resist the conclusion that Mr. KNOX knows very well that it will continue until it is ended by treaty . While Senator KNOX thus misuses his great abilities and occupies the time of the Senate and of the country with proposals that are destitute of practical value and which can have originated only in desperate and desperately misplaced partisanship , the world , distracted and much or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peace which can be firmly established only by the adhesion of the United States to the Treaty and to the League of Nations . When Senator PENROSE proposed the name of Mr. Kxox as a candidate for the Republican nomination at Chicago , nobody attributed to him any other motive than that of strategy and tactics . But if partisanship must come to the fore in these high and grave matters , certainly the Democrats could ask no better fortune than that- the - Republicans-  should nominate Mr. Kxox , standing upon his personally declared platform asserting that the ' Treaty of Versailles is unworkable and discredited in all its parts and that the League of Nations has not been " Americanized " even by *Mr . LODGE 's reservations .                     