@@689278

txt WILLLAMSTOWN , Mass. , Aug. 2 . ? In his last lecture before the Institute of Politics , Count Harry Kessler , former German Minister to Poland , tonight Indicated a growing sentiment in Germany for joining the League of Nations and expressed his conception of what the League should do in the way of economic co-operation among nations . His subject was " The League of Nations and the German Democracy . " and he stuck closely to his text , omitting attacks on Prance or appeals for the United States to aid Germany . Which have aroused considerable criticism . Taking cognizance of this , he explained that he had acted as an interpreter of the German viewpoint . " The attitude of the German people toward the League . " he said , " would . I think . be overwhelmingly for the League if the situation in the Sarre and the l'Peer Silesia decision had not arouseil suspicions . However . the last debate in Geneva on the Sarre recently had a favorable influence on ' public opinion in Germany and the tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conception of League . " The principal objection has been hitherto the position of Prance . But if this difficulty can be overcome and if Germany is assured of gaining admission to the Council . I think the tendency to join the League would be very strong in the German people . " The German conception of the League of Nations , accepted almo9t unanimously by the German organizations or ind lvidus.is who take an interest in the question , is that of an institution adapted not only to forward political but also to be as instrument of economic co-operation between nations , not by the arbitrary rulc , of great international trusts , but by a system starting from the humble work of the factories and leading thenc.s step by step , on democratic lines , to worldwide organization of the essential needs of production and distribution , under the auspices of a league of democratic nations . " The Idea of a Rhineland State . which . has been suggested as a solution of the Franco-German difficulty by Major Gen. Henry T. Allen , was scouted by Count Kessler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , U. S. N. , in a discussion of " Peace Plans of Today " at the open conference on the British Commonwealth , maintained that the resolutions adopted at the Washington Conference for the Limitation of Armament restricting the use of submarines In war were impossible of execution . " It would be much better . " he said , " to require that the submarines shall conform in all respects to the established rules for surface vessels of war . " Naval armament could be further reduced , he contended , following the principles of the Washington conference , though for strategical reasons they could not be reduced beyond a certain point : the principle of ratios established for capital ships could be extended to include all fighting ships ; an international convention should prohibit the arming of merchant ships , and the use of false colors should be prohibited as inconsistent with modern ethics . Royal Meeker . head of the League of Nations round table , expressed his faith in the League at the open conference . " My faith remains unshaken in the possibility of man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The League of Nations may perish , as many human institutions have perished because mankind develops bepond the need of such an institution . or it may perish because makind can not attain to a moral and intellectual plane sufficiently high to enable him to put ! As ideas and ideals into practice . For the present the idea of the League embodies man 's most exalted concept of lustice and humanity applied to internedorsal relations . The issue lies in the lap of the future . " The United States can not maintain ter policy of pharisaical , self-righteous tloofness toward the other peoples of the sorld and be held guiltless of responsibility if war comes . " Everybody agrees , he asserted , that vas is inevitable . " the present tem ) er and emotional drifts carrying the rations rapidly toward a rupture . " Philip Henry Kerr , former secretary of David Lloyd Geoorge and the leader of he British open conference , thought the . eague of Nations , the World Court and he movement to outlaw war would all yelp , but that none would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League , with improvements in the ! xisting covenant was bound to prevail . 3nless something was done to supply a Lew system , he said , " We shall ineviably drift back into a world war . "                     