@@684941

txt The refusal of Holland to ' hand over the former German Emperor : for trial by the Allies does not end the matter , for the Entente will make new efforts to get hold Of him . This became plain at the first meeting of the ilea ' . Committee of Ambassadors this morning ? . - when it Was decided to reply to : Holland 's note . Juridical experts were - assigned to draft this an- swer which . will : not be ready before Saturday . No public statement is made as to its contents , but it ' is understood it will answer points ' raised in the note from The Hague in a.manner to contest the validity of the reasons Holland gives for her stand and to insist on the Allies ' right to try the man who started the war . The official announcement of , the . committee 's decision states that French experts are drafting the answer to Holland , This , however . does not controvert the fact that it is England who is behind the move . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enter into a series of negotiations with Holland which if they did not secure surrender of the Kaiser might result in the assurance of his internment on Dutch territory . - . Wallace took no part in the discussion of the affair of the Kaiser , but was an interested listener and will report the situation in full to Washington . It is not yet clear even to the members what sort of organization the committee of Ambassadors is . The announcement of its formation said it was a body to enforce the Treaty . of Ve ? - sailles . Yet at its very first meeting this morning the second thing it did was to accord four days ' delay to the Jugoslays in which to make their final answer on the Adriatic settlement plan , and , of . course , the Versailles Treaty has no connection with the Adriatic situation . It seems fair to say that the Committee of Ambassadors represents the result . of the need for some sort of international clearing house in the conduct of the present tangled affairs of Europe and-of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador Wallace rook his ' seat at their table . There had been some fear that he would not accept the , invitation to . attend .. The committee is made up as follows ' : England , Lord Derby ; France . M. Paleologue ; Italy , Signor Bonin Longare ; Japan , Mr. Matsui Pu ; United States , Mr. Wallace . ? At today 's meeting the Italian Ambassador raised the point that an American was to have - been Chairman of the Plebiscite Commission in Teschen , and inasmuch as America refused to take Part in the plebiscite arrangements , not having ratified the treaty , it would be necessary to choose a new Chairman . The Italian Ambassador was informed that the French member of the commission would act as Chairman untirsuch time as an American Chbirman'took his Place . ? - The'German Government placed before the Ambassadors ' Committee . a long memorandum asking for . numerous Minor changes in the treaty . The two principal requests were for a chang ? o in the German-Polish boundary and for a decrease in salaries of various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having been from time to time brought up by the German peace ' delegates . ' They met today the same fate they encountered in the past , which is to ray they were turned down. - - - It is .. expected ? . that many such cemmunleations will be received from the Government in the next few months , and allied statesmen appear determined not to encourage the Germans by letting down on any treaty provisions at this stage . Poland has put squarely up to the Allies the issue of whether or not she is to receive any aid against the expected Bolshevist attack . For weeks Prime Minister Patek has been trying to get from London and from Paris some definite promises and has had little success . Today he appeared before the Committee of Ambassadors and read a letter from his Government to the Allies ' Governments calling attention to the impending Red attack as evidenced by warlike preparations , outlining the probable force of the enemy and of Poland . and pointing out the need for material assistance . His letter was referred to Marshal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jan ** almost complete withdrawal of the United States from the world negotiations now going on in Paris was said in diplomatic circles here today to be evidenced by America 's attendance at today 's meeting of the Council of Ambassadors at Paris , purely as a witness , and by this nation 's total absence at the first meeting of the governing body of the International Labor Office . Officials at the State Department explained that Ambassador Wallace was sitting in the Ambassadors ' meeting solely as a matter of courtesy and of record , and that the United States could not occupy the place a:lotted to her in the labor body until ratification of the treaty . Reports from Paris to the contrary . notwithstanding the United States has reached no definite conclusions as to the recognition of the Republic of Armenia , it was stated authoritatively tonight . The relations of - the United States toward the Armenian State to be created under the Turkish Peace Treaty have been under consideration by this Government , it was added , but never has a decision been made to- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State , the boundaries of which have not been defined finally ; would be unusual , it also was said . A reported assertion of Ambassador Wallace at the meeting of the Council of Ambassadors that the United States was in accord with the proposal that former German warships be dismantled rather than divided among the Allies was said by officials here to be merely a restatement of the position taken from the first by the United States .                     