@@686741

txt President Harding has informally asked Great Britain , France , Italy and Japan to participate in a conference on limitation of armaments to be held in Washington . Coupled with the announcement is an official explanatory statement that it is proposed that the Washington conference shall discuss not only armament but also " all matters " pertaining to the Pacific and Far Eastern problemss This is by far the most important step taken by tle Harding Administration in connection with international affairs . The pointed desire of the President that the conference be held has ' been communicated only to the four principal allied ? and associated powers , with China asked to participate in the Far Eastern and Pacific phases of the conference 's deliberations . The opinion is general in Washington tonight among those who have knowledge of the announcement , authorised by Secretary Hughes , that this step . of President Harding means nothing short of the essence of a world conference . While disarmament is the keynote of the President 's call , it becomes secondary in a measure , according to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference will feel obliged to consider . An adjustment of the differences between the United States and Japan in only one of many phases of world politics with which the conference will deal . Out of the conference , 4t is also said , there is bound to grow a discussion of the formation of an international also- ' . ciation to prevent future wars , into which the United States would feel free to enter . The possibility exists that the AngloJapanese Alliance may be shown to have outlived its usefulness in the light of an agreement among the moat powerful nations of the world pertaining to the Pacific and the Far East . The President 's proposal , it is declared , presents all the elements of an effort to adjust the world 's peace on a permanent basis . Borah 's Proposal Exceeded . The opposition of the Senate to Amer .. lean participation in world affairs fades into insignificance beside the proposal that President Harding has advanced . ' He has made it clear in the official statement tonight that he looks to an understanding between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves against Germany on questions that pertain to the preservation of world peace . One of the interesting phases of his call is that the initiative which has led to his proposal came from one of the most irreconcilable of bitter-enders , Mr. I3orah of Idaho , a determined opponent of the League of Nations and the Versailles Treaty , who would have the United States hold aloof from all participation in the affairs of Europe . Senator Borah 's effort was to bring about an international conference on naval disarmament , but the President has gone beyond this by placing upon the disarmament base a superstructure of other problems which he hopes to see adjusted . Senator Borah:s resolution , adopted by the Senate and later by  --  the House , limited the proposed conference to naval arneament and its participants to the United States , Great Britain and Japan . The President " s proposal will permit the limitation of land armaments as well as naval , and the invitation , already informally extended , is not confined to Great Britain and Japan . While , according to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after Secretary Hughes had spent much of a torrid Sunday at his desk there , the President has so far made only informal overtures to the principal allied and associated powers , the statement says that these were " definite . " Harvey Prepared the Way . It is evident that the groundwork for holding the conference has already been laid . Shortly after Colonel George Harvey , the American Ambassador at London . was designated as the American member of the Supreme Council he began inquiries , by direction of President Harding and Secretary Hughes , to ascertain the views of the other Supreme Council powers  --  Great Britain , France , Italy and Japan  --  concerning the tion of armaments . This wap before the Borah resolution had been adopted by the Senate and , in fact , at a time when there seemed to be little prospect that it would be adopted . ? The President had let it be known that he did not intend to " have We hand forced by the Senate " with respect to the disarmament question , which he regarded as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the acting Chairman of the Committee on Naval Affairs , and Sensathr Hale. a member of that commitee , had called on him to ascertain his views with respect to the Borah resolution and received the pointed answer Indicated . . Aa'a result the Committee on Naval Affairs declined to incorporate the Borah disarmament resolution in the aahual Naval Appropriation bill . ' 4-Ater , after it had been made known at the White House that . Ambassador Harvey had undertaken to sound his fellow-members of the Supreme Council on the subject , the Borah resolution was revided and adopted as an amendment to the Naval Appropriation bill . The House , more inclined to follow the President 's wishes than the Senate , ascertained that he had no objection to the adoption of the disarmament proposal . The House Committee on Foreign Affairs had prepared an elaborate resolution which gave the President authority to call and International conference on , . bothland and naval disarmament , but the sentiment in that body was so widespread in favor of disposing of the Matter without delay that the Borah resolution was adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borah proposal is contained in the Naval Aperopriation bill , which is now being considered by a joint conference committee of both houses appointed to harmonize difficulties . When the conference report has been adopted by the Senate and House , the bill will be sent to the President for approval . As matters stand . he has taken steps to call a " disarmament conference before the sentiment of Congress has been made known to him through a legislative measure . Subsequent to the inquiries made by Ambassador Harvey there were exchanges of an informal character betWaert the Unitde States and the Governments concerned , and it is believed that there was a common agreement that the conference should be called . Otherwise the President would not have made a public announcement that he had approached the allied powers " with informal but definite inquiries . " flint British Initiative on Pacific . While all this appears to be a matter of prearrangement , some surprise is expressed that Japan should be willing to enter a world conference having to do with the Far East and the Pacific . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any suggestion that the affairs of the Far East were matters for adju  --  tment by non-Asiatic nations except to the extent that Great Britain and Japan were allied under a treaty to preserve their joint interests in that part of the world . The new announcement creates the impression , in the light of what has been taking place in the British Imperial Conference in London , that Prime Minister Lloyd George and the Premiers of Britain ? s overseas dominions , were respthisible for the inclusion of questions pertaining to the Pacific and Far East in the scope of the conference to be called by President Harding , or at least that they strongly urged Japan to acecde to a suggestion from the United States to that effect . What effect the announcement will have on the consideration being given in London to the renewal of the AngloJapanese alliance is not disclosed here. , hilt no doubt remains that it will have , a decided bearing in that connection . A week ago the Japanese Ambassador ' if : Washington . Baron Shidehara , gave to the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance . in - that it was most unusual for a foreign diplomatic representative to issue an appeal intended to influence public opinion . It Wee plain ft em that statement that the Japanese Government viewed with concern the opposition that had developed in " the Eritish Isles and the British overseas possessions , as well as in the lahlted States , to the proposed renewal of ! the altienee . It is within the hounds of likelihood that the proposal for a world coaference tee discuss Far Eastern and Pacific questions will lead to a feeling on the part of the British overseas Premiers that the renewal of the Anglo-Japanese alliance , if it is to be renewed , should be subject to termination in accordande with any appropriate understanding r ? aehed in the Washington conference to be called by President Harding . ' Light on Lloyd George Statement . The State Department announcement iraty explain the statement in the House of . Commons met Thursday by Mr. , i Lloya . George that he hoped to be able on Motalay to make a declaration con ( erning the Anglo-Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this mould depend " upon the replies received from the United . States , Japan and China . " in Washington this statement aroused great interest and explanation aaas sought in the proper official quarters . The responses were invariably that the statement was not Understood . It was indicated that the United States han not received any communication from the British Government concerning the alliance . But the disclosure in ton'ght 's Washington communique that - Chime ** he ? asked to participate in the prepeeea conference of the great powers tends to suggest that there was some communi  --  ati , mi pending between the British ana American Governments in which China was concerned . The announcement male here may clear the way for M7 ? . Lloyd George ? to tell the ! louse of Commons tomorrow what he meant by his utterance last Thursday . The Lendon dispatch printed in Tun Nrav YORK Tlaws today giving a summary of an article in The Sunday Observer written by its editor , J. L. Garvin. indicates that he had inside knowledge of the events which led up to the announcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fresh from his effort to adjust the troubles in Ireland , had taken an active part in bringing about the conference to be called by President Harding . and that his part had particularly to do with America 's interests in the Pacific and the Far East . is considered signifi-. cant . Borah Silent on Proposal . The attitude which Senator Borah and other ardent disarmament supporters in the Senate will take on the President 's action could not be ascertained tonight . Mr. Borah declined to express himself on the subject , but ' indicated that - he might have something to say tomorrow . The opinion prevails in some quarters that he would not take kindly to the President 's course , much as it is in line with his disarmament effort . It is suggested that he will feel that the President has gone outside the purposes of the Borah resolution in asking France and Italy to participate . The Senate rejected the suggestion that any other powers than the three named in the resolution should take hart in the coference . Senator Lodge , Chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as is Senator Hitchcock , the senior Democratic member of that committee . President Harding is bound to be called upon for some explanation of why , in going beyond the terms of the Borah resolution by inviting other nations than Great Britain and Japan , he did not include all nations instead of the principal powers that had been allied against Germany in the World War . By limiting the conference to these powers , with China participating only where her special interests are concerned , Mr. Harding has followed the example set by the allied powers in the making of peace at Paris . Ex-President Wilson was criticised severely for having assented to the policy of having the peace terms prepared in secret by the representative of the United States . Great Britain . France , Italy and Japan . One of his reasons for believing that this was the wise course was that it would be impossible to make rapid progress if all the nations that were parties to the peace conference were eermitted to take part in the dictation of the terms . The big four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orlando  --  who became the Big Five when Japan entered to discuss Far l'kuctern matters , have been hammered unmercifully in the United States Senate for not allowing the smaller nations to sit with them . President Harding and Secretary Hughes have seemingly adopted the principle upon which the Big Four was founded . This probably will not be pleasing to the element in the Senate which denounces any American dealings in concert with the nations which dictated the peace of Versailles . The whole  --  proposal of President Harding is so framed . however , that it is expected that he will find many of those who assailed the Versailles Treaty rallying to his support . Root Likely to Be a Conferee . Out of the consideration given to the subject of an Association of Nations by the President and his principal advisers has come , apparently , the decision to have the conference dealing with the association one and the same with the conference which he is to call en the subject of disarmament and Far Eastern affairs . In all that ever came in any definite way from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospective organization of such an association the name of Elihu Root was mentioned as one of the chief . American representatives . There is every reason to believe that when the President comes to select his delegates for the expected conference Mr. Root will be asked to represent the Uhited States .                     