@@695259

txt Two rumors that for several hours yesterday ran in double harness met with widely different fates before nightfall . A report that Mayor Thompson is considering resigning was denied emphatically by those most deeply in his confidence . A similar story concerning Police Commissioner Hughes brought only shoulder shrugs from those who might know the facts . The latter story had been dying down for a day or two and may have owed some of its recrudescence to an unexpected announcement that Chief  --  Hughes had been operated on by Health Commissioner Kesel at the John E. Murphy hospital . Undergoes Slight Operation . Inquiry showed that he had been subjected merely to a tonsilectomy and it was said that he will go to his home today ; but the Increased credence in the gossip of his retirement was not abated . That gossip also concerned the commissioner 's lecture to his deputies on Monday when he Insisted the lid must be clamped down and an almost immediately contradicting report to the Committee of Fifteen that vice is prospering throughout the city . , The report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,307 places under observation by investigators only 08 are in individual residence buildings or houses , while of the remainder , 675 are flats , 435 are apartments , and 103 are in hotels . The addresses are found on 223 , dif : ferent Chicago streets , 104 being on Indiana avenue , ' i7 on Michigan avenue , and 21 on Sheridan road . No Statement from Hughes . With his throat tied up In ice bags , it was said at the hospital , Commissioner , Hughes was not in condition to discuss statements that ho has concluded that his health will not permit him to continue with the duties of his present - office . The opposite was true when questions concerning ? Mayor Thompson were directed to well informed sources . One reply was that word had just been received from the summer home of the . mayor 's sister , Mrs. William Nelson ' Pelouze , at Lake Geneva , where he . has spent considerable time recently , that the mayor considered the rumors Inspired by his enemies . The same idea was suggested . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ park board , for years one of Thompson 's closest associates ; " Consider the source , " quoted Mr. Pike , and again : " The wish is father to the thought . " " Absurd , " Corporation Counsel Ettelson said . " I talked with Mayor Thompson at length when he was here a few days ago , and know that he Is planning the administration 's /affairs for months to come . "                     