@@687973

txt The British note on the interallied indebtedness is due to have a very grave effect on European politics and in a direction not generally hoped for in America . It can not but stiffen the French attitude toward Germany , for when the Government of Prime Minister Lloyd George proclaims ureat Britain can not at the same time pay what It owes and not be paid what is owing to it , he sets a tune to which Premier Poincare can sing tenor to the London bass . Lord Balfour 's note has thus for the time being swept into the proverbial waste basket all the mooted reduction of German reparations . And more than that . It will mean , when M. Poincare meets Mr. Lloyd George next week , the chances are nine out of ten he will demand that , inasmuch as things are as the London note says , Franc , . has every right to collect , as she can or try as she may see fit to collect 52 per cent . of the German reparations . In fact it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note entirely changed the prospect for the . leondori meeting , where the French hoped England would remit the French debt in return for a cut in reparations and a moratorium for Germany . It Is very evident M. Poincare will not consent to any reduction of French claims at London , and so , according to the Quaff d'Orsay all that remains to be discussed at London is the application of the Treaty of Versailles , which means discussion of methods of trying to collect some 120,000,000,000 marks gold which Germany still owes . Therefore , immediately the British note has the effect of making worse instead of better the reparations situation . - The issues raised by the document - from London are so basic anT so varied arel so complex it is difficult even to touch on all of them in cable dispatches . But there is certainly one reflex which should be noted . In making the first official proposal for annulment of the international war indebtedness and " passing the buck " to the United States , Lord Balfour 's note says between its polite lines in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about America fox the past year and a half . Shows European View of America . To Europe Uncle Sam is no more an altruistic gentleman of kindly instincts bent on doing good . Over and over it has been said in these dispatches as result of observations at a dozen or More big international conferences that America was getting to be less and less loved from month to month . That was not generally believed in America because Americans did not and do not and probably never will look at issues in the same way as Europeans . This is no place to argue how right America is and how wrong Europe is or vice versa . I am merely pointing out the inferences which Europe will draw from Lord Balfour 's note in the coming days when the political and economic situation in Europe will probably be worse before getting better . To the extent which honest Americans will call grossly unfair , Europeans are going more and more to blame their troubles on the United States  --  that is , unless there Is some change which is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favors general debt cancellation for the benefit of mankind , but she can not see her dream come true . Why ? Because America demands that England pay her . So England has to act differently from what she would in other circumstances . Then after saying America is acting within her strictly legal rights , Lord Balfour asks : " Can the present world situation be looked at only from a narrow financial standpoint ? " Then he answers in the negative . The nations who lent and spent the money being talked about were partners in a great and common cause . And after repeating that America is within her financial rights , he says it can never be agreeable " to generous minds " to follow such a course . He paints a picture of the damage done the worla by the burden of international debts and regrets it can not toe remedied because of America 's attitude . To prove England 's good-will he promises to collect only so much of the debts Incurred in the common and sacred cause as America , also engaged in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point when he cites the money that France owes England was borrowed by England for France and . then concludes with the stinging remark that the . tleinent which America refused would " lie more of value to mankind than any gains that could accrue even from the most successful enforcement of legal obligations . " In penning this advance refusal of the French proposition for reduction of . the German reparations in return for annulment of the French debt to the British , Lord Balfour penned a masterpiece from the point of view of his country . He also has done America a great favor . He told us where we stand in the eyes of Europe . We may like it , but We probably shall not . But he has done Us a service by telling the truth . Now , the words are the words of Arthur , but the voice is the voice of David . Those carefully turned phrases are Balfour's. but the opportunist propaheaded is Lloyd George 's . Had the hardheaded Sir Robert Horne written the note he would have made out an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she owes . She is willing to forget . three parts and collect the one part she owes the United States , for after all she never got the money from America ; she merely underwrote a loan for her allies . Who could have complained at that ? In justice it would have been a good plea . But the way the note is given to the world it goes further and it goes harder . It puts the American Government in the hole . French Claim Freer Hand . The French capital received the Balfour note with mixed emotions . That England places squarely before America the issue of cancellation of international indebtedness pleases the French . But on the other hand the note spells failure for the plan Premier Poincare takes to London . It makes any relief for the French taxpayer seem further away . But even here there is another side , for a very large part of French opinion believes that were Germany granted a three years ' moratorium France would never again begin collecting , and it is held in these quarters that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make Germany pay . For instance , Liberte proclaims in headlines " Balfour note gives us full liberty of action . " It says : " The English note is a serious step backward in the reparations question . It makes perfectly useless the London conference . Liberte 's editor says that certainly under the conditions Lloyd George will not ask for a reduction in the French part of the reparations . and says no bankers ' loan is in sight for the present . " England is now maintaining what she regards as her strict right ; it is clear France gets back again the liberty of action regarding Germany which little by little she had surrendered for promises of payment never kept . " Liberte hopes that now one good result of the note will be to halt the flow Of advice from America to France to make sacrifices for the common good . France . it says , will be ready to begin When America is . " France . " says Liberte , " who had less gold than her rich neighbors , paid in blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Would permit that . " Concluding , Liberte says : " Eight years ago today Germany declared war on us . We could have avoided that war by sacrificing our rights and our dignity . We did not do it then ; we will not do it today . " Temps Resents the Action . The Temps is particularly bitter . It compares Sir Edward Grey 's action eight years ago in promising France the aid of England to the action of the British note of yesterday . After analyzing the note the Temps says : " . England wishes po pose . as a simple bill collector for the Untied States and leer allies are her hostages . And so Engle/4d , which ' was not ravaged , loses Wailing  --  she will collect from her allies what she owes the United States . Germany , which was not ravaged , pays nothing  --  she gets a moratorium . The Wy ones who pay and who lose are oste , who were invaded and ravaged . But the real purpose of England is to bring pressure on the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the debts owing her . It that combination could be effected , it goes ; without saying France would be glad . She would be freed of her debt to England and America and she would have a- chance to be paid more quickly the balance Germany would owe . It reMains to , be seen whether British tactics will- succeed . The whole task is to persue , de the United States to be generous , for ' it IS really upon America that . would fall the weight of adjustment . - To bring America to this great generosity , what is the best methid . Would it not ' be an example ? " The Temps points out that France owes England 1560.000.000 , all of which is due in the next five years , and then figures that if England treated all her creditors alike Frar.ce would have to pay 171 per cent . of this amount . In concluding , the Temps says it all means France must make Germany pdy . The Journal des Debats sees the note ak an appeal to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay up , but thinks it would be much better to proceed to a general annulment of debts . However , she is paralyzed by the attitude of Washington , and says to Washington that so long as America does not change her attitude Europe must continue to live in financial and economic disorder . Everythings depends on the effect of the note in America . " The Journal des Debats says the British attitude makes impossible for the moment any regulation of the reparations issue . " We scarcely believe England would have the naivete to ask us to make sacrifices the moment she invokes the attitude of the United States in refusing to make them herself . " It is impossible to tell now what turn affairs will take . Despite the threat of M. Poincare to make a firm move on Saturday if the Germans do not meet the i2,000,00 compensation payment , it is probable the situation will remain in statu ' nub until after the London conference  --  which may not last long . Reparation Circles still Hopeful . PARIS , Aug. 2 ( Associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing with the note of the Earl of Balfour , Acting British Foreign Secretary , concerning allied war debts , is anxiously awaited in Reparation Commission circles , where it was said tonight that the British communcation on interallied debts would not have the effect of praventng a Franco-British reparations settlement . Information is said to have reached reparations headquarters from an authoritative source that Lord Balfour 's note was a " trial balloon sent up for the purpose of placing responsibility for a solution of the debts question directly at the door of the United States . " If the balloon bursts through a refusal of the United States to depart from its already established policy , the reparations experts have been informed that Great Britain will proceed to a general discussion at the coming London meeting of the French debts , regardless of the American policy . Little hope is entertained among the reparations experts . that the United States will change its attitude toward its European debtors ; but the ' point is emphasized . that Lord Balfour 's exposition clears the atmosphere of all doubt as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is - felt that- the United States is bound to - make some . answer . even if indefinite in. character . It was explained tonight -. that ' Lord Balfour 's note would necessitate- certain changes in the general reparations settlement which has been under consideration for some weeks . but that the fundamental principle of the cancellation . of the French debt and . a reduction in the German indemnity would probably remain unchanged . It is regarded here as probable that Great Britain . will offer - to cancel , all debts due that country from France/and other countries , with the exception of the ? 850,000,000 owed the United States .. This figure would be . collected from Germany or from the European States if and when-America demands full payment . The British note on the interalliee debt question has - removed all possibility . of France consenting to a-moratorium for Germany , in - the . view of official circles , expressed here today . It was pointed out in these circles that the Balfour note ; which was a disappointment to the French - Government , probably would . have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general European agreement regarding reparations and the allied debts . One reservation to this pessimistic view was that . the Balfour this tion might . be a diplomatic move .. to place Prime Minister Lloyd : George - in the Most- favorable ' Position . possible for Monday 's . meeting.in Londoneof the allied : representatives. - and , might be followed by other'British- proposals concerning ' the - allied debts and Teparatons. . - Premier Poincare has had ' . an Unofficial text of the ' note - since* - yesterday . No reply will be . made by the . French Government . its - view being . that the note - simply sets forth the , British position . While agreeing. : that - the British stand . is a logical . and Just one , so far as economic facts are ' concerned ; of= ficial ' quarters here appear : to-. be . somewhat . surpriaed at its : tenet in. view ? of the . very recent expressions by officials in the British Government that Great Britain was ready to consider cancellation of debts . in connection ' with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note , according to the view expressed by French officials . prob- ; ably will have the effect of confirming the approaching London meeting to consideration of the best means of imposing rigid control over German finances . A moratorium for Germany without an accompanying understanding regarding allied debts , the German indemnity and such similar subjects , would be of no value to the present situation , it is held . and would have no effect on the fall of the mark . France , it was pointed out today , would not consider granting a moratorium to Germany unless this action should be coupled with financial supervision and a general agreement on debts . The only other alternative , it was declared , would be strict enforcement of the Treaty of Versailles . There is little expectation in official quarters that Lord Balfour 's note will provoke any changed policy on the part of the United States toward the debt question , although it is pointed out that un its face the note places the whole question squarely before the American Government . It was intimated today that Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies to sign an agreement providing for strictest control over German finances and demanding the carrying out to the letter of the reparation clauses of the Versailles Treaty as soon as Germany puts her finances in order under allied supervision . The note is regarded here as decreasing the possibility of an international loan to Germany . " It only remains for . France to engage in direct action with Germany , " is the comment of Pertinex on the British war debts note this , morning in the Echo de Paris . " All the tentative British propositions for cancellation of debts , reduction in Germany 's reparation debt and an international loan fall to the ground , " he-adds . " The cloud that too long has obscured the situation is finally dissipated . " The Matin says : " Great Britain is ready to do her duty to save Europe , and it is now for the United States to say ' whether she intends to wreck it ; that is what Balfour seems to say to Harding . " " Balfour puts the entire question up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Great Britain proposes to ask from its debtors only enough to pay the United States . A general settlement would be profitable to humanity , but there must remain some one responsible for the balance that may remain due , and that is Germany . which is enjoying unheard of industrial activity . " ? " The British attitude is perfectly logical , " remarks Le Journal , " but it is to be regretted that Great Britain has not adopted the generous measure many of her citizens hoped to see her take . " If England insists - on our paying her , we can repeat her gesture , pointing our finger to Berlin . ' Indeed , how can Lloyd George press us to pay at the very moment when he declares a moratorium for Germany indispensable ? "                     