@@695493

txt Two important questions of international policy will confront the new Administration which assumes power on Oct. 12 : the position Argentina will take with regard to the Kellogg pact and a solution of the situation concerning the League of Nations . Unless some unforeseen event takes place within the next month it is certain that the new Government will not accept the invitation of the United States to sign the Kellogg pact . What attitude will be adopted with regard to the League is a matter of considerable speculation in spite of the fact that when the Presidentelect was President from 1916 to 1922 his opinions on this subject were quite definitely established . This week four Senators suggested to the President that the Senate would be pleased If he would take the necessary steps to sign the Kellogg pact . The matter was referred to a committee , where it will undoubtedly rest until the new Administration comes in . The significant fact in connection with this motion is that it was opposed by the Senators of the President-elect 's party . Senator Molinari , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting in the name of the incoming Administration , which disapproved of Argentina 's signing a document to declare war illegal when this country Is so well known as a traditionally peaceful nation . Recognized as Member . With regard to the League of Nations , Argentina occupies a singular position in that it is recognized by that body as one of its members , when in reality no such connection exists . This country was one of the first neutrals to lend its support to the organization of the League ; Dr. Marcelo T. De Alvear , now President of the Republic , was Minister to France during the war and he attended preliminary meetings of the proposed League . An Argentine delegation under Dr. Honorio Pueyrredon attend the Geneva conferences of 1920 , but in view of the fact that the proposals made by it were not accepted , President Irigoyen ordered the delegates to withdraw . Among the many proposals which Dr. Irigoyen had his representatives present , the principal ones provided that all nations whose Governments enjoyed international recognition could become members of the League if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become members without voting power , and that the Council of the League should be elected in more democratic manner In order that the victorious Allies might not exei else complete control over the actions of the organization . The League of Nations believes that when the Argentine Governmeat reported in 1919 that it would associate itself with the proposed League , " without reservations , " it became a member and continues as such until it gives the League foinial notification of its desire to withdraw . Dr. Irigoyen , however , maintained during his Presidency that Aigentina 's support had merely indicated that this country approved of the principle of organizing a League to which all nations might belong if they so wished . When he found that some of the nations which had been at war were to be excluded at first from the League , he made it known that Argentina would withdraw unless his proposals for a universal and democratic League were accepted . Since the withdrawal of the Argentine delegation this country has only been represented by its Minister to Switzerland in the capacity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted the funds necessary for paying dues to a League to which the Republic does not belong . Congress Failed to Act . When Dr. Alvear succeeded Dr. Irigoyen as President he set about to reconcile the country with the League . He understood his predecessor 's points of view and agreed with them to a great extent , but he felt that in spite of all of its apparent faults the League was an effective organization . He has continued to believe so during his six years as President and each year he has recommended to Congress that it ratify Argentina 's membership . Congress has passed these recommendations to its files with neither an aye nor a nay . The Minister of Foreign Relations recently tried to stir Congress into action and he reminded them that Argentina 's indecision and its singular position with regard to the League are seriously compromising the reputation of the nation 's foreign relations . He pointed out that most of the objections which were raised against the League are now dissipated because all countries who wish may become members and the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 9 , thus permitting a much wider elective representation . The President is anxious for Congress to ratify Argentina 's membership , but failing that he wants the situation definitely settled . The present Congress will take no action in the matter , according to present indications , and it remains to be seen whether the President-elect believes that the League as now constituted satisfies his wishes ; if so , Congress can be expeoted to approve his recommendation . The mention of the Monroe Doctrine in the Covenant is an item which has produced a certain amount of coolness in political circles and it is known that Dr. Irigoyen was opposed to Its mention there . The recent reply of the League to Costa Rica in connection with the Monroe Doctrine has added opposition to Argentina 's association with the League , and observers of Argentine affairs feel that the President-elect will recommend that this country announce its formal withdrawal from it . However , he may limit his actions to a denial of the League 's assertion that Argentina is a member .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      