@@685124

txt The two governments of Germany are now matching wits and forces to gain control of the republic . Dr. Wolfgang von Kapp , who proclaimed the new order at Berlin and himself Chancellor , is employing n11 his efforts to assure the German people that government under him and those he selects to administer affairs %vitt meanotrue democracy , increased productiveness and conservation of the rights of the working people . Friedrich Ebert , President of the old Government , who with most of his Ministers hastily withdrew from Berlin when the revolting troops ? marched in and Kapp and von Ltittwitz took control , is variously reported to be at Dresden or Stuttgart , and from his point of security , has called upon the Socialists and working classes generally to stand 73y the old Government and to use the strike weapon so that the counter-revolution may be promptly suppressed . In response to this appeal a general ? strike has been proclaimed in many places , but in other parts of Germany I the call for a strike has not been reCeIVeti with favor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men not identifier I with the present . revolution that it will be short-lived , as it is outwardly without the support of the Conservatives or the Reactionary leaders , and it is viewed in many quarters as a " trial balloon , " which will collapse shortly . The most immediate danger is recognized as a general strike throughout Germany , which has already made progress in many of the principal cities , Including . Berlin . In the meantime the old Government is recovering its nerve , and seem to have very liberal support from the . Federal States . Real Test . to Come . The city at this hour ( midnight ) is very quiet . There were a half million people in Unter den Linden during the day , but no clashes with the troops were reported . The military patrols seemed to have the situation in hand , but the real test of the situation is expected to come Monday or Tuesday , when the general strike probably Nvill be in full swing . chancellor Kapp today told the newspaper correspondents that the Government would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As yet there is no visible political support for the Government , but reports indicate that the new Government is winning the support of troops in South Germany and that its prestige has risen considerably since Saturday . The people are viewing events with that serenity to which they have been accustomed by the occurrences of recent years . There is , however , an undercurrent of anxiety because barbed wire entanglements have been thrown up in front of the great public buildings , near Unter den Linden and Wilhelmstrasse , and cannon and machine guns are posted at the cross streets and other points of vantage and guards heavily armed are ? throughout the city . This is an ominous sign of possible clashes , when those opposed to the counter-revolution marshal their forces for future Acton . There has been constant official reiteration of the , statement that the new Government is not reactionary , tli  --  t it dots not desire the restora , i ? of the monarchy , but that it has co .. a. into office so that Germany may be rehabilitated . Chancellor Kapp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thtt the conditions of the Peace Treaty would be fulfilled , so far-as they could be reconciled with German ' honor and Germany 's economic condition . While adherence to the new Government has been promised by some of the outside States , Saxony has declared against it , and Bavaria , Wurttemberg and Baden have joined in denouncing the movement , declaring it a crime against the German people that the progressive development of the Southern German States Should be disturbed from Berlin . These States announce their recognition only of the National Assembly . Conservative Leader Holds Back . The National Party refuses to have relations with the Kapp Government , and the Conservative leader , Count Posidowsky , asserts that he will not identify himself with the new Chancellor . Hamburg and Darmstadt are sal to be irreconcilable . T e Saxon proclamation sets forth the ' Germany is threatened with civil war ; on account of the military coup , and itherefore complete ruin , and calls upon the people to protect " the democratic , constitutional and lawful Government . " Meanwhile one of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hindenburg , has kept himself in the background . His former " close associate , General Ludendorff , credited with being the brains and moving spirit of the German Army in its belligerent days , has had a conference with the new Chancellor . What passed between them , of course , is not known . It Is possible , however , that von Hindenburg , who is already a candidate for the Presidency , may loom large before events take definite shape , With the advent of the general strike proclaimed throughout Germany by the Independent Socialists , affili , ated. with the trade unions and other organizations , Berlin is already beginning to feel the pinch of suffering again . The water supply has been largely cut off , and food is scarce . Hotels are shutting down , and if the strike continues means of transportation : . both passenger and freight , will be at an end . Noske Reported Raising Troops . Gustave Noske , Minister of Defense in the Ebert Government , is reported to he in Saxony organizing troops . Noske has always been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will not accept the present situation without drastic action in opposition to it . That ' Noske has troops still loyal to him 1s indicated by the fact that they have . repulsed an attack against them in their barracks at Frankfort , Reports have been received from that city of numerous casualties in the fighting , but whether this was between troops and militia , or between troops and workmen is not definitely known . A semi-official statement issued today ? says that the Entente commission . at Berlin has " agreed " to the new Government . The semi-official news agency professes to have learned that the South German regiments have espoused the cause of the new Government and that their commander in chief fled . It asserts also that General Mercker at Dresden declared for the new government , whereupon President Ebert , Minister of Defense Noske and Chancellor ? Bauer of the old government went to Stuttgart . According to private reports lionstantin Fehrenbach , President of the National Assembly , has arrived in Stuttgart and has called a meeting of the National Assembly there for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procEimation today promising to order elections for the Reichstag as soon as quiet is restored and adding that drastic emergency decrees would only be issued to an extent requisite for the maintenance of order and the protection of the economic life of the country against usurious exploitation and corruption . The Government . says the proclamation , will protect the vital services . and - workers , but will resolutely suppress any resistance . Elections will be held within the next sixty days . Chancellor Kapp today received the foreign newspaper correspondents in the Bismarck Chamber of the Chancellery and briefly explained to them the Government 's policy . He reiterated that the Government loyally would fulfill the . Peace Treaty as far as its fulfillment could be reconciled with German ' , honor and the country 's economic future , and added : " The Government is not reactionary . It takes its stand on democracy . We lace raised the black ? white and red flag to its place of honor , and we will suppress any attempt at a general strike . At Leipzig the trial of war criminals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We take the standpoint that a republican form of government is a fact to which Germany must reconcile itself . We believe that there must be the speediest return to constitutional conditions . " One of the main attractions consisted of barbed wire entanglements near Wilhelmstrasse and field guns and machine guns posted in front of the military guard at the Brandenburg Gate . The naval colors were displayed at the Brandenburg Gate , as well as on the Government buildings . Very few of the numerous promenaders seemed to , have thought of a threatened catastrophe . Brightly decorated , vehicles conveying hundreds of persons moved in the direction of the Mariendorff race course , while a detachment of marines with band and flying banners marched through the Brandenburg Gate and Wilhelmstrasse .. The troops were greeted with the waving of handkerchiefs from buildings along the way . City Iles-Inning to Stiffer . In Frenziisische Stress ? this morning the firecocks were turned on by workmen and water gushed into the gutters . Women and children could be seen hurrying to get supplies . Sonic of the hotels have their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guests scarcely felt the lack of=water , which has already begun to , cause general suffering . Toward noon , however , the waiters. in the hotels ceased to work , and the guests : who had not been prudent enough ' to lunch earlier than usual had to hunt food for themselves , The Central Hotel kitchens closed at noon , and little mor ' than dry bread , coffee , tea and cocoa were served . The waiters left at 1 o'clock . The ' Government is making the greatest effeet to convince the people that this is a republican and democratic Government . Automobiles rush through the streets carrying soldiers who throw bundles of leaflets among the crowds , while airplanes circle the city dropping leaflets everywhere . One of these . headed " The Monarchist Coup Lie . " says : " We do not want restoration of tile monarchy . but fulfillment of the promises made to the people . We do not want revolution , but a reconstruction . " The new cabinet has not yet been formed , but it is definitely known that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a notable reactionary , will be Prussian Minister of the Interior . The other appointments are in abeyance . It is proposed for the present to have only a two-man cabinet . or directorate , composed of Dr. Wolfgang Kapp and Major Gen. Baron von Liittwite . Minister of Transportation Ceser has informed Kapp that the railway employes of Prussia objected to a cabinet an which Kapp and von Jagow are represented , and that if they reofOckthe entire railway forces will strike . The Government declined to make a promise . The general strike is spreading all over Germany . It was effective in Berlin today . All the cafes were closed . The Socialist Cabinet at Munich has retired and a bourgeois cabinet is being formed . The censorship has been removed as a result of representations of the foreign correspondents , who called on LI Kapp and protested against the cen ! sprship of Ignatius Tribitch Lincoln , once a member of the British Parliament , but who was deported from England in 1919 after his English naturalization had been revoked . The correspondents claimed that Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Winning , President of East Prussia and a member of the Right Socialist Party , and Dr. Albert C. W. Stidekum , former Prussian Minister of Finance , who also is a Socialist , have been in negotiation with the new Government in addition to General Ludendorff . Conservatives and National Liberals have promised to support Kapp , provided he appoints experts as Ministers and issues writs for new elections within sixty days . The Imperial Council , which was to have met on Saturday , had to adjourn , as there was no Minister to take the chair . All the representatives of the Federal States attended . Dr. von Haniel , former Under Secsa retary for the Foreign Office , has been charged with the provisional direction of the Foreign Office by the new Government .                     