@@694342

txt The reaction of the Coolidge Administration to th latest French communication on the situation growing out of the heavy increase in French customs duties is far from unfavorable . It was apparent from what was learned tonight of the impression made in Administration circles by the tone and suggestions of the French response that there is an excellent chance of an amicable understanding that will obviate the danger of a tariff war between the two countries , inclusive of reprisals by this Government . Officials tonight construed the French communication as conciliatory . In expressing gratification over that construction they showed that they were impressed by at least one of the suggestions contained in it and were prepared to notify France of its acceptance . Flexible Provisions of Tariff Law . This suggestion has to do with the flexible provisions of the existing American tariff law known as the Fordney-McCumber act . Under these provisions the President is invested with authority , in coperation with the Tariff Commission which the act created , to raise or lower customs duties 50 per cent . each way without seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was learned , continued to emphasize the French argument in favor of overcoming , by a reciprocal arrangement between the two Governments , the high tariff wall erected by France against American prod- ucts , but at the same time proposed that an investigation of French costs of production should be undertaken I with a view to ascertaining whether the United States would not be justified in applying the permissible 50 per cent . reduction of the existing American tariff status to French products exported to this country . That this investigation will be undertaken by the United States was indicated tonight , and the French Government will be so advised . In the opinion of France , this course will be a long step forward in the direction of coming to an amicable understanding with the United States and pave the way for the negotiation of a commercial treaty which would give advantages to both countries with respect to the products each sends to the other . The American response to the French proposal will not furnish assurance that the agreement to investigate French production costs is to be construed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduction of duties on products imported from France to the extent of the 50 per cent . limit or any portion of that percentage . The investigation , it will be made clear , will be conducted with reference to products especially affected , but in each case this Government must be satisfied before applying the flexible provisions of the Fordney-McCumber act that a reduction in duty would be justified . The te.wts of the French communication , which is of an informal character , and of the American note to which it is a response , will be given to newspapers tomorrow . Not all of the French communication is of a character to please this Government , but it is indicative of a conciliatory attitude on the part of the United States that such contentions of France as arl contrary to this Government 's view are being overlooked in the purpos.a to meet the proposal that French production costs shall be investigated , with a view to possible reductions in duties under the authority granted the President in the existing Tariff act . Favored Treatment Refused . The French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States that this country is entitled to most-favored-nation treatment with respect to its products exported to French territory and to defend its course in effecting reciprocal arrangements with Gerirony end other Governments of which the United States complained . As was outlined in a special dispatch from Paris in THE NEW YORK TIMES today the French communication contains a long historical review of American tariffs and the principles underlying them from the days of the American Revolution . The purpose of the investigation proposed by France and to be conceded by the United States will be to determine whether French production costs show that our tariff duties on French products require reduction to equalize the comparative production costs of the two countries . It is admitted by officials that it may be shown that reduction would be justified in certain instances but it is pointed out that the Tariff Commission 's inquiries into foreign production costs have in some instances caused it to recommend increases in customs duties on the articles affected . One of the interesting features of the American willingness to grant the French proposal for an investigation into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition on the part of French industry to furnishing this Government with information as to such costs . This indicates a new attitude on the part of France . Some of those acquainted with the progress of the exchanges between the two Governments sought to make clear this evening that the United States had not complained to France over the imposition of heavily increased customs duties which would have a deterrent effect upon the exportation of American products to France . Discrimination Objected To . They emphasized that the complaint of this Government was that the new French tariff schedules constitute discrimination against American products in favor of those Governments with which France had most-favored-nation arrangements . In a nutshell , the American position is that France should tax American products only at the rates applied to products of other countries . There was no disclosure as to what course the United States would take in addition to its agreement to undertake the investigation into production costs as proposed by France . Judging by the character of the French communication it is doubtful if the negotiations would progress if this Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to American exports to France pending the outcome of the investigation . The investigation proposed is fully in accord with American law . Should this Government propose a temporary suspension of the new high French rates pending the outcome of the investigation it is surmised that it will not press that proposal should the French Government make any serious objection .                     