@@686435

txt " Labor has made up its mind , " the pastor of the Community Church lately declared , " and there is nothing more to be said . " Dr. HOLMES was at Harvard addressing the newly formed Intercollegiate Liberal League , his audience consisting of 25O undergraduates representing twenty-seven colleges . What labor has made up its mind to was not specified , unless it is contained in another sentence : " Long " years of evolution are gone and the " period of revolution is here . " Thus spoke a proclaimed idealist of the Church to proclaimed liberals of the universities . A more realistic notion of what is on the worker 's mind may be gleaned from a local episode now rounding to a period . When BRINDELL was convicted , SAMEEL GOMPERS , speaking as President of the American Federation of Labor , denounced the conviction as a miscarriage of justice , assuming that , while the representative of labor was prosecuted , the employers were to go free . But in due course HETTRICK felt the strong arms of the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cut stone contractors , the master plumbers of New York and the master plumbers of the Bronx . Day before yesterday twenty individual plumbers were sentenced to fires and imprisonment , and the work of the Deputy Attorney General was complete . Whether or not labor has spoken definitively , the law has had its say . It will continue to speak , when occasion offers , with like impartiality as between employer and employed . Meantime BRINDELL has been sent to Sing Sing . The Building Trades Council through which he plundered workman and employer alike and with them the long-suffering public was projected as a means of stabilizing labor and so solving the housing problem . Friends of far-sighted unionism hoped that with the removal of 13ancDELL , the council would function as at first intended . It needs only the hearty co-operation of labor to launch a building movement that will supply work and homes for all . That hope is now dashed . Issuing orders from the Tombs , BRINDELL is said to have halted millions of dollars ' worth of city work . Now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Except for his absence the personnel and presumably the spirit of the Building Trades Council are unaltered . l3rtismEss 's resignation as President was accepted " with regret " and his chair is occupied by PATRICK CROWLEY , an undaunted lieutenant who was a witness for the defense at BRINDELL 'S trial . The rest of the old gang remain in power . It . even appears that BaixoE.i , is to receive an income from the council much as usual . If any champion of honest labor demurs , he does so in private . Whatever sentiments the American Federation of Labor may harbor , its responsible leaders are apparently powerless to intervene for righteousness . Even so , when SAM PARKS was under a similar sentence he was permitted to lead a workman 's parade on Fifth Avenue , proudly astride a white horse . Labor speaks now as it spoke then . Addressing the " liberals " at Harvard , Dr. HOLMES told them that " the ' way to amount to something " was to identify themselves " to the limit with the labor world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of free souls and of love and free " dom as the rule of life . " Admitting that labor is " sometimes wrong " as to " specific issues ; " he declared that " from the standpoint of dreams and visions of the ages " labor is right , and that the revolution " has got to " be supported by all those who hope " and dream . " Even so spoke the hopers and dreamers of Russia , but with this difference , ? that they lived under repressive tyranny and had no steadying experience of free institutions . In a land in which equal law reigns and progress has ' only to be striven for manfully , such talk is important only as signifying mental anemia and spiritual decay . But it is scarcely the less disquieting .                     