@@693112

txt Several hundred bankers are leaving New York and vicinity on special trains to attend the annual convention of the American Bankers Association at Los Angeles , October 4-7 . Special de luxe trains are being dispatched by the New York Central and the Pennsylvania with attractive itineraries arranged , both going and coming . indications point to a bitter fight at the consent:ion over the branch banking question . Factions arc lined up , for and against this issue , to thrash the flutter out at the forthcoming meeting . The issue will center around the banking bill pending in Congress , particularly as to the so-called Hull amendment which seeks to prevent the spread of branch banking by member banks - iiito7 states now prohiniting it . Tri o years ago the association went on record as indorsing the Hull amendment and since then has been actively in favor of the House bill which carried this amendment . The banking measure has failed of passage for the past two years . ) largely because of a difference of opinion between the House and Senate on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee of One Hundred , " composed of senior officials of both national and state banks , members of the American Bankers Associat.on " whose declared purpose is to champion the Hull amendment and to fight for it on-the-floor of the coming cemvention . But it appears that the- American Bankers Association , le not officially in sympathy with the activities of this committee . Walter W. Head , chairman of the committee , who was president of the association in 1924 and was responsible for the Hull amendment indorsement , has since resigned from the chairmanship of that committee . E. N. Shepherd , executive manager of the A. B. A. , says toe association " has nothing whatever to do wiht the committee . " Denial by officials of the American Bankers Association of all responsibility for the Committee of One Haytired , as well as resignation of Walter W. Head from the chaitmanshia of the committee , ga  --  c rise to reports Ina : . the a. , s.ociation was preparing to change its attitude on the question of branch banking , in view . especially , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the case , according to Oscar president of the A. B. A. , who was in New York on the way to tars Angeles and was interviewed by a represents : tive of The Wall Street Journal on this matter . : Mr. Wells is president of the First ' NatiOnal Bank of Birmingham , Ala . Mr. Wells said : " The assumption that has been made that the resignation of a past president from the Committee of Ow " Hundred and the Association 's denial that such committee has any relationnip to the association are significant of its changing attitude toward the Bill is not warranted . The position of the association- was fixed definitly by the Chicago resolution of 1924 . It is on record as favoring the Bill , including the Hull amendments . The association and its officers are instructed by that act . No effort has been made to change its position . To the contrary , the mandate of the resolution has been followed rigidly . " Mr. Head 's acceptance or resignation from the socalled Committee of One Hundred , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what legislative strategy may be followed as to the Hull amendments , has no hearing whatever on the attitude of the association and should not be construed as reflecting a new conviction on its part . " There is no justification in this situation for undertaking to prejudge the action of the convention at Los Angeles . " In the meantime , the committee continues to circularize the banks throughout the country , urging action in favor of the Hull amendment of the bill . Its latest communication urges bankers to attend the convention to fight for the amendment . It points out : " Under the by-laws of the American Bankers ' Association it is necessary for each member bank to vote by personal representative . Proxies are not recognized and voting by proxy is not permitted . Therefore , for you to make use Jf your influence at the forthcoming convention it is necessary for you to be pskunt in order that your vote can be counted . " This is particularly necessary in view of the fact that the constitution and by-laws of the American Bankisrs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an additional vote for each branch by the Payment of toe nominal sum of $15 a branch . There are seseral hundred bank brancbei in California , where the convention is to be held . The Pacific-Southwest Trust &; Savings Bank alone has 91 . " Your presence in Los Angeles is vitally necessary to the cause of independent banking in order that the overwhelming sentiment of the independent bankers of the country may be expressed in favor of the Bank Bill as modified by the Hull amendments , which will stop the spread of branch batiking at the state lines where it is now prohibited by state lac% . " HELL COMMENTS ON AVSUNDME:NT  --  S Speaking recently about his amendment , Congressman Hull of Illinois said : " No solution of this problem can be permanent , nor can it last , unless it is fair . The two essentials of a fair solution are justice to the national banks that are now suffering from state branch banking competition and safeguarding us from the extension of branch banking in states not now permitting branch banking . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress did not conform to either of these essentials . It renewed the invitation to legislatures , in states not now permitting branch banking , to change their laws . It encouraged banks , national and state , in states not now permitting branch banking , to go to their legislatures and agitate for a change of state laws . It . therefore , did not protect us or safeguard us against the extension of branch banking in the future . Neither does it deal squarely with the national hanks new suffering from the competition of state banks . "                     