@@687390

txt TRIBUTE TO BORGLUM . Distinguished Service in A. E. F. Art Trainina Mentioned . To the Editor ' ? of The New York Times : The creative achievement . of the late Solon Ilorglum , one of the most talented and most sincere of American sculptors , is already widely known ; but we feel that another phase of his career , a phase . that has to do with his qualifications as an instructor in art , and very directly with the strength and charm- of his character as a man , should be publicly recorded . Mr. Borglum during the World ' War had seen active service as a member of the Foyer des Soldats , one of the organizations that provided for the welfare of men engaged in battle . Shortly after the armistice was declared , and indeed before Mr. Dorglum had fully recovered from the effects of being gassed , he entered that part of the educational work carried on by the J ; merican Army in France ( wirl : initiated by the Y. M. C. A. Army Educational Commission and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to do with instruction in fine and applied arts . tic was appointed head of the Department of Sculpture at the A. E. F. Art Training Centre . at Bellevue , an institution attended by 350 of the more advanced students among tile many thousands of American soldiers who were receiving instruction in the arts during the armistice period . His unflagging zeal , his patience and his courtesy , the thoroughness of his ability to bring out the best in both the elementary and more experienced students of his department , account to a great extent for the excellence of the work that developed under his charge . lie endeared himself to his associates on the - Faculty as well as to his students , and he did much toward winning that interest and admiration which Prance evinced for the art cohrses conducted under the auspices of the A. E. F. In paying this tribute to the memory of our fellow-worker we are confident that we are voicing the sentiments of hundreds of soldiers whose lives are richer and whose careers are further advanced because they once knew , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solon BorgiUm . GEORGE S. HELLMAN , Sometime Director of Instruction in Fine and Applied Arts , A. E. F. LLOYD WARREN , Sometime Director of Education at the A. E. F. Art Training Centre , Bellevue . France . ERNEST PEIXOTTO , Sometime Head of the Department of Painting , A. E. F. Art Training Centre , Ectilevue , France . New York , Feb. 2 , 1922.                     