@@692933

txt Opposition of the stockholders ' protective committee of the Chesapeake &; Ohio Railway and disapproval of the Hocking Valley Railway minority to the new Nickel Plate plan makes the treatment of minority interests under the new plan of particular interest . The new plan states that the minority stockholders are not in any way affected by the ratios of voluntary exchange . The well established rule for dealing with dissenting stockhplders in cases of lease or consolidation of railroads is according to the principals of eminent domain , that is , thelease or consolidation is effected upon voluntary agreement of a certain majority required by law . This column ... Ty agreement includes the ratios of exchange and other Cinisideration-s , terms and conditions of the voluntary transaction , while the stock of dissenters to the plan may be acquired by payment of cash , to rinority stockholders who do not care to come into the plan but wish to dispose of thei. holdings . The plan then points out that the present leases of the properties entering the consolidation follow the original proposals in providing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and manner as may be determined by any tribunal or court cf competent jurisdiction . Present leases further provide for lessees to pay , without litigation , in cash to minority stockholders , who so elect , the value of such shares as determined by agreement or by independent proposals . The new leases will propose to pay a " fair value " in cash as of the date when the lease is approved by stockholders . The new consolidation plan also states that the petitioners ( Van Sweringens ) are willing and desirous that the Interstate Commerce Commission set any reasonable consideration , terms and conditions for settlement with the minority as may be within the comtnission 's jurisdiction . COMPARISOX WIVE OMIGENAL LEASES The original leases between the new Nickel Plate Co. and the properties entering the consolidation proposed that settlement with the minority be on the basis of the average market value of the stocks for six months prior to the ratification of the leases by stockholders . Such average market value was to be determined : ( 1 ) By agreement between non-assenting stockholders inad lessee ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interstate Commerce Commission or in such manner as the commission shall provide ; ( 3 ) or , in case the Interstate Commerce Commission should fail to appoint appraisers within 30 days after such application by three appraisers appointed by a judge of the United States District Court ; ( 4 ) or , in case of failure of a judge to appoint appraisers , by three appraisers. one of whom is appointed by the minority group , one by the lessee and the other by the first two . In its decision on the original plan , the Interstate Commerce Commission said with regard to treatment of minority holders : " The options given them are largely illusory . That with reference to ing average market value is con ceded to be unfair , but we understand applicants are willing to make this " fair value . " Resort to litigation to determine the value of stock is a poor remedy . " It will be noted that in the new plan it is proposed that the words " fair value " in cash as of the date of approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taking the average market value , which was objected to by interveners . As to the suggestion that the commission set terms of settlement , the commission stated in its decision that " We should not be expected to arbitrate to the fraction of a share just what each stockholder should receive . " The suggestion in the new approval that a settlement with minority dissenters be reached by voluntar3 agreement on the basis of " fair value ' is probably the most important part of the new proposal with respect to minority interests . Of course this method was open before , but the fact that it is proposed now may be of particular significance . VOTIN I RIGHTS The old plan was criticised in the commission 's decision because it failed to give voting rights to preferred stockholders of the new company . New proposal gi ? - es preferred stockholders right to elect three members of the directorate and in case of default of four quarterly dividends the preferred shall have full voting rights . New plan gives a guarantee of 6%70 per annum to such C. Z.-. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the new Nickel Plate Co. to construct a short line between Gregg and Valley Crossing , Ohio , was denied by the Interstate Commerce Commission but the door was left open for C. &; 0 . to make such an application , and the latter road will do so in connection with the new N.ckel Plate plan . The speci .. I committee of C. &; 0 . directors which considered and approved the new Nickel Plate plan consisted of W. J. Harahan , George Cole Scott , Frank EL . Ginn , John Stewart Bryan and Otto N. Miller . Under the new plan applicants have eliminated interlocking directorates of the merger properties and their subsidiaries . Plan also points out to I. C. C. that it would be futile to submit the new plan to stockholders until the commission shall have approved or fixed the terms of the proposed unification .                     