@@696033

txt Seldom in recent months has Wall Street been confronted with so many conflicting factors as faced it at the week-end . Mercantile reviews were notably optimistic , reporting auspicious conditions in the major branches of trade . However , a Slaw In the business picture was reflected in Youngstown dispatches telling of reduces steel buying by automobile manufacturers because of the piling up of cars in dealers hands . So far as credit conditions were concerned . the financial community was left in a nervous state owing to the fact that no light was forthcoming as to the purpose of the Federal Reserve Board meeting in Washington Friday . This situation was not helped any by announcement of the formation of a money pool to support the Chicago market , which increased apprehension regarding the credit position la the Middle West . With traders in a bewildered state over the outcome of the credit tangle , further heavy selling came into the principal trading stocks , and new lows on the current reaction were reached throughout the industrial list . Perplexity was increased by news from Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and liquidation proceeded in steady volume throughout the two hours ' trading . Stop-loss orders were caught in large numbers as the downward movement gained ground , adding momentum to the break . Substantial losses were suffered by Radio , Steel . Anaconda , Lambert , National Cash Register , Kennecott . General ** Chrysler , and other trading favorites , and the whole market displayed heavy tone . Motor shares were affected by reduced steel buying of several leading automobile companies which are planning to curtail production . This step is bei.4 , - actuated by the fact that the output of cars - las been running substantially ahead of sales i its is a normal development during the first quarter when stocks are accumulated an ar . cipation of spring demand But cars have ten piling up in dealers ' hands on a larger scale than usual this year . and various manufacturers propose to check the movement by decreasing their output . While this is unquestionably a sound business policy , some selling came into the motor issues on the theory that curtailment news might exercise an adverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Motors met particularly good absorption , based on the belief that the corporation is in strong position to cope with the keen competition existing in the industry . Preparatons to place a new eight-cylinder line on the market next month , to be known as the " Viking , " was taken as evidence of General : Motors ' aggressiveness in keeping abreast of changing conditions in the industry . In addition , the corporation 's ambitious program abroad is encouraging considerable long-pull accumulation for the account of people believing that foreign sales will one day represent close to half of the corporation 's business . Chrysler also was well bought following appearance of its 1 report which made a much better showing than Wall Street had anticipated . While the balance for the stock worked out at $7.03 a share , this showing was considerably below actual earnings except on an ultraconservative basis General conclusion gained from analysis of the statement was that Chrysler-Dodge earnings last year were nearer $10 a share than $7 . Of course , the extensive write-oft s in connection with the Dodge acquisition have placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected in greatlyincreased earnings this year . One of the constructive influences growing out of the recent credit uncertainties has been the movement started to place margin accounts in good shape . Practically all the leading Stock Exchange houses have increased their requirements to customers until the situation in this respect is admitted to be the strongest in history . ithout doubt , the fact that speculative accounts were so well entrenched has been a powerful factor in preventing agitation over the Federal Reserve policy from bringing about a break in the market similar to the decline of March , 1926 , which was primarily due to overextended speculation . As a matter of fact , the tendency in Wall Street at present is strongly toward the conditions prevailing in London , where marginal speculation is comparatively small . With many houses requiring margins of 50% and more , and the trading over the last few years , showing marked discrimination , it is growing increasingly difficult to support the contention that unbridled speculation has been in progress . It would be difficult to convince the holders of coal stocks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar issues that the market has been plunging upward without thought of earnings and values . With the spread of news tickers throughout the country , and the wider dissemination of financial news and studies in value , the public qias shown increasing caution in making commitments . and the principal advances have been in stocks whose earnings and prospects have justified higher selling levels . ? ? ? " Fact that the New York bank rate was not changed Thursday is not a. bullish argument , according to our viewpoint . " says Baar , Cohen &; Co . " We might go so far as to say that so long as the rediscount rate remains unchanged . the Federal Reserve Board through its influence with the banks can be expected to use diligent efforts toward keeping the financial situation in strong condition . Banks are watching collateral values most carefully and are keeping brokers ' margins at stiff and safe figures . thereby making it imperative that brokers do likewise with their clients . " Speculative stooks which are selling at very high prices are valued in collateral loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making for a greater degree of stability . Federal Reserve recognizes that raising the rediscount rate at this time might cause a temporary setback in the stock market , but also might be followed by another speculative wave on the upside . At the same time , it is recognized that such a rate advance would be detrimental to commercial and agricultural interests , and to business in general . "                     