@@692395

txt Commissioner of Immigration Henry H. Curran announced yesterday that he had telegraphed to Washington for a warrant of arrest for the Earl of Craven in connection with the same charges of " moral turpitude " on which Vera , Countess Cathcart , is being held at Ellis Island subject to deportation , land from which she has appealed to the Immigration Board of Review of the Department of Labor , which will hear her case this afternoon . The warrant marks the first step in a rehearing of the Earl 's right to be in this country . He was admitted after casual examination , because , unlike the Countess , he was not required to show in his declaration that he had been involved with her , The Countess 's troubles here began with her formal admission that she was divorced . Commissioner Curran had not received the warrant last night . The Earl was not at the home of his uncle , Bradley Martin late last night , and it was said there that the time of his return was not known . Elsewhere it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. " willing " departure from the United States such as the Countess has said she would undertake if the Earl left the country . The immigration authorities indicated they would take no steps to impede the departure of either Lord Craven , the Countess , or both . Women Back the Countess . Wilton J. Lambert , a Washington lawyer , x ; ho is counsel for her there , said he had not heard a report that the Countess and the Earl were both willing to leave the country , and was preparing to present her case , regarding which hundreds of women have fired protests to the immigration authorities . The warrant for the Earl 's arrest was requested , Commissioner Curran said , after an Immigration Inspector had reported on Saturday that the Earl admitted he was the co-respondent in the Cathcart divorce suit of 1921 ; on which the charges of moral turpitude are based . He said the application was the usual procedure in such a case as now arises to determine whether the Earl is subject to deportation . " The whole matter now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Commissioner continued , " with regard to the action to be taken against the Earl of Craven , as well as the appeal of Countess Cathcart against her sentence of deportation , I do not expect any immediate action on the request I made for a warrant to arrest the Earl of Craven , because it will not reach the Department of Labor until tomorrow morning and then there will no doubt be a discussion among officials before a reply is sent to me at Ellis Island . To Hear Earl 's Case Here . " When the document arrives here it will be placed in the - hands of one of the immigration inspectors , who will try to find the British peer and arrest him . He will then be brought to Ellis Island for a rehearing of his right to enter the United States in view of the evidence against him as received since he landed from the Mauretania on last Nov. 20 . " The hearing in this case , Commissioner Curran said , will not be before a special board of inquiry , but before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a special board of inquiry is necessary in cases like that of the Countess Cathcart , when the question involves one of admission . In the case of the Earl of Craven the question is whether or not he is subject to deportation under the letter of the Immigration law . When asked whether the Earl would be allowed to leave the island under bail after the preliminary hearing , the Commissioner replied that would depend entirely upon the Secretary of Labor . It was pointed out to Commissioner Curran that when the news of his request for a warrant from Washington reached the Earl of Craven he might leave at once for Canada or Mexico to avoid arrest . Mr. Curran said it would be up to the Department of Labor to decide what should be done under such circumstances , but he intimated that if the Earl did leave the country no steps would be taken to stop him , and that it would be a good way to end further embarrassment over the case . Same Attitude to Countess . When asked if the same attitude would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she made a request to be allowed to leave the United States , and abandoned her appeal against the order of deportation made last Thursday , Commissioner Curran replied that cases of this kind are unusual , but ordinarily come under the heading of permission to depart voluntarily . Where such permission has been sought , he said , it usually has been granted . If the Countess Cathcart should wish to sail at midnight tomorrow for Nice on the Cunarder Mauretania , or on the Albert Bailin for England , also sailing tomorrow , she would be granted a certified departure , and be seen off on the ship by one of the immigration inspectors from Ellis Island . In commenting upon the duties of the immigration inspectors who question aliens arriving from foreign coun ! tries upon issues involving moral turpitude , Commissioner Cr --  n said : " I would like to say the immigration inspectors are simply doing their duty in these cases as required under I the law . This ought to be understood more clearly than seems to be . There may be those who do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will address themselves as laid down by Congress rather than place the responsibility upon.:inspectoni sworn under oath of lofflop . There is already a law pointing out that adultery is a crime involving moral turpitude . " Commissioner Curran spent most of the afternoon yesterday at Ellis Island . where he telephoned to officials of the Department of Labor in Washington about the report made by the inspector who interviewed the Earl of Craven iv Saturday , and also about the appeal of the Countess . , Craven Not at Uncle 's . After leaving Ellis Island , Commissioner Curran went to the U. S. Barge Office at South Perry , where he met the representatives of the newspapers and informed them of his action . Robert A. Graham of the Cunard Line , who has charge of the bookings for the Mauretania , said last night that he had not received any intimadon that the Earl of Craven or the Countess Cathcart wished to sail on the liner at midnight tomorrow for Nice , but he could find accommodation for any one who wished to sail . When inquiry was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 400 Park Avenue , for the Earl of Craven , it was said that he and the Countess of Craven were dining at the house of some friends . Further information regarding his movements , or whether he had Jen for Canada , was withheld . The request for the warrant for his arrest is the result of the protests made by various women 's organize , tions that if Countess Cathcart was deported he also should be , as he bad been equally guilty in the case which was proven in the London divorce court in 1921 . In an interview at Ellis Island with I the reporters on Saturday afternoon , Countess Cathcart said that she could see no reason why the Earl of Craven should be admitted if she was to be barred .                     