@@695586

txt Helen May Stake , 15 years old , 709 South Genesee street , Waukegan , and her neighbor , Fred T. Lunden , 45 years old , 574 Caroline place , were instantly killed last night when Lunden drove his small sedan into the path of a fast Chicago , North Shore and Milwaukee train on the Glen Flora avenue crossing in ' , Waukegan . The girl 's mother , Mrs. Hannah Stake , saw the crash from the porch of a home where she is employed as a nurse . Her daughter bad spent the evening with her and Lunden called to take the girl home . Train Bound for Chicago . The train , bound from Milwaukee to Chicago , was traveling fifty miles an hour , witnesses said . The sedan , carried 200 feet along the right of way , was demolished ; and the train moved 2,000 feet farther before it could be stopped . In Chicago Beatrice Lanza. 5 years old , 2702 South . Union avenue , died at the Peoples hospital of injuries suffered on Saturday , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yellow cab driven by Harry Weinstein , 3513 West 15th street . Driver Freed on Bond . Weinstein was taken into custody and released on bond after he had been charged with ncsnult . He asserted the child dashed in front of his cab and that the accident was unavoidable . This death and four others yesterday increased the Cook , county motor toll since Jan. 1 to 886 . The victims : Paul Fukalski , 25 years old , 4502 South Wells street , received injuries last night that caused his death shortly afterward when his automobile collided with a Wentworth avenue street car at West 34th street . Mrs. Louise Schram , 66 years old , 4424 North Robey street , died in the Martha Washington hospital yesterday of injuries received when she was struck Friday by an automobile driven by W. A. Burmeister , 3740 Agatlte avenue , at Irving Park boulevard and North Leavitt street . ' Timothy McCarthy , 60 years old , of Harvey , a railroad laborer , was fatally injured when struck by an automobile in Halsted street , a half mile north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvey . Georgo Carlson of 18010 Homewood avenue , Homewood , driver of the car , was held . An unidentified Negro , about 23 Years old , was struck by an auto and instantly killed last night as he at . tempted to cross South Park way at 31st street . Pekin Inn police took in custody the driver , ? Attorney Leo E. Aronson , 926 Marga.ts terrace .                     