@@689504

txt General Warns of Campaign Against Preparedness Sponsored by Alien Foes . VETERAN RESERVE FALLS General says There Will Be ? Lee ; Than 600,000 Experienced Men of Draft Age In 1926 . In a statement issued yesterday through the National Security League of 17 East Forty-ninth Street , General John J. Pershing sounded a warning that in .1925 " less than 600,000 World War veterans of draft age will be available for service in the event of an emergency . " General Pershing warned the public of . ? ' an active campaign against preparedness being conducted by pacifist associations " supported by interests " Inimical to ' our form of Government . " The statement read : " For the first time in its history the United States has been provided by Congress with a well-defined military policy under which the War Department has been enabled to formulate in time of peace comprehensive and effective plans for the immediate mobilization of the man power and industrial resources in the event of a national emergency . " In perfecting these plans we are guided by the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined in this act are now a part of the law of the land and resulted from prolonged study on the part of the War Department and Congress . . Achievements Limited . " Our actual accomplishments under these plans , however , are controlled by Congressional appropriations , which , due to the requirements of the governmental economic situation , have been ' seriously restricted . " The policy given us by Congress is peculiarly adapted to a nation and country like ours , and it behooves us to preserve it alive , to perfect yearly the plans thereunder and thus to insure reasonable military preparedness and avoid unnecessary lose of life and waste of money in another great emergency . Not to continue consistentiY from year to year the program outlined would not only invite great embarrassment In time of emergency ; ' but Would lay an additional burden of heavy taxes upon the shoulders of our citizens already bent with the weight of unpreparedness in the past . " While the regular army and navy are given fundamental missions in preparing plans and important duties in connection with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not the professional military man , and to this element is accorded the greatest consideration . " To the regular army is assigned the mission of training the citizen military forces . Even though it is now reduced in strength to a point deemed ' below that required to accomplish the full measure of success in the scheme of national defense , the regular army must nevertheless be considered . as . the nucleus upon which the development of the National Guard , organized reserve and other civilian military auxiliaries are dependent . Veteran Forces Decline . " The necessity for regular army activity in connection with the National Guard , the organized reserves and the other civilian military auxiliaries becomes stronger each year as the availability of those who had service in the World War becomes less . This statement is clearly evident when It is realized that we are now confronted with the fact that In 1023 less than 600,000 World War veterans of draft age will be available for service in the event of an emergency . " It Is the duty and should be the earnest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department In its cfferts to make effective the will of Congress as expressed in the National Defense act and to carry in his mind and heart the conception of a nation not limited to his day and generation . but running with increasing greatness into unnumbered years of the limitless future . " This support is particularly essential at this time when an active campaign against preparedness is being conducted by pacifist associations , some of which are fostered and supported , either directly or indirectly , by alien or other agencies which are inimical to our form of government . " Preparation in time of peace is insurance against disaster in time of war . "                     