@@690910

txt OUTLAWRY AND SUPERSTATE An Interpretation of the Protocol by ant American Friend of the League . To the Editor of The New York Times : I have just read with very great interest your editorial in this morning 's issue entitled " Outlawry and Superstate. " arid note your statement that the most casual glance at the Protocol for the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes dispels the illusion that the so-called Japanese amendment gave the League authority over questions that the Permanent Court of International Justice had declared to be of domestic jurisdiction . As a supporter of the League of Nations I wish very much that this interpretation of the protocol was one that might properly ne given thereto , but unfortunately no such in terpretation can be given to the instrument if we accept as conclusive the opinions of the men who drew the document , namely , M. Politic of Greece and M. Benes , Prime Minister of Czechoslovakia . In their General Report submitted to the Fifth Assembly of the League on behalf of the First and Third Committees on Arbitration , Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say concerning a question that had been declared by the World Court to be of domestic concern , but had thereafter been resubmitted to the Council of the League by the offended Party for consideration and meatetivall : When a f'A.a.1.13. whose ** have been met with the plea of the domestic jurisdiction of its advereary , has employed : he resource provided for in Article II . of i .. he Covenant , the presumption of aggression falls to the ground . The aggression itself remains . It will be for the Council to decide who is responsible for the aggression . * ? ? This makes it clear , in my judgment , that the protocol gives to the Council the right by unanimous vote to declare a nation an aggressor if hostilities result over a question , declared by the Court to be of domestic jurisdiction , even though the disputant against which the decision has been rendered resubmits the case to the Council for consideration , if , in the unanimous judgment of the Council . such a war is unjust and threatens the peace of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In which I think the protocol would operate . First  --  Should American citizens in Persia be murdered under a conspiracy between the Government , the courts and the people , we would certainly have the right to go to war , if we submitted the question to the Council of the League , even though the World Court decided that the administration of Persian justice was a matter of domestic jurisdiction . Under such circumstances , It would be impossible to secure the unanimous vote of the Council to restrain the United States from defending the lives of its nationals . Second ? If , on the other hand , the United States should go to war with Persia over a question of the unjust taxation of property owned by American citizens , when the Court had held the question of taxation to be a matter of domestic jurisdiction , in that ease the League would have the right by unanimous vote to restrain the United States , even after submission of the question to the Council , because such a declaration of war against a weaker State which threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime . In either case , the League is vested with power to act in the last analysis , and to . take any action that may be deemed wis% and effectual to safeguard the peace ' or nations . Whether or not the people of this country are ready to approve the protocol in its present form is doubtful ; and while I feel confident that the time is not far distant when such an international agreement will be reached , it would seem the wiser course now to face the facts and suggest desirable amendments at the very outset of the discussion , rather than let opposition to the protocol become frozen because of fear of these provisions , thus destroying all possibility of reasonable consideration when the time arrives for our Government to act . EVERETT COLBY . New York , Dec. 6 , 1924.                     