@@685351

txt Bankers of the country , through representatives attending a conference today with the Federal Reserve Board , pledged themselves to help the board in a drive on his prices aild to aid in efforts at deflation . Specifically . the bankers agreed unreservedly to support the board 's new policy in discouraging " habitual and unnecessary borrowings " and to seek curtailment of " long-standing . nonessential loans " as an Initial step toward ending the era of high prices and speculation . Governor Harding set forth the board 's policy In a speech designed to clarify the general situation and to explain the Government 's views . He warned of impending dangers in the cycle of continued borrowings and speculation , and appealed to bankers and public alike to be conseivative in their demand for banking credit . " It Is evident , " Ur . Harding said . " that the country can not continue to advance prices and wages , to curtail production , to expand credits and attempt to enrich itself by non-productive operations and transactions without fostering discontent and radicalism , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventually bring on a real crisis . " ? Continued Inflation Reported . Mr. Harding said that " everything must be done " to expedite the release of money in " frozen loans " and in commodities held either for speculative purposes or because of lack of transportation . and urged bankers to use the utmost discrimination in granting new loans . Reports laid before the conference by the Federal Advisory Council , directors of the Feral Reserve Bunke and by a committee representing the American Bankers Association were to the effect that ' inflation has contiaued to some extent since the flotation of the Victory Loan last May . " Progress toward the restored ( n of normal relationship between the volume of goods and the volume of credit , " said Mr. Harding . " may be made by reducing credit more rapidly than production is diminished or by increasing production at a. greater rate than credit is expanded . If it should prove Impracticable in the existing circumstances to increase essential production , then we must through economy in consumption and through moderation In the use of credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between goods and credit , " Our problem , therefore , Is to check further expansion and to bring about a normal and healthy liquidation without curtailing essential ? production and without shock to industry , and , as far as possible , without disturbing legitimate commerce and business . " The Federal Reserve banks . Mr. Harding declared , could do much in the direction of curtailing credits of member banks by informing them of the normal amounts they could borrow from the reserve Institutions . He asserted that this would compel the individual banker to examine carefully all applications for loans . Puts Expansion at 111,000.000.000 . This . Mr. Harding declared to be one of " the disquieting features " of the present situation . He Asserted that the expansion of banking credit . " properly attributable to the war , " was about $11,000,000,000 , while money In actual circulation had increased $1.900.000.000 . Credit expansion , even to that extent . was not believed by Mr. Harding to be alarming or excessive " when viewed from the standpoint of war necessity , " and when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the same period . Mr. Harding deplored the falling off In production in practically all important lines . He said It constituted a " very unsatisfactory element " in the national problem because it indicated a slowing down of " industrial effort . " " Every effort should be made to stimulate necessary production , especially of food products , and to avoid waste . " Mr. Harding continued . Planting operations in many sections have been delayed because of adverse weather conditions , and should there be an inadequate yield of crops this year . the necessity for conservation and conservatism will be accentuated . " No small measure of the difficulties in the present situation was . attributed by Mr. Harding to the nation-wide freight congestion . He added pointedly however , that the freight tie-up was not responsible for profiteering- . The board expects to deal with profiteering ? " in another way , " he said , without indicating what methods were under consideration . The freight jam was discussed at length and resolutions with respect to means of bringing It to an end were adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be presented both to the Interstate Commerce Commission . and to the Shipping Board tomorrow by a committee named at the conference .                     