@@692541

txt The possibility co a new theatrical war , this time between managers and playwrights , was av ted at a meeting of the ma . alters at the Flots1 Astor esterday afternoon with the acceptance by the managers of the playwrights ' demand that the sale of film rights to stage offerings oe vested in the author as well as the manager . This constituted the second major demand by the playwrights . The first that the managers recognize a closed shop of playwrights so that the agreement about to be reached alight be possible of absolute enforcement , was approved by the managers at a meeting last Thursday . In accepting the playwrights ' point of view in regard to the film rights to their plays the managers at yesterday 's meeting provided or the , - ; election of an arbiter , who is to brchosen by a two-thirds vote of Committees from the managers nd the playwrights , to pass upon all matters of controversy in regard to these film rights . William A. Brady . who is acting as a provisional head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was definitely being considered for this new position at the moment but that he would certainly be " a gentleman of high repute . " Mr. Brady indicated that the arbitei of-film rights , who is to be a aselaried executive with a permanent office . might become a person of great power in the theatre India- ? ry and in time perhaps , even achieve a position something like that held by Will H. Hays in the movie world and Judge Landis in the baseball field . All transactions affecting film rights . such as notice of copyright . private arrangement be-tween theatrical managers and motion picture companies , options and so on would have to be registered at the tims they were made with the arbiter or else be completely without weight in his final derision . In this manner said Mr. Brady . the fears of the playwrights that the film rights co their works might be suls , ect to private ar . rangernests that would her them from the benefits of open bidding would be allayed . Cohan and Belasco Absent . Every producing manager in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented at yesterday 's meeting . Among those in actual attendance were Lee Shubert , Sam H. Harris . who held the proxy of A. 1.4 . Erlanger , A. H. Woods . Arthur Hammerstein Gilbert Miller . John Golden and Mr. Brady . The conspicuous absentees were George M. Cohan and David Belasco , both prominent as playwrights as well as managers . For their negotiations with the playwrights the managers formed an organization . officially designated d ! s being for this purpose only . The hope was expressed by Mr. Brady and others . however . that this temporary organization might pave the way for the formation of a permanent managers ' organization . to replace the one disrupted two seasons ago by a conflict of opinion in regard to the Equity situation . The managers ' committee , made up of John Golden and Gilbert Miller , in addition to Mr. Brady . Lee Shubert . Joseph P. Bickerton , Sam H. Harris , Arthur Hammerstein and a Theatre Guild representative , which has conducted the negociations until now , received full power yesterday to come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting scheduled for Thursday . The playSs-rights ' committee Is made up of Arthur Richman , President of the Dramatists ' Guild ; Otto Harbach . Gene Buck . George Middleton , John Emerson , Owen Davis and James Forbes . To Take Up Musical Shows . A meeting will be held today between the leading producers of musical shows , including Harry Frazee , Lee Shubert , Arthur Hammerstein , Russell Janney and others , and the Council of the American Society of Composers and Auditors in the rooms of the society to discuss the situation as it affects the producers and authors of musical plays , with particular reference to the matter of radio broadcasting . A committee of the Dramatists ' Guild also will be present at this meeting . Mr. Brady , as well as Arthur Garfield Hays , counsel for the playwrights , dented yesterday that there was any basis in fact in public dispatches from Washington that the playwrights ' closed shop . agreed upon last Thursday , might constitute a violation of the anti-trust laws . The agitation by the playwrights , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the direct result of the entrance of motion picture producers , notably William Fox , ! into the legitimate field as backers of plays , in exchange for which backing they were to obtain an option on the manager 's interest in the film rights to the play so backed .                     