@@688503

txt THE term of a castle in Spain is generic . They still have them , and if not always outlined according to the conventional formula they possess most of he architectural and decorative acmssories which have come to be accepted as Spanish . Marycelle. on the Spanish Riviera  --  or what the Spanish like to call their Riviera -- is doubtless the forerunner of more to come . First it was a feudal stronghold on the Mediterranean coast near the little town of Sitjes of today Later it became a monkish establishment . Still later it languished , as have so many things in Spain , and eked out a dull , unoccupied existence until a wandering Anglo-Saxon picked its site and ca mass for his over ideal in the making chiefly because it occupied a comparatively isolated situation where one would not be likely to be bothered with the genus tourist . This was the inception of the present charming fabric and its furnishings . Since the fabric is what it is and was originally , the dwelling of some ambitious sea rover perhaps , or a feudal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are no palm or date or olive or orange trees . No vineyards . But this of itself in no manner discounts its purely Spanish aspect , indeed its ground Ilan and its silhouette , mark it for nothing eine in spite of its additions and interpolations of the ages . Its romantic Spanish past is accentuated from the darkness of its subcellars and its water gate to the groining of its roof and the pignons of its tower gable . Appreciation and the good judgment of its present owner  --  Charles Deering. the American harvester manufacturer  --  have resulted in producing that which is about as livably picturesque as any example of a made-over medievalism is likely to be wherever found . The Afmanack de Gotha or the Annuaire de Chateaux has never given the pedigree of Marycelle in the past or in the present Again , this Spanish castle , so to name it , scores , having been overlooked in the mad rush of the collector of European homes to Possess something more convenient to the mondain pleasrres of great cities or great resorts . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and here he installed himself in this little-known corner of the Iberian Peninsula , not even starred by Baedeker Once the property acquired , its owner fell under the sway of the Catalan school of art , literature , music and architecture , and the attributes of his new home came grad- ually to take on this local complexion . Sitjes is a thirty-mile run by road down from Barcelona in Northwest Spain . no further but twice as long by rail and about as quickly reached by the owner 's speedboat by sea . One has a varied choice of entry . The castle sits high above the azure Mediterranean between the lapping waves and the opal tinted mountain hinterland . The climate is soft , sunny and inspiring in spite of its latitude . The little town of white and brown houses near by is no detriment to the passive life of Marycelle , and for that , though inhabited by new generations , whose racial instincts descend from those of their precursors , mostly swarthy Moors , the neighboring townlet is an attraction rather than a detriment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gripped this rugged shore save the great tower gateway and the vaulted refectory , but . of romance there is sufficient in memory to satisfy the most jaded of spirits tired of the bursting world of affairs . Around its walls are woven legends and historic fact which blend the life of corsairs , monks and Moorish invanders in a veritable medieval nighrsentertainment . Caesar 's legions once knew this coast ; and Saracens in their swift white-winged feluccas used to make land on the shining sands of Sitjes ' beach which adjoins the house to the north . After many mananas of negotia -- lions the property was transferred to the present owner , and the Catalan inspiration began to work its magic with the transforming and the furnishing of the house . It was to have the distinct cachet of being nothing but Catalan , and because of this the owner 's Catalan friends formed themselves into a coterie for the giving of wise counsel . This new school of Catalan enthusiasts admit nothing but that which is descended from the purest Catalan motives and traditions . The garret was transformed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of the structure , alcoves were finished off here and there , and a couple of modern bathrooms installed discreetly , almost the sole modern note if ve except the electric fittings and the big telescope used alternately for picking up ships at sea and gazing at the stars blinking out their brilliance in the Mediterranean night . Since the gamut to the struck was essentially Spanish-Catalan throughout , the services of an architect of that brilliant and original group of Catalan practitioners was enlisted , one , who had played his part . in the creation of a school of architecture which indicates more plainly than tior/S is a sheer hundred feet ; the actual shore line reached by a flight of rock-cut steps lighted at night by the flame of a brazier of torch-wood quite in keeping with the unmodern note which permeates the whole edifice . From the entrance corridor rises a spindle-balustraded stairway which links up the three stories of the structure 's living apartments . The tower itself has two magnificently proportioned rooms , isolated from the others ; the battery of servants ' quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strata , next the sea , in all something more than twenty-odd rooms . The walls are egg-shelled , the floors of soft grays or reds of tiles , blending here and there into browns and blues , practically hare of rugs as is the Spanish fashion . The high vaulted ceiling has unbroken groining with an occasional bigger- room crossed by dull black beams , all contrasting with the cool whiteness of the walls . There is nothing conventual of monkish about the furnishings , which , on the contrary , are warm and luscious , one might say gorgeous . There are wall hangings of brocaded silk stiffened with threads of gold and silver , Cordovan leathers and the ever-present orange glow of old Spanish mahogany or caoba . There are mirrors set in beaten brass and rococo golden frames reminiscent of the best Florentine examples from which they are descended , though of manifest Catalan origin . An occasional old Spanish master , one a Velasquez and another a Goya , punctuates the bare places of the walls . All - is reminiscent of this unspoiled corner of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catalan art and architecture and furnishings . Catalonia has been explored its length and breadth by the owner and his counselors , by royal highroad , or by the partridge paths , Which are nothing more than mule tracks . From such sources have been unearthed treasures which museums themselves might envy . A whole battery of miraculously chiseled copper and brass was brought to light in the patio of a little wayside posada in the moun- taro background where flows the Ebro River under the shadow of Montserrat , the legendary depository of the Holy Grail . In spite of the fact that there is no profound austerity in the furnishings of this Spanish-Catalan house , there is neither any sense that it is cluttered up and overloaded with inconsequentialities . There are broad wall spaces , as decorative in themselves as the neighboring treasures which they show off . All is the creation of an individualist and individual atmosphere permeates the entire fabric . One unique feature is the division of one vast room into two smaller rooms by the drawing of brocaded draperies over a bar set from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It does not particularly suggest privacy , but it is a big improvement on the alcove idea in that each division is a2 apartment of itself . Each bedroom Do.ssesses a monumental bed , carved head and foot . sometimes with a curtained frame or baldaquin , often but an elaborate couch . Saintly images and elaborate zandelabra are inevitable accessories , but again not one departs from the note struck by Catalan tradition , though it is only reasonable to admit that . many are of Venetian and Genoese sentiment , which is but natural when it is considered that Spain 's navy of good old medieval times , when it sailed off to battle with the eastern republics , were Catalan ships manned by Catalan sailors . TI ? e explanation was given the writer reason of close contemplation of more than one piece which seemed reminiscent of something other than Spanish . The explanation seems plausible and sufficient . Notably this observation applied to rich cut-glass motives in frames and candlesticks . The offshore aspect of this fortress - convent - dwelling is little changed in silhouette from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloomered and belted pirates . Practically impregnable from the water side , it was then and is today the triangular sailed craft of the present , differing little from the typical Mediterranean craft of all time ; even the costuming of the tisher-folk and boatmen still cling to their traditional picturesqueness  --  splotches of vermilion against a sea and sky of azure blue . For a contrast is the owner 's wonderful motor boat , a flat-bottomed , skippy thing , " which jumps like a deer , " say the natives . It could dash from the foot of the Christopher Columbus Statue at the Aduana at Barcelona to the water gate of " Marycelle , " making rings about the Spanish torpedo craft it might encounter on the way , in little more than an hour . No wonder the lively Catalans themselves marvel at its-agility and the perspicacity of the owner of the demesne who was sufficiently up to date to possess it and yet who was content to come among them and live the life of medievalism surrounded by all that was best of the traditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the race who inflicted upon Spain its most recent defeat in international warfare , is no discount of the kindly regard with which he is surrounded by the simple fisher-folk of Sitjes on this golden coast of the Spanish Riviera , perhaps sometime to be the rival of the better known and more populous French and Spanish Rivieras . At any rate , the first corner was an American .                     