@@696071

txt In his recent annual report Mr. ** of General Motors referred approvingly to the results obtained from the various methods by which the corporation has associated its executives and employes in ownership . The year 1923 saw the broadest development of the plan in the Managers ' Securities Company , and now the business world commonly repeats the trite but true remark that General Motors has created within its own ranks at least 100 millionaires . In the Watch , Tower pages today THE TIMES publishes a detailed account of the generous and wise distributions of earnings and stock by which , from the highest to the lowest , the employes of General Motors have been personally interested in the management . As one of the chief stockholders has lately said , the corporation has $90,000,000 less in its surplus account that has been given to its workers , but the enhancement of the value of the corporation  --  many millions in excess of this  --  is considered a direct result . The theory of ownership management has spread throughout the business community , but there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been exemplified by the General Motors Corporation . So successful has been the Managers ' Securities Company that another is to be formed to take in the lesser executives . In addition , there is a bonus plan , an employes ' savings and investment fund and group insurance . An employe of General Motors who in the course of the year 1923 paid in to the investment fund $300 received on the first of January , 1929 , cash and securities with a market value of $2,680 . The dispatch from Detroit is peppered with ciphers , representing hundreds of millions distributed among the men and women who make up the company 's personnel . Its details can be studied with profit by managements which believe with General Motors that it pays to be generous with all classes of employes in company service . To a great degree the growth of Detroit in wealth and civic importance is traceable to the profit-sharing plans of its industries . Much of the earnings of the companies stay in town , except those which skip over brokers ' wires to New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the recent steady advance of stocks became a matter of intense interest to Wall Street . Some brokers are authority for the statement that a large share of Detroit 's money went into the stocks of General Motors itself . This , of course , was not true of margin speculations by those lately enriched and anxious to turn a million into ten . But Detroit 's general prosperity has become so established that it has engendered its special line of humor . There is the story , for example , of the visitor who , hearing with amazement that there were destitute persons in the town , asked to see some . He was taken by welfare workers to a charming cottage in a well-kept street where a fashionably attired woman sat weeping , surrounded by well-groomed children . She admitted that she was destitute and explained that this was so because her husband . had " taken the car and run away to Florida . "                     