@@686241

txt The controversy to the relative superiority of battleships and aircraft , which has recently stirred the Navy and War Departments and has bobbed up in Congress , may be settled through actual tests , high naval officials said tonight . Brigadier General William Assistant Chief of the Air Service , who told a Congressional committee that developments in aircraft had spelled the doom of the present day dreadnought , and other Air Service officers are Understood to have issued a virtual challenge to the Navy Department to permit them to prove their contentions . The Navy Department is a firm believer in the superiority of the capital ship and , naval officers believe , will accept the challenge in the hope of settling the controversy , at least for the time being . General periors in a formal that two torpedo boats , two supply vessels and one battleship be desiguated for the tests . Naval officers express the belief that such a request , even if made , would be refused because of the large amount of material involved and the cost of fitting the five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong likelihood , however , naval officers said today , that the old battleship Iowa , already fitted with radio control gear and capable of a speed of more than ten knots and of being manoeuvred with no one on board , will be used as a target for aerial bombs after experiments now being conducted on the control device are completed . Another suggestion going the rounds of the Navy Department is that large lighters be towed at high speed behind destroyers or cruisers and used as targets . Many officers believe that no test of the ability of the aviators to lilt naval vessels would be conclusive unless the target were moving at least twenty knots an hour , pointing out that all modern cruisers , battle cruisers , battleships and destroyers and the proposed airplane carriers have more speed than this . If the lighters ' were used , it was said , a constructive area equal to that of a capital ship would be allowed the aviators around the lighter , In which all bits would be counted . No test event under these conditions woukl be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the elements of defense would be lacking , including anti-aircraft guns and protective aireraft . It was generally conceded , however , that such experiments as General Mitchell has proposed would give a good idea of the ability of , the aviators to hit a vessel moving on the water . " I am so confident , " said one high Laval official today , " that neither army nor navy aviators can hit the Iowa when she is under way that I would be perfectly willing to be on board her when they bomb her , provided that they were kept at the altitude which they would be compelled to maintain in Jattle . " Army aviators maintain that any sur ! ace vessel in existence today can be lestroyed by airplane attack , citing the : ests on the old battleship Indiana with tummy bombs as proof of their ability ei hit the target . Naval officers assert hat it is one thing to hit a battleship tnchored In a bay and another to hit he same ship moving at from 10 to 20 mots an hour far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a test . Chairman Butler and other members if the House Naval Committee have rewatedly expressed a desire since the eginning of the battleship against airdane controversy that actual tests inder conditions approximating as closey as possible those of battle be conlucted as , soon as possible . Secretary 1aniels has indicated that he favors lie idea .                     