@@689816

txt Cordell Hull , Chairman of the Democratic National Committee , declared tonight in a statement that the Teapot Dome scandal stood out " as the greatest political scandal of this or any other generation . " There have been a multiplicity of scandals in the three yedrs of the Republl- , can Administration he said , and these have furnished an additional issue for the coming election " Shall the United States have corrupt government or clean government ? " The statement also attacks the President for inactivity in dealing with the Teapot Dome scandal . It states that while Vice President he sat in the Harding Cabinet while the leases were discussed and not until yesterday did he say anything about the developments in the investigation into the naval oil leases . Chairman Hull 's Statement . Chairman Hull 's statement reads : " The multiplication of scandals under the Republican National Administration which came into power on March 4. 11121 , with the Teapot Dome naval oil scandal standing out as the greatest political scandal of this or any other generation , has created an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without lessening the importance of many other sharply drawn vital issues , Is of paramount importance to every ' voter and to every citizen regardless . of political affiliations . " The issue bluntly stated is : " Shall the United States have corrupt government or clean government ? " When this Administration came into power on March 4 , 1921 , it was dominated by the most reactionary element ever known in the history of a political party , which wag in league with the most selfish and predacious financial and industrial special interests ever grouped together for public plunder and national exploitation . The Republican reactionary leaders construed the huge majority of 1920 as a license to use the Government for their own selfish and party ends . The predatory special interests , which own and financially support the reactionary element in the Republican Party , levied trilaute upon the masses of the people as did the bandit Tani ! and his followers in Spain in ale eighth century , and have looted the Government of property and resources . Administration officials have even turned over to private Interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marine would have to rely in time of war . They have inafm-aiurably weakened if not vitally weakened their own nation 's ability to defend itself against foreign aggression . Lists the " Scandals . " " This Administration came in under the shadow of the Newberry scandal and the Daugherty scandal . Others followed in quick succession , including the Bureau of Engraving scandal , the Goldstein scandal , the ship subsidy and ship sales scandal , the Veterans ' BureaV scandal , the sugar profiteering Lcandal. the Naval Oil Reserve scandal ( including Teapot Dome ) , the Reclamation Service scandal . the Income Tax Bureau scandal , the Packers and stock yards scandal , the Tolbert scandal . the Slemp scandal and a long list of others less known , with one now brewing in the Tariff Commission , where three Commissioners are or ought to be disqualified from acting by reason of present or past affiliation with interests affected by their decision . There is scarcely a department of the Government under this Administration that is not discredited by its record , and many bureaus not already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactionaries have been in control of the Government , Federal officials at Washington have been so subservient to them that Senator Caraway declared so long as Attorney General Daugherty sits at the , helm of the Department of Justice they may sell the ' White House and be immune from any prosecution in the Federal Courts . None of the multiplicity of scandals has been exposed by reactionary Republicans , not a detail of the infamous Teapot Dome scandal would ever have been known except for the exposures made by the Democrats in the face of Reactionary Republican obstruction , culminating in pe startling and shameful recent reveVons developed through thes. persistent efforts of the great Democratic Senator from Montana , Mr. Walsh . No one connected with Administration scandals has been punished by the Administration , the Department of Justice , which a United States Senator alleges to be under wide suspicion , has made no move to protect or defend the public interests , so far as they were threatened or affected by these scandals . Scores Inaction by Coolidge . " During most of this Administration Mr. Coolidge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unofficial member of the President 's Cabinet . For nearly six months he has been President of the United States . During all this time he has uttered no word of condemnation of any of these scandals , nor a word of warning against those impending nor against the policy " ursued by the Republican reactionaries who dominate the Administration . " It was not until yesterday , when the testimony concerning the alleged loans to Fall was made public , that he was aroused from his lethargy to make any statement concerning the Teapot Dome scandal , and then only to say that he is reluctant to believe that any one has been guilty of criminal intent but that if evidence of criminality is shown , the Administration will take action to punish the guilty and bring about the annulment of the lease  --  which , of course , would be a mere matter of routine . Until the testimony referred to was given , he has been as blind apparently as Secretary of the Navy Denby professed to be when he testified in the Teapot Dome scandal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still in President Coolidge 's Cabinet , and Theodore Roosevelt who testified he approved the leases , is still Mr. Denby 's assistant . Dr. Work , responsible for the Reclamation Service scandal , is still Secretary of the Interior . Others less offensive , but no less discredited , continue to oceupy positions of honor and trust . Asks People to Clean House . " Although the time would seem to be ripe for a house-cleaning throughout the entire Administration , there is no promise of it nor any indication that it , ' is contemplated . On the contrary , the Ad - m inistration. from the President down , seems to centre its efforts on the nomination of Mr. Coolidge with the hope of perpetuating itself . One of the many recent evidences that it is doing this is the naming of Attorney General Daugherty as a delegate to the Republican National Convention in June . " The work of cleaning these Augean stables devolves upon the people . They are the ones who must answer and decide the question : ' Shall the United States have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or should know , In advance that no change for the better can take place under a Republican President dominated by this selfish and reactionary element in the party which is in league with corrupt business , no matter who the Republican nominee may be . " The same crowd of ruthless reactionaries dominates the Government now that has dominated it since Marcn 4 , 1921 . This same crowd is going to nominate the Republican candidate for President this year , and whoever accepts a nomination at their hands must necessarily accept their domination of his Administration with it . " There is one way and only one way to clean house , punish the perpetrators of the scandals already revealed , expose the Administration scandals that Still remain concealed and insure for the next four years the abolition or corrupt government and the restoration of clean government to the United States , and that is to place the Democratic Party in full power in the administrative and legislative branches or the Government , which has an unblemished record of honest and faithful public service for more than a hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              