@@692505

txt With Premier Briand scheduled ' to return to Geneva tomorrow morning the situation here regarding the fight for seats on the Council of the League became even more involved when the Brazilians , who are candidates , let it be known that there was such a thing as voting against Germany becoming a member of the Council . Brazil has a seat on the Council , which votes by unanimity , and this amounts to a thinly-veiled threat that if that country does not get the permanent place to Which she aspires she may block Germany 's entrance to the Council , which in turn would block Germany 's entry into the League . Of course such a threat is not to be taken absolutely tragically , but it indicates a new diplomatic play . Since Sweden , friendly to the Reich , stands out against the admission of any other nation than Germany to the Council It is quite plain that Brazil has a similar title to enforce her point of view . It is understood tonight that another nation also has signified its intention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to ... iier League members . There is good reason to believe that this nation is Italy . The ? Italian delegates have wired Premier Mussolini for further instructions . The indications are that tomorrow Spain will join Brazil and Italy in opposing German entrance alone into the Council . Locarno Group Bolds Meeting . There was a meeting this morning of the signatories of the Treaty of Locarno , called by Sir Austen Chamberlain , to discuss the Council situation . The Germans behaved in a very suave manner , ? but tools the stand that the Council fight was not theirs . The British Foreign Secretary , seeking a compromise , asked the Germans whether if they were admitted alone to the Council they would promise not to block the admission of certain nations afterward . The Germans replied that when Germany was a member of the Council they would act on all applications for membership " in the spirit . of ' the League of Nations and as far as possible in accord with the majority . " When Sir Austen tried to push them further they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get them to put into writing their promise to make a promise , they refused . The Reich delegation was invited to attend the afternoon meeting of the Council to discuss the subject , but they cl.iclined the honor of sitting at the Council table before their country became a regular member , so the Council met without them . Two applicants for Council membership , Spain and Brazil , presented their claims . Mello Franco , head of the Brazilian delegation , made an eloquent plea for an hour , arguing that South America had no permanent seat , and that Brazil was designated to assume that honor . He resented the attitude of any one nation blocking her application , thereby referring to Sweden 's stand that she will allow no nation except Germany to enter the Council now . The proceedings of the Council were secret . but it quickly became noised about that Sefior Franco had pointed out that Brazil was a member of the Council and had as much right to block any application as had Sweden , and indicated that that applied to the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session until after dinner time , discussing the situation , with various plans being brought forward as offering a solution . The general feeling of the members was that a settlement could not yet be considered in sight . The importance of Brazil 's hint is evident , for Germany will not join the League unless she gets the place on the Council which had been promised by the big allies , but not by . Brazil . If she does not join the League , the Locarno treaties do not come into effect . It Is generally considered here that Brazil has been prompted to take her stand by other nations , and that today 's development represents simply a stage in arriving at an ultimate settlement . In British circles there is some disposition to believe that the French have been pulling diplomatic wires in order to set off the advantage the Germans have through the Swedes standing pat . De Leon Explains Spain 's Position . Quinones de Leon , who presented Spain 's claim , said in a statement outside the Council room : " Spain 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being discussed . All that is being debated here is the opportunity for a conflict which has arisen . There is a point which I should emphasize , that Spain 's application has nothing to do with the entry of Germany into the League . " Spain 's candidature has been put forward since 1921 , when the admission of Germany , hoped for by all , was not regarded ss imminent . Spain got all votes except of one country . The votes of England and France were cast for her . Since then it-has been understood that Spain would get a place whenever a , change was made in the organization of the Council This occasion having arisen , Spain again presents her applition , which she regards as something entirely distinct from the entry of Germany into the League of Nations . " Public opinion in Spain has underotood the matter thus and with rare unanimity sustains this aspiration , vigorously judging it as conforming to *the. interest of our country , and all countries , and believing that the dignity of Spain would be injured if this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , should be cast aside . " Tonight the Poles seem confident , ' although not revealing what they base that confidence on . For despite all the positions taken it still remains the best opinion here that Poland will not get a permanent seat , although she may get the promise of a non-permanent seat next Fall  --  to replace Sweden . who now opposes her . Following the termination of the meeting M. Paul-Boncopr declared to the press that the situation was ripening and the finishing touch would come when Briand arrived . The afternoon 's discussion had placed each of the Council members in touch with the public opinion of the interested nations . This is a step in itself , as the Council is now better acquainted with the ground on which it is treading . ' Sweden remained adamant throughout the meeting and when M. Unden left the Council room his jaw was set and his eyes gleaming with anger . One Council member expressed the hope that a night s meditation might change his attitude , but admitted that he was an optimist to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , while there is much talking tonight it seems wisest to take today 's developments as jockeying for position before the final showdown . No one seriously believes now that Germany is going home without Joining , the League of Nations . The Germans say that if matters are not smoothed out by Saturday Chancellor Luther and Foreign Minister Stresemann are going home .                     