@@694256

txt Controversy for its own sake is a poor thing enough to fill the columns of a newspaper . But controversy which is blind to all reasoning is a public menace . Have our people deteriorated in that respect ' The brazen politician under charges , who shouts that his accuser is a " liar , " we have always with us . But presumably respectable publications adopt the sane attitude . A dozen cases in point could be instanced If the unforeseen mischiefs of rash Prohibition are pointed out , it is charged that the critic wishes to restore the saloons . This unreason is surprisingly general- Plans of the most suspicious character , alleged to be devised in the interests of the farmer , are shown to have price-fixing for their one object with the inevitable encouragement of exactly the overproduction which causes most of the trouble . Some argument in favor of a blind pool in a world market , up to be shot at from its inception , might at least be expected . Is anything of the kind forthcoming ? Not at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard lot of the farmer . In a series of articles in The Wall Street Journal the dangerous worthlessness of the United States Shipping Board has been exposed . It is shown by facts and figures that the bureau has become a costly incubus , offering no real help to American commerce and laying private maritime enterprise under an impossible handicap . Is the answer a sane presentation of facts , figures and proofs of competence ? No indeed ; the critic is charged with at tempting to drive the American merchant marine from the seas . It is incontrovertibly shown that the five-cent fare in New York City can only be maintained on municipallyowned subways with a heavy deficit which all the taxpayers must meet . It is shown that the city has paralyzed its own investment in the present subways , losing millions a year in bond interest which a reasonable fare would liquidate . Is there any real attempt to meet the facts ? Not if Tammany Ball knows it ; the critic is charged with exploiting the traction system for Wall Street gambling . A blind controversialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication of occasional trade usefulness but one which does not hesitate to charge The Wall Street Journal with attempting to drive " the American merchant marine tram the seas , " which adopts an attitude of tariff rim crazy and yet demands subsidies to encourage agricultural overproduction and an impossible fixing of prices in at world market beyond our control . how can any.one argue with such people ? To them a thing is right because they want it . and discussion ceases to be rational . This is not nothing which education can cure . It is human perversity whose only intelligible assumption is that the majority of our people are fools , anyway . Aeroplanes occupy so much space that murders are taking their proper place among miscellaneous news items .                     