@@690582

txt As they descended from their airplanes at Mitchel Field today Lieutenant Smith was overheard to remark to Lieutenant Nelson what a large world this is . The British Commonwealth . is an empire upon whose heir apparent the sun seldom rises . New outcry of impatience from the floor of State conventions : " Name your Klan : " Sea Power . Mr. Coolidge 's quietus on the extensively advertised gun-elevation proposal need not promote undue discouragement among the Doctores Sublilissimi of our naval establishment . There should be not the least difficulty in discovering some other vital reason for believing that the Washington Conference on the Limitation of Naval Armaments did not mean what It said and what most of us , including the President , understood it to say . It is not for laymen like Mr. Coolidge to inject themselves into the very delicate problem of comparative naval strength . One of the basic principles of that problem is that every home navy is only one-third as strong as it appears to be on paper , and that every potential enemy navy has at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that principle is Usually demonstrated by a combination of the highest refinements of medieval scholastic thought and the Einstein mathematics . If we outnumber other navies in battleships , then the decisive factor in naval warfare is really naval bases . If the other fellow is as poorly off In naval bases as we Pare , then he has the advantage In cruisers or destroyers or submarines or colliers or oil tanks or reinforced hulls or speed or gun range , or in the ratio of any or all of these to any or all of the remainder . Thomas Aquinas would have been delighted with ' the familiar demonstration that sea power will be most effectively exercised by I that nation which has most perfectly adjusted the color scheme of its destroyer funnels to the number of calories in the daily menu of the crews on its airplane carriers . Preamble for its State Constitution . " We , the people of Nebraska or South Dakota , In order to safeguard justice , maintain public order , promote liberty and sell gasoline at 4 cents below the market Drips , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From time to time it has seemed fitting to call attention in this column to recent remarkable modifications in apparently wellestablished theories on the causes of war and peace . Imperialism as one fruitful source of war hats been enormously popularized in certain quarters . Hence we find ourselves rubbing our eyes over the suggestion , in these same quarters , that the peace of the world is endangered by the antics of the small flapper nationalities in a Balkanized world , and that the peace of the world could be insured by the united will of three or Lour great nations . Wars until very recently were chiefly brewed by the international financiers . But it is today more than a suggestion , It has ; become almost a faith , that %International finance can be , and recently has been , extremely effective in pushing away the war clouds . Finally , we know that American democracy was menaced by the newspaper syndicate and the newspaper chain which placed public opinion at the mercy of a single man . But it now appears that there is a great deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; or ever since the Scripps-Howard newspapers came out for La . Follette . In the course of such reconstruction of the war-and-peace formulas almost any day now should bring forth a drastic amendment to one of the most evident of hitherto selfevident propositions  --  that it is the old men who make war for the sake of their pocketbqoks , and It is the young men who pay for the war overhead with their own lives and limbs and happiness . To be sure , this doctrine at all times suffered considerable abrasion from excessive jostling by a second formula  --  that it Is the old men who want an immovable and stagnant world , and it is the young men who want change , movement , ferment , progress . It was seldom explained how there can be ferment without a disturbance of the peace , or new world constructions without a vast amount of preliminary tearing down . Not often has the advocatus juventutis troubled to sit down and decide once for all which of the two incompatlbles is the real instinct of youth  --  peace or excitement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway will answer a question which the late crop of war novels left unanswered . In Ireland . At any rate , here is what The Manchester Guardian now sees at work In Ireland : It is evident that Mr. de Valera 's popularity in the country is still considerable . In his journey last week from Dublin to West Clare , at every station on the way the platforms were crowded with young men and women . ? ? ? At Ennis he had again a huge but remarkably youthful audience . ? ? ? When a popular leader in Ireland holds out to the youth of the country a hope of repeating the history of the Sinn Feln movement since 1917 , one would imagine that unless he were prepared to use the bomb and revolver again he would expressly disclaim this aspect of Sinn Fein policy . Mr. de Valera did not utter a single safeguarding phrase . It may very well be that IrQand independent at once is a nobler ideal than Ireland virtually independent , as the tired old men would be content to have it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Free State is endangered by the ardent youth of the nation : and civil war in Ireland may conceivably mean trouble in India and in Egypt and in the world at large . In Russia . The young do pay , for the most part , and with their own flesh , the price of wars supposedly fomented by their elders . But there are times when youth seems not unreluctant to let the elders pay for youth 's own enterprises . Mr. Brisbane commented the other day In flippant mood upon the very slow rate of locomotion , as compared with modern airplane facilities , exhibited by the Israelite wandering of forty years in a comparatively small Sinai desert . Mr. Brisbane was promptly called to order by several of his readers who pointed out that Moses took forty years , not because he could not have , covered the ground in much better time , but because he wanted to kill off the old generation of fleshpot-yearners and to enter Canaan with an idealistic younger generation . To the acute Mr. Brisbane the Mosaic strategy suggested present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sake of a future that will build all over - again , the agonies of the present may be justified . Perhaps they may . Perhaps the young Russia of somehow-sometime will bring full compensation for an older generation that is now starving and dying ; for a civilization dissolving into barbarism . The thing may be worth while . But the fact remains that here is a case where the young apparently do not hesitate to Call upon the old to die in the interest of the young . And so the question remains : What does youth really want , peace or struggle ? It Must Be Hard on the Tradesmen . " Every evening I burn before an altar of stone the heap of ' the day 's unopened and unanswered letters , " ? Oabriele &Annunzio.;                     