@@689363

txt Several important oil conferences , attended by some of the biggest oil men in the country , have been held in this city for the last few days . These conferences grew out of the critical situation in oil . In the opinion of leading oil men , there has been no constructive development in situation , which threatens to become worse as the industry runs into Slackened demand in the fall and winter . In respect to certain companies affairs have reached the point where additional financing is necessary . LACK OF HARMONY One phase of the disturbed situation which , it is understood , was gone into , in detail , was the condition forcing the resignation of James E. O'Neil as president of the Prairie Oil &; Gas Co. , for years the dominant factor in the midcontinent , where the company was the purchasing agent for Standard Oil . His withdrawal is regarded among oil men as indicating lack of harmony on the part of Standard Oil , which adds a new factor of uncertainty to the unsettled conditions . Prairie Oil &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above that of other Standard Oil companies , and for the last few months it has been selling no oil to Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey , formerly perhaps its biggest customer . Standard Oil of New Jersey found it cheaper to buy California crude , and shut down its pipe line to the west . The interrelated affairs of Standard Oil Co. of Indiana and the Sinclair Consolidated Oil Co. , which center in the Sinclair Crude Oil Purchasing Co. , owned jointly by each , are said to have been a matter of considerable discussion also . The Sinclair Crude Oil Purchasing Co. has about 39,000,000 barrels of crude oil in storage . RUDE PRODUCTION Opinion regarding- the California situation is not in agreement that the peak has been reached there . Eastern oil men say that any decline in California production will come too lite this year to affect the market favorably . Whether the peak  --  has been reached or not , they say production can be expected to continue at an enormous rate for months to come . A drop of 100,000 barrels a day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general situation . The available supply of crude oil is still more than 2,500,000 barrels a day . which is far in excess of requirements . Of that amount . 2,280.700 barrels are being produced in this country and 250,000 a day are being imported . There are more than 325,000,000 barrels of crude oil in storage at . present , of which 293,000,000 barrels are in field and tank-farm storage , the rest being held at refineries.                     