@@687014

txt While hundreds of persons were Passing through lower Broadway yesterday , not realizing that anything out of the ordinary was going on , $3,000,000,000 in cash and securities of the New York Trust Company were transferred from the old main office of the company at 20 Broad Street and the Liberty branch to new offices and vaults at 100 Broadway . The ' transfer . necessarily slow because of the great care that had to be exercised , was begun at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon and was not completed until dark last night . The route ' along which the carefully guarded vans were escorted was alive with special policemen , city patrolmen and many city detectives  --  every man armed. ? In scaffoldings and other vantage points along the way men who were crack revolver shots were hidden to aid in protecting the vans as long as they were in sight . " We used everything but poison and mustard gas , " said an officer of the company , laughingly . It was by far the largest transfer of valuable papers and cash in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there transferred to the Assay Office It was moved only across an alley . Yesterday the securities , valued at hundreds of millions , were moved more than three blocks without a hitch and with only a few outsiders knowing what was going on . few Transfer Wag Carried Out . One of the vans was driven through the . street at infrequent intervals and for a few minutes was drawn up in front of the Broadway office . Two policemen were on the seat with the driver ; two were in the rear and two guards were inside the van . The little wooden boxes were hurriedly taken into the building through a lane of guards% The unusual sight halted a few passersby . Only two boxes were moved at a time . The securities were checked as they were put into tin boxes by officers of the bank ; then the tin boxes were locked and put into wooden boxes , which also were locked . The officers gave the keys to two of the guards , who sat on the boxes during the transfer , and they in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boxes were carried ' into the new vault at 100 Broadway . There the boxes were unlocked and the contents checked again . Nearly every officer of the trust company with the exception of Harvey Gibson , its President , was on duty some time during the ' I day , working in shifts . Frederick W. Walz , the Treasurer , was in charge of the unloading at the Broadway vault . This vault is said to be one of the most carefully constructed and guarded ireceptacles in the whole Wall Street district . It is a two-story vault , the lower part being filled with securities for which the company is trustee ; the upper floor contains small safes in which securities handled frequently are deposited . The vault door is of a type used by only a few of the largest institutions in the city . The combination lock is not I in the door itself , which is a slab of steel nearly two feet thick , but is at the side . so there is no possibility of it being smashed by even the most up-todate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which a watchman is always on duty . A grating over glass in the floor gives a view of this circular ? entry post . Only a small part of the securities moved were the property of the trust company . The last statement of the ceinpany showed capital , surplus and undivided profits of more than $20 000 , - 000 ; deposits totaling more than $1152 , - 000,000. and r. - ; sources of $210,000,000 . All the remainder is made up of securities the company holds as trustee . The moving was the result of the consolidation of the New York Trust Company and the Liberty National Bank on April 1 , which made more room necessary . The company leased the basement and first three floors at 100 Broadway from the American Surety Company for twenty-one years . The moving of flies and other papers has been in progress for nearly a week . The company will be ready for business this morning .                     