@@694147

txt IN the course of his duties as a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church the author of this little book has had much experience and made many contacts throughout Latin America , from the Mexican border to the southern end of the continent , and he offers here an exposition of the conclusions to which he has come as the result of all these activities and his thinking about them .. Primarily , he is a Christian missionary and there are not many sentences In the volume which do not bear witness to that fact . But he has done no little thinking on matters that are not usually associated with the preaching of religion and so he throws a good deal of light , first and last , on conditions and tendencies in Latin America and our attitude toward and our relations with our co-dwellers on the Western Hemisphere . He stresses the vast extent of slightly used territory- and the enormous possibilities of many kinds of resources , so great that it is likely the world must before long turn to them " for food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He hail a good deal to say also about the many differences between the Latin and the Anglo-Saxon civilization and the necessity of surmounting the language barrier between them , and he thinks there is " abundant and direct evidence of the desirability of getting closer together the civilization of go-getterlam and that of ' simpatico , ' since the combination will be valuable for both . " Bishop Miller finds one of the most significant of developments during recent years to be the phenomenon , which he has observed in many parts of Latin America , of " organized labor and organized university students joining hands in common cause for the maintenance of free speech and religious tolerance . " The labor movement is , he says , making great headway " from the north of Mexico to the Straits of Magellan " and has become an important factor in the whole of Latin American life . There Is a vivid and vigorous chapter , which leaves no doubt as to the author 's convictions , on the controversy between Church and State in Mexico . He insists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no religious persecution by the Mexican Government , " and in the situation he sees merely " a political struggle to determine who is to be the master of Mexico . " Outlining the major purposes of the Mexican Government as being to secure full sovereignty , to police the country . to establish rural education and to adjust the land problem for the general good , he says that what Mexico needs from the United States Is moral support and no political interference .                     