@@696404

txt It is not often that The Wall Street Journal finds itself in sympathy with Senator ' Wheeler of Montana . whose idea of legislation seems to be ? wherever you see a corporation head , hit it " . When , however , he says that the industries demanding ever higher and higher protection in the tariff must prove their claim by their books . he is on firm ground . One of the evils of protection is that it tends to become a substitute for efficiency . For reasons of climate we have never been able to build up a linen industry in this country to compare with those of the west of Scotland . Belfast or even Saxony . No industry has received higher protection than the manufacture of woolen goods and yet people of only moderate means wear Scotch tweeds , West of England cloths , Bradford serges , cheviots and the like , because the quality is worth the difference in price , both in wear and in appearance . The idea of making people " clothes conscious " by wearing two suits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one which would look good to the last , has not " caught on " . Our cotton goods manufacturers have received higher protection every time the Republican party has engineered a tariff advance in acknowledgment of favors received . In spite of the substantial increases of 1922 that industry in New England has scarcely been paying its way . The alternative seems to have been resort to cheap labor in the Southern cotton mills . It seems a decidedly un-American expedient and hardly bears out the contention that the protective tariff is good for the worker . What seems to he needed in the textile industries is not more protection but reorganization with an axe , together with an improvement in quality . both in the product and in the conditions of the worker . Other industries have proved that good wages and working conditions wonderfully improve the per capita output , both in quantity and quality Long ago . when other motor car manufacturers without Ford 's vision proposed to reduce wages below two dollars a day , Ford raised his minimum to five dollars and took the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a necessary evil but protection as a substitute for efficiency becomes less tolerable every day . To take only one group all the textile manufacturers have shown Congress is that protection has failed to teach them their business .                     