@@694495

txt The Declaration of Independence was read in its entirety  --  signatures and all ? at the trial of William here today . Just why the document was read brought forth conflicting views . Frank S. Righeinaer , counsel for the School Board that is planning to oust the Superintendent , whom Mayor Thompson calls " a stool-pigeon of King George , " said it was to show in the record that the Colonists had real grievances and were not " misguided " as some American historians said . Friends of Superintendent retorted , however , that it was merely a filibuster , and that the board was deliberately trying to protract the hearings until next February when the Superintendent 's contract expires and he will out anyway . Charles Grant Miller of New York , who said he had been a newspaper man and magazine writer for thirty years , was the only witness today and he monopolized the spot light for hours . He attacked Columbia University as a font of treasonable history , called Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler a paymaster of the Carnegie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College as the " odious Muzzey , " described American historians wholesale as " poor puppets , " and charged that the British Government gave an elaborate dinner in London to American professors who revised their texts and that the cost of the dinner was so great it became a subject of interrogation in Parliament . Reads From Manuscript . " Columbia University , " Mr. Miller declaimed , reading from a typewritten manuscript , " where the crown of King George still caps a flagstaff on the campus and where the vast Carnegie funds are headquartered , dominates through its College of Teachers the character of teacher training throughout the land . " Through shrewd application of the vast Carnegie funds in endowments , pensions , perquisites and annuities and the power to control employment and promotion in the collegiate and public school systems , the law has become established that history teachers must saturate them- selves with the treason teachings of Van Tyne and Schlesinger , Beer and Hart and Muzzey , if they would hope for credits for advancement . And the treason spirit they must transmit in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Butler and other paymasters of the three Carnegie funds at Columbia University called a national conference of teachers of American history in Philadelphia , Dec. 29 , 1917 . There Professor Henry Johnson of the history department , Columbia Teachers College , presented a cut-and-dried statement , or resolution , reading in part : " ' Attention is directed to the old charge that the study of the American Revolution in our schools tends to promote an anti-British state of mind . Observing further that this state of mind might conceivably hamper co-operation with our British ally , it is a natural reaction to demand a revision of our textbooks with a view to the cultivation of a pro-British state of mind and this reaction is now actually in evidence . ' " Within two years following the close of the World War ' practically all of our school histories were necessarily reprinted in order to include the story of the war . Several of the authors took advantage to make extensive alterations in their accounts of the American Revolution , the War of 1812 and our other differences with Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Love Feast in England . " Drastic alterations having been made in ten American school histories , their aathors were invited over to England for a celebration of their achievement and they were entertained there at the expense of the British Government in such degree of gratitude that a question was raised in the House of Commons , July 21 , 1921 , concerning the cost and in the colloquy our revisionists were referred to as ' Anglo-American Professors of history . ' " Mr. Miller read extensively from the Parliamentary report , and while it did not include the names of the professors present he said they included Professor Andrew G. head of the American History Department of the University of Chicago ; Professor Carlton J. H. Hayes of the American History Department , Columbia University ; Professor David S. Muzzey , head of the American History Department , Barnard College , and Professor Willis M. West . sometime head of the American History Department of the University of Minnesota . Miller then struck at the revisionists and all their works . " The defam . tion of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is astounding , " he charged . " Three of them present John Hancock as a smuggler only , with not one word of his great public service . Samuel Adams fares little better . One calls him the ' first American political boss ' and another a ' shrewd , hard-boiled politician . ' " Patrick Henry Is set forth to our children as ' a gay , unprosperous and unknown country lawyer . ' " It is taught of Washington : If you had called him an American he would have thought you were using a kind of nickname . He was proud of being an Englishman ' . " He said that Matthew Page Andrews wrote a history in which he referred to Lincoln as " the slave hound of Illinois " and that immediately thereafter Professor Andrews was elected a director of the English-Speaking Union . " Andrews , " he continued accusatively , " was the first tt propose the celebration of Interdependence Day , June 15 , Magna Charta Day , to overshadow the Fourth of July . " " What , " indignantly demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July ? " " Well , overshadow it , " corrected Miller . " One moment , please , " interjected Mr. Righeimer . " At this point I wish to have the Declaration of Independence read into the record . You will do so , Mr. Clerk . " When the clerk sat down , Miller took up his recital . At last Mr. Righeimer drew attention to the passing time and Miller took the hint . Later when Miller 's charge that he attended the British dinner was brought to the attention of Professor of the University of Chicago , to . made a prompt denial . " As a matter of fact , " Professor said , " I was n't within 3,000 miles of London in 1921 . What Mr. Miller has reference to , perhaps , is a historical association meeting there in that year and the American historians may have been entertained by their British colleagues at a banquet as a matter of ordinary and usual courtesy . " Professor Carlton J. H. Hayes of Columbia , commenting last night on the testimony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't want to dignify the Chicago controversy by an extended comment , but so far as I am concerned I have never attended any dinner whatsoever given by the British Government . I have n't been in London for years , and , furthermore , I have never written a book on American history . " Professor Muzzey laughed when told last night of Mr. Miller 's accusations . " I have n't been in London since 1899 , " he said , " and then I did n't see anyone connected with the British Government . The so-called charges are a joke . "                     