@@687907

txt Information received at Washington today leads both Administration officials and labor leaders to express the opinion that a settlement is near in the railroad shopmen 's strike . After a prolonged meeting of the Cabinet this morning , levoted solely to a discussion of industrial troubles , Secretary of War Weeks remained at the White House for further conference with President Harding . On his return to the War Department Mr. Weeks said the question of the relative seniority of the striking shopnien , should they return to work , is virtually the sole question to be decided before an agreement is reached between railroad labor and the managements . Later in the afternoon Samuel Gompers , President of the American Federaticirt of Labor , said he , too , had the same information . " I can not say how authentic it is , " Mr. Gompers said , " and it is not official , but 1 received identical information today . do n't know-twhether the Railroad Labor Board has had any connection with this effort at a settlement , but if so , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Gompers. declared that the best mediuM for a settlement would be through direct negotiation between labor and the railroad managements , rather than through the continued agency of the Federal Government 's Railroad Labor Board . " I firmly believe , " he said , " that if the railroad executives and the representatives of the railroad labor organizations were to meet and discuss the situation among themselves they could reach an adjustment of the strike . Anyway , the assertion that the Cummins-Esch Trarfgportation act can prevent strikes has been demonstrated to be an absolute fallacy . You ca n't prevent strikes by law . " Restoring Seniority the Chief Bar . Administration officials admitted today that the question of seniority in relhtlon to the shopmen 's return to work is the most difficult point in the whole situation . Optimism that this matter could be cleared up satisfactorily was expressed in Administration quarters , apparently based upon the fact that in preceding railrcud strikes this has been a. earerlaratively minor question when a settlement is made . T11.s opiAnism was encountered after discussion of the oeubability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was discouraged at the Cabinet meeting loclay . With regard to ? strike disorders the situation remained the same as yesterday , acce , .. cling to information received both at the War Department and the Department el Jn- ? ice . Outbreaks appear to be sporadic , hut still some complaint was voiced by Administration spokesmen tI  --  at local officials arc nut doing all they are able to stem disorder in their districts . The National Guard has been called out in six States , namely , Kansas , Missouri , Michigan , Indiana , Illinois and West Virginia , the War Department has been Info med . Attorney General Daugherty said-this morning , after a conference with Prestvent Harding and Secretary Weeks , that during the day he would authorize the appointment of more Deputy United States Marshals for guarding the mails . He expressed no fear of a spread of strike disorders . Secretary of War Weeks tonight ordered Maj. Gen. Hines . commandant of the Eighth Corps Area , to send an Inspector General to Denison , Texas , where strike violence and lawlessness against . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The object of the Secretary in taking this step is to secure unbiased reports concerning conditions at this important railway point and . to ascertain whether the need for Federal troops there exists . All corps area commanders are holding troops in readiness for any emergency ? which may develop , the War Secretary said , though he declined to state that direct instructions had been sent from Washington to this effect . A dispatch was received by the Secretary today from Receiver Schaff of the Missouri , Kansas &; Texas road , in which it was . indicated that the Governor of Texas had- declined to furnish troops on representations from . local authorities that the guardsmen were not needed : Later reports indicated , Mr. Weeks said , that the Governor had sent the Adjutant General of the State , with other State authorities , to make investigations . Coal Rather Than Mails Attacked . Though the appeal from Receiver Schaff of the Missouri , Kansas &; Texas Railway is the only direct request for Federal troops ? , Mr. Weeks said , there have been " representations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These have in general taken thelorm a statements of conditions and opinions of railway authorities as to the likelihood of need for Federal troops in the future . Some of the representations have. ? be'en : made directly to the Secretary of ' War , while others have come through United States marshals to the Attorney General . The latest development in the strike Situation was in the form of a dispatch to Senator Shepherd , indicating that'the status quo was being maintained , Mr. Weeks said . This report indicated , he said , that representatives of the socalled Big Four had agreed to help the shopmen maintain order . The sections of the Country most affected by the strike , Mr. Weeks said , are Texas , Kansas , Missouri , Oklahoma , Virginia , Mississippi , Ohio and California . If prompt action had not been taken by the Governors of Kansas and Missouri , the War Secretary said , there probably would have been *trouble in those States . There has been considerable interference with trains in Virginia , the Secretary . said , especially at Roanoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal on the Norfolk &; Western . In general , there seems to have been an inclination to interfere with the . movement of coal rather than of other commodities . In many places civil authorities appear to be in sympathy With the strikers , repens to the War Department Indicate . Secretary Weeks believes that unions will attempt to show that violence , where it actually occurs , . is the work of'skinpathizers of the union men rather than of . the strikers themselves . doubtless true , he said , that a good deal of the lawlessness is being carried on by disorderly elements not under ' the control of the unions . This fact , ho believes , makes it necessary in many cases ' to have troops of some kind on the ground . War Department officials declared today there are no regulations to prevent the use of tear gas against riotous mobs . Cabinet Puts Faith in Hooper . WASHINGTON , July 14 ( Associated Press ) . ? Members of the Cabinet who met With President Harding in the regular Friday session today placed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ability of Chairman Hooper of the Railroad Labor Board to find a solution of the problem . The meeting Was understood to have been devoted largely to discussion Of the rail and coal strikes and to , the . Administration attitude in the event of Certain contingeneies . The President Wee likiCto hold the view that , should , ' verrivireOt operation et the narrier ? .. T ? necessary . It would not abridge the liberty of railroad workers to he drafted for service , In the positions in which they have had experience . Whatever discussion occurred along this line , however was said to be on a strictly hypothetical I basis , there being no evidence that Federal control would be forced by developments of the strike . . Possible use of Federal troops to protea railroad employes remaining on their jobs was deprecated in union circles today a ) 1 tending to aggravate the situation . This view was expressed by J. P. Noonan , President of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Work ers , who charged that mail trains were being withdrawn deliberately by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Federation of Labor also declared there was no justification for use of troops , particularly unless and until requested by the Staff authorities.  - -  It has not been Indicated just what method would be followed should decision to send Federal forces to Denison or elsewhere be reached . In view of the necessary study of the legal authority for such employment of Federal troops , regardless of tile attitude of the State authorities , however , it appeared likely that a Orillal proclamation might be issued by the President simultaneously with the direction to the corps area Commander ' to send forward the troops . There was said to be ample statutory authority for such use of Federal troops and even for the calling out by the President of the National Guard of any State to be used either within that State or in any other State for the purpose of restoring order where tile execution of Federal laws is being resisted or obstructed . The methods of procedure are not prescribed by statute , however , and the statutes cited as conferring sitch powers on the ' President ? Revised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in court actions . The President , it was said today , probably will reply to ' the telegram sent to_the ' him yesterday by'B . M. Jewell , head of the striking shop crafts . Other matters more pressing were said to have prevented an immediate reply . Cummins on Labor Board Powers . A Senator Cummins of Iowa , Chairman of the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee , and one of the co-authors of tile Transportation act . of 1920 , under which the Railroad Labor Board functions . declared today that decisions of the board were binding On both carriers and employes , and not simply " advisory , " as held by union officials . The Government . Senator Cummins held , can compel obedience to rulings of the . board , notwithstanding that the Transportation act provided no penalties . Senator Ctimmins was in conference with President Harding at the White House for nearly an hour late today . After the conference he said that while he Was optimistic ; he could see no way at present out . of the ' ' tangled situation , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfecting the Transportation act waa understood to have been discussed by the President and Senator Cummins . The latter , on leaving the White House , said several amendments were needed , particularly one which would more clearly define what comprised a reasonable *Age award on the part of the Railroad Labor Board . Senator CumMins.itgreed that no legislation could be enacted until the House reconvened on Aug. , 15. - Meanwhile , he said , the ' existinelw should prove adequate .                     