@@691555

txt AN investigation conducted by the approved methods of questionnaire , post-card poll , inquiring reporter , severally or jointly , will probably show that the American tired business man is today a little more tired than ever . This increment of fatigue would be induced by the pictures of himself in the current literature of fiction and social criticism . The present writer . though far removed from the marts of trade , must confess to an intense weariness , of the manikin Babbitts , Rotarians . Kiwanisians . Fraternians and Chamber of Commerce men who parade across the pages of literary revolt . How much more tired might he not be of this marionette show if he were in business for himself ! Beyond the stage of fatigue my resentment would not go . Even in the eyes of his most candid critic the American tired business man is Creature of strong ii.stons . Such malevolence as he is guilty of expresses itself in collective action . As a member of the local Chamber of Commerce he may be at war with the labor unions or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is allowed to retain the traditional American kindliness begotten of indifference , begotten , in turn . of paralysis of the psyche , commonly known as mental dullness . Even the capacity for violent resentment is denied to Babbitt . He is not a hostile force . He is just a drag on the wheels of progress toward the Good Life . Concerning the authenticity of this picture of the American business man doubts arise , in the first place . from the very broadest of prima facie considerations . He is. after all , a member of the human race . As such he should qualify for at least a fragment of the charity which we bestow on every other member of society . descending in the scale of merit from the evening ladies of Broadway through the social rebel and the misunderstood experimenter in Life to the descendant of the original New England stock . For the artist . especially . it should be true that nihil humani is alienuin For the novelist it ought to be a temptation to pierce beneath the American business man as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his favorite magazines . ..... WHAT emotions sweep through this standardized business heart after office hours . or even during office hours ? What thoughts struggle . even if feebly and confusedly , to the surface of this atrophied brain ? More than once in this place I have suggested that a conscientious inquiry might reveal considerable human values in the Amerinan business man . In the heart of a member of the Stock Exchange one might discover a yearning to climb Mount Everest . In the mind of a paint and varnish manufacturer one might discover a firm opinion on the sources of the Four Gospels . In the soul of a realtor one might discover a surprising fondness for Bach or Brahms . And when It comes down to mere Individuality , think of what Thackeray discovered in his two business men . Mr. Osborne and Mr. Sedley : or Howells in Silas Lapham : or what Octave Mirbeau dug up in " Business Is Business " ; or what Somerset alaugharn hit upon in his " Moon and Sixpence . " For every stockbroker who abandons his business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sea Islands there must be a hundred who are . frequently tempted to do so . A few hundred years ago the name for business men was Merchant Adventurers . There is. then , a general presumption in favor of the Rotarian as a fairly complex human being who will bleed if you prick him and laugh if you tickle him . As for Babbitt 's being a dullard and a clog in the realm of artistic emotion and creation , let us be severely historical . Merchandising and the arts have , as a matter .. f fact . gone very well together . The crest art nations of history have been the shopkeeping nations . The l'hoenician merchant adventurers began it by inventing the alphahet , without which the novelist would be eet:erely handicapped . The simul taneous pursuit of art and of the drachma , the ducat. the guinea and the guilder was extremely active in Greece , medieval Italy , Shakespeare 's England and the home-town of Rembrandt . Merchant prince and art patron are synonyms for the Renaissance . Under ** the English reached out and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victoria they annexed most of what was left . Under Coolidge we are busily re-collecting the collections of earlier Greek , English and Dutch art lovers . It is a fair presumption , then , that the American business man , if given time and a chance , may yet turn out to be appreciably different from the contemporary chromes of him . He may be discovered to be much more of a man than he has been described and much less of a dead weight upon the free flight of the spirit . BUT beyond the question , important enough for an artist of truth and understanding in the handling of his human materials , there now emerges the argument from self-interest . The social dissertationists might refrain a little while from " riding " poor Babbitt while they pause to consider whether they might not yet need him as an ally in the battle for truth and the freedom of the human spirit . As a starting point they might take Dayton , Tenn . It will be recalled that the State of Tennessee , possibly spurred on by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently adopted a constitutional amendment prohibiting inheritance taxes , has gone a step further and banished the laws of descent and inheritance as they function everywhere else in the universe under the general title of Evolution . Next month 's evolution trial in Dayton promises to be a amuse ** If the Tennessee law is vindicated In the courts , we may expect a wave of similar legislation to sweep the South and West in the interest of the William Jennings Bryan interpretation of the universe . And the men behind this rush toward obscurantism will not be the business men who voted for Coolidge , but the farmers who not sit long ago were regarded as excellent material for a radical Third Party . Compared with the menace to academic freedom foreshadowed in the Tennessee law against evolution , our Previous infringements on academic freedom amount to virtually nothing . In a dozen years , perhaps , one can think of a dozen eases in which college professors have come into collision with their Presidents or their trustees ; and in very few of these MCP , have the rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not infrequently it is shown that the martyr to academic freedom has insisted on being not only free but unpleasant . At any rate , for every instance of actual suppression of freedom in the classroom we can cite several cases of pleasing , not to say astonishing , openmindednees on the part of the Rotarian university Presidents and the Babbitt trustees who dominate them . When the University of Weissnichtwo separates itself from a heretic professor . the University of Camelot usually takes him on at a higher salary . It Laputa . College closes its doors to . a radical orator , the neighboring Brobdingelag Collage extends its hospitality to a much redder visiting speaker . In any case it is still to be shown that the fruits of free inquiry in the United States have in the slightest degree been impaired by that stranglehold of the business men of the colleges which Mr. Upton Sinclair has described with such a vast and dubious detail . THE real danger , as now revealed , is not in the colleges and universities dominated by the Babbitts but in those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The farmer  --  voila l'ennemi ! Mr. Bryan has declared with unusual terseness that the pay check rules the schools . This is what Upton Sinclair has been saying for some time . But whereas Mr. Sinclair infers , Mr. Bryan has the facts to back him up . Mr. Sin- clair ' enumerates the Rockefeller stocks and bonds in which Columbia University 's money is invested , and deduces therefrom that Mr. Rockefeller must control doctrine and methods on Mornirigside Heights  --  an argument considerably weakened by the fact that it is n't so . But it emphatically is so in Tennessee . which has now declared that none of its good money shall go to colleges and schools which toter- ate a biology subsequent to Genesis . Vast amounts of Rockefeller money , of other oil and banking and manufacturing and trading money , have been invested in the exploration and vindication of those very hypotheses and doctrines of man in nature which the money of the Tennessee taxpayer has now excommunicated . Taking one consideration with another , the lot of a President of a State university In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has always been under the necessity of persuading the legisla tors from the rural counties that departments of philosophy and fine literature and classic languages are not altogether a waste of the public funds . He has usually succeeded by ingeniously tying up Plato and Corneille and Sophocles with Improved methods In silage and a higher percentage of butter-fat In the milk-can . But no ingenuity will avail against a Legislature which moves from mere indifference to active hostility , from asking what it gets for its money to stipulating just what it wants in return for its money . tart THE Tennessee fever may spread . A number of States have hovered very close to the edge of imposing a dictatorship of the anti-intellectual proletariat on their universities . But they are none of them States in which the uroan element . which is to say the business element , is dominant . It may yet come to pass that the cause of academic freedom in its widest sense , , the cause of free inquiry and free teaching , will have to be defended against the democratic State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may yet have to turn to Babbitt for aid and comfort against the obacurantisms of the farm and the great open spaces . That is what I meant when I said that the practitioners of social satire in the novel and the essay and the editorial column had better go easy on Babbitt out of sheer self-interest . The politics which makes strange bedfellows is not always bad politics . A good cause often has to he defended by a group of allied and associated powers who may have their own opinion of each other . If Mr. Bryan is victorious in Tennessee . if Kentucky and Florida and California show signs of flopping In the same direction , if the survivals of eighteenth century bigotry in the backwoods and the open country extend and consolidate their conquests , the New Republic may yet have to climb into bed with Babbitt . And In that intimate atmosphere the candid critics of the American business man are likely to discover that he has qualities after all . For one thing , he has the adventurous spirit of the business man in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And adventure means an open , curious mind . The man who is willing to take a chance on a real estate proposition will take a chance on a Darwinian proposition . The man who sets out to sell himself to you will give you a chance to sell yourself to him . The hardest thing that can be said against the man of business is that he has no moral convictions . This may speak in his favor when convictions become blgotry . If evolution is a good thing ' for progress , for the country , for business , Babbitt will not let theology interfere with evolution . The Tennessee farmer cares little ' for what the outside world thinks of him . The Tennessee business man . is likely to grow restive after the third or fourth allusion to the monkey law . His motives do not matter . Perhaps it was the London merchants ' aversion for taxes that aligned them with Cromwell against the Stuarts . The fact remains that on that occasion , as on numerous occasions , the town trader was found on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the open country . For literature , to come back to my starting point , this rediscovery of the Rotarian and Kiwanensian is the very best thing that can happen from the practical point of view . Inasmuch as fashions in literature change every ten years , we might expect under any circumstances a sharp reaction from Babbitt in the American novel by the year 1975 . That reaction will be hastened if Mr. Bryan and his farmer folk succeed in having their way .                     