@@692883

txt General Lincoln Andrews , head of the Federal , prohibition forces , is considering handing in his resignation , with a request to be relieved from duty some time next Fall . He refused today to conft  --  rn or deny that such were his intentions , but intimated that he seriously was contemplating such a course . He has not been altogether happy in the job , and the refusal ' of Congress at the present session to adopt legislation for the reorganization of his forces or the tightening up of the enforcement laws has , he feels , left him without the authority necessary ' to accomplish effective work . " Congress has given me money and men , " said GeneraINAndrews , " but it has not given me the legislation which is vital if we are going to get at the real sources of supply . If it fails to act on these bills before adjournment it will seriously handicap the campaign we have outlined this year . " General Andrews told newspaper men in New York last November that he would resign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfaction that he would not be able effectively , to enforce the prohibition laws . When pressed today to tell whether he now contemplated quitting in November , at the end of the year . period , he would make no definite statement ; indicating that this was a question which required careful thought . Sails for Europe on July 7 . In any event , it was intimated that he would not go out of office until he had completed his trip to Europe , on which he sails from New York on the Aquitania on July 7 . He will be accompanied by representatives of the State Department and the Department . of Justice and will go first to England and possibly later to Germany and France . Their hope is to work out agreements with these countries which will bring about closer cooperation in the enforcement of anti-smuggling treaties . The British Government has signified Its Intention to do what it can to end the operations of rum fleets . Whether General Andrews will clear up the doubt about his reported intention of resigning before he sails is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement to make next Tuesday , but he would . not discuss the nature of it . It had been his intention , if Congress passed the reorganization bill , to call a meeting of all the district administrators upon his return from Europe , in August or September , to work out a new campaign for tighter enforcement , but whether he will carry out that Program undetpresent conditions is a matter of doubt . In the midst of his uncertainties General Andrews was called upon today to name a new chief for the aleoiiol squad , John A. Potter resigning from that office . General Andrews appointed Frank Hale , now connected with a New York prohibition forces , as acting supervisor , with headquarters in Washington . The intimation that General Andrews might soon resign did not come as a great surprise to many who had closely followed his efforts to tighten up enforcement work . Not long after he took his present job , the General found that it was no easy task tp divorce enforcement work from politics and win authority to select administrators and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various States . His first clash came with Senator Edge of New Jersey over the rigid instructions issued to the Coast Guard to stop all craft , large and small , suspected of transporting liquor . Failure of His Plans . A plan that the General had to induce important business executives to help him enforce the liquor laws did not work out very successfully and was dropped . Then he appealed to Congress , apparently with the full backing of President Coolidge and Secretary Mellon , for legislation to reorganize his department and amend the Volstead act . Congress committees took most of the teeth out of his proposals , and then the leaders decided not to take formal action this session . The adoption of the bills would have given General Andrews much added power and weakened the control of Senators and Congressmen . One of his requests was for authority to hire retired army officers as administrators and permit the officers to receive their retired pay . General Andrews described it as a logical proposition to obtain highly efficient executives , but Congress did not heed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to permit General Andrews to put former army officers in important posts which many of the legislators had looked upon as legitimate political plums . Although President Coolidge made a personal appeal to Congress for adoption of farm legislation he did not go to that extent in connection with the legislation which General Andrews demanded as vital to effective enforcement of the prohibition laws . This ' may have nettled the General . In any event , the General has been left without the power which he has repeatedly said web essential to enforcement . There is a distinct impression in political circles tonight that General Andrews will step out of office some time in the Fail , after having accomplished as much as he can under the present powers to bring his department to a high state of efficiency and thus remove as many thorns as possible from the pathway- of his successor . Mr. Mellon Disappointed . Secretary Mellon shares the disappointment expressed by General Andraws over the failure of the legislee tive dry program . Mx . Mellon paid a visit to the Capitol ' this week and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use their best endeavors to put through at least the reorganization bill . His mission was not fruitful of results . A week or so ago General Andrews talked about the dry bills with Chairman Graham of the House Judiciary Committee . He expressed the hope &; ? .149 14449 44i4,4151 v.40 IQ PAP what is known as the Goff bill , which , among other things , supplements the rum treaties negotiated with Great Britain and other countries . Nothing substantiative followed the visit of General Andrews to the Capitol . While Chairman Graham Is a wet , it is known that he made an attempt to perfect arrangements for the passage of the Goff bill , but without success . Friends of General . Andrews assert that he can not successfully enforce prohibition with tits present organization at his command . They point out that under existing law there is divided responsibility and authority in the dry law administration between the office of General Andrews and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue . The latter official still has a large say in naming and handling personnel . All of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Treasury officials and which was passed by the House several weeks ago bet failed in the Senate . The bill sets up the prohibition unit , now a part of the Internal Revenue Bureau , as a separate entity , and centralizes all authority in General Andrews 's office . It also gives General Andrews power to coordinate activities of the Coast Guard and customs service with the prohibition unit , without restraint from any quarter except the Secretary of the Treasury . It was explained today that General Andrews 's plan to strike hard at the sources of supply of hard liquor and high-power beer in the region lying north of the Potomac and east of the Mississippi was contingent in part upon .. the passage of the , reorganization bill ; and that the mobile squad necessary in this particular field can not be used with the effect expected unless General AndreWs has the authority conveyed by the Goff bill and the reorganization measure . There was a report today that Chairman Graham might call up the Goff bill in the House , probably tomorrow , but if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned because of the situation in the Senate , which prePcludes consideration of any of the dry bills at this time if adjournment is to be had tomorrow afternoon at 3 o'clock , as now seems assured . Foster 's Resignation Regretted . Prohibition authorities in . New York City were advised from Washington yesterday of the resignation of John A. Foster , former Prohibition Administrator of New York , as Supervisor of Alcohol Control for the district of New York and Philadelphia . They were informed later that Frank Hale. who was first assistant to Mr. Foster , had been assigned to fill the vacancy as Acting Supervisor . Mr. Hale has been connected with the Prohibition Enforcement Bureau for several years . He is a young man and is married . In commenting on the resignation Of Supervisor Foster , Chester C. Mills , Prohibition Administrator of New York , said he represented a " great loss . " " He was an excellent executive and a fine man , " said Major Mills . " We rkagt ktOolgt , t-W '  --  -      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      