@@694648

txt Beer gang warfare broke out anew early this morning when five or six men burst into " Bob 's Lone Tree Tavern . " a road house on Milwaukee avenue , just south of Oakton street , a half mile north of Niles , and shot Charles Miller , said to . be a beer runner , to death without giving him a chance . A hat bearing a bullet hole far down on the left side that was found on the floor caused police to believe that one of the attacking gang had been accidentally shot by one of . his pals during the fusillade . Miller was in the place with Robert Preebus , the proprietor , and four other men shortly before 3 o'clock . Miller was standing nearest to the street entrance . Suddenly the door was thrown open and the slayers , each with a revolver in hand , appeared . Without a word they all opened fire on Miller , who fell to the floor with seven bullet wounds . Thirty-five or forty shots were fired by the assailants . Assassins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assassins rushed from the place without attempting to harm either of the other men . Dr. Bdward biters of Des Plaines was hastily summoned , but Miller was dead when the phYsiMan reached the tavern . Chief James L. Devereux and Lieut . Lester Laird of the county highway police immediately began a hunt for the slayers . Preebus , William Peters , his manager , and others in the place were questioned but could give no clew to the identity of the slayers . Preebus told the police Miller was a beer runner and advanced the theory that he had been making sales in territory claimed by others . A card in Miller 's pocket indicated his address was 4650 Lincoln avenue . Wounded Man- Taken to Hospital . An hour after the shooting a man Identified by papers In his pocket as John Davis , living at the Norford hotel , 1605 North Crawford avenue , was taken Into the University hospital by two men and laid upon the floor 0f , / the lobby : They told Miss Ailene Gilmore , night attendant , the man had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go out and bring In his hat and coat . They left and did not return . It was found Davis had a bullet hole in his left temple and probably will die . Two physicians summoned by mysterious telephone calls stating they were wanted on an automobile case at the University hospital , appeared shortly after the two men left . They were Dr. Lester Ofner , 16 ' 00 West MadIson street , and Dr. Adolph Kroft , 1605 West Van Buren , street . Dr. Ofner identified Davis as a man he recently treated for alcoholism at the Norford hotel . Chief Devereux hastened to the hos. pital with the hat found on the floor of the Tavern in an endeavor to learn whether there might be a connection between the two shootings .                     