@@685824

txt NO TREATIES , NO LEAGUE . For They Conflict with the Doctrine of Normalcy . To the Editor of The New York Times : In your editorial article , " Business Through Quarreling , " you condemn us Republicans for proposing to tear up all our treaties of " amity , commerce and navigation " and attending to our own business in our own way . Do you not know that we have turned our face against the League of Nations because it sets up a super-government which will interfere with our sovereignty ? Now , what is a treaty but a veiled League of Nations , which sets up the very super-government that we are fighting ? Whenever two nations sign a treaty they execute an instrument superior to them both . Both must obey It and neither can abrogate it at will . Is this not a curb upon our liberty and upon our sovereignty , to which no freeborn American citizen can submit  --  something beneath the dignity of the great American nation which owes nothing to anybody ? When the Europeans were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great army and sent it across the seas to help them out . As soon as the armistice was signed we cut loose from . them and left them to finish their quarrel . Our enemies say we ducked and ran away before the job was finished . But we followed the inclination of our will and did as we pleased , and no one , has a right to complain . So it is with these treaties . Tear them up . What does the great American nation want with a hampering treaty ? If foreigners want to buy , let them come over , and if they are the right stuff we will sell to them . If we wish to buy anything from them we will send our ships over and get it , treaty or no treaty . Nobody will dare interfere . But as Americans we will have no involvements or committals of any nature . We will keep along the line of normalcy as chalked by Washington and Lincoln and other eminent psychiatrists . We will sink or swim . live or die as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we owe anything to the comity of nations let it sehd in the bill , with proper vouchers and we will pay it . While we would like to acclaim stable governments wherever the people may choose to erect them , yet it is no concern of ours what sort of government they may have so long as we have no occasion to complain at them . Such are the teachings of the founding ? fathers and such is the gospel of the great conscience-impelled Republican Party , and neither you nor the cloud-compelling Jove , can bulldoze us into surrendering our war cry , " America first . " G. NASH MORTON . New York , Sept. 28 , 1920.                     