@@692821

txt A tentative peace agreement , subject to ratification by the union and the employers ' association , was drawn up last night at the Hotel Pennsylvania , where representatives of 12.000 striking fur orkers and of the Associated Fur Manufacturers Association , Inc. , signed a document virtually ending the seventeen weeks ' strike . Chief among the demands of the union granted by the employers was the forty-hour week , with the provision that the union would permit workers to do forty-four hours in the four busy months at the regutlar pay . The employers some time ago offered to grant the forty-two-hour week as part of a new agreement in place of the forty-four-hour week which existed up to the time the strike was called . Arrangements will be made today to submit the terms to a referendum of the union at a meeting which may be held tomorrow . The manufacturers will also 1. old a meeting to pass on the terms . It is expected that both meetings will approve the settlement and that the majority of the fur workers will be back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Monday it is believed that all the strikers will be at their beaches . Sacrifice Three Days ' Pay . In the new agreement which expires on Feb. 1 , 1929. the union sacrificed pay for three holidays in the year . They have been paid for ten holidays but will now be paid for seven . In return the employers conceded a 10 per cent . wage increase over the minimum wage scale and a reclassification of minimum standards which will mean a considerable wage increase for many workers . The employers have also agreed not to give their work out to subcontractors . Rigid penalties for violation of this section were agreed to by the conferees . The union dropped its demand for an unemployment insurance fund which was to he sustained by a 3 per cent . contribution by the employers and administered by the union . The tentative agreement embodied a provision for the equal distribution of work for three months . a similar provision having been in the old agreement . Under the new agreement the manufacturers will not engage apprentices for two years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcrowded and that conditions in the industry demanded a rigid limitation of apprentices for some time . The strike , which is virtually at an end , was the second longest strike in the fur industry . The last strike , called in 1920 , lasted thirty-one weeks and found the union at the end of its resources . The workers returned at that time on the basis of the old agreement . Agreement After Long Session . The tentative agreement drawn up last night was framed after an all day joint session at which there were present Impartial Chairman Paul Abelson , Samuel N. Samuels , President of the Manufacturers ' Associa- tion , and his associates , Abraham Chalkin , Herman Scheidlinger , Harry Reich and Frank Hershkowitz . The union was represented by Benjamin Gold , Chairman of the Strike Committee , Aaron Gross , business agent of the Joint Board , and Samuel Leibowitz , manager of the Joint Board . The International Fur Workers Union was represented by Ozier Schachtman , President ; 1 . Wohl , Secretary , and I. Winnick , Vice President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. was said to be largely responsible for the settlement of the strike . Mr. Eitingon who had hitherto taken no part in the negotiations , returned from Europe a few days ago and interested himself in an effort to end the long drawn battle . Mr. Eitingon spent most of Wednesday night with Mr. Gold of the Joint Board of the Union and the early morning hours yesterday with Mr. Weinstein . At 7 o'clock yesterday morning it appeared that he was on the verge of success and a meeting was called for the afternoon . The committees met all afternoon and evening with Mr. Abelson present and the terms became known late last night . Cost Put at S29.000,000 . The strike , it was estimated , cost the fur industry approximately $29,000,000 . The wage bill lost to the workers was placed at $7,000,000 ; $1,000,000 was paid in benefits to the strikers and $21,000,000 was lost by manufacturers as a result of the suspension . The original demands of the workers were for the forty-hour week , equal division of work , abolition of overtime , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in minimum wage scales , no apprentices to be engaged during the term of the proposed agreement , which was to be for two years , and a system of unemployment insurance , to be paid by the employers . Friction developed early in the strike between the officers of the International Union , led by Ozier Schachtman , and the officers of the Joint Board , led by Ben Gold . The international officers at a conference with President Samuel N. Samuels of the Associated Fur Manufacturers . Ine .. drew up a tentative agreement known as " the eight points . " This agreement was made with the knowledge and assistance of Hugh Frayne , New York representative of the American Federation of Labor . President Green of the American Federation of Labor was also visited several times by representatives of the manufacturers and took a personal interest in the strike on several occasions , once coming to New York to address a special gathering of the strikers at the Sixty-ninth Regiment Armory . Rejected the " Eight Points . " The strikers ' local leaders rejected the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour week . not the forty-hour week , in place of the existing forty-four hour week . The leaders declared the membership was adamant for the forty-hour wetic Other clauses in the proposed agreement provided for a 10 per cent ? increase in the minimum wage scale , an unemployment fund to be founded by equal contributions from both sides and administered by an , mpartial board , overtime to be eliminated as far as possible , a three-year agreement and no further apprentices to be engaged for two years. , Mr. Frayne and Mr. Schachtman called a meeting at Carnegie Hall to place the " eight points " before the strikers . The hall was jam.ned , but the audience howled down those who tried to make speeches because their leader , Chairman Gold of the Joint Board , was not allowed to enter the hall . During the seventeen weeks ' strike there were 700 arrests , mainly in the fur district in this city . There were many clashes between union and nonunion workers as a result of which heads were broken . Pickets and employers were waylaid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five arrests were made yesterday by the police of the West Thirtieth Street station . The arrests were made after an attack by sixty strikers on Benjamin Weisberg and his wife Bessie , owners of a fur shop at 172 West Twenty-fifth Street . They were beaten with hammer handles wrapped in newspapers . Patrolman William A. Duffy of the West Thirtieth Street station scattered the crowd by driving a police automobile into the thrOzA , . .                     