@@696076

txt In every city large enough to support a daily paper school boys deliver the papers in the residential sections and sell them on the streets . The boys who have a fixed route in a neighborhood of homes cause little worry to parents , teachers and the police department , but the free-lance salesmen of twelve years have to be looked after carefully or they get into trouble . The town of Fargo was like many others a few years ago in having considerable difficulty in controlling the street newsies . Little chaps of eight years were competing with youths of sixteen . Street and alley fights were frequent . The spirit of the boys was in general belligerent , and they were proud of raids on sidewalk displays of fruit and their ability to short-change customers . The big boys were cruel to the smaller ones , and the latter traded on the sympathy of the public and whined and begged as profitably as they sold papers . Continual complaints to the police department finally resulted in turning the whole problem over to Fargo 's one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the National Child Labor Committee of New York City she tells how she solved it . She could not invoke the State child labor laws because the boys were not employed by any concern . But under a city ordinance for the control of hawkers and peddlers she was able to work out a highly successful plan . First she got about thirty of the older boys together and they drew up the fundamental regulations . Then she enlisted the support of the circulation managers , who agreed to refuse papers to any boy not living up to the rules . The chf trouble had been caused by the presence of very young boys and by the impossibility of identifying mischiefmakers . So the principal rules were that 12 should be the minimum age for street sellers and that age and identification vouchers should be carried by all newsies . Corners were assigned , begging was forbidden and all disputes were ordered to the policewoman 's office for settlement . For about two years after the regulations went into effect her office was stormed by relatives of rejected applicants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend of the Mayor insisted on trying to make " that policewoman " give a permit to a boy under age . A few boys who tried to help their young friends by getting their papers for them were found out and deprived of their permits , and the system was soon functioning well . As the little fellows reached the age of 12 and secured the coveted badge they immediately became stanch supporters of the rules . Looking over her records of the eleven years since she installed the system , Miss DUFFY found that not one of her regular newsboys has had either a police or a juvenile court record . Many of them put themselves through the seventh and eighth grades and several paid their high school expenses . She is proud of her boys , and Fargo has reason to be proud of her ,                     