@@695118

txt Leaders of the farm group decided at a conference tonight to appeal to Secretary Mellon on his arrival tomorrow and urge him not to support Secretary Hoover or any other candidate opposed by the farm group for the Presidential nomination . Similar appeals also will be made to other Eastern leaders on the ground that Mr. Hoover , if nominated , will not be supported for election by Republicans in the farm States . The initiative in the movement ? to get Secretary Mellon to oppose See- , retary Hoover 's nomination was taken by the Executive Committee of the Voluntary Committee for the 1 Equalization of Agriculture , of which Mark Woods of Lincoln , Neb. , is Chairman . The other members of 1 this committee as originally aP- I pointed were Jesse H. Barrett of Missouri , J. F. Reed of Minnesota , S. X. Way of South Dakota and I Frank M. Hoyt of Wisconsin . For the purpose of appealing to Secretary Mellon and other Eastern leaders not to insist on the nomination of Mr. Hoover , on the view that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthened by the addition of two outstanding Republicans from each of the fourteen States represented in the Voluntary Committee . Committee Is Reinforced . Such men as Governor Adam of Nebraska , Governor A. G. Sorlie and Senator Gerald P. Nye of North Dakota have been or will be asked to join this committee . M. J. Tobin , Chairman of the Voluntary Committee , said that while an interview with Secretary Mellon would be sought the committee also intended to appeal to other party leaders , especially some of those now pledged or inclined to Mr. Hoover . The members of the farm group , it was said , intend to be diplomatic in their efforts to get Secretary Mellon and other Eastern Republicans to heed their argument that the nomination of Mr. Hoover will mean the defeat of the party ticket at the election . They declared that they did not wish their assertions to this effect to be construed as a threat , but merely as a statement of what might be expected to happen if Mr. Hoover was named . The movement is understood to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , including George N. Peek of the American Farm Bureau Federation and Earl C. Smith , President of the Illinois Agricultural Association . Curtis Asserts His Leadership . Prior to this move for a direct farm appeal against Mr. Hoover , Senator Curtis of Kansas , last of the Presidential aspirants of the anti-Hoover coalition to arrive here , assumed the offensive on his own behalf . Seeking to rally the opposition forces to his own standard , Mr. Curtis took steps to set at naught rumors which had preceded him to the convention city that he might withdraw his opposition to Secretary Hoover and turn the delegate strength he has over to the Secretary in return for second place on his ticket . Somehow an impression nad gained ground in the Hoover camp that Senator Curtis might be " open to a proposition . " While the Kansas delegation is tied hard and fast to Mr. Curtis , there is said to be a great deal of Hoover sentiment in Kansas , " corn-belt " State as Kansas is , and this possibly may have given rise to happy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Curtis block first ballot of delegates is by no means large , but Mr. Curtis is supposed to hold invisible reserves strength , to which , as well , the Hooverites had hoped their candidate would fall heir . A - perusal of the first contribution made by the Kansas Senator to the pre-convention flood of propaganda . literature , however , caused all the hopes of the Hooverites to fade away . Dissapoints Hooverites . Senator Curtis , who might have swung sufficient strength to Secretary Hoover to enable him in turn to swing the convention , opened up on his candidacy in the most aggressive fashion . One shot he fired was that the convention could not afford to nominate a candidate who would place the party " on the defensive from the day he is named . " The " draft Coolidge " group , working on lines parallel to those of the several midwestern agrarian groups for the elimination of Mr. Hoover , continued on the offensive during the day . The movement to nominate President Coolidge , which came to the surface with such surprising strength yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By evening . it appeared certain that the name of President Coolidge would come before the convention in the absence of some new and more vigorous protest from the White House , or some personal message from the President . There is a strong hope among the leaders of the " draft Coolidge " bloc that no such protest or message from the President will come prior to the balloting stage of the convention . Some of them pointed out that if the President had intended to give the convention an eleventh-hour message he has had at least two recent opportunities and has taken advantage of neither . For that reason they believe Mr. Coolidge will live up to his reputation for super-silence until a vote is taken on the nomination of candidates . " Draft " Bloc Awaits Message . The " draft Coolidge " theory is that a whisper to either William Butler , Chairman of the Republican National Committee , or to Senator Curtis would have served the President 's subsequently should send word to the convention that the work has been to no purpose , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates would have been disrupted , and their secondary hopes of keeping Mr. Hoover away from the nomination would have been realized because they feel it would prove impossible for the leaders of the Hoover movement to rally to his support again More than a fraction of the delegates carried away from him on a Coolidge tide . Curtis Viewed as " Coolidge Heir . " Senator Curtis , in his statement issued soon after he arrived this morning , said he had . come to Kansas City expecting that the nomination would come to him as " the strongest man " the convention could name . Friends of the Senator from Kansas regard his position , if a compromise candidate must be nominated , as one of exceptional strength , in that , while having the good-will of the " corn belt , " he is not open to the objections from the Administration to which former Governor Lowden , who appears to be first in the affection of the farmers , would be exposed as a result of his stand for the bill which the President vetoed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the bill in the first instance , but subsequently cast his vote to sustain the President 's veto . All through his leadership Mr. Curtis has strongly upheld President Coolidge on the floor of the Senate . Senator Curtis would make no comment on the situation beyond what was contained in his statement , and would not , like ex-Governor Lowden and Senator Watson of Indiana , two of the competing Presidential aspirants in the anti-Hoover coalition group , submit to a cross-fire of questions from a small army of newspaper correspondents . It was learned from Senator Curtis 's friends , however , that his vote to sustain the President in his action on the farm relief bill had not lost him any prestige among the farmers , judging from the letters he had received . It was said that while less than a dozen had criticized his action when the proposal to override the President 's veto came up before the Senate he had received a thousand or more letters commending him on his course . Senator Curtis 's , Statement . The statement issued by Senator Curtis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City hoping to receive the Republican nomination for the Presidency . " I am anxious to see the convention nominate the man who will make the strongest and best candidate , and I believe , under all the circumstances , that I am the man , and hope a majority of the delegates will agree with me on that point . " The convention can not afford to nominate as the head of the ticket any one for whom the party will be on the defensive from the day he is named until the close of the polls on election day . " The result of the contests before the National Committee does not cause me considerable concern . " I do not see where Mr. Hoover made any great gain . Mr. Good , his manager , in his testimony before the Senate investigation committee , said on page 124 of the printed hearings : ' I think there will be a contest in Mississippi . Both of the delegations are for Mr. Hoover , so we naturally would not be interested in setting up any contest there . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of the contest in that State . " Mr. Good also said on pages 124 and 125 of the same report : ' There will be a contest in Texas , but we have or will have the delegation . ' So , according to their own claims , there were no gains there for Mr. Hoover . " I might refer to the contests in other States , but it is unnecessary , as the result is the same . " Personally , irrespective of claims made by any of the candidates , I think the convention should seat only such delegates as have established their legal right to be seated . " The Congress that has just adjourned made a splendid record . On this record and the record of the Administration for the last four years our party can win the coming election if the candidate is a man for whom no apologies will be required . " Mellon Holds Critical Power . In the anti-Hoover camp there was a feeling that , with the balloting stage of the convention not many days off . Mr. Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates from now on , unless Secretary Mellon , upon his arrival here tomorrow , by word or act , the act being the throwing of Pennsylvania 's block of seventy-nine delegates to Mr. Hoover 's support , should set him on the path to victory . In the meantime it is expected that with the arrival of the delegate army tomorrow there will be a scramble among Presidential aspirants in the anti-Hoover coalition to build up their strength . In a way , the contest for delegates is already in progress , but with so few on the scene as yet the fishing has not been good and . no big catches have been reported . Senator Curtis , immediately upon his arrival , went into seclusion in a suite on the third floor of the Hotel Muehlebach , where within the first three hours he talked with some seventy-five delegates . It is admitted- that , with competition so keen among the anti-Hoover candidates , careful management will be required if the anti-Hoover alliance is not to be disrupted before the crucial stage is reached in the proceedings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central control over the strategy of the coalition , such control , it was generally admitted , would be difficult to keep within bounds in view of the individual endeavor of candidates to draw to their own strength . " In a general way , however , " one of the coalition leaders said , " this activity in corraling delegates is gathering in recruits to the antiHoover army in greater numbers than if the candidates pursued a policy of inactivity . Every delegate captured by a candidate within our coalition will mean one vote against Hoover in the convention . But I admit that poaching by one upon what another candidate might regird as his preserve would be fraught with peril to the anti-Hoover cause . " Lowden Camp Plan : : Contest ? All the candidates now have headquarters that are functioning and appear a lot more pretentious both in space and fittings than one is accustomed to see . So there would appear to be no lack of money in the anti-Hoover camp at the convention . Except in the Lowden headquarters , which appears to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed , a Sabbath peace appeared to have descended on all the coalition fighting bases in the Hotel Baltimore , the Staats Hotel , and at the Hotel President , where Senator Watson of Indiana has hung out his shingle . At the Lowden headquarters it was learned this afternoon that the work of preparing for the contests before the Committee on Credentials to bring about the unseating of Hoover delegates from the South who had been seated by the National Committee had been nearly completed . In preparation the delegates whom the National Committee disqualified have been subjected to a searching examination on the prospects that the Credentials Committee will permit them to tell their stories . Ralph E. Cole , Representative in Congress from Ohio , will handle the Florida contest involving nine delegates . Representative A. A. Vestal of Indiana , Republican whip in the House , and Hebry Eugene Kelley , President of the Union League Club of Chicago , will handle the Louisiana and Texas contests , in which the anti-Hoover people stand to gain thirty-six delegates . Mr. Kelley said that after examining the legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee on Credentials would be bound to reverse the decision of the National Committee . Call for Mellon Is Sounded . ' From the " wide open spaces , " where Hoover Is taboo and Coolidge is a close second in unpopularity with the embittered agrarians , came a call today for the nomination of Andrew W. Mellon . " Jim " Harris , who has been active in Oklahoma politics for thirty years or more , has served as Republican National Committeeman from that State and as Chairman of the Oklahoma Central Republican Committee , sounded it . After declaring that neither Mr. Hoover nor President Coolidge would appeal to the voters of Oklahoma , he said : . " Why do n't New York , Pennsylvania and other Eastern States put Andrew W. Mellon in nomination ? We will give them a lift in the convention and on election day . " " Secretary Mellon is pretty ' o/d to run for President , " it was suggested . " Uncle Andy is not too old for us , " said , the former Republican boss of Oklahoma . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from him with regard to the design for drafting him which has been out in. the open for weeks . Either could have been depended upon to treat discreetly any such message entrusted to him . Both are in the confidence of Mr. Coolidge . Mr. Butler was his choice for head of the Republican National Committee . Senator Curtis has been the President 's spokesman in the United States Senate . Both called at the White House before they came to Kansas City . Neither has raised a finger to halt the very determined movement now on foot to bring about the renomination of Mr. Coolidge . There is no intention on the part of the " draft Coolidge " ? crowd to place the President formally in nomination . But on the first ballot , unless checked in advance , the seventeen votes of Connecticut will be cast solidly for Mr. Coolidge by J. Henry Rorabeek , National Committeeman and leader of the Nutmeg State , who will sit in the convention at the head of the delegation . This will start the Coolidge ball rolling , and after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the " draft Coolidge " leaders expect an avalanche . Incidentally , even If the President                     