@@695034

txt What is known as the Tyson-Fitzgerald bill for retirement of disabled emergency army officers o : the World War is on the calendar of the House of Representatives . This is no pension-grabbing scheme but a provision for simple justice to one class of officers who. in-disregard of the government 's pledges in 1917 when they were needed . have been discriminated against and , neglected . For over eight years these disabled officers have asked for consideration , yet there is danger that the House of Congress will deny this act of justice . long overdue , and put the kovernment in the position of repudiating a war-time pledge . In the Worla War the united States had nine classes of officers . There were the regular , provisional and emergency officers of the army , navy and marine corps ? three classes of officers in each of the three branches of the service In the service act of May , 1917 . Congress provided tnat all officers and men of the provisional and emergency classes should in all respects be upon the same footing as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular army . There is the country 's pledge . Let us see ho ? it has been kept . For illustration stand nine men in a row , all of them officer ! , who served in the war , three from each branch of the s irvice . Imagine that every one has suffered the identical disability , say the loss of the right arm . Congress comes along , puts eight of them in an automobile , drives away with them and provides for them . It overlooks the ninth man , refuses to go back for him , and for over eight years leaves him standing there alone waiting for that pledge to be redeemed . Now name those who have been eared for . To one in each of the Army and Navy corps give the name of Regular , another Provisional and another Emergency . then call the forgotten one Army Emergency , and you have the case . Why should eight be taken and one ignored ? In the summer of 1918 we would have said that it would be tinpossible to forget any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years St. Mihicl . Belleau Wood . Chateau-Thierry and the Argonne are forgotten These emergency officers were among those who led the American forces in the great battles that turned the tide of war . War Department records show that proportionally the battle field mor  --  a.lity was 55 per cent . greater for officers than for the men ; that of the officers who laid down their lives on those fields 93 per cent . were the emergency officers of the army . The disabled survivors of this class of officers are those represented by the ninth man left standing . Will the country forget its pledge and permit that ninth man to be left alone any longer ?                     