@@687554

txt WASHINGTON , D. C. , March 25 . ? United States malls will bo , , erossing the Atlantic ocean in ' three days less than six months hence , according to statements of Admiral W. A. Moffett , chief of naval aeronautics . " I have taken up the matter with the postoffice department and the shipping board , " said the admiral today , " and I believe it is safe for me to predict that the three day schedule will be In operation in the fall , " Cutting In half transatlantic mall time is now possible , ho declared , by equipping mall steamships with cats , putts for launching airplanes and seaplanes from their decks .  --  . ? " When within airplane range of either coast , east or west bound , " said the admiral , " one or more planes would be launched from a mail steamship , and within five hours the mail carried , say BOO miles , over the sea would be ready for distribution in New York or London . This plan for reducing ocean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own successful tests of the catapult prove it is entirely feasible . It will be a great boon to business the world over . The catapult equipment for the ships , the airplanes , and the flying personnel will require only nominal expenditure when compared with the benefits which are bound to accrue in the great saving of time in the delivery of all classes of mall . " The taking off from an alighting of airplanes upon business buildings is another development which Admiral Moffett believes Is soon to be put to practical use . " The necessity for large landing fields no longer exists , " he said , " for by the use of the arresting device now operating on our airplane carrier Langley , almost any flat roof can be made a landing field . Similarly , catapults an be Installed and airplanes projected into the air with sufficient speed to permit them to get away from even small roof surface . ' With catapults Ind arresting devices so installed , we would do away with the loss of time his to traveling to and from landing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case . The New York business man leaves is office and the elevator takes him .0 the platform of the subway runling under the building . In the fuure he will take the elevator to the ? oof , board an airplanes , and be vhisked away without the bother of ransfer of baggage from office to staion or from office to landing field .                     