@@693108

txt Governor Smith has definitely decided to respond to the call of his party and become , for the fifth time , its candidate for Governor . . All doubt on that ques9On was removed yesterday when word- came from Albany that speeches placing him in nomination already were being prepared . To a few Democrats who have been in doubt as to the Governor 's candidacy the message brought great relief . Edwin Corning , Chairman of the Democratic State Committee , will be the Governor 's running mate as candidate for Lieutenant Governor . Justice Robert F. Wagner of the Appellate Division has also ' made it clear that-1f his party wants him  --  which it does ? to run for United States Senator against Senator James W. Wadsworth Jr. , he , too , will anpwer the call . Other nominations on the Democratic State ticket have not been definitely provided for , but probably will be later in the week , when it is expected that conferences to fill the slate , which were begun at Albany a week ago . will be continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Word was received yesterday through a Democrat who has just returned from a visit to the Governor that the incision Iefti  --  Ilie surgeon 's knife in removing a troublesome mole from tie Governor 's back was now almost healed . The Governor expects to be in this city toward the end of the week to remain for some days . During the last few days Governor Smith has been busily at work going cver the tentative Democratic State platform which , it was said last night , would prove a thoroughly progressive document in which issue would be taken sharply with Republican policies end Senator Wadsworth in his capacity as leader of his party in the State would be held to  --  account for the sins of commission and omission of the Republican Legislature during the sessions this year and last . The Governor 's office in the Executive Mansion is a busy place every day that the Governor is confined to the mansion . The executive force , consisting of Secretary George B. Graves and several stenographers , get to the mansion shortly before noon , armed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there the Governor goes over it . He dictates many letters and turns many over to his Secretary and also looks after State matters that are brought to his attention . It was said that the Governor was being spared as much as possible , but this was not to Governor Smith 's liking , for he insists on working every day . Roosevelt for Convention Post . Franklin D. Roosevelt , whose selection as temporary chairman of the Democratic State Convention was announced some time ago , it was reported yesterday , will probably function as permanent chairman as well , if his health permits him to officiate during the two days of the convention . The task is not likely to be arduous , for Democrats , without exception , look for a wholly peaceful gathering at ityracuse on Sept. 27 and 28 , with all problems met and all differences ironed out in advance . There had been some talk of drafting Mayor James J. Walker for the permanent chairmanship of the convention if both roles should prove too muctl for Mr. Roosevelt . But friends of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The keynote speech , it was reported last night , has almost been completed by Mr. Roosevelt , and persons who have seen the draft pronounce it both forceful and of a distinction to fit the occasion . In it , Mr. Roosevelt . it was said would deal at great length with national issues and proclaim Governor . ; with the natural leader of his party in the Presidential campaign two years hence .                     