@@685322

txt From the time when Premier Briand , himself a Socialist of a mild and now almost prehistoric type , defeated a French railroad strike by calling the railroad workers to the colors and operating the railroads under military law , French cabinets have been largely Socialist . This is true of the most famous of the premiers . Clemenceau , who is , however , a Frenchman first and a Socialist incidentally . But the French Socialist of that type is not an anarchist . Premier Millerand is confronting anarchy and acting with the resolution shoWn by Briand in the past . In France the General Federation of Labor about corresponded to the American Federation of Labor here . and at the first devote 'd itself . to ameliorating the condition of the industrial classes in the well-known ways of wages and hours of employment . But the leaven of Bolshevism , which little concerns itself about the comfort of the individual worker , has changed the French federation into a political machine for the establishment of a class government approximating to that of Lenine and Trotzky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summary step of abolishing the federation . Helped by the syndicalization of industries , aimed at proletariat control of all means of production and distribution , the federation had erected a government of its own , within the republic , which assumed to be above the law and was absolutely ruthless in achieving its ends . Mere inconvenience to the public by the suspension of transport in the cities was the mildest of its methods . What it aimed at in Paris was an orgy of crime through the suspension of all lighting and electrical power , and the reduction of its inhabitants by cutting off the water supply . A besieging German army could hardly have done more . Whatever the defenders of the American Federation of Labor , trading on its former reputation for conservatism , may say , this is the doctrine of the closed shop carried to its logical limit . France is made up not of industrial workers , or indeed of any one class , but mainly of millions of small peasant proprietors  --  a conservative and stabilizing influence of which any nation may well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical backbone of French institutions . Our labor combinations have. , not reached the stage of organization attained in France . But the trend is plainly that way . The outlaw railroad men and the Bolshevist leaders of the steel strike , the I. W. W. in Butte , are as representative in their way as Mr. Gompers and the railroad brotherhood leaders . The American Federation of Labor fought the railroad strikers to preserve its very existence . But it may be necessary , as it is today in France , for the rest of us to fight anarchy direct under conditions which will make it superfluous or worse to carry Mr. Conyers on our shoulders .                     