@@693368

txt To go back too far into the history of public service commissions in this State might only confuse the issue in the reported disagreement between Governor SMITH and Mayor WALKER over their proper constitution . Since the days when regulatory agencies of this character were first set up here , under Governor HUGHES in 1907. there has been change after change in their establishment . Since 1924 three bodies have been functioning in this field , A Public Service Commission of five members has broad regulatory powers over public utilities operating in the State . The Transit Commission , composed of three Com- missioners , who , though appointed by the Governor , must be residents of New York City , has general jurisdiction over railroads , surface lines and subways within the city limits . The Board of Transportation , made up of three Commissioners appointed by the Mayor , is charged with the construction of new subways . The State Reorganization Commission , after exhaustive inquiry , came to the conclusion that this general distribution of authority was perhaps the wisest , or . at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a recognized authority on public utility regulation , was himself Chairman of the commission , its findings carry special authority : The Public Service Commission , with its State-wide powers of regulation of steam and electric railroads , gas and electric light plants , telephone and telegraph facilities , and the corporations operating them , is now overburdened with work . The supervision and regulation of the local transportation facilities presents problems peculiar to the City of New York , and for that reason there has always been a strong public sentiment against committing this power to a commission the members of which are not appointed from the city and whose time is largely occupied with problems differing widely , although of the same general class , from those which arise in the metropolitan district . Accordingly , the Hughes commission decided that it would be better not to abolish the Transit Commission , as now proposed , New constitutional provisions required , however , that the " Department of Public Service " should be unified . It was therefore proposed that the newly constituted department should have at its head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public Service Commission , but that there should be two divisions , a " State Division " to take over the duties of the present Public Service Commission , and a " Metropolitan Division " to take over the duties of the present Transit Commission . This is the plan which goes into effect the first of the year . The functions of the two commissions , or divisions , remain virtually unchanged . Governor SMITH contends that this arrangement is unwise . He thinks it is sure to lead to " friction and trouble . " He wants the two bodies effectively consolidated into one commission of seven members , including the three from New York and the present Chairman of the Public Service Con. - mission , WILLIAM A. PRENDERGAST , who also happens to be a New Yorker . The old cry of " home rule " will be raised against this proposal . Its defenders will argue that the change is in the interest of sound administration and that the city 's interest is protected by its full representation on the board , by its control o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by its voice in subway policy through the Board of Estimate .                     