@@687228

txt For some months there has been a sort of organized international propa. - ganda for the purpose of relieving Germany from further cash payments on the reparations account . The Rathenau and Stinnes commissions were dispatched . The financial woes of the Wirth Government and the imaginary drifting of Germany toward " insolvency " were painted sombrely . Meanwhile that Government has been working the currency printing presses overtime . Germany was in a bad way , doing her best to get in a worse way . There was great talk of a moratorium . Some members of the Reparation Commission were said to be in favor of it . The German industrial grandees showed themselves too simple-crafty in trying to bamboozle both the commission and the Wirth Government , and Sir JOHN BRADBURY , in behalf of the former , issued the famous statement that Germany can and must pay . Discussion of a moratorium continued . Belgium and France were both opposed . It was admitted by hearts tenser to Germany that she might by enormous effort find the 500,500,000 gold marks necessary for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now The Associated Press hears " from the most reliable source " in Paris that French and British reparations authorities are agreed to give Germany a delay of three years in her cash indemnity payments . In deference to French susceptibilities the word " moratorium " is not to be used . ' The theory is that a suspension of cash payments will enable Germany to recover " a normal status . " At the end of three years she will be better able to carry out her reparation obligation . Then she must pay in full " a reasonable indemnity "  --  a phrase rich in certainties of controversy . If France consents to any scheme of this kind that may be devised by the Reparation Commission , nobody else can object . French public opinion may be reconciled to it not merely by the continuance of payment in kind , and by the fact that France is not to get any cash from the next instalments , but by the granting of the just demand which it is said she will make at the next meeting of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion of indemnity payment made last August and then distributed between Belgium and Great Britain . If she is to have no more cash , for three years after February , she is surely entitled to a share in that sum . Everybody knows that Germany wo n't pay any more than she can help ; wo n't pay at all if she can help it . and will be just as loath to pay at the end of the three years ' grace as ever . The Allies must force her to financial and fiscal reforms . They must insist on the repatriation of her foreign holdings . A plan , said to receive " considerable French support , " is that Germany shall give a written guarantee  --  whatever that is worth  --  to balance the budget ; export no capital ; retain none in foreign countries ; raise a loan . a part of which goes to the Reparation Commission ; continue and probably increase payments in kind in the three years ' suspension of cash payments ; and there would be an allied commission sitting in Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look well enough in the paper , may work well in practice ; but it is only by constant watchfulness , courage and resolve to collect with force , if necessary , that the Allies will ever get anything like " a reasonable indemnity " from this grudging creditor.                     