@@685402

txt Texas people and New York people in no way connected have been recently investigating Sinclair to find reasons for the stock selling at half its former price with more than ** of new money going into the property . Their independent conclusion is that there is no ascertainable reason for selling Sinclair . It is , however , true that bear.operators will sell anything whei:e there is a prospect for covering the stock a point or two lower . Sinclair has offered a good field for bear operations because of the large amount of stock and the number of shares held in brokers ' offices . Bears have been known to sell stocks in the 30 's that had a real value of more than 150 , and will do it every time there is a prospect of the money . market , the Federal Reserve Board , Congress , or the political situation , lowering prices . Bears are not investors . They do not earn for real values . They trade only on the market pesition and for a time can make the prices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by stock distribution . The short interest in Wall Street is now estimated at 300,000 shares . People from Texas report that the Sinclair pipe lines are always full , - and that for  --  adfife ? i'eason , not clearly understood , the independent operators prefer to sell to Sinclair . They say that oil properties are selling cheaper in Sinclair shares than in Texas properties , and the people who stay short of Sinclair long enough arc certain to be beaten . Texas people say the strength of Sinclair is in its settled production ; that its production is not flush production ; that Kundreds of wells arc pumping that will be pumping ten years from now , although no man can predict the life of the Texas oil field . - The New York investigators say that Sinclair has got the goods and is rounding out a completed property of tremendous value . The bankers say that the Sinclair company is going to earn its way through hereafter . Never has a great property been under such vigorous attack on the Stock Exchange as Sinclair . The declaration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a net production in the United States of 20.000 barrels of oil a day or nearly one-half its present refining capacity . To date there has been more money in the refining and merchandising of oil per barrel than in its production . But oil producers are now ' coming into their own and it looks as though for some years no refining or merchandising interests will be ' able to dictate either the output , the transportation or the price for either crude oil or refined products . The world needs all the oil that can be produced . Sinclair Oil 's net production of petroleum in this country is 20,000 barrels a day . In addition Sinclair 's Mexican subsidiaries have been producing 56,000 barrels a day . Of that amount it is shipping 20,000 barrels daily and selling 36,000 barrels to Standard Oil . This gives Sinclair and its subsidiaries a total net production of 76,40 barrels daily .                     