@@687870

txt The - Free State troops began an intensive bombardment of the rebel strongholds at 2:30 o'clock this morning . Heavy guns were brought into action and the noise of firing in the centre of the city was terrific . Machine guns and eighteen-pound field guns were employed and the bombardment was one of the most violent that ever has been heard in the city . At 3:15 A. M. the firirg ceased . After the period of intense firing the city at 4 A. M. is still quiet . The Free Staters are closing in on the few remaining strongholds of the rebels , and it is expected the end will come by this evening . Copyright , 1922 , by The New Tork Times Company . Special Cable to THE New YORK Times . DUBLIN , July 2 . ? A new battle began in Dublin tonight . The Free State forces opened an attack on rebel strongholds in the Sackville Street area at 5 o'clock . By a series of dashing assaults against several strong points , supported . by machine gun fire , they carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding these points surrendered . An official report issued at .8:45 o'clock announced hat Government troops had driven irregulars from eight of the - ptc sitions the latter held . After investing the area around Moran 's hotel , the regulars opened the engagement with the rebels by directing - upon them an intense machine gun fire from armored cars and troops posted in commanding positions . Then a field gun fired three shells at the hotel , whereupon the irregulars rushed across the street to Hughes 's hotel . Doctors and nurses were rushed to the scene but there was no report of casualties . Closing In On All Irregulars . The following official bulletin was issued by Headquarters at 10:30 P. M. : " The national forces are now carrying out a big concerted movement around the O'Connell Street area , which is the stronghold of the irregulars . From early this evening they have been closing in and drawing a cordon around O'Connell Street , Marlborough Street and Gardner Street . Our troops advanced from three different directions and have penetrated as far inward as the north end of lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Arnold 's in Henry Street . Irregulars were driven out of Arnold 's and on the northwest side the national forces occupied positions about Parnell Street and Dominick Street with posts at Kings Inn 's Street , Bandy Row , corner of North Frederick Street and Dorset Street . Houses Nos. 13 and 14 in Lower Dominick Street , commanding the rear of Parnell Square , were also taken by the national forces and irregulars were driven out , some of them being made prisoners . " A further advance in the Parnell Square area is now being made . The National troops have occupied the premises at the corner of ** on the North Circular Road , and are advancing toward Mount Joy Square . From the railway bridge at the corner of Talbot Street they have attacked the Irregular posts and 's and Hughes 's Hotels and the Holyhead Hotel . Machine gun and rifle fire was directed on the buildings and after a short engagement the irregulars were driven out and the positions were , occupied by National troops . Only machine gun and rifle fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several of the ground mines made by the irregulars were exploded , including a mine laid at Moran 's Hotel and another laid on the railway bridge , in Talbot Street . They did no material damage to the bridge . Three mines were laid in Corporation Street , two in Talbot Street and two in Gardner Street . Two of the mines failed to go off . " During the advance on the northeastern side a tunnel apparently for the purpose of escaping was found in Parnell Square . " The Dublin Guards who were engaged - in these operations are receiving the whole-hearted support of the civilian population . In Amiens Street and other centres a number . of girls are working day and night providing comforts for the troops . Male civilians were also giving assistance . " The irregulars have been driven back to upper O'Connell Street Bast and Parnell Square North , Great George 's Street and Marlborough Street . The- national forces ' continue to advance . , The irregulars are still in possession of buildings in Sackville Street , but are completely invested . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been taken . This morning Dublin experienced a dreadful , ominous , calm , nobody knowing-how the siutat'ion was developing . News from the North and South of Ireland indicates ' important military operations have resulted satisfactorily for the national forces , especially in Donegal and Kilkenny ' . Only in Clonmel , County Waterford , and Mallow , County Cork , it is ' reported that irregulars are concentrating . The most remarkable circumstance emerging from the Four Courts operations is that there was no loss of life among the defenders and no bodies in the ruins . The mosthorrible crime the at . tack was launched was the mutilalg Commandant Mandeville and Capf Vaugh of the national forces , sib ltd unarmed on Leeson Street bridge at midday on Wednesday . This outrage on old comrades continues to receive universal condemnation . Venturing citywards today , especially fro mthe south 4de , was attended by the greatest difficnity , the irregulars intensifyingtheir efforts in sniping , ambushing and otherwp Intercepting the national troops P ng along the Grand Canal between eggars Bush Barracks and the Four Courts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church under rifle fire . A Christian Brother , just back from Tipperary by motor , leis is me that the entire county is quiet . He saw no military activity throughout the journey . The tragedies of the streets were referrO to by the Coroner at the inquests on six victims , stating a number of poor fellows , women , too , he was sorry to say , had been brought to the hospitals with bullet wounds , some dying , others dead . One victim was Volunteer Hogan of the Red Cross ambulance . The Coroner remarked on the firing on such men as against all laws of civilized warfare and the jury expressed strongest condenunition of such acts . Casualtlea in Dublin ascertainable since the beginning up to noon are 49 dead and 178 wounded . A little girl was killed in a city street yesterday , receiving several gunshot wounds . A British soldier died in the hospital of wounds received on Friday night while motoring with others to . sail for England . They were fired at near the end of Talbot ' Street . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Yoax Timrs . LONDON , July ** Daily News Dublin correspondent says there is no foundation for the rumor of a white flag on de Valera 's headquarters . De Valera and his staff have taken up quarters in the turkish baths at the rear of the Hammam Hotel . The Daily Mail 's Dublin correspondent says : " All that has stood for rebelliousness and Anglophobia to the bitter end Is , as far as can be judged now , con centrated in the central section of the city . There are de Valera , Brugha , Stack and their lieutenants . Perhaps there is Erskine Childers , for he has been seen wandering about on a bicycle , and there may well be Mine . Markievicz , who has come on from the suburbs , where she and her fiery damsels of the Young Woman 's Militant Association have been raiding provision shops . " 400 Prisoners Taken . DUBLIN , July 2 ( Associated Press ) . ? The national troops were victorious in the battle in Dublin today . Early in the evening they opened with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , together with nearly 400 prisoners . An official bulletin issued shortly before 9 o'clocR tonight says : " Thirty irregulars who occupied Moran 's Hotel are now in our hands , as is also the section bounded by Talbot , Purdon , Amiens and Gardiner Streets . " General Ennui telephones at 8:20 that the irregulars have been driven from eight positions they held . " One of the most important successes of the Regulars was at Moran 's hotel . An 18-pounder was turned against it and after the third shot the Rebels rushed from the hotel , and crossed the street into a hotel opposite . In a few minutes , however , they hoisted the white flag and surrendered . Their casualties are not believed to be serious . Moran 's hotel commanded an important artery of communication between the Nelson Pillar , the Great Northern Station and the central telegraph office . During the day practically the whole of this area was invested by National troops , and its surrender was preceded by a long engagement with the Rebels . The attack consisted principally of machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commanding the hotel . Armored cars played an important part in the attack . Another rebel outpost captured this evening was the Swan Hotel in York Street . opposite Stevens . Bridge . The ettack was made from an armored car with machine guns . The rebels replied vigorously from behind the fortifications , and the engagement continued intermittently for several hours . The walls of the hotel were badly battered and in the evening the rebels retreated , leaving three wounded behind . Harcourt Terraoe was also taken , with about eighteen prisoners . Thirty irregulars were captured in Adelaide Road by a sudden rush of the Nationals . All quiet " Is the significant report from Cork and Limerick . Dublin earlier today presented an aspect of inexpressible dreariness . A driving rain left the streets deserted , trams ceased running , and the only traffic appeared to be armored cars and dozens of ambulance rushing from point to point , collecting the toll of the snipers ' bullets . The national troops tip to late afternoon did not take active measures against the irregular strongholds , the delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Lord Mayor and Archbishop Byrne to persuade the leaders of the insurgents to save Dublin 's principal thoroughfare from ruin , although their efforts in this direction yesterday failed . On an unbroken front of 200 yards in the Sackville Street area the rifles of the irregulars were visible from the windows of the big buildings occupied , while the whole of this , area was effectively barricaded . The insurgents showed unremitting activity in sniping recklessly ; it was dangerous to attempt to approach their positions . Passing cars with National troops were engaged even at considerable range , and this afternoon heavy bursts of machine gun fire were frequent when the Nationals blazed at the windows of the fortified buildings . ' Republican Leaders on the Scene . The leaders of-the irregulars , including Eamon de Valera , Cathal Brughe. and Oscar Traynor , who is reputed to be at the head of the Dublin irregulars , and Countess Markievic , were all said I to be in this area . The Republican HWar News " asserts that the rebel forces in Dublin have neon reinforced ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today circulated a leaflet accusing the irregulars of trying to force Ireland into war with I England against the will of the Irish I people . The leaflet characterizes as false the assertion that British troops are operating with the National forces , and declares that the National army alone is fighting to uphold the will of the Irish people . " They are your kith and kin . " it adds . " Give them your full support . " The War News professes to explain how a nearly successful attempt to relieve the Four Courts garrison was frustrated owing to the ? premature explosion of a mine . It says that acting under a preconcerted plan relieving troops had worked ' their way through the investing lines and were about to , relieve the garrison when the explosion of the mine left the defenders in a hopeless position and compelled the reinforcements to retreat , which was , effected without loss of - men or material . An official report detailing national successes in the provinces announces that the army operating in Kilkenny captured the Callan barracks , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Mullinavit and Thomastowh barracks were also captured . Half of Irregular Force Accounted For . LONDON , July ** London Times Dublin correspondent describes the city as isolated almost as completely as in Exeter week in 1916 . ' There are no traces of letters ' or telegu s , and it is difficult to . get news , but what leaks out is encouraging , as the ' natlitt feeling , according . to tbe . correspo en is strongly With the ' Previsional overnmant . FOUr hundred irreleUlti.re have been ' captured 0 , fidi ' these sacs estimated to constitute ore than half of the whole Dublin flatting forge , , and Mill more - important , the greater . pe , rt of their military leaders and real fighting men . The seining of houses-in variousparts of Dublin by attned handfuls has given an exaggerated , impression of the , strength of the irregulars . In most cases the seizures were effected by bodies of sixto eight youths armed with revolvers . Their supply of ammunition is scant and must soon be exhattisted , The shortage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barracks at Bray and.Rathfarnham and . other buildngs in the County of Dublin , this being .. he only means of reinforcing their depleted numbers in Dublin . ? The morale of the ' national forces , adds the correspondent , continues excellent . Arnong the peace efforts during last evening was one , made by , Bishop who recently returned from America . It ? is understood- that he sent a message to- Eamon de Valera urging a peace conference . De Valera has not yet replied . The American Consulate , in Sackville Street , has removed to a hotel in Stephens Green , so as to be out of the fighting zone .                     