@@693342

txt Germany 's capacity to pay reparations and the ability of her creditors to absorb payments have " outrun the expectations of the experts . " Such is the finding of S. PARKER GILBERT , Agent General for Reparations , in his report on the results of the second year of the Dawes plan . It is plain from his account that capacity to pay and to be paid is not purely an economic problem . The psychology of good-will has entered into the situation . Germany has shown extraordinary loyalty in living up to her obligations . Germany 's creditors have created no difficulties . This factor will be found to operate in the entire question of German economic rehabilitation for which Mr. GILBERT adduces striking testimony . Currency stabilization is an accomplished fact . The severe business crisis of last Winter has been surmounted . Evidence of the outside world 's faith in the permanence of German recovery is at ban ? in the fact that foreign loans and other funds have poured Into the country " in a steady stream . " Of the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He suggests plea cant probabilities , unpleasant possibilities . It has been acknowledged from the first that the real test of the Dawes plan would not begin till the third year and would not become crucial till the fourth . But the difficulties foreseen by the pessimists are not at all those with which Mr. Grunarr is concerned . At least he does not find it necessary to touch on Germany 's ability to pay great sums in subsequent years and the creditors ability to receive them . Rather is he concerned with internal budgetary problems , including extraordinary expenditure in the way of investments and for unemployment relief and the disbursement of more than one-third the total German revenue to the States and communities . Mr. GILBERT must feel sure of his standing with German public opinion in thus venturing into what may appear purely domestic policy . In looking forward to the third and fourth and subsequent annuities , stress is due in smaller measure upon the concrete figures than upon certain general considerations . Germany Is entering the real test period " in the stage of recovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stabilization " in a substantial way . " Last Winter 's business crisis was hard upon individ ? uals but good for the country . Commerce and industry are freed from the encumbrances and difficulties inherited from tilt . war . If the payment burdens increase with the years , capacity may be presumed to increase with the return to a normal life . For the fourth , fifth , sixth year of the Dawes plan , Mr. Gilbert prefers not to vaticinate ; and the reason is tot entirely personal or diplomatic reticence . The very purpose of the Dawes plan excludes long-time prophecy . That purpose is to test the feasibility of reparations year by year and to create a state of moral preparation In Germany and among her creditors that would render a definitive solution possible . The Dawes plan , says Mr. GILBERT , " foreshadows a settlement " extending in its application for a " sufficient time to restore confidence " and at the same time is so framed " as to facilitate a final and comprehensive settlement . " The Dawes plan espentially ra cooling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not by sitting still but by reasonable and loyal ex-perimentation :                     