@@691238

txt The improvement in the world situation since the Dawes committee brought the German reparations problem into the 1 region of the practical and Induced the French Government to abandon its iconoclastic policy toward Germany justifies the hope that eventually all of the difficult problems created by the war will be solved . Nevertheless , the world must not blind itself ; to the incontestable fact that none of the problems have yet been settled . The more reasonable attitude of the nations toward each other justifies hopes of settlement , and the pressure of events is forcing . a settlement ; still no settlement has been reached . To assume a settlement before it has been concluded . is to injure the prospects of settlement . But what is even more to be regretted is that . the world is not yet prepared for a settlement , for it still refuses to consider any of the Problems with that open-mindedness without which no settlement is possible . The position is indeed not even as far advanced as this statement would seem to indicate . The nations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation , much less to adjust their policies to realities . Sooner or later the realities must be faced , if not- - , eluntarily , then under the compulsion of necessity  --  a compulsion against which resistance is in vain . It would , however . be infinitely wiser and less painful for .. the nations not to invite this compulsion by deliberate ignorance or by selfdelusion or even by delay . The problems urgently call for settlement and , what is of very great moment , they can now be settled in the reasonable atmosphere which the acceptance of the Dawes plan has created . If . however , there is procrastination and undue delay , they may ultimately have to be settled after the most disastrous world crisis ever witnessed . What are these problems which so urgently call for settlement ? I. Lack of political security . 2 . Inadequate world income coupled with an excessive world indebtedness. 3 . Need of credit and capital . 4 . High tariffs blocking international commerce . 5 . Unbalanced budgets . O. Fluctuating currencies . 7 . Reparation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the great problem of how . to avert the danger of universal Insolvency by restoring the world permanently to a higher degree of prosperity than it has ever enjoyed . The solution of each one of the problems is essential to the solution of the comprehensive problem . Without security , that is without lasting peace , the world can not recover its income or meet its indebtedness ; it can not raise the large quantity of credit and capital required it will not reduce its tariffs and it will be unable permanently to stabilize its currencies . Moreover , the Central powers will not oe able to pay even a reasonable sun ) for reparations , and the Entente nations will be unable to settle their debts to one another . Of all the problems left behind by the war the question of future security is paramount  --  not the security of France against Germany , but the security of all nations against war . The prospect of peace merely for a period will not be enough . The peace must be so profound , the relations of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the possibility of war even will not be taken into account . Again the problem of world income and world indebtedness must be faced if the other problems are to be solved . A great expansion in world income would greatly help to solve many of the other Problems . But such expansion can not take place and the world can not give its people a reasonable standard of life or meet its national and international indebtedness unless it adopts an entirely new policy , both political and economic . The old international policy of political k and economic antagonism must be replaced by a new policy of cooperation in order to prevent war and to restore the world to solvency and to economic well-being . The problem of credit and capital is also one of the greatest urgency . In proportion to its increasing population the world has never been so deficient in credit and capital , and unless the supply can be greatly increased the nations will not be able to meet their indebtedness , not be able to expand their productiveness and not be able to maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all debts , whether they be for reparation or for war or for general purposes . An abundant supply of credit and of capital is of vital importance to the world today . That supply will not be forthcoming until the postwar problems are finally settled and confidence in the future is fully restored . Of all the problems which must be solved if the world is to avert complete insolvency , both national and individual , the problem of the tariff is probably the moor Fear is the most powerful of all the motives of action , and when it has once seized upon an individual or a nation or a world is the most difficult to eradicate . That fear possesses the world today after its supreme physical bravery in the war is reflected in the universal increase of tariffs . Each nation , whether it derived advantage or suffered from the war , is endeavoring to be as self-contained as possible , purely out of fright . When it is borne in mind that the greatest cause of the wonderful expansion of the world 's income and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical barriers between districts and between nations by the building of railways , of steamboats and motor cars , which enabled districts to buy from other districts and nations to buy from other nations in any part of the world , it will be evident that the movement toward self-efficiency by the erection of tariff and other barriers to the interchange of goods and produce is a retrograde movement that will counteract the invaluable work which the provision of modern transport had accomplished . The world 's present tariff policy will prevent the solution of any and of all of the other problems which call for solution so urgently . How can there be real security if the nations by their fiscal policies reduce other nations to poverty ? How can the world 's income be increased and debts be paid if new obstacles are placed in the way of commerce . ? the expansion of which is so essential ? Indeed , how can the world 's past income be maintained in future if the main cause of that income  --  the interchange of goods  --  is destroyed ? Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barriers , how are the nations to meet their existing unprecedented obligations to each other ? Again , will the nations which need capital and credit be justified in borrowing unless they see their way to sell to other nations much larger quantities of their goods and produce than heretofore , and how can they sell more if every nation tries to buy less , including the nations that supply the credit and capital ? A policy which tends to curtail commerce . reduce trade , and therefore reduce income , will , it is obvious , prevent budgets from balancing , prevent the stabilization of the currencies and prevent the payment of reparations and interallied debts . Nations with foreign obligations must sooner or later meet their obligations by exporting goods and produce , and if they can not do so they can not pay . How soon will the world face the naked truth and do those things which that knowledge will clearly indicate ?                     