@@694161

txt In this Western empire a colossal national memorial to Washington , Jefferson , Lincoln and Roosevelt was dedicated today by President Coolidge , who in a speech sketched the epochal achievements of those outstanding American leaders , whose figures are to appear in stone on the granite face of Mount Rushmore . Standing at the base of the mountain President Coolidge told of the place in history of- Washington , his struggles , in behalf of independence , constitutional government and liberiayy declaring him the " foremost disciple of ordered liberty , a states-'I man with an inspired vision who is not outranked by any mortal greatness . " Jefferson , he said , emphasized the element of self-government and demonstrated that " it was practical and would be permanent " ; he likewise embodied the spirit of expansion , and recognized the destiny of the country , the President said . Lincoln demonstrated the permanency of the Union and extended the principle of freedom to all the inhabitants of our land , declared the President . " Above all other national figures , he holds the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The work which Washington and Jefferson began , he extended to its logical conclusion . Roosevelt strove to add economic freedom to the political freedom already existing , and by building the Panama Canal brought into closer relationship the East and the West . After the President had spoken before the hundreds assembled Gutzon Borglum carved the first lines of the profile of George Washington . Messages were dropped from an airplane at the ceremonies from Governors of many States and flags recalling the history of the several periods and its wars were unfurled . President in Cowboy Attire . President Coolidge made the ascent of three miles by horseback . Riding with him were Senator S. D. Fess of Ohio , Colonel Winship , Major Coupal and Secret Service men . Mr. Coolidge wore a high cowboy hat , cowboy boots , with Mexican spurs and buckskin gloves . Arriving at the stone plateau , where the exercises were held , he discarded the spurs but appeared on the stage to deliver his speech in real Western attire . He ? was greeted with cheers as he arose to speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair glistening in the sunlight . As the President dismounted in real cowboy style and slowly ascended the stone theatre to face fully 2,000 persons , who had climbed to the mountain top , the Presidential salute was fired by the explosion of dynamite in the far distant canyon . The echoes reverberated through the valley , resembling the stage sounds familiar in " Rip Van Winkle . " It was one of the most imposing I scenes the President has viewed in the West , unique in its settings and natural beauty . Fifty voices sang " The Marseillaise , " " America , " " Hail , Columbia , " and " The StarSpangled Banner " and their notes I echoed through the mountains . Text of President 's Address . President Coolidge spoke as follows : We have come here to dedicate a cornerstone that was laid by the hand of the Almighty . On this towering wall of Rushmore , in the heart of the Black Hills , is to be inscribed a memorial which will represent some of the outstanding events of American history by portraying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , laid on by the hand of a great artist in sculpture . This memorial will crown the height of land between the Rocky Mountains and the Atlantic seaboard , where coming generations may view it for all time . It is but natural that such a design should begin with George Washington , for with him Begins that which is truly characteristic of America . He represents our independence , our Constitution . our liberty . He formed the highest aspirations that were entertained by any people into the permanent institutions of our Government . He stands as the foremost disciple of ordered liberty , a statesman with an inspired vision who is not outranked by any mortal greatness . Next to him will come Thomas Jefferson , whose wisdom insured that the Government which Washington had formed should be intrusted to the administration of the people . He emphasized the element of self-government , which had been enshrined in American institutions in such a way as to demonstrate that it was practical and would be permanent . In him was likewise embodied the spirit of expansion . Recognizing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By removing the possibility of any powerful opposition from a neighboring State , he gave new guarantees to the rule of the people . Accomplishment of Lincoln . After our country had been established , enlarged from sea to sea , and dedicated to popular Government , the next great task was to demonstrate the permanency of our Union and to extend the principle of freedom to all the inhabitants of our land . The master of this supreme accomplishment was Abraham Lincoln . Above all other national figures , he-holds-the love of his fellow . countrymen . The work which Washington and Jefferson began , he extended to its logical conclusions . That the principles - for which these three men stood might be still more firmly established des  --  tiny , . raisedttip , Theodore Roosevelt . To political freedom lie ' : strove to add economic freedom . By building the Panama Canal he brought into closer relationship the East and the West and realized the vision that inspired Columbus in his search for a new passage to the Orient . The union of these four Presidents carved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will constitute a distinctly national monument . It will be decidedly American in its conception , in its magnitude , in its meaning and-altogether worthy . of . our country . No , one can look upon it understand , ingly without realizing that it is a - picture of hope fulfilled . - Its location will be significant . Here in the heart of the continent , on the  --  side  --  of - a - -  mountain which probably no white man had ever beheld in the days of Washington , in territory which was acquired by the action of Jefferson , which remained an almost unbroken wilderness beyond the days of Lincoln , which was especially beloved by Roosevelt , the people of the future will see history and art combined to portray the spirit of patriotism . They will know that the figure of these Presidents has been placed here because by following the truth they built for eternity . The fundamental principles which they represented have been wrought into the very being of our country . They are steadfast as these ancient hills . Lauds Spirit of America . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have wondered how a few weak and discordant colonies were able to win their independence from one of the greatest powers of the world . They have been amazed at our genius for selfgovernment . They have been unable to comprehend how the shock of a great civil war did not destroy our Union . They do not understand the economic progress of our people . It is true that we have had the advantage of great natural resources , but these have not been exclusively ours . Others have been equally fortunate in that direction . The Progress of America has been due to the spirit of its people . It is in no small degree due to that spirit that we have been able to produce such great leaders . If coming generations are to maintain a like spirit , it will be because they continue to study the lives and times of the great men who have been ' the leaders in our history , and continue to support the principles which those men represented . ? It is - for ' that purpose that we erect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historic figures which we shall see here without growing stronger in our determination to perpetuate the institutions which their lives revealed and established . The fact that this enterprise Is being begun in one of our new States , not yet great in population , - not largely developed in its resources , discloses that the old American spirit still goes where our people go , still dominates their lives , still inspires them to deeds , of devotion and sacrifice . It is but another-illustration of the determination of our people to use their material resources to minister to their spiritual life . Another National Shrine . This memorial will be another national shrine to which future generations will repair to declare their continuing allegiance to independence , to ' self-government , to freedom and to economic justice . It is an-inspiring phase of American life that men are willing to devote  --  their energies-to- the erec- - tion of a memorial of this nature . Money spent for such a purpose is certain of adequate returns in the nature of increased public welfare . The people of South Dakota are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their meager resources , because the American spirit is strong among them . Their effort and courage entitles them to the sympathy and support of private beneficence and the National Government . They realize fully that they have no means of succeeding in the development of their State except a reliance upon American institutions . They do not fail to appreciate their value . There is no power that can stay the progress of such a people . They are predestined to success . Our country is fortunate in having the advantage of their citizenship . They have been pioneers in the development of their State . They will ' continue to be pioneers in the defense and development of American institutions . South Dakotans Also Speak . Speeches were also made by Governor Bulow , Senators and Norbeck and Representative Royal C. Johnson and C. J. Buell . Rolf Lium , the student pastor at the Hermosa Congregational Church , made a prayer . The settings in the environs of Keystone , a deserted but once thriving mining settlement , are rugged and beautiful . The mountain stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily seen for miles . The ceremonies , were as distinctive as the monument they dedicated . An airplane piloted by Captain Russell Halley , World War hero , dropped a laurel wreath bearing the name " Washington " on Mount Rushmore as the President was speaking , and telegrams from Governors of many States and notable persons fluttered in the air as the pilot released them from- his dizzy height .. The exercises were designed to recall the history of America and the claims of France and other countries to the country now included in the vast domain . Flags marking - the history ' of ' , development and conquest were unfurled in ; the order of their , appearance in Colonial ' history First appeared the French flag , recalling the ; claims of France under the Bourbons , made by her explorers in 1756 when they planted in the very centre of South Dakota a leaden plate on which she claimed all of the teritory lying west of the British Colonies . . The flag of France of that day was hoisted , saluted . by American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes and - then lowered . The Spanish flag next appeared to mark the secession to : Spain of the Louisiana Territory , made by France to , protect it from England . In 1802 the Louisiana Territory-n-was'Arans : : ferred to France then under , the.Republic . The Tricikorfluttefed ' in the breeze to mark this " historic action . Five different flags were raised showing -- the - sequence - of claims . w4icl2 finally resulted in the flag of the United States flying over the mountain . Completion Expected in Four Years . Mr. Borglum , who conceived the memorial , and Major J. G. Tucker , Superintendent of construction , were lowered over the wall , and drilled the first outlines of George Washington 's figure . This concluded the ceremony and marked the beginning of the project , which will require four years to complete at a cost of approximately $450,000 . ' The colossal sculpture begun today on Mount Rushmore , " said Mr. Borglum , " is the first effort in America to make any adequate monumental record and chronological statement of the national movement which has led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significance and the purpose of this mountain record are to carve upon a granite cliff and cut there high into the heavens , on stone , briefly but fully the story of the growth of the first modern Republic in the Western world as embodied in four of its most dominant leaders . The inscriptions will be on the west wall of the great rock . There in mammoth letters will be carved when . how and who it was who declared our right to be free and be happy . and who shaped our Constitution ; through whom , why and when we determined to extend our boundaries westward ; the cause for the Civil War and how the Union was saved , and , finally , the inscription will state how in our own day , Roosevelt completed the dream of Columbus and , cut a- way to the East , to India . " The sculptured figures on the , mountain will include the father of his country , Washington . By his side and to his right , the great Democrat . the great expansionist , Jefferson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lincoln , the savior of the Continental Union that Jefferson 's act had extended to the Pacific . To the back of Lincoln will appear the figure of Roosevelt . Huge Tablet Will Be Carved . " These four figures will be cut in colossal dimensions and such size as will fit into the surroundings . To the west , with the sculptured figures on the opposite Side , where the sun will strike it , will be cut a tablet 120 feet in height and 80 feet in width where will be recorded the steps taken to found , expand and preserve and develop the United States . " Mount Rushmore is in the hills . about twenty miles from Rapid City . and three and a half miles from Keystone , once an active mining town . where was located the Holy Terror mine . It is situated one thousand feet- " above the valley . The rock On which the - memorial will be cut has about ' 400 feet of base rock on the east.wall. about 700 feet on the west surface , due ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length . The : ; . mountain , according to Mr. Borglum , - presents a proud and noble front , visible for many miles . The conditions for road building are good , enabling the- Public to see the completed monument at various distances of- , from three . miles ? down to as close as 2,000 feet .                     