@@689506

txt Questions Regarding the Spelling and Pronunciation of English . To the Editor of The Kew York Times : The questions raised and the suggestions made by Dr. Robert Donald demand serious consideration from all who are interested in the English language . His first sentence , however , is not quite accurate  --  I mean his description of the English tongue as " the finest medium of human expression . " Russian and Polish are both finer languages than the English ; more wealthy ' in syn7 onyms and in words and phrases that denote shades of meaning . But the English language is the most useful in the world , Is spoken by more people , is the simplest in grammar and gender , and the easiest to learn . It is rapidly becoming a universal language , taking the place formerly occupied by Latin - and by French . That English is a non-Inflectional language , that it has no grammatical gender , that its vocabulary is a hash of Latin and Teutonic , combine to make it easily adapted to the needs of humanity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adjective does not agree with the noun ; which fact , to my mind , is a blessing . How delightful it must be to a foreigner to know that the word " book , " for example , is always " book " ; for in most other languages , whenever you do anything with a book the word changes . How pleasant it must be to know that a certain past participle is always " seen " ; for in French the word changes to conform to number , and again to conform to gender . How blessed to a foreigner to know that things have no gender ; for in learning German the gender of a word always demands a dead lift of the msmory  --  knife , fork and spoon being respectively neuter , feminine and masculine . Pronunciation and spelling are another story . When they knocked the " h " out of many ' words the Germans made for themselves a phonetic language . English is not phonetic , and in my opinien never will be . I dislike spelling reform , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my intention and will be my custom to spell most words according to the best British usage , as England is the home of our language and should set the standard . It is certain that more books printed in America now conform to British standards of spelling than was the case twenty years ago . I approve of this . Now you see " honour " in a majority of well-printed American books ; twenty Years ago you saw I : : usually only on , wedding invitations . I go so far a.1 to spell " tyre . " " kerb . " " cheque , " " storey , " because these words when spelled in English fashion have their special significance . I do not write " gaol " or " waggon . " I agree , however , with Dr. Donald that the average cultivated American speaks more clearly and with more logical emphasis than the average cultivated Englishman , whom it is often difficult to understand ; not merely because the Englishman slurs the separate words , but because he has the habit of making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was beautifully brought out in the dialogue of that popular play " Peg o ' My Heart . " The cultivated Scots and Irish talk better than the English ; I have never heard any person talk with clearer enunciation or with more precision than William Archer . If an international institute is to be formed , whose decisions on spelling shall be final , every important publishing firm in Great Britain , the colonies and the United States should be represented . In that way , if widely circulated books should have a uniform spelling , much might be accomplished . I hope they will not recommend such abominations as " thru , " but if they do I shall not be Peevish about it . Meanwhile , it would be well if teachers in American schools and colleges , no matter what subject they teach , should endeavor to improve the enunciation of their pupils . WILLIAM LYON PHELPS . Yale University , Oct. 18 , 1923.                     