@@695675

txt Predate the mass of supplies , spare parts . equipment , baggage , etc. , that constitutes the total burden of five and one-half tons . The Liberty 's twin Hornet motors , spinning out the power , of 1,100 horses and making her the highest powered amphibian in the world , will be none too much for the load we carry . Five in Party . Owner , guest and crew , numbering five , have participated in the work of preparation . On the shoulders of the owner has rested the responsibility for originating the novel idea , organizing the party . assigning duties . indl eating the route and incidentally supplying about $75,000 worth of financial lubrication for this Inexpensive IRMO JauntLieut . Fred Becker , naval reserve officer and veteran airman , who will pilot the bus , has been In charge of the amphibian since she left the Sikorsky factory at College Point , Long Island , two weeks ago . He has nothing to worry about , except everything . Our chief engineer is Charles Joseph Sutter . Uncle Sam 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have ' with us six feet and two inches of radio operator built on the general design of a wireless tower He is John Russell Roe , and his finger on the key of our radio apparatus will be the means by which we expect to keep in communication while in the air . Weather ' reports for Craft . All the Central American stations of the Tropical Radio Telegraph company will be listening in , and we also will have the advantage of the weather reports supplied by the courtesy of the PanAmerican airways . As the one and only invited guest on board the air yacht , I am a supernumerary and added starter , whose duties on the cruise will range from cabin boy to chief of the protocol . Surface craft sailing from one foreign port to another carry clearance papers signed by consuls , but in the air it 's different Uncle Sam has no international arrangements with anycountry In ' the world covering air travel . Efforts to arrive at some agreement facilitating this international aerial communication cover many pages of typewritten technical reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1Vi1l Visit Fifteen Countries . The state department in Washington reported the results of its extensive negotiations with the 15 ? countries wo expect to visit . The Cuban government perMits the proposed flight , but the plane can land only under certain conditions . Mexico granted permission without conditions for stops at Cozumel island and Puerto Morelos on the Yuqatan mainland . The colonial administration of British Honduras welcomes our arrival In Belize , the capital , but suggests that if we arrive on a Saturday afternoon we land in the harbor instead of the flying field , as otherwise it might interfere with the cricket ' game . The government of Guatemala granted permission to enter the port of San . Jose , Honduras put its official 0 . K. on our landing at Tegucigalpa , or Atriapals . El Salvador granted permission for our flight over its territory , and for stops at San Salvador and Acajutla . Nicaragua , through its foreign office , permits stops at Managua , SanJuan del Norte , and Bluefields . Costa Ries. notified Washington that an official welcome would be awaiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The American legation at Panama reported that the government of Panama would welcome our arrival . Colombia informed the American minister at Bogota that the Colombian government granted permission for the flight , subject to numerous conditions . The Netherland West Indies officially communicated that we would be welcome at the port of Willemstadt and at Steustalltia , St. Marlin ; Curacao , Aruba , and Bonaire . Venezuela granted permission for stops at Maracaibo , Caracas . and Barcelona . The ? Warms , the triplets , British , Dutch and French , welcome us to Georgetown , Paramaribo , and Cu yenne , where the pepper trees bloom . The governor of the Windward island likewise grants stops ? at fit . Vincent and St. Lucia . Porto Rico informed the state depertinent It had no objection to the flight . The Dominican republic granted flight permission , with stops at Santo Domingo , Puerta Plata , and Sanchez . Haiti welcomes our flight over its territory . Jamaica welcomes us to Kingston , its capital . Guantanamo hay , Cuba , was opened to us by the navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us without restriction . In the crowded offices of the federal radio commission I found Liberty 's lost application for a radio call letter . We were granted KRAL . Liberty 's American-international flying license we 're off tomorrow tagA f itse rNaC11-800f22t.hi morning  --  we hope .                     