@@694472

txt " Pajamas , " the new picture at the Roxy Theatre , is not , as one might suppose , a bedroom farce , but a comedy with a background of the Canadian Sierras . Although this narrative is not overburdened with much in the way of plot it is extraordinarily well told , and the impressive outdoor scenes , actually filmed in a mountainous region , do a great deal to enhance its interest . These wonderful bits of photography include scenes high up on a mountain ledge and others of lakes and valleys , and also " shots " taken from an airplane . With all the grand landscape views he has introduced into this subject , J. G. Blystone , the director , has not permitted the background to interrupt is quite an original idea to set a comedy in the mountains , using nature instead of backdrops . And it is all the more surprising considering that the story is one concerned with a headstrong girl . The title is derived from the fact that Angela Wade ( Olive Borden ) spends most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pajamas . She and John Weston crash in an airplane and after they have descended safely by parachute they find themselves on a mountain ledge . At the time Weston is not inclined to treat Angela too gently , for she is responsible for the accident . She piloted the airplane from her father 's imposing residence when it was thought that the real pilot was in the machine . Hence , before Angela . and Weston are found by Daniel Wade and his friends there is a series of scenes during which Weston manifests his anger , while Angela , who never takes anything seriously , tantalizes her companion . Weston cooks a fish and Angela eats it when Weston is n't looking . He then ' makes Angela keep to her side of the camp , improvised from airplane wings . In those glimpses of the rescuing party Mr. Blystone also depicts some moments of good fun , and , in doing so , he always takes enough time to thrill the spectators with the vast background . Miss Borden is vivacious and attractive as Angela . Mr. Gray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage presentations are colorful and distinctive , and the " Sixteen American Rockets , " wonderfully trained dancing girls , again won hearty applause yesterday afternoon . The Movietone feature this week has the original idea of dealing with a roaring lion in a London zoo .                     