@@688469

txt The boxing fan will be tickled pink to learn that Jess Willard will he here early next month to talk over a bout with Jack Dempsey . Evidently the promoters who are trying to put that Shot over do not give the fan any credit for having any sense . The boys who fol. low the boxing racket know the old game from every angle , and it is not very likely that they are going to fall for that kind of bunk . If Dempsey to show here , they must go out and get some one worth while . Willard had his chance against Dempsey and made an awful Muss of it . lie is far past the age whereathiCte .. 9 are at their best . It is not to be expected that the big Kansas farmer would be able to condition himself sufficiently to win another crack at the hard thumping champion . Best is None Too Good . Dempsey must meet the best there is to satisfy the public . Harry Wills is the bird they want , and if they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , and , in our opinion , that man is not Jess Willard . The latter has been out of the ring too long . Why would it not be a good scheme to have Willard try himself out against some big fellow , and if he makes good he : night get the chance ho craves against the champion ? Tom Gibbons keeps knocking at Dempscy 's door , and insists that he is honest about his efforts to engage the big champion in a tussle for the title . Gibbons says that most of the other boys have been considered , but for some reason or other they have passed him up whenever they went looking for some one to take a crack at Detnp ? sey . Gibbons thinks he has earned a chance at the champion . With the exception of Harry Greb , who earned a decision against him last winter , the St. Paul boxer has cleaned up pretty Gibbons Proves Class . In his last battle with Billy Make , Gibbons showed plenty of class and mad &; his townsman look bad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponent for Dempsey . They figure he is more clever than Jack , and can sock good and hard whenever called upon , With Wills and Gibbons hanging around trying to coax Dempsey into the ring there does not appear to be much chance for the tall Jess Willard to get much attention . . Another thing the promoters propose to do with the Willard and Detripsey fUss is to drop it into the Polo grounds . Not on our life . Better take another guess , you guys who think that the fans are going to stand for that stuff . Pryal Wants Title mil . Jersey Jones steps in with a big boost for Ray Pryal , the Homestead Harp . According to Jersey , Pryal Is the best lightweight developed in years . and , furthermore , Jones wants to send him against Champion Denny Leonard .                     