@@691662

txt Dispatches from Was ) agton stating that ' President Coolidge has instructed Minister to take up in Peking with the Chinese Government the question of extra-territoriality were read here today with a great ' deal of interest by those who hove commercial relations with the Far East . The British Government so far has received no information from Washington as to ' he Intentions of the American Government and thus far officials are inclined to remain reticent concerning their own views , although It appears that they are quite ready to stand by the Washington treaty looking toward the revision of extra-territoriality when order is restored in China , But it is the fact that now there le no ' order in- China . that the circles in ; terested in . Chinese affairs dwell upon when discussing the President 's move . Thus , The Star points out , Shanghai Is entirely the creation of foreign capital . ' which . it says , developed it from a swamp into a great commercial centre . It declares that " if the American Government really meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese Mandarin , half magistrate and half bandit , American merchants and traders who have settled in Shanghai would ' make their voices heard in unmistakable fashion . " . British opinion fully realizes that some anti-foreign feeling existing ein China has a justifiable foundation . Not only does the Labor Party recognize that the European industrialist has not a clean record , but it also believes that the worst conditions in foreign factories are far outdone in Chinese establishments , and that the abuses which may be tolerated in the treaty ports are at least kept down by factory legislation from which the employers under Chinese rule are entirely exempt . Chinese experts here are sinclhied to feel that the sudden explosion against foreigners has much more to do with world events in the last ten years than with industrial troubles . The Chinese , who are an intelligent people , and especially those who have traveled and studied in America and Europe , have watched the Western nations fly at each other 's throats in the World War ; have seen Turkey openly flout the great powers and force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war about ; have seen extra-territoriality abolished in Turkey and greatly modified in Egypt . The West Has Lost Caste in the East . The prestige of tile Westerner has been terribly damaged in China , and the Chinese leaders , thoroughly realizing the divergences in policies and alma of the Western nations , have calculated that they can surely urge their own ambitions , confident that the foreign powers are too greatly OL variance us units to repulse them . Consequently the view taken here by many is that it is absolutely necessary before extra-territoriality can be given up that the prestige of the West must he restored , and that China must establish a form of government with which It will be possible to curry on reasonable negotiations . Extra-territoriality is supposed to be the only means by which the Western merchants think they can carry on their business in China with any feeling of security . it Is their chief safeguard for their goods and capital , and many feel that It can not be abolished merely to suit a political theory or a philanthropic ideal . Sonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , interested persons here declare , is a stable government with which to treat , and British opinion , nu matter how politicians may try to disguise facts , it is argued , will demend that no important concession to Chinese feeling be made until the Chinese prove themselves trustworthy by settling their own affairs and estab , llshing peace and order in the vast tracts already tinder their control . Among the Britishers who think of the Far Rust as they knew it in the past , the argument is brought forward that now Is the very worst time to appear ready to make concessions . The Chinese , like all other Orientals. these old " China Hands " assert , interpret consideration too often as weakness and would , they be Inclined to consider an other for the abolition , or even a considerable modification of extra-territoriality , at the present juncture es a sign that the Western powers were afraid of Chiimse might . This type of Britisher professes the belief that the Chinese would consf4r that they could do as they please with foreign lives and goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any foreigner to trust himself within their jurisdiction . Consequently , the feeling is strong ' here in circles of that sort that the first and most important step of all , in the Interest of the Chinese as well as foreigners , is for the Chinese Republic to I reform itself from within , to establish a ' ' government strong enough to enforce authority and to make agreements with Western nations which they can reasonably bone will be kept .                     