@@685452

txt Only a few hours of mingling with the Democratic politicians who ire gathering in San Francisco . for - their national convention is necessary to convince the inquisitive seeker for information that a very optimistic feeling prevails Over Democratic chances in the national election . A decided spirit of hope and not of mere hopefulness is apparent . The nomination of Senator Harding as the Republican candidate for President of the United States is responsible for this condition of the Democratic mind . So for comparatively . few party leaders have reached San Francisco , and for that reason it may be too early to attempt to forecast general sentiment among ' the men prominent in party affairs as to the prospect of the election of the Democratic candidates fur President and Vice President in November , but opinion seems to be unanimous among those Democratic chiefs now here that the nomination of Harding has immeasurably decreased the likelihood of Republican success and given the Democrats a real chance of victory . To some extent the Democratic optimism that one finds here must be discounted by prevailing conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get the Republican nomination was a keen disappointment to many persons in California , Democrats and Republicans alike , and their gloom over the outcome at Chicago is still apparent in San.Francisco . Added to this is the strong opinion that Harding is a reactionary , and reactionaries are not popular as candidates for public office in a State that prides itself on being independent and progressive . Feeling in the Air , This feeling among Californians is everywhere in the air , and it is difficult to determine the influence it has had on the prevailing belief , amounting almost to cocksureness , in a November victory for the Democratic Party . There are cautious ones , of course , who know that success can not be achieved by merely believing in it . These are not unmindful of disappointments in past Presidential years . They do not forget the historic remark of George Brennan of Chicago , successor of Roger Sullivan as the Democratic leader in Illinois , that " we Democrats always win in the early Summer . " But , taken all in all , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Francisco ' is so widespread as to btk practically unanimous  --  and there seems to be no reason to doubt that It is genuine . The reflection of California 's disappointment over the defeat of Hiram Johnson at Chicago is everywhere observable . The people of this State were led to believe that Johnson was a sure winner . As . one local observer said today : ' Californians were . so convinced that . Johnson would be the Republican nominee that you could get any kind of a bet or any odds you wished if you took the anti-Johnson side . " There was no " chering . among the crowds that gathered around the newspaper bulletin boards when the announcement . was made that Harding had been . chosen by the , Repablican convention . On . . top . of ' this came newspaper statements that Thomas W. Lamont and Henry P. Davison of J. P. Morgan &; Co. had dictated Harding 's selection . The effect , of such - an assertion on the independent California mind has been vet y Marked , it is claimed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereby . Doubt About Hoover Votero . , Senator 4ohnson 's popularity in ? San Francisco , however , is not typical of general sentiment in - the State at large , according to some Ca.lifarnia Democrats . The story is going the rounds here that Senator Johnson was keenly disappointed because his majority of . more than 125,000 over Herbert Hoover in the Republican Presidential preference primaries was not larger , the disappointment arising from the fact that when Charles E. Hughes , as the Republican candidate for President , lost California in 1516 , Johnson , the Republican candidate for United States Senator , carried it by more titan 300,000 . California Democrats see in the Hoover vote the prospect that many of these who voted for Hoover in the Republican primaries will vote the Democratic national ticket In November . A contrary view is taken by some RePublicans . They contend that the bulk of Hoover 's supporters are gratified over Johnson's-defeat and will voice their sat . isfaction by voting for Harding . lint ! ' delegates to the Democratic convention arrive in larger numbers it will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention as to Democratic chances in the election , but it is apparent that among the early arrivals the optimistic feeling is not only unanimous , or practically so , but seems to be sincere .                     