@@695957

txt President Coolidge had long hours today on the last full working day of his administration , which will come to an end at noon Monday . He had an early breakfast , again surveyed the decorations for the Hoover inauguration in his morning walk and at 8:15 o'clock was at his desk with more than 100 bills and other routine matters before him . Before the President had disposed of most of them , another hundred measures were rushed from Congress , and it was 6 P. M. when he ended his work to prepare for a farewell dinner to Cabinet members and their wives at the White House tonight . Before getting clown to action on the legislation before him , the President walked into the several rooms in the executive offices and chatted with the clerks , in a happy mood as he bestowed the words of praise upon them . His consideration of the measures from Congress was frequently interrupted by visitors who came to say hasty farewells . At 12:30 o'clock he received one of the largest crowds of the year , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand numbered 553 . Most of the visitors spoke to the President of his administration , and some of them were most effusive . The President apparently was pleased with the good wishes and expressions of appreciation . Gets Many Gifts by Mail . ' Letters and telegrams wishing the President and Mrs. Coolidge happiness and health were received and the mail also brought many souvenirs from different parts of the ' nation . President Coolidge has expressed the feeling that he has ended his term with the country prosperous and with the respect of the people for the retiring administration . One of the early visitors was Associate Justice Harlan F. Stone of the ' Supreme Court , who was a college chum of the President at Amherst . Senators Deneen . of Illinois and Ransdell of Louisiana in terrupted the Executive 's study of legislation long enough to discuss bills still pending and the apparent tabling by the Senate of judicial appointments sent to that body in the last few days . General Summerall , chief of the army staff , dropped in before the noon reception and Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the executive office was jammed and the crowd flowed into the streets . The Admiral climbed through a window and reached the President before the rush began . President Coolidge , at a 1 o'clock visit , was implored by a number . of Senators to attempt to exert his influence to force action upon the judicial appointments . This he clined to do , saying that in his administration he had never thought it wise to attempt to exert power over a legislative branch of the government . He explained that . he had performed his duty as Chief Executive in making the appointments to the judgeships created in his administration , and that it rested with the Senate to accept the responsibility of preventing the organization of addi- tional courts needed to dear the calendars congested with litigation , most of which represented prohibition cases . Does Not Name Three Others Assuming , this attitude , the President . did nothing to indicate that he resented the rebuke placed on his nominations . He did not send any recommendations for the three additional judicial places recently created in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district . Be did , however , send in a number of nominations for posticoa.sterS and also named Kenneth S. McCann to be chief carpenter with the Coast Guard . Before ending his day the President had disposed of all the bills before him except a score of measures that require consultation with other officers of the government . He probab ! y will have fifty bills to dispose of before noon on Monday . The President 's labors were broken into long enough for the presentation by the National Broadcasting Company of the manuscript stand he had used tn many radio addresses . Graham made the presentation . At 8 o'clock the President and Mrs. Coolidge gave the farewell dinner to the Cabinet members and their wives . Vice President and Mrs. Dawes were not present because the former had previously accepted an invitation to be present at a dinner given in his honor by the Gridiron Club . The dinner was very informal and this informality prevailed in the Blue Room , where the party assembled . The dinner was served in the State dining room , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guests at Dinner to Cabinet . The President 's guests included Secretary of State and Mrs. Kellogg , Secretary of the Treasury Mellon , Secretary of War and Mrs. Dwight F. Davis , Attorney General and Mrs. Sargent , Postmaster General and Mrs. New , Secretary of the Navy and Mrs. Wilbur . Secretary of the Interior West , Secretary of Agriculture and Mrs. Jardine . Secretary of Commence and Mrs. Whiting and Secretary of Labor and Mrs. James J. Davis . Tomorrow afternoon the President and . Mrs. Coolidge will give a tea to visiting Governors and members of their staffs and in the evening will entertain President-elect and Mrs. Hoover and Vice President-elect Curtis and Mrs. Edward E. Gann , Senator Curtis 's sister . President and Mrs. Coolidge will attend services as usual at the First Congregational church . Mr. COMicige 's first attendance at this churen was on a first . Sunday in August . Then he partook of communion , as he will tomorrow . Favorite hymns of the President and Mrs. Coolidge will be sung at the servicti. 7       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     