@@686869

txt Secretary Hoover was advised late this afternoon by Walter Lyman Brown of the American Relief Association that he had reached an understanding in his conferences . at Piga with Maxim Litvinoff , Soviet envoy in the relief negotiations , by which everything demanded by the American representative had been con. - ceded . The American relief organization , therefore , Will have complete control over the plans par distribution of re lief supplies all the way along to the Points of consumption . Secretary Hoover and the American representatives at Riga are assuming that in coming to this understanding the Soviet representative is acting in good faith-and on that basis the work will beginIm  --  mediately . The American aents intend to see that the supplies to be sent into Russia reach the children and others for whom they are intended , and that it is done under American control . The moment there is any violation of the agreement reached at Riga the relief work will halt . Mr. Hoover said that agencies In-New York and elsewhere to be identified with the work had been instructed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships for carrying goods to Hamburg , Danzig and other points . President Asks Relief Unity . Upon being advised of the understanding reached at Riga , Secretary Hoover made ' public a letter from President Harding expressing the hope that all in America who were charitably inclined would support the relief movement . and emphasizing his wish that distribution should be carried on through one American organization . The President 's letter read : The White House , Washington , D. C. , Aug. 18 , 1921 . My dear Secretary Hoover : As- you are aware , I have given my fullest approval of the action on the part of the American Relief Administration in initiating an effort to mitigate the famine in Russia . particularly to save the lives of children . I know that the entrance of America into the problem of Russia through the full heart of charity is one that will appeal to the whole American people . My particular purpose in addressing this letter to you is to emphasize my . wish that the distribution in Russia of all ; charity arising In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is only through single American representation and administration that we can assure to both the American and Russian people the best service in the use of their funds . I am asking the Department of State to co-operate in directing that passports be given for travel . to Russia on relief work only to persons who May be in the service of the American Relief Administration . It is also of importance that the American people ? should be protected so far as we can do so from those persons who may wish to thrive on great disasters by creating unnecessary organizations to collect clarity . I trust , therefore , that all tkase in America - who are charitably niclined will give their support either to the American Relief Administration or to such organizations as may undertake . to co- , operate with that administration . Very truly yours , WARREN G. HARDING . No Public Appeal for Funds . Secretary Hoover ' also issued a statement showing the steps taken in the direction of union of action in the relief work and making it plain that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His statement reads : " President , Harding has addressed to me the attached letter on the subject of a United effort in Russia ' by American organizations . " All of the principal American organizations will ? co-operate .. with , each other in work in Russia and have been in constant contact over Russian questions . All the important children relief ' organizations have in fact co-ordinated their ? - efforts efforts for the last year in the Euro0ean Relief Council . A meeting of the Founeil has been called for early f next Week to consider the joint arrangemen 7 to be undertaken for Russian admini tration . This council comprises the follotOng : " the American Relief Administration , . Ametican Friends Service Committee ; American Red Cross . Federal ? Council . of the Churches of Christ in America , Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. ? Knights of Columbus . Young - ? Aiert 's Chriqtian Association and the Catholic Welfare Committee . " It  --  is not the intention or the American Relief Administration to make any public appeal for funds . as it feels that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand until the ' whole employment and business situation is greatly improved . Any persons who desire to contribute are recommended to do so through any of the Organiaations . " Secretary Hoover made it plain that the effort to aid starving Russia was Ns holly.numanitarian and that there was nothiing political involved ' in the move-. teenti. - . .                     