@@688908

txt I3erlin dispatches innocently reflect the tacit belief of the German Government all along that its offer to France would not be accepted . The swift and unqualified rejection by the French Government can be no great surprise or shock to the Curio Ministry . Yet it betrays some signs of disquiet at not having got support from Great Britain or the United States . The evident debeen of addressing the German note to all the Allies and to America was to provoke , if possible , a division of opinion among them . But this has not reSuited . German advances were met with coldness both in Washington and London . And in the latter capital the speech of the British Foreign Secretary , Lord CURZON , foreshadowed a reforming of the allied lines in a way evhich is obviously disconcerting to Berlin . Instead of promoting divisions among the Allies , the German note has had the effect of uniting them more closely than before . This is exteanation enough of the Mortification and dejection felt in Germany . Ever since the British Prime Minister washed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RUM- German diplomacy has aimed to widen what it thought to be the breach between France and England . But now the German note has apparently brought the two together again . Lord Cuazoze expressed the distinct desire to , ring the whole question of German ieparations once more into a common council . He even spoke of a united pressure brought to bear upon the German Government . From this it is net to be inferred that Mr. Eosin LAW intends to reverse the position which he took four months ago . Formal British approval of what the French have done in the Ruhr is not to be expected . But the British Government has plainly extended an invitation to France to join again in common and if riendly consultation about the whole matter . Whether this is at once and fully accepted or not by the French , the Germans can not fail to perceive T7 hat they have done . They have e-rought union among their opponents where there was a slight divergence . Such a union Germany naturally dreads . But there is another sort of union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought about for the benefit of all concerned . We refer , of course , to the proposed merger of interests between the great German industrialists and those of France . This was somewhat vaguely , yet unmistakably , put forward in the German note . In a passage which yields some evidence of having been several Times edited and rewritten it wee etated : . To further the peace of Europe by common economic effort , and in order to re-establish the natural economic relation between production and consumption by private economic agreements , a basis is to be created for the unhampered exchange of vitally imPeriarat commodities between the countries concerned . To this end longterm private contracts for the dlie.:re of coal and coke are specially important . What this means is no deep secret , 3t looks to bringing the industries of the Ruhr into good relation with those of Lorraine . The two naturally neer each other and supplement each other , For a long time it has been well un derstood that the French Comite de : Forges was in negotiation with thi todustrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an amicable agreement for co-operation . These efforts have thus far failed , thougt The indications are that both side : ere for continuing them . Certain i ' is that an industrial and economii union , working alongside a politica union of the allied nations . would have a marked influence in bringing Ger many to ' a batter mind , and also t ( better terms of settlement . The significant and hopeful thing that discussion has begun and promides to go on . It is true that tilt deadlock between Germany and France is hot yet broken . The French haw heard Germany 's first offer only to refuse it out of hand . Yet this does not mean that the situation goes keel to what it was before Germany spoke . She has abandoned her unyielding attitude . She professes to be eager to entertain counter-proposals . They will doubtless be forthcoming . The Frenct Government begins , to be sure , with a sweeping rejection of the GerMan offer . But this can not mean the end of the debate . France and Belgium have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be satisfactory to them , and the intimation is now given that this will be presented within a week . If so , it may come to Germany not merely as a Franco-Belgian proposal , but also with the endorsement of Italy and Great Britain . Every way , the forces which make for renewed negotiation have been let loose , and the probabilities are strong that they will continue to operate , in one way or another , until the vexed question which troubles the peace of Europe is Put in the way of final adjustment .                     