@@696798

txt As a hater of alcohol , an ardent prohibitionist , a Senator bound even more than private persons not to wink at violations of the law , Mr. BROOKHART was irresistibly compelled to reveal the crime committed at a dinner where he and other Sen= ators were present . It is not to his discredit that he shrank from the task . Between the guilty banquet and his first mention of it in the Senate in late September nearly three years had passed . It is easy to imagine the conflict in that dignified and pure conscience between his duty as a public man and a conventional regard for his position as a guest . He would not have been himself if the instinct for revelation had not conquered the artificial and weaker reason for silence . His memory grew clearer and was enlarged as he became thoroughly himself again and his good angel trampled on the evil . If in. some collateral and incidental matters his recollection is at fault , the lapse of time made that inevitable . He has now unbosomed himself completely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Senator SmooT , to the unnamed guilty , the appropriate . ' reflections of gratitude or remorse belong . Mr. BROOKHART need n't mind the criticisms of the hasty , the unthinking , the angry , the habitual participants in or dispensers of these criminal festivities . He will not be asked to " boozing parties . " He does n't want to be . There must be enough just men in Washington , there are multitudes of just men , out of it , whose applause is reward enough even for Mr. BRoOKHART 's noble speech . It would be most regrettable , however , if , finding a new abomination in Wall Street , Mr. BROOKHART should withdraw himself altogether froni association with pilgrims from that street of sin . They ca n't injure him . Contact with him , if dryly it can be obtained , might open their minds to the financial , economic and moral light which he radiates . In another and most important respect he might be helpful to most of us . In his utterance of the truth that is in him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of iniquity . This is a social habit ignorantly , frowned upon by too many . If everybody who talked to Mr. BROOKHART knew that his words might be proclaimed on the floor of the Senate , that house of universal censorship , what chastity , prudence , moderation , reserve , would pervade the talk of the privileged beings in communication ' with Mr. BROOKIIART ! At whatever occasion , private or public , he is present , every tongue will wag warily as if the Recording Angel were busily pounding the keys . Manifold are Mr. BRooKHART 's triumphs as a statesman and statistician ; yet these promise to be nothing compared with his glory as a Great Moral Influence and Dictograph.                     