@@688697

txt When the ZR-1 , the navy rigid dirigible , now being constructed , is put into commission this Summer . she will be sent on a flight around the world and on trips to the North and South Pole . Rear Admiral William A. Moffett , Chief of the Naval Bureau of Aeronautics , announced last night in an address broadcast from WJZ by way of the Waldorf-Astoria . Re did not follow up this announcement with details , but went on to discuss the radical changes which aviation had brought about with reference to the relation of foreign-owned possessions in the West Indies to the United States . Saying that Bermuda occupied the same relation to the United States that Heligoland did to Germany during the World War , he declared that the entire eastern coast of the United States was within easy aeronautical bombing distance of this foreign-owned island . Navy Bureau 's Plans . Admiral Moffett prefaced his brief statement regarding the ZR-1 with the following explanation : " The development of rigid airships by joint agreement between the army and the navy Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aeronautics . In accordance with this agreement the navy Is rapidly completing the huge rigid airship , the ZR-1 , at the Naval Airship Station at Lakehurst . N. J. , the work being done in the largest airship hangar in the world . At the same time there is being rushed to completion in Germany another big rigid airship , the ZR-3 . These two airships embrace the most improved factors in design known to aeronautical science , and when in commission will be the forerunners of a large fleet of such airships , which it is hoped can be built and commissioned in the near future . For long distance , sustained flights , in carrying large loads , the rigid airship is in a class by itself . Its capacity to hover over a given spot making for great accuracy in the dropping of bombs and in directing gun fire , establish it as an effective weapon for warfare far removed from the coast and from available bases . " Filled with helium , a non-inflammable gas found only in large quantities in the United States , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vital importance to the national defense . " Then Admiral Moffett said : ? " The ZR-1 , this country 's and the navy 's first rigid dirigible , will go into commission about July 1 . She will be sent on trips over the principle cities of the country , trips across country , a trip around the world and to the North and South poles . This dirigible Is now being built at Philadelphia , and assembled at Lakehurst , N. J. " Bermuda and Heligoland . Admiral Moffett told of the progress that had been made in developing naval aircraft : of the many inventions , notably the catapult , that had enabled aircraft to become an important adjunct to the navy in our defenses . " Aviation has radically changed the relation of foreign-owned posesaions in the West Indies and on the continental mainland to the United States , " he said . ? ? Bermuda occupies the same relation to the United States that Heligoland did to Germany during the last war . Bermuda is the centre of an arc which , with a radius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South Atlantic States , pass inside of Cape Hatteras and close to New York and Long Island . Even in the present stage of development of aviation the - entire Atlantic . Coast , including the cities of savannah , Charleston , Norfolk , New York and Long Island , are now within easy bombing distance of planes based on Berin uda . On ill , other hand . Bermuda is not within the radius of action of fighting planes . Fighting planes are the recognized and only really effective defense against bombing planes . The greatest radius of action of a fighting plane would fall far short of reaching Bermuda. , whereas a bombing plane could attack any point on our coast and , as the point of attack would not be known , stretching from Florida to Boston , it would be necessary to have an enormous number of fighting planes scattered along the coast to meet all possible points of attack . In other words , aviation has brought Bermuda to our very doors , instead of being several days away by steamer . Sass Britain Would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the sea would have a , tremendous superiority in the air , which would enable It to bomb our Atlantic Coast . In war no nation could afford to neglect the advantage given by its possession of such a position to produce 1 decisive results against this country . " This situation applies not only in the I case . of Bermuda , out to the Bahamas and other foreign island and mainland possessions as well , owing to the fact that Great Britain 's navy would undoubtedly have control of the sea with the present relative sea power of the two countries . Bermuda has been taken as an example , but similar conditions apply to the other West Indian Islands , including those owned by the French and Dutch . Jamaica , for instance , is within easy bombing distance of the Panama Canal ; other British possessions on the mainland also possess this advantage . " In the arms conference there was a full realization of the vital necessity of the United States retaining the right to make Pearl Harbor an impregnable base . when this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to successful attack by a hostile fleet . From a strategic standpoint its advantages are in no wise superior to Bermuda . In fact the latter 's proximity to the Atlantic Coast makes it an even were important base from the standpoint of tic , national defense , as It is within easy striking distance for aerial attack , whereas Hawaii is beyond the range of aircraft operations agcreunit the Pacific Coast or the PIEL/Lan2a -                     