@@693983

txt One American institution spent nearly ten million dollars last year in promoting health throughout the world . Such great things have been done by it in other years that the magnitude and beneficence of its undertaking are not realized . The mere mention of the name " Rockefeller Foundation " so promptly enlarges expectations as to prevent due appreciation of its service to humanity . If it were a nameless , unknown Samaritan that was going around the earth , not only binding up the wounds of the suffering , but also preventing some of the diseases and ills to which human kind has been till now a hopeless heir , he would be the most romantic personage of modern times ; but being a " foundation " and obliged to give an account of its e:Ipenditure , to show , even to the pennies , what it spent on the road to Jericho , or out in Sarawak or down in Guatemala , and to explain its health program for Brazil or China , it does not have the praise it deserves . The brief review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rockefeller Foundation , with all its impersonality and absence of appealing illustrations of healing , is a document as full of the material of romance and chivalry as the Idylls lof the King . St. George is fighting the dragon in a realistic and scientific way , whether the dragon be the hookworm in twenty-one different countries , yellow fever in two continents , or malaria in a dozen lands besides several of our own States . There is an even higher kind of service in providing for nurse training , helping medical schools to demonstrate plans for improvement in education , organizing rural health centres , supporting fellowships ( 889 ) for men and women from fortyeight different countries , and doing ' a score of other things to make the world a safer place to live in . The Foundation " takes no interest in merely expansive work . " Nor is it a " patron . " It is a " partner " with Government ' agencies . universities and other institutions ? and then only upon invitation . It ' succeeds best when such progress has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only healing but preaching a gospel of positive , active , vigorous physical and mental well-being . That progress is being made , one paragraph will suffice to suggest : Smallpox is almost unknown in parts of Europe and in a few States of the United States ; typhoid epidemics are rare in efficiently administered communities ; ttlb4i.1 tgosia cigorpasing. axons , many populations ; diphtheria is coming under successful control ; the outlook for preventing the spread of scarlet fever is brighter ; malaria is being ousted from various strongholds ; yellow fever seems to be making a last stand ; cholera can not seriously invade a country which has a modern water supply and proper disposal of wastes ; typhus has few terrors for communities addicted to soap and water and clean linen . The Foundation makes no claim for credit for this achievement , but it must take satisfaction in knowing that it has contributed mightily to making such progress possible .                     