@@687444

txt If Argentina can not sell her products for bills on London or New York , she will move ? them by such reasonable credit arrangements as ' can be made . ror months , business interests , chiefly agrarian , have been urging action , and the recent statement of Dr. Pueyrredon , Minister of Foreign Affairs , indicates that public insistence has not been in vain . Dr. Pueyrredon 's manifesto was in the form of a cablegram to Argentinian legations abroad , as follows : " As the government is desirous of establishing closer relations with other nations , putting in practice policy of economic ' cooperation it has consistently maintained , we desire that you inform the government ? to which you are accredited , that the Argentine government is ready to grant facilities for the acquisition , in our country , of meat , cereals , wool and other national products , necessary for industry and consumption in other countries . ? NEW HARVEST GOOD " It is desirable that your ' excellency point out that the new cereal harvest , now.being gathered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . suitable for all.markots . That previous wool clips had been partially liquidated and that sale of clip of current year has started under favorable conditions . When you so inform the government , you should . get in direct contract with commercial and industrial interests , and advise them fully in the circumrtances . Your excellency will not fail to appreciate the importance of this step , which confirms instructions previously given your excellency . " Dr. Pucyrredon mentions instructions previously given . Indeed , for some time Argentinian economists have had a favorite theme for discussion in the very matter of European credits . One plan , which seems to have widest approval , is credit against payment of 505 , in goods , and the balance on long term , at low interest and reasonable amortization . So far has the matter gone that a workable plan Could be presented to the government the moment a credit were liquid . A SCHEME FOR TRADING Dr.-Emiliani , well known Argentinian economist , has prepared a scheme based on the Wiesbaden , Franco-German , delivery-in-kind agreement . Dr. h.miliani Would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of carrying out terms of credit , and he would initiate the closest contract between German and Argentinian trade . Paper money would be issued by Argentine government for making credit effective . Money would be quickly retired for that portion of credit paid by goods , as paper would only be outstanding until retired by quick sale of German goods . Meanwhile it would be amply secured by raw products purchased for shipment to Germany . For that portion of credit subject to amortization , paper would remain outstanding for period of years , but would be covered by obligations , bearing-interest , of foreign government . Whatever paper money was issued in foreign country for purchase of manufactured goods , by foreign government , would be quickly retired'by ' sale of raw products ; while . products covered by term portion of credit would lead to permanent retirement of . paper . circulation , . by purchases on part of foreign consumers . Dr. Emiliani 's plan would be government controlled only financially . It would be closely linked up to commercial interests , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     