@@690960

txt The train bearing the body of Samuel Gompers to New York sped on its way tonight after a day marked by the gathering of those who wished to pay their last respects at the various stations passed between San Antonio and the Kansas line . From Parsons . the train proceeded toward St Louis , where it was due to arrive at 7:30 tomorrow morning . Even after dark large crowds were found at every station , bent on entering the train and obtaining a final look at the famous leader . Muted music and the scents of flowers accompanied the body- on its journey eastward . symbols of the affection of the workers for their departed chief . Bands Play " Auld Lang Syne . ' ? " Auld Lang Syne " with its refrain , " Should auld acquaintance be forgot . " was the favorite number of the bands which played as crowds met the train . The people of San Antonio . where the chieftain died Saturday . bade farewell to him with " Nearer . My God , to Thee . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her last remembrance As the funeral train proceeded the car in which the body lay became filled with flowers , whose odors carried word to the villagers of the presence of the funeral train . Workmen in overalls , women in Sunday attire and children fresh from Sunday school , rubbed elbows - as they paused to gaze at the still face when the coffin was opened at some of the few stops made . As the Missouri . Kansas 8 : Texas train went on . after a brief halt at Austin , Chester M. Wright and John E. Giles . members of the Labor Party , watched over the bier . A small electric light at the side of the coffin gave a shaded glow , showing the flag-draped coffin and the floral designs . Nurse Tells of Last Flours . Miss Mathilda Mays of New York . Mr. Gompers 's nurse , told for the first time the story of his last moments today . " I had been resting for a short time when the extra nurse called and said Mr. Gompers was having trouble with his breathing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he held up his hands and said : ' Oh , help me . ' The doctor and his secretary were summoned and they called members of the Executive Council and other leaders . " It was then close to 3 A. M. Mr. Duncan came In and took Mr. Gompers 's hand and gave him the Masonic grip . He said Mr. Gompers returned it . Other friends came , but there was not much said . In a short time his breathing grew gradually weaker and soon he went off to sleep , calmly and ' peacefully . His was a peaceful and dignified ending . " Union men passed through the funeral car at Fort Worth , where it was switched to another train , and at Denton , Texas , where a stop was made that had not been scheduled , several dozen persons filed through the car . The lid of the coffin was raised at Denison , Texas . where nearly 2.000 looked at the dead leader and brought many flowers . Tribute from the American Indian was brought by Chief Ungahtah , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In picturesque garb , he stood beside the coffin and intoned an Indian. , Prayer for the dead . Labor leaders who told him that Mr. Gompers had been adopted into an Indian tribe in Canada in 1920 took part in the ceremony . As the train passed through Oklahoma , leaders recalled that the pen with which the State Constitution had been signed had been presented ? several years ago to Mr. Goinpers , who had it framed and hung on the wall of his Washington office . By the time the train reached Parsons , wagonloads of flowers had been taken aboard toe funeral car . Members of the funeral party , worn out by the long trip and , the anxiety and grief brought about by their chief 's fatal illness , tonight sought rest while . by turns , two kept vigil over - the body .                     