@@695194

txt Though Dr. WILLIAM J. MAYO is one of the world 's foremost exponents of the group practice of medicine , he does not look forward to the disappearance of the general practitioner . In his address before the National Education Association he said that the physician is no longer an individual practitioner , however general , but must turn to one or another specialist for the information which in the nature of things a single individual can not have of all that medicine has learned . He would need several lives to attain that competency , and even then collective knowledge would surpass his own . Dr. JOSEPH COLLINS has in the current Harper 's set forth in a clear and convincing article the need of such organization of specialized skill in the field of medicine as will insure to patients the advice of the highest diagnostic service and most approved treatment , whatever their ailments may be , at a cost which they are able to meet . Great progress has been made in the training of physicians . They are as well taught in America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they persist in practicing medicine individually they fail of their maximum possible service . As it is , the poor , or very poor , do in most communities enjoy the advantages of group practice through the clinic or hospital in which specialists are associated . Those of ample means may also have such advantages , but , except in such institutions as the Mayo Clinic and the medical centres now . developing , only by going from one specialist to another . The man who is neither rich nor poor is " often denied the medi " cal service to which he is entitlbd " because he can not afford it , " but could have within his means . if group practice were organized in some such way as Dr. COLLINS suggests : He would go to the consulting rooms and laboratories . Here he would be received by a discerning , affable person who would seek to get enough information about his symptoms to lead him to the appropriate hopper of the medical mill . Before be ' is taken there ' it . should be ascertained whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If he is a wage-earner , the ? firm should then and there collect tho equivalent of one week 's salary . If he is a wage-payer , $100 should be collected with similar dispatch , and he should be told that he may anticipate supplementary charges should his case require extensive investigation . Then the patient should be given an appointment with a member of the firm in whose province the symptoms would seem to be , who would examine and pass him on to as many others as are necessary to get a complete report . The patient is now ready for the verdict . The man who gives it to him should know not only the disease but the diseased and he should always have in mind that man 's fears are I magnified by illness , his hopes minimized . The ideal way would be for the physician to have his own laboratories and assistants in such number as to cover the field of his practice , but this is impracticable . It must be constantly- kept in- mind ,  --  however , that , with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There will ever be need of those who have skill in caring for the sick  --  who have the qualities of those general practitioners who have ennobled and endeared the profession . . ' Organization has , as Dr. COLLINS has . said , made medical education ? more efficient . The next step is to do the same for medical practice .                     