@@696698

txt Federal reserve officials are inclined to pursue a policy of watchful waiting in regard to the present situation in brokers ' loans . Tendency is to believe that the situation is satisfactory . so far as the Reserve System is concerned , and that no special action of any kind is necessary . There is reliable information here that rise in the loans during a falling security market was caused by forced selling from London at the same time some credit balances held for , foreign account were withdrawn . Withdrawal of credit balances did not , of course , actually increase the loan total but it I did cause the published figures to surge upward violently . Credit balances are reported in neither Federal Reserve nor , Stock Exchange loan figure 's . However , their withdrawal forced borrowing to replace the funds , withdrawn and such borrowing did appear in published figures . Declines in Loans Believed in Prospect There is confidence here that the influences which sent the loans upward have worked them ' selves out and that substantial declines in loans are in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the American Bankers Association convention asking an inquiry into the whole subject of brokers ' loans by the Federal Reserve Board . Whether or not such inquiry will be made depends on a decision of the board . Informal expressions cast some doubt on whether there would be a formal study with published findings . In the first place , it is questioned whether the Reserve Board ought to make such a study since under the law it is not primarily concerned with the stock market- Attention to the loans IS necessary since they are a leading influence I on the credit situation but if there is to be a formal inquiry there is disposition to think that some otbrr government agency would be in bet , ter position to make it . More " Scientific " Figure Sought The Board has made some study of brokers ' loans for its own information to learn what bearing they have on credit in general . The results of this study have not been made public , but they may be if the projected Congressional inquiry is made next winter and officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Reserve Board , however , some disposition to feel that the brokers ' loans figures as now published are not the best statistics that could be had . There has been some study to learn if there could not be obtained what the bankers resolution called a more " scientific ' figure . This idea is still in the tentative stage and has not taken any definite shape as yet .                     