@@689543

txt General MITCHELL , Assistant Chief of the Army Air Service , has predicted that aviators will soon attain a speed of 300 miles an hour  --  three times as fast as the condor flies . At St. Louis on Oct. 6 Lieutenant WILLIAMS of the navy maintained in the annual race for the Pulitzer Aerial Prize an average speed of 243.67 miles an hour over a triangular course . There ' were six starters , and the difference in elapsed time between the finish of Lieutenant WILLIAMS and that of the last man to come in , Lieutenant Cortxtr.r ? Army Service , was only 3 minutes 50.89 seconds . On Sunday Lieutenant WILLIAMS , racing for a new record on a three-kilometer course at Mineola , made an average speed of 266.68 miles an hour . A brother officer , Lieutenant HAROLD J. Baow , reached a silted of 274.2 miles on one lap of the course . Three days earlier Lieutenant Bnow had surpassed the time of Wu-malls at St. Louis , flying at the rate of 259.15 miles an hour . These rivals went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly competition . To obtain momentum at the start they climbed 10,000 feet and swooped for the " line . " On one occasion WILLIAMS came down to within ten feet of the ground and had a narrow escape from disaster . The strain on men and machines was so great that Rear Admiraliiii.forrsTT , head of the Naval Air Service , issued an order that there - must be no more flying for speed records under such conditions : but he was induced to make an exception in the case of the " flying carnival " on election day for the benefit of the Army Relief Society , with the understanding that diving for a start over the twelve7-kilometer course would be barred . General MITCHELL 'S maximum of 300 miles an hour is considered too low by Colonel HARTNEY of the National Aeronautic Association . He states that " the public would be astonished " to know the developments in avia " tion behind the scenes . " He talks of 500 miles an hour as practicable . The airplanes , he declares , can be constructed to stand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of the human- machines . Lieutenant WILLIAMS , writing about his experiences in the St. Louis race  --  during a dive his speedometer showed 280 miles an hour  --  made this startling statement : " It is an aeronautical fact that " after you attain a certain speed any " sharp turn will produce a black " faint . It is a familiar experience to " fliers of high-speed planes , planes " of much less speed than mine . " Of Vie faint at the sharp turns WILLIAMS says : There is a slumping sensation , as if you were going through the bottom of the ship . Something black hits you in the face . I have been told that such turns drain the blood from your head . When the plane squares away you begin to see out of your eyes again . The aviator must look straight ahead through a piece of glass two by six inches . " There 's no gazing over the side at 240 miles an hour , " says Virzza.Ltnis . " It would be like a Dempsey smash in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 miles an hour , and it is a singular thing that these compact little racers " seem buoyed on a pillow of air " at landigg altitude and resist being brought down to earth . The aviator may have to circle the field more than once before feeling his way to terra firma . In calling a halt upon such rivalry as Rnow and WILLIAMS indulged in on Sunday Admiral MorsErr Is acting for the interests of the service . Such men are too valuable to court hazards that if often repeated could only end in tragedy . Trying for speed records will go on , though it may have no combat value . Tests should be made over straight courses .                     