@@696733

txt Forced liquidation caused lower prices in the early dealings yesterday , but later in the day . when bears attempted to bring another decline through pressing stocks for sale there was evidence of resistance , and before the close a number of recent favorites scored good upturns . At that time there was heavy covering of shorts by the early sellers and bears who had put out clocks on Wednesday . While there had been some outside selling during the forenoon. public liquidation was not as large as the pessimists had hoped for . Margin calls sent out late Wednesday brought a pond response with additional funds , indicating that those holding stocks are inclined to maintam their position . It was this lack of heavy outside selling which probably induced the short covering during the late afternoon . Call money renewed at 7% and went down to 6 , S later in the day . Banking interests reported that the demand for funds was smaller than in recent sessions , while the supply was more liberal . This ease in credit was a market influence after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cautious Conservative observers do not believe that stocks will rally in a straight line and therefore are urging clients to take advantage of the recoveries to lighten long commitments . Because sharp reactions in the past were not followed by a secondary decline there were many in the financial district war , were inclined to discourage the view that such a reaction would develop in the current rnarliet . Now these interests admit that the maiket is following precedent and is passing thrc ugh a secondary reaction . Naturally many ef the buyers who took a long position during the last passe of the rally recently have been disposing of their stocks This supply has been quite large and has helped in getting stocks to lower lei els . Pools Dormant Pools which have been operating in stocks for several weeks have done little or nothing in the past few days . They have permitted their favorites to drift downward as a result of selling without making any effort to support the stocks . Attempts to stem a reaction , even in the pool issues , are rarely highly successful . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong feature during a decline in the general Test the bears bring pressure into the issue and force a reaction This has been the experience in the past anal it is only natural that group support should therefore be lacking during sharp reaction : - Slargin Selling Margin selling came into stocks : n the early dealings yesterday . Calls went out after the close on Wednesday because so many of the recent favorites broke-sharply . Hots ever , a vast majority of the accounts in commission houses are : n good shape , mainly due to the efforts of these fr-ms to keep customers ' margins at a I high point . Once again the conservative attitude of these commission houses seems to be justified . Resistance Even observers who have beer anticipating a good reaction expect most stocks to meet ' resistance at somewhat above the low points teached on the sharp break Just two weeks ago . They point out that averages could go lower without any disastrous influence on the market . ' Should most stocks break through their lows on ! the previous break , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are working for still lower covering levels . Norfolk &; Western Earnings of Norfolk &; Western for the current year are estimated at around $26 a share . or more than 2i times the annual $10 a share dividend requirements Such a showing must be admitted to be possible in view of the fact that for the first eight months the road reported a surplus after charges of $25,556,673 , equal to S17.76 a share on the common after preferred dividends . compared with $11.62 a share in the like period a year ago . American Can That An-Lei:can Can will be among , the leaders in the industrial group is the expectation in most financial quarters . There has been impressive buying in the stock from time to time recently . and this demand has been credited to interests who were identified with advances in the past . An outside following of fairly large proportions has been attracted . Texas Gulf Sulphur Action of Texas Gulf Sulphur has been quite puzzling . The stock has been moving within a narrow range for some days . Rumors have been circulated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no confirmaLon , but quite a few market students contend that the stock has been acting as though special buying has been in progress . Corn Products Part of the buying in Corn Products has been due to the discussions of important holdings of the company . It is pointed out that heavy investments have been made in the past few years in sound rail and industrial securities , which must have increased substantially in value during the sharp advances . The stock has buying recommendations of a number of leading houses . Bethlehem Steel Bethlehem Steel logically should meet support at the levels where resistance has been encountered on several occasions . The new stock to be issued to holders in connection with the lased retirement plan carries a price of $110 and has been underwritten by a banking group . , This fact has been responsible for demand which has appeared whenever the stock has approached the subscription price . Liggett &; Myers It is estimated that the advance in cigarette prices will bring an increase of between $4 and $4 50 a share in earnings of Liggett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a share this year . with larger revenues in 1930 because the effect of price advance will be felt during all of next year . In past years the company has taken special dividend action in February , and some interests would not be surprised it ' something special was done for stockholders early next year because of the improved outlook . Royal Dutch Action of Royal Dutch for some time . whenever the general market has been favorable , has been most impressive . It has resulted in considerable scale buying by important interests during recessions . It is probable that Royal Dutch will be among the leaders when the oil group shows strength . Business of the company is world wide and the issue is likely to attract more attention than most of the domestic concerns . Utilities Much forced selling has come into the public utilities recently . Stocks which were carried to unusually high points alive been heavy and the decline has been abrupt enough to uncover many of the stop loss orders which had been used by outside longs to protect their accounts . Market students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently on the theory that they were selling far out of line with earnings and had more than discounted their prospects in the near future . Such pressure has come when the stocks were less popular than they had been during the sharp advances . Raybestos-Manhattan Raybestos-Manhattan has been meeting scale buying during every reaction . The demand has come from interests who are informed on the affairs of the company . All three branches , the Raybestos , Asbestos and Manhattan Rubber are booked at capacity into next year , and the latter has been meeting such an increase in the demand for its product of rubberized brake linings that the present plants operating on this article are working 24 hours a day . Management has made plans for getting new plants to expand activities and catch up . with the steadily growing consumption of this product . Manhattan Rubber will be the heaviest contributor toward the earnings of the merged company this year .                     