@@688993

txt All bills which have been pending before Governor Smith since the Legislature adjourned on May 4 and not already acted upon were disposed of tonight . The thirty-day period officially does not expire until midnight tomorrow , but because he could not sign a bill on Sunday , the Governor was forced to act tonight on all remaining measures . One hundred and thirty five bills were either approved or vetoed during the day . Most important of the bills signed by the Chief Executive was the measure sponsored by Senator James J. Walker , which provides that the maximum gas rate in New York City shall not be more than $1 a thousand cubit feet . At a recent hearing on this bill the Consolidated Gas Company stressed the point that under the 650 B. T. U. standard , set in the bill , lives and property would be endangered . The gas company representatives also intimated that they would test the validity of the bill In the courts . The Governor did not issue a memorandum giving his reason for approving the bill . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved . It was sponsored by Senator O'Brien of New Yorkt and prohibits gas companies from making a service charge . While the bill is tatewido in its application . It was . drafted principally for the relief of gas consumers in Westchester County . From comments made by the Governor at. - the hearing on this bill it had been expected it would be vetoed . Vetoes 126 Bills . The Governor issued two omnibus vetoes , one containing 64 bills , the other 62 . The one containing the 64 measures were special city bps and had been rejected by the cities they affected . The other , the Governor said , contained measures which were either duplicates , unnecessary , defectively drawn , unconstitutional , or in conflict with other bills already signed . The Kaufmann bill . requiring the electrification of all railroad tracks in New York City , was approved . At a hearing on this meEiv.ire yesterday representatives of the New York Central told the Governor it would be impossible for that company to electrify all its tracks in New York City because of certain grades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 10 per cent . on bank shares and other moneyed capital coming into competition with the business of national banks . This tax was made necessary because . of the United States Court decision invalidating the tax upon national bank shares . The new law will be effective for only one I year , and by the end of that time , it is hoped , the Joint Legislative Committee on Taxation and Retrenchment will have devised a new means of meeting the loss from the tax imposed upon bank shares . " If this bill were not signed , " the Governor said , " it would mean that the municipalities would be without adequate means of raising this very important part of their revenue . " Governor Smith also approved another Walker bill providing that municipalities that are required to ? refund taxes illegally levied upon national bank shares may issue bonds covering , a three-year period to meet such refunds . Vetoes Bill to Validate Bank Tax . The Sheridan bill to validate the taxes levied on State and national bank shares for the last three years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an agreement had been reached between the bankers and New York City officials under which the banks will adjust the taxes for those three years on the basis of a payment of 50 per cent . " For the purpose of informing all the municipalities and banks affected , " the Grovernor wrote in his veto memorandum . " I understand that the New York State Bankers ' Association has communicated the terms of the settlement to all of its members . I also understand that the Secretary of the Mayors ' Conference has communicated with the offi- cials of the various municipalities of the State . " While I very fully appreciate the necessity for providing more housing facilities in New York . I nevertheless can not bring myself to a frame of mind that would permit me to sign this bill . " the Governor wrote . " I am also informed that the Controller of New York City has communicated with officials of counties throughout the State , giving them the terms of settlement and the form of contract which that city proposes to use in settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because of the very limited time allowed for the consummation of this settlement , it mayPnot be possible to hear from all the parties affected , but it ie expected by those who are in touch ; with the subject that , in view of the fact that this litigation was initiated by the large National Banks of New ' York City , the banks outside of New ? York City will be inclined to follow their lead in their settlement of these unpaid s . " Another bill vetoed by the Governor would have amended the New York City Tenement House law to permit the conversion of three-family dwellings into apartments . " Light and ventilation to the open air in toilets in tenement houses has been , since the passage  --  of the original statute , one of the cardinal features of the law , " he continued . " Within the last two weeks I signed a bill creating in the office of the State architect a Bureau of Housing , and they are to be charged with the duty of making a study throughout the State of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them with the request that they gather together the best medical and scientific opinions upon this subject and be prepared to report back to the Legislature and to myself early in January , 1924 . " The Governor vetoed the O'Connor bill , which would have amended the penal laws so as v.-ormlt a judge to impose a fine on a person convicted of bookmaking or poolselling . Under the present law only a prison sentence can be imposed . ? He a , lso vetoed the Lacey bill providing for the licensing- Of ' barbers ' by the State . City Measures Vetoed . ' " . ? Included in the omnibus . veto ' of city bills were the following : r Steinberg bill transferring to the New York City Police Department the licensing of hack 's and drivers . O'Connor bill increasing the salary of the City Clerk of New York City from $7,000 to $10,000 . Reich bill providing for the establishment of the College of Kings County . Twomey bill providing that patrolmen now acting as boiler inspectors in New York City shall have s permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to pensions and promotion as members of uniformed force . Burchill bill providing for salary increases for employes of New York City Street Cleaning Department . Rosenman bill prohibiting the maintenance of objectionable business on land and water front adjacent to Riverside Park . Twomey bill providing for uniformed force 4n the New York City Bureau  --  of Fire Prevention . Hamil bill authorizing the Mayor of New York to reinstate any former member of the police force who served five years and resigned without charges pending . Governor . Smith vetoed twenty-two bills providing for the reinstatement ' of members of the ? New - York City Police and ' Fire , Departments . Earlier in the ? day the Governor approved twenty bills , inclding the Rosenman measure , which would permit tenants ' who signed leases subsequent to Sept. 27 , 1920 , to come in under the New York . City Emergency Rent laws . ? At the same tim  --  the Gbvernor vetoed the Reiburn bill , which would have extended the application of the emergency rent laws from Feb. 1 , 1924 , to May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , Mr. Smith issued the following memoran-dum : In order to dispose of any conflict with regard to the interpretation of the so-called emergency rent laws , and to carry out what was their evident intent , to protect tenancies ' occurring at any time during the period that these emergency rent laws remain upon the statute books , it is necessary to amend these laws so that there can be no further doubt as to their meaning . Recent investigations show that the housing emergency still affects rentals , and that new tenants are especially subject to unreasonable rent increases . An examination of the rentals of a group of tenants covering a period of the last four years showed clearly that . while continuing tenancies were subject to increases , wherever changes ' in tenancies occurred these increases , particularly ( luring the last twelve months , were especially marked and ranged as high as 100 per cent . I wish to record myself as consistently in favor of the protection which these laws have given , and therefore approve this bill . " Wants Rent Laws Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he did not believe the rent laws should remain on the statute books any longer than is absolutely necessary . He said in a memo filed with the veto of the bill : " It Is our purpose not to permit these laws to remain on the statute books any longer than is absolutely necessary , and we have taken the essential steps to have available for the next session of the " Legislature a proper body of information . I have recently signed the bill creating in the office of the State Architect a housing board upon which the Legislature has laid the specific duty of reporting to them - and to me in January , 1924 , whether the housing emergency will be still in effect at that time to such an extent as to necessitate the continuance of the emergency rent laws . To sign this bill will be in conflict with the work of this board . " Senator O'Brien 's bill amending the New York city charter by Providing for the creation of a new department of purchase , to be headed by a commissioner appointed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - ? ptirchase , was approved . Another O'Brien bill . appropriating $650,000 to provide an increase in salaries for employes in state hospitald , was signed . The Dunnigan bill , making the salary of the president of the New York City board of taxes and assessment , $10.000 , and raising the salaries of the other commissioners to $9,000 , received executive approval . Governor Smith also approved the ' Kiernan bill , amending the Civil Service law by providing that persons advanced in grade in 1020 through establishment of new gradings and increased pay on account of the World War , shall be re-examined and , if qualified , be made permanent and given seniority rating . The Hackenburg bill , providing for grades of inspectors in the State Labor Department , also was approved .                     