@@695345

txt Investigation of a murder mystery in Angola , Ind. , turned for a time to Chicago last night . All the features of a blood curdling tale of fiction were involved in the case . There was the discovery of a burned , headless body , a missing sheriff , and a missing town girl , an automobile with blood stained cushions , a bloody suitcase , and a barn destroyed by fire to puzzle the Steuben ( - minty authorities . Late last night , while ' they were being looked for in Chicago , the miss ? ing sheriff and girl were seen in the village . They denied they had been together or had any connection with the murder . They will be questioned further today . The mystery started Wednesday when the torso of a man was found in the ruins of a barn on a vacant farm near the village of Ray . Neighbors told orncere that they noticed a fire in the barn , but no Investigation was made until later in the day . The torso was of a man about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sheriff Partly Missing . Then it was learned that Sheriff Charles Zimmerman had been missing from his home since Tuesday noon . But the body was not his , measurements showed . An inquiry developed that the sheriff had bought a ticket for Jonesville , Mich. , but had alighted from the train at Montgomery , Mich. , and entered a coupe driven by a woman . The investigators then recalled that Miss Nellie Coleman , 26 years old , a resident of Angola , had departed Tuesday In her coupe , declaring she intended to attend the wedding in Chicago of her chum , M189 Elizabeth Carpenter , 6227 Woodlawn avenue . Mrs. Horace Carpenter , mother of Miss Carpenter , said last night that the wedding had been performed Wednesday but that Miss Coleman had not been present . Just as the frantic town authorities were trying to link all these discoveries together the sheriff and Miss Coleman reap . peared in town at a late hour last night and made their denials . Automobile Is Traced . The automobile with blood stained cushions and containing firearms was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine got into the garage is not known , but keys found near the burned barn fitted the lock on the car . Two sets of license plates were found in the automobile . One set had been issued to E. S. . Bliss of Muncie , Ind. , and the other to T. P. Williams of Detroit . Muncie and Detroit police were tunable to iden ? tit ) , either party . The suitcase , smeared with blood , was next found . It contained clothing bearing the laundry mark of Bliss . And as the body found in the barn had only one identifying mark  --  the initial " B " on the underwear ? it was believed that the dead man was Bliss .                     