@@687379

txt Chancellor Wirth delivered his widely advertised speech in the Reichstag tonight for more than an hour . Only a couple of hours before the Chancellor was able to begin speaking a compromise had been reached between the Government coalition parties , as well as the German People 's Party , on the tax program . All these parties agreed to the so-called compulsory loan of 1,000,000,000 gold marks , to bear no interest for three years . What interest , if any , this compulsory loan is then to bear is left to subsequent negotiations . The Social Democratic Party demands no interest for five years , whereas the bourgois parties demand a minimum of 1 per cent . interest in order to make this loan possible in a business sense , arguing that nobody will lend a mark on German compulsory loan bonds if they pay no interest for five years , whereas if only 1 per cent . nominal interest is guaranteed , loan bonds would at once become tradeable securities . Called Purely Political Move . The compromise on the compulsory 1,000,000,000 gold mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked out , represents in - the view of some critics a purely political move to keep the Wirth Government in office . The Social Democratic Party insistently demanded a " visible sacrifice " on the part of possessors of wealth , and this compulsory loan is intended to furnish it , although nobody tonight knows what interest , if any , this loan will bear or when it will be levied or when collected . Practically it amounts to the value of a. promise by Chancellor Wirth , backed by the German People 's Party , the Democratic Party , the Centre and Social Democratic Party that Germany will raise 1,000,000,000 gold marks for reparations by a compulsory internal loan , the practical details to be ) worked out and agreed on at some indefinite future time . In political circles it was asserted tonight that Lloyd George urgently requested that Chancellor Wirth be not allowed to fail , which had influenced the capitalist and industrialist German People 's Party to support the Chancellor at the last minute . The argument was that if Wirth fell Lloyd George would be next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jan. 26 ( Associated Press ) . ? The German Chancellor , Dr. Wirth , announced in the Reichstag today the Government 's next taxation proposals . They are : First  --  A compulsory loan of 1,000 , - 000,000 gold marks , bearing interest only after the three years , intended to cover the budget expenditure for 1922 not relating to ' posts and railways . Second  --  Abandonment of the tax on post-war profits . Third  --  A 2 per cent , business tax . Fourth  --  The duty on coal raised to 40 per cent. , and the duty on sugar to be 50 marks per 100 kilogrammes . The taxation proposals of Dr. Wirth will increase the property tax by 200 per cent . The Chancellor began by defining his foreign policy as embracing the fulfillment , as far as possible , of Germany 's treaty obligations , with the conviction that oily actual deliveries could render it possible to ascertain Germany 's paying capacity and that only the economic consequences of such deliveries could enlighten the world as to the real nature of the obligations on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reparation negotiations , the Chancellor announced that the German program of deliveries , which had been requested by the Reparations Commission , would be presented to the commission tomorrow in the form of a short memorandum , accompanied by explanatory annexes . Dr. Wirth paid tribute to Dr. Walter Rathenau 's services , which . was applauded by the house . lie then pro-ceeded : At Cannes we were enabled for the first time to set forth freely , and not by way of question and , answer , Germany 's true situation . We hope that a more searching investigation of the world 's economic problems at Genoa will result in increasing the appreciation of the real significance of reparations and that a more practical solution of the question of ? reparations , which we are carrying out loyally and sincerely , will be advanced , not merely to our benefit . but to the profit of the countries entitled to reparations . Going to Genoa " With . Vizor Raised . " " We are not going to Genoa with a dagger under our cloak and perfidious intentions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program of the conference ? ' an entente of all nations , rich or poor , victors or vanquish5.4 , with the common aim of reestablishment of international economic relations . ' " Disclaitning any desire to criticise the French ministerial crisis , or to observe any but a correct attitude of peaceful good-will toward France , whatever French Ministers were in power , the Chancellor said that the German policy should be imperatively inspired by a clear and positive estimate of the respective positions of the two countries and carried ont from the standpoint of practical politics , with a view to satisfying French interests to the limit of German capacity . Rebutting the accusations of , " fraudulent bankruptcy , " Dr. Wirth expressed regret that enemy interests had only made a superficial survey of the situation in Germany and lacked knowledge of political economy . The German reply to the Reparations Commission , he said , would refute the mistakes made regarding the German budget . Affirming the impartiality of the Leip-1 sic Tribunal and the impossibility .. - of any German Government retaining power which sought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cellor expressed fear lest the French ) Government should seek to use this ques-1 tion and others like disarmament , to re vert to the disastrous system of guarantees and penalties . He recalled the Wiesbaden agreement and Germany 's genuine efforts toward 1 the reconstruction of the devastated regions of France and Belgium , and de- , elared : ? If we are ready to satisfy French ' ' demands , it is because we hope Ger-1 many will be freed from the fears she ! has felt hitherto for her freedom as a State and for the integrity of her frontiers as a result of the French policy . " Saying that the allied demand that . Germany should adopt means to balance her budget coincided with Germany 's own interests , Dr. Wirth added : " Once the new financial proposals have been voted , our receipts ? will amount to about 100,000,000,0 ( 10 gold marks , against 55,000,000,000 gold marks in 1921 . " He then explained that the compromise finally had been reached by an agreement between the different parties . The Chancellor concluded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for restoration of confidence between nations . " I consider these words , " said the Chancellor , " as a great profession of political faith . The spirit of the war should be buried with the hatchet of war , which signifies a policy of force , of violence and of threats . It can not bring ' to the nations the wished-for peace . "                     