@@687439

txt The Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company , owners of the Metropolitan Opera House , held a meeting yesterday and came to a decision wIg.eh will permit the producing company , which1 leases- the house , to revive the opera " Salome , " which has been under the ban of the owners fifteen years . It is certain that it will not be produced this season , and it is not considered likely that it will be put on next season . But it is possible that it will be part of the Metropolitan repertoire during the season of 1923-24 and thereafter . Mme. Marie Jeritza , who will sing the title role of the Strauss-Wilde opera if it is produced , said yesterday that she would be glad to give her interpretation of Salome if asked to do so . She said that her conception of the part was not sensuous and was differed from the interpretations that New York had been accustomed to see . While the singer and other personages of the operatic world were discussing the probable effect of a revival of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John the Baptist on the Metropolitan stage , the proposal was denounced with vigor by moralists and reformers . The Rev. John Roach Straton , pastor of Calvary Baptist Church , said that it would be an indignity and an abomination . Dr. Straton , who previously had directed his attacks against the theatres and movies , turned attention to the opera in consequence of the " Salome " incident . He said that both the operatic and theatrical worlds ' needed " a thorough housecleaning . " Owners Silent on Opera . The meeting at which tile owners of the Metropolitan ' decided the " Salome " issue was surrounded by secrecy . No statemeht was issued as to what had happened . George G. Haven , President of the Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company , denied himself to reporters before and after the meeting . Inquiries in other quarters were met with the response that Mr. Haven was the only person authorized to speak for the company.  - -  The NEW YORK Times learned from an authoritative source , however , that the meeting was held , that the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the outcome was one which left all parties concerned in a harmonious mood. , The decision was said to have won - the approval of the " conservatives , " who held their thumbs down on the opera for fifteen years , and fof the " liberals , " who believe that Mme. Jeritza 's interpretation of the role will not only be inoffensive but a great success . The preparation for such a performance is a work of such magnitude as to preclude any possibility that it might be presented during the remainder of the present ' season . Giulio Gatti-Casazza , general manager of the producing company , announced yesterday that he would not consent to the inclusion of the opera in the repertoire for next season under any consideration . He is opposed to putting on " Salome " at any time , but other influential members of the producing company favor it . Under the contract between the owning and producing companies the latter can not be compelled to make any particular production at the request of the owners , . although the owners can prohibit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thelies owthners . Star Still Has iiiiany Roles . Another factor that makes it unlikely " Salome " will be presented next sea- , son is that Mme. Jeritza 's repertoire is not nearly exhausted . She will appear next season in roles that New York has not seen her in this season , ana " Salome " probably will be held back until the other rOles - In her repertoire have been offered . A person ramiliar with the background of operatic affairs said last night that the change of attitude of the owners ' group regarding " Salome " was the result of a keen Oslre eon the , part of certain members in the group to give - Mme . Jeritza an opportunity to show her conception of the role to New York . The victory of this faction yesterday was only the first step . i The admirers of Jeritza . and " Salome " in the Metropolitan organization will . now have to . prevail upon Gatti- , Casazza to alter his ' No Salome ! " attitude . However , it was said that hopes were held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . According to this theory of the situation , the focusing of attention upon the issue is bound to result in a demand by patrons of the opera to see Jeritza , in the much-discussed part . What Mme. Jeritza , herself thinks of the part was learned yesterday by a re- porter for THE TIMES , to whom she gave an interview in the Hotel St. Regis , Where she is staying . Through a personal representative , she said that her interpretation of Salome was such that it won the approval of the people of Stockholm , where she gave it- successfully despite the fact that it had been prohibited in the Swedish city . She also has sung the /tie many times in Vienna . " It is too late to make arrangements for singing ' Salome ' this season , " said Mme. Jeritza . " The program for next season will be made up in May , and if they decide to produce ? Salome ? and ask me to sing it . I shall be very glad to do so . It is for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not been asked , and I would not request to sing the role . " Mme. Jeritza. who often sang Salome abroad , was asked if s ? 1 hke ? , the role . " Of course , " she replied , " for I do not sing a Vile unless I like it . ' In reply to a request that she describe her conception of the part , . lime . Jeritza said : My interpretation of Salome is of a young , innocent girl , with a childish mind . She has been badly brought up and educated , and has been allowed to have everything she desires . To her , with her environment and history , to want the head of John the Baptist is like another girl wanting a doll . She simply does not realize the enormity and horror of what she does . There is nothing sensuous or immoral about it . The end of the opera is moral , for she is punished for her wickedness . " ' I only hope that New York will be saved from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' Salome ' at the Metropolitan Opera House , " said Dr. Straton . " The statement that a different , non-sensual version would be given , sounds like part of the usual plea of excusing all sorts of positive indecency on the ground that it is artistic . I think that to take a Biblical theme and put it on the stage under the present conditions of stage life and stage people is in itself an abomination . " Saying that a singer of the Chicago Opera Company and his companion had been put oat of a hotel . and that his fellow-singers defended him , Dr. Straton went on : " The whole theatrical field . Including the opera , needs a thorough housecleaning . Conditions are deplorable in opera , which needs to be linked up to educational movements rathet than commercial . I have never thought highly of modern grand opera because of its commercial aspect . The prices are so high that only the rich can attend and opera is monopolized by the fashionable circles . Opera is uhaemocratic and un-American , in contrast to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor can go . The same thing is true of opera as of the theatre , and the opera needs just as much attention as the theatre . " Canon William Sheafe Chase of Brooklyn , a leading spirit ' of the International Reform Bureau , said that any attempt to revive " Salome " in the Metropolitan should be stopped by the city authorities . I think the Commissioner of Licenses should exercise his power and forbid it being shown , " he said . " I do not know that I would take any action myself . although I might request that the Commissioner exercise his power . That would be the most effective way . " Although Mary Garden and the Chicago Opera Company were compelled by popular protest to refrain from producing " Salome " in Chicago , they have produbed it twice in the Manhattan Opera House this season . Both productions were very successful and did not arouse protest .                     