@@695338

txt Personality is the most fascinating thing in politics , as it is in life and books . Governor SMITH 'S revelation of it to the whole country in his speech of acceptance is almost more notable than anything he says in it . The whole document has his - personal stamp upon it . Not so much disclosed is the candidate as the man . Without claptrap or pretense of being what he is not , he speaks out his honest thought with great directness , simplicity and the most obvious sincerity . It may be said of him , as it was of a rising French statesman , " That man will do some " what , for he believes every word " law says . " New York has long known ALFRED SMITH as the man who thinks clear and speaks straight . Now the entire nation must perceive those qualities in him . It is doubtful if ever before a Presidential candidate has been able in a single address to convey to the people the very life-blood of his spirit Whatever else Governor SMITH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has by it succeeded unquestionably in giving to the country a vivid impression of a strong and vibrant personality . Curiosity in advance busied itself mainly with wondering what the Democratic candidate would say about prohibition . Would he limit himself to smooth platitudes ? Would he seek to carry water on both Shoulders ? Would he palter with who put these questions seriously did not know their man . Governor SMITH states his position with the utmost frankness and with great plainness of speech . Even the wayfaring man can understand precisely what he means and intends . If he is elected President , sworn to enforce the law , he will do his best to enforce it . In the act he will endeavor to sweep away the corruption and office-jobbing and hypocrisy of Republican enforcement . Possibly , as President , ALFRED SMITH would get so sharply after the violators of the law in Dry States that their insincere politicians would go about wringing their hands and crying out that they never knew the curse of prohibition before . However that may be , Governor SMITH resents as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not strive to do his full duty , according to his oath of office , as President of the United States . That duty , he adds , covers not only enforcement of the law , but recommending to Congress such changes in the law as he judges to be necessary and expedient Those changes Governor Swill proceeds to state . He has a definite and a feasible program . First of all he would have the Volstead act amended , so as more reasonably- and scientifically to define an intoxicating beverage . He would also have the Eighteenth Amendment itself-amended so as to permit the States to control the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors within their own borders , after the Canadian example , and with the saloon remaining forever . " defunct " Here is a plan at once explicit and constructive . It could be worked out within the law and the Constitution . The Governor 's proposal is the most clear-cut and postive that has come from either side in this Presidential- election . No one can doubt where he stands . He boldly raises the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share his convictions about prohibition may confidently repair . The other issue considered critical in this campaign Governor SMITH treats with equal frankness , if not so conclusively . In general he agrees that the farmers have a real grievance . " They have been discriminated against in national legislation . The tariff . duties ostensibly laid for the protection of agriculture are ninetenths humbug . There is no possibility of relief by such means . Yet the losses of the-farmers have been so great , and the depreciation of farm values so extensive , that the question what to do has ceased to be one of class legislation and has become a national concern . Governor SMITH . does not profess to have worked out a complete project of farm relief . But he promises to " substitute action for inaction and friendliness for hostility . " He renews his pledge to consult promptly with the farmers and farm organizations , economists and leaders of ? finance and business , in the hope that together they may be able to work out a solution of this pressing problem . His chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economically sound . " Covering so wide a range of topics , there is inevitably here and there in the speech of acceptance an appearance of surplusage and saying merely the convention party thing because it . is expected . There may . be . also minor strategical mistakes .. It is doubtful if Governor SMITH was well advised in trying to show that the reputation of the Coolidge Administration for economy is ' not . well founded . The invitation to a deadly parallel with the mounting expenses of the State .. of New York ? since the war is too tempting ! Nor does it seem entirely fair to the ? President to attack his course in Nicaragua without reciting the commitments by which he was bound through the acts of previous Administrations . But Governor SMITH has a keen eye for many of the joints in the Republican armor . Particularly shrewd is his thrust at the long ' delay and evasion in the matter of reorganizing the governmental departments at Washington . With great effect he contrasts the large Republican promise in this matter with the empty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to do at Washington the same sort of governmental reform which he has put through at Albany . Governor SMITH 'S speech of acceptance will furnish much other material for comment , but , when all is said , he himself is more important than his utterances . In a very true sense , this Presidential campaign is to be a contest between personalities . Thus far , it must be admitted , with the high merits of Mr. HOOVER fully conceded , Gayernor SMITH has the better of it in putting over " to the people an impression of his own nature , at once vigorous and sympathetic . He proposes ' to establish this sort of personal contact with as many Americans as possible before the November voting comes . That he will be a formidable candidate , at least in the sense of kindling great enthusiasm wherever he goes , no competent political observer doubts . Whether the shouts , for SMITH ' will materialize into sufficient votes far him the dumb oracles do not tell us . But of one thing there can be no question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fearless man , the issue which is rapidly becoming who stands on his own feet , says the chief one of the campaign ? Those what he thinks , understands the American people , high and low , and is content to leave all to their mature decision .                     