@@688512

txt Almost over night the cotton outlook has changed from gloom to a rosy hue . Yesterday there was a shortage of arsenic with which to combat the boll weevil . Today we are told there is a supply assured equal to all demands , and no longer will the wicked weevils merrily destroy a third of the growing crop . Doubting Thomases axe referred to an article on the first page of the Journal of Commerce of January 3 , Wherein a Dr. Hutchinson is quoted as promising 25,000 tons of calcium arsenate available for the coming crop , 75,000 tons next year and 100,000 the following season . Therefore , why worry ? But there are a few disquieting features . There is ushally a fly in the ointment , especially the quack ointment . In this instance the fly is a doubt as to the supply of refined white arsenic , because it is the base of calcium arsenate , and nobody knows where the stuff is coming from except Dr. Hutchinson , and he wo n't tell  --  says he is not at liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 10,000 tons of white arsenic would be necessary . Where is it coming from ? The smelting companies that produce the arsenic do not know , importers do not know , experts of the Geological survey and of the Departments of Commerce and Agriculture do not know , and even a Senate investigating committee can not point the way to a pound of new supply . A few days ago manufacturers of insecticides , producers of arsenic and exports from different departments of the government met to discuss this question of arsenic supply . They could see no increased supply for the coming crop . Indeed , the officials of the producing companies say it could not be produced this year . Weevils are not to be poisoned with hot air nor slain with the weapon - Samson wielded against the Philistines . Refined white arsenic is necessary . What are the facts , so far as known , to those who are at liberty to tell ? Industries other than cotton require about 8,000 tons of arsenic a year . Last year about 8,000 tons of calcium arsenate were used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Domestic production last year , which was rather large , was under . 10,000 tons , and all was used . An official of the Geological Survey says stocks of domestic arsenic on hand and the production to May 1 , 1028 , will aggregate less than 5,000 tons . A representative of the Department of Commerce says that from January 1 to September 1922 , imports were 8,600 tons .                     