@@689783

txt Differences of opinion which arose between Captain Anton Heinen , German Zeppelin consultant to the navy , and Lieutenant E. Kinkaid , assistant navigation officer of the Shenandoah , over the piloting of the leviathan of the air during the runaway flight last Wednesday night and Thursday morning , were brought to light yesterday at a hearing before a special board of inquiry appointed by Rear Admiral Scales to determine the cause of the accident and the extent of the damage . Declining at first to answer a6 to whether he had any cc.x-nplaint a. ; to events on the flight . Lieutenant Kinkaid later ? admitted that Heinen had been critical of the manner in which he was trying to guide the craft In outriding the gale which had wrenched it loose from the mooring mast at Lakehurst . " While I was steering I kept in mind the condition of the rudder , which had been badly damaged , and sought to pilot the Shenandoah in such a way as to eliminate heavy strain on the rudder. " he said . " Captain Heinen was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he wanted . " Lieutenant Kinkaid told the board , which met in the hangar at the Lakeburst air station , that he felt it was a question of navy men being responsible for saving or losing the dirigible . He therefore acted accordingly , he added . Lieutenant Kinkaid indicated that relations between Heinen , who is a civilian employe of the navy , and himself still were strained . Angered by a Newspaper Story . " He apparently was peeved this meming over an article In one of the newspapers which attributed to me the statement that he was a ' consulting engineer to the navy at a salary of $500 a week , " Lieutenant Kinkaid said . I never mentioned hit " ' salary in my interview , but simply mentioned that he was employed . " It was learned yesterday that another officer on the craft had taken the responsibility of keeping the Shenandoah at a higher altitude than that desired by Captain Heinen while the ship was being buffeted by the wind . Captain Heinen , it was ' reported , believed the craft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimizing the chances of colliding with trees or high buildings which might loom up in the inky night . Commander Ralph D. Weyerbacher , builder of the Shenandoah , estimated that it would cost not more than $80,000 to restore the airship . He said , however , that if changes and modifications which he would advise were adopted , the cost to the Government would be much greater . While the hearing was in progress orders were received from Washington , from the Navy Department to begin immediately preparations for the flight to the North Pole in the latter part of June or early in July . Commander Weyerbacher said it would require several weeks to repair the craft , work on which would be started today . He issued orders which brought the 300 " gobs " to the hangar for the purpose of moving the dirigible from the south side of the hangar to the supporting posts on the opposite side . Today the helium gas tanks will be deflated of 1,720,000 cubic feet of gas , which will be stored in tanks . It was said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward gas envelopes were torn away with the nose cap . Itecommend False Nose , Commander Weyerbacher said he would recommend that a false nose be put on the Shenandoah as a safeguard against a recurrence of ? Wednesday 's mishap . " My examination of the Shenandoah has developed nothing to indicate that there is any fault with the design , con- struetion , or material , " he said . " The test has shown that by increasing the strength of the fins the ship will be safe in a gale of seventy-five miles an hour . I purpose to modify the design of the fins and the fin couplings to make the ship strong enough for all kinds of weather . I believe if the nose cap were strengthened the ship would break abaft of the strengthening . By installing a false nose , only that would be wrenched loose in the event of a similar accident , and no part of the ship would be carried away with it . It is impossible to tabulate how much of a mooring stress a mast can stand . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command of the Shenandoah when she broke loose . testified that every precaution had been taken both before and during the flight to safeguard the ship . Two other officers and two enlisted men who were on the truant journey gave similar testimony . Captain Frank R. McCrary , Commander of the Shenandoah , who was preparing to go aboard the craft when the accident occurred , told the board that the mooring mast test had been arranged to determine the strength of the ship and mast and to ascertain facts regarding the helium tanks and ballast . He said it was necessary to find out just how the Shenandoah would react to adverse weather before the craft went to the North Pole . " On the polar trip the dirigible will be entirely dependent on a mooring mast and such service as may be obtained by means of the mast . " Captain McCrary said . " We did not anticipate such a mishap . We had arranged to cast off in the event the strain meters reached the danger point . " A Second Inquiry Under Way . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lyons , President ; Lieut . Commander Robert W. Cabaniss and Lieutenant L. M. Grant , will meet again Monday at the Phila. delphia Navy Yard . The findings will be forwarded to  --  Washington . A second inquiry , under Commander Weyerbaeher , to determine whether there was any blame attached to the officers of the dirigible , was under way yesterday . The hearing , which was private , will be resumed today . Word was received yesterday that the naval oiler Ramapo now at the Mare Island Navy Yard at San Francisco would be fitted up with a mooring mast for the use of the Shenandoah in the arctic . Orders were issued for the vessel to start June 1 for Point Barrow , Alaska , to await the arrival of the airship . The Patoka , a naval oiler now in the Mediterranean , is to be fitted similarly wfth a mooring mast and dispatched to Spitzbergen . Captain Ernest A. Lehman , Zeppelin expert who has come to the United States to build airships. declared yesterday that the flight of the Shenandoah removed all doubt as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the performance demonstrated the manoeuvreability of the dirigible in all conditions of weather , when handled by experienced personnel . Captain Heinen , speaking before the Harvard , Yale and Princeton Engineering Association at . a smoker at the Princeton Club last night , said ; " The Shenandoah 's trip to the North Pole this Summer will be as easy a flight as has ever been attempted by an airship . It will be the best joy ride ever made in the history , of aviation . "                     