@@689368

txt Not far from the Arc de Triomphe in Paris there dwells in what is known as the House of Flowers a man of more than seventy years , whose nervous energy and kindly thoughtful countenance would indicate a bodily age twenty years younger . He is denounced in the English Parliament and else-1 where as the richest man in Europe ; yet he seeks no gam. of fortune or income . lie is called the man of mystery ; 1 yet he is a lover and seeker of truth that it may be put in the service of his fellowman , and his methods and expressions arc as simple and direct as those of a child . lle is denounced as an international plotter , overturning and setting-up governments in Europe ; yet he has never sought rule or power , and his life is devoted to the defense and upbuilding of civilization and its humanities . HIS WAR NVOIIH He is denounced as promoting wars that his fortunes may be augmented ; yet his highest ambition is the promotion of international peace . No individual gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded of the Allies ; and if ever the true history of the great war and the preparations and defense therefor should be written , it would show this man the most far-sighted concerning th , , war and the necessary defense for England . France and their Allies . ' It . is not necessary to name this man , for his name is rarely in the public press , and is scarcely known this side of the water . Yet for years his wisdom and vision have been privately sought . by the statesmen of Europe . Sensational newsmongers consider themselves reasonably safe in narrating what they please about such it man . He does not dwell in their world , and there is little danger of public contradiction . A few days ago the New York World first page blazed with a special cable that , if true , might have been the most illtuainating piece of international news for the whole week . Therefore , we cabled to the " man of mystery , " as he had often personally said " I will always answer you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be of interest in the defense of international truth ; for it is just barely possible that news fiction , which might be internationally disturbing and which European govern . : rents would not permit in print within their domain , is seeking a market in the United States . Our first cable read : " New York World cable says you deposited two and half million dollars to guarantee Italian reparations , but not solely altruistic as with English , French and American capitalists you had big scheme afoot to develop Salonica Ghevgely Railroad , which would supplant Egypt Oriental route by Italy . Give me personal liberty to speak in your defense . " He replied : " Have not made any deposit whatsoever and have no railroad scheme for any part of the globe . Your kindness touches me . " BASIL ZAIIAROFF. "                     