@@687764

txt The French Foreign Office issued today a categorical denial of the report that a French military court in Damascus had sentenced Charles R. Crane of Chicago to twenty years ' imprisonment for anti-French agitation in Syria during his recent visit there . It was said that no charge had been made against Mr. Crane on any count . ' Mr. Crane calls the story absurd , saying that he has never had any trouble with the French authorities . However , he took a course of action today which almost makes a real incident out of the affair . He issued a statement which , 1 whether intended to do so or not , lead the effect of distinctly displeasing French officials . Asked by correspondents whether it was true that he was - under a twenty-year sentence , he wrote Out the following statement : " My reception by the people of Damascus was extremely friendly . They asked me why their wishes expressed to the Committee on Mandates in Turkey three years ago had never been heard from . They said that since that time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been able to make their voice heard in the outside world , and whatever demonstration they made ' was suppressed . They made me understand that their feeling against the French mandate was stronger than ever , and they hoped I could get that message out . Blames Damascus Police Chief .  --  mere was no.rioting or such demonstrations as had been of daily , occurrence in Cairo . But ' the British did not lose their heads about it . The French , however , have a vicious Chief of Police , a native who has been , terrorizing meetings in Damascus even since the French occupation . He made capital of such demonstrations after I left , used machine guns on unarmed people , and some of the finest men of Damascus were given long terms of imprisonment without trial . " All these incidents were foreseen and indicated in the report of the Mandates Commission and great injustice has been done ' to Syrians and conservative French people , as well as our own missionaries and educators , by its suppression by our State Department . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , either in Damascus or here . " ' Mr. Crane was Chairman of the Mandates Commission which President Wilson sent to Turkey during the Peace Conference . The report of that commission was never published and Mr. Crane has always thought that wrong . Coming to Europe last February , he . went to Syria as a private citizen . Passing through Paris he gave out a series of hot interviews against the Soviets which attracted considerable attention in the French press . Before going to Syria he said he was traveling as a private citizen only , but Europe , which has become somewhat used to as - well as tired of that peculiarly American official known as the " unofficial observer . " was quite confident that he was going to make some sort of a report . for Washington . Conduct Called Indiscreet . Therefore , when Mr. Crane openly showed his sympathy ? for Syrian nationalists , the French . became worried . There were exchangesof notes between Damascus and Paris . The French say that the American Consul in Beirut officially notified the French authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French Foreign Office today , after officials - had . Mr. Crane 's statement , . they sai that his behavior had been indiscreet . and , although the French had done nothing about it , they thought it unbecoming for a private citizen who had formerly been in Syria for the American Government to go back there and assume an attitude hostile to the French administration . It was said that the . French Foreign Office believed Mr. Crane thoroughly sincere , but does not appreciate his good intentions . It is recalled that in March a dispatch from Damascus told of a friendly demonstration by Syrian nationalists at the time of Mr. Crane 's departure . He explained it as an expression of thanks by people who believed he had their best interests at heart . When he returned to Paris he tried to see Premier Poincard to communicate to him impressions formed in Syria . Up to today , however , the Premier has not found it convenient to see Mr. Crane , and it is understood that Mr. Crane leaves Paris tomorrow morning for London , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed to be Mr. Crane 's intention to publish on his return to New York the fruits of his observations in Asia Minor . rians there or were merely a confusion of names . Spoke Plainly to Commission . Mr. Crane had occasion while in Geneva last week to tell the Mandate Commission of the League of Nations his observations regarding Syria . In speaking of this today he- said : " Professor Rappold , . with whom I talked as an old acquaintance about Syria , suggested that the Mandate Commission ought to know the situation there . I agreed to , answer any questions , and upon invitation of the commission I spent an ' afternoon with it . I was rather , thoroughly examined . The two , French members of the commission were much interested and treated me with every consideration . " Mr. Crane appears to have expressed himself very plainly to the Mandate Commission regarding the situation in Syria . The substance of his declaration was that the Syriana wanted , first of all , complete independence , and failing that preferred that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Americans were unwilling ; he said . the Syrians preferred Great Britain , but ' under no circumstances . wished to be under the French mandate . Says Our Consul Hauled Down Flag . PARIS , May 26 ( Associated Press ) . ? Charles R. Crane has told a number of French Senators that a continuance of the French military administration of Syria will cost France a half billion to a billion francs a year and will require an army of 100,000 men . One ' of the Senators who has heard Mr. Crane 's views , Victor Berard , has undertaken to present them to Premier Poincare . Mr. Crane went to the Foreign Office this afternoon , where he was received by M. Clinchant , Director of Asiatic Affairs . He said today that an incident had occurred between the United States Consul at Damascus and the French military authorities there before his arrival , when the Consul hauled down the American flag pending an apology from the French . " We have a true American Southerner as our Consul at Damascus , " Mr. Crane said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the American Consul nauied down his flag , took down his shield and refused to have any further relations with the French authorities until they apologized . Three or four days went by and the French became very uneasy . A sort - of an apology was made , which our Consul refused to accept . ' Then a mol'e formal one was sent , which he did accept , and resumed relations . " It appears that a check for $1,006 , signed by . Mr. Crane and found la the pocket of one of his Syrian friends who took part in a demonstrative farewell to him at Damascus , was the principal reason causing the French military authorities in Damascus to believe that the American was inciting sedition . The check was for advance expenses connection with a caravan journey into the interior , which Mr. ' Crane had planned for next Autumn . Dr. Beronder , in whose pocket the check was found , was one of , eiait Syrians sentenced ' by ' a French courtmartial to varying ! terms of imprisonment for participating in . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The doctor received the longest sentence , 13 years . He is described by Air . Crane as a brilliant graduate ' of the college at Beirut , , a ' Mohammedan , , of position and of the strictest piety . Mr. Crane , after leaving Syria , went to Constantinople and had a talk there with General Gouraud , which is offered as ample proof that there was. -. notuttention of the military authorities to take action in his case . While in Syria , it is said by officials in Paris , he saw principally the adherents of Feisal , . King of the Irak region of - Mesopota. - rnia and former King of Syria , who was opposed to French influence ..                     