@@684846

txt The last recourse of Auitria is to appeal to the American people not to , leave seven million souls to perish most miserably , " said Baron Eichoff , head of the Austrian delegation , today . " I wish to say to the wives and mothers of America , in behalf of the wives and mothers of Austria , whose pride always has been large families , that they today stand in terror of maternity because of the agonizing Conditions under which the new generation is being born . Still-birth is welcomed in Austria as a Providential deliverance from the woes of infancy and from a miserable future . " Austria appeals to American wives and mothers , to every woman who hopes some ' day to be a mother , and to every man who hopes to be father , not to let the children of Austria be born to starve or to a life of wretchedness . " " This is not an appeal to charity . Austria will pay every cent or a loan , with interest . All she asks is for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rations , can exist until the end of January . The question now , is , Are its people to be allowed after that date to perish in the most frightful anarchy the world has ever seen ? " The Baron said the American Government had not refused a request for credit necessary to buy food , but he had been given semi-officially to understand that the Government was unable to do anything without ' Congressional authority . Transportation delays are making the coal situation in Vienna daily more acute , according to advises from the French'missIon In that city . Entente trains intended to relieve the shortage have been held up by heavy snowfalls , so that Vienna is now comr pletely cut off from the rest of the world . Three thbusand French cars are being sent to Czechoslovakia in order to insure the delivery of coal to Austria . Copyright , 1920 , by The New York Times Company . Special Cable to THE NEW TURK TIMES . VIENNA , Jan. 5 ( Via , Geneva ) . ? The leader of the Hungarian peace delegation , Count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , stated to me that consideration would have to begiven to the question whether the conclusion of peace was possible with America , the latter having withdrawn from the conference , or whether a separate peace would not be necessary with that country because America was not adhering to Wilson 's , principles . He added that the moral ? obligation of America , however , was not extinct , and expressed keen regret at her withdrawal .                     