@@689667

txt President Coolidge 's campaign for the Republican nomination for President in 1924 , opened yesterday by the appointment of William M. Butler as Chairman of the Central Committee , will be carried into all of the eighteen primary States with the utmost vigor . The fight will be backed by strong organizations in Pennsylvania and California , the States of Governor Pinchot and Senator Hiram Johnson . It is understood here that Hiram Johnson now purposes to make an active fight in the primaries in Massachusetts , giving the President a battle in his own ' home State . As soon as the Central and Regional Committees are announced the Coolidge campaign will be undertaken along educational as well as ipractica.1 lines . Reduction of taxes and " support of the World Court will be made the paramount issues , and expert speakers will be enlisted to carry the Mellon argument for tax reductions to the people . Mr. Butler spent the day receiving telegrams from Republicans throughout the country , offering suggestions and advising activity without delay . He was besieged especially by National Committeemen here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to inquirers that he was not yet ready to select the Central and Regional Committees , but would make such announcements within the next week . Seek Pledged Delegates . One thing decided on today by the Administration advisers was that since the President had been definite in defining his issues , his campaign for delegates must be marked by a positive demand for the votes of the people . Therefore the original plan to obtain support by uninstructed delegate moves and through getting second choice after - faorate sons " votes had been exhausted has been abandoned . This policy means , it was announced by one of the Coolidge leaders , that Johnson and Pinchot will be fought in every State . Coolidge will seek delegates in Pennsylvania . the home of Pinchot , and , under the auspices of the old machine and friends of Secretary Hoover , will make one of his hardest fights in California , with chances of capturing at least half of the State 's jielegation . In Pennsylvania the ReNiblican leaders have assured the Adninistration managers that Pinchot cantot win more than eight or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pussyfooting in the tampaign , it was said at the White Elouse today . The President intends to , reserve a dignified attitude . He will tot make any speeches or permit his ) ffice to be used to further his candilacy . On the other hand , he believes hat , since he has frankly and specifically iefined his views on the chief public itzestions , he is entitled to have his posiion brought fully to the people to allow hem to decide as to their ' choice for ' resident . In line with his views , the campaign , herefore , will be carried into the home Mates of Johnson , Pinchot and La - ollette. and the electors will be asked o decide upon the men and the issues hey represent . President Coolidge is verse to allowing his candidacy to fall Ito the hands of the old machine leaders , rho would employ the methods known o the machine to get delegates . Out- side of the Southern States , where some sort of manipulation is always necessary to get delegates . the Coolidge campaign will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared . As fax as possible , young . nen and business leaders will be brought into the primary campaign . The old-time leaders will figure as advisers rather than men directing the campaign . For instance . William H. Crocker , Republican National Committeeman from California , will not hay ' any active part in the campaign there . He called upon President Coolidge today and urged him to enter the primary on the Coast against Johnson . As he left the White House he said that Mr. Coolidge was very strong in California and many Coolidge clubs had been organized with thousands of former Johnson supporters among their members . Friends of the President , Mr. Crocker said , are going to put Coolidge 's name on the ballot , while organization of the State in his behalf already is well under way . South Dakota 's Attitude . The White House also heard further today concerning the action of the South Dakota Republican proposal convention last week in returning Mr. Coolidge as the State 's favored candidate . Commissioner of Indian Affairs Burke presented to the President one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active Coolidge worker  --  Tom Roberts of Pierre . Following the visit of the South Dakota men , it was learned that President Coolidge probably will acknowledge by letter his selection in South Dakota within the next few days . The letter . it is expected , will be addressed to Sam Elrod , former Governor of the State , who put Mr. Coolidge in nomination before the convention as " the New England farm boy . " Other prominent politicians who saw President Coolidge to day to discuss his candidacy included J. W. Hart , committeeman from Idaho . Mr. Hart was noncommital about his conference . He would not discuss affairs in his State . which is generally conceded to Johnson . nor would he say what steps were being taken in behalf of the President 's candidacy . The eighteen States where Presidential primaries will be held in which Mr. Coolidge will make his campaign , with the dates of the primaries , are as follows : New Hampshire . March 11 : North Dakota , March IS : South Dakota . March 25 ; Wisconsin . April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S : Nebraska . April 8 ; New Jersey . April L ' 2 ; Pennsylvania . April 22 ; Massachusetts , April 29 : Ohio , April 29 ; Maryland . May 5 ; California . May 6 ; Indiana . May 6 ; Oregon . May 16 ; Montana . May 27 : West Virginia . May 27 ; North Carolina . June 7.                     