@@695033

txt A new Anglo-American financial combine has been registered in London . It is a unique company with vast resources and worldwide interests . Its name is the Finance Co. of Great Britain and America , Ltd . Its capital is 510.400.000 . And its object is to finance and develop needy but established commercial and industrial business in any part of the world , except Russia . The nominal capital of the company is no index of its financial position . The capital has been made low in order to escape the ruthless taxation that penalizes every new company m Great Britain . It will have almost unlimited capital and credit . The total resources of the firms represented on its board of directors amount to more than $2,500,000,000 . It is a private company . Every dollar of the capital has been subscribed . There will be no public flotation at present , although there may be one later when the company has begun to make profits . London and ; New - York Control Equal Share capital is held equally by the Imperial Chemical Industries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. of New York . The two men at the top are Sir Alfred Mond , chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries and Albert Henry Wiggin , chairman of Chase National Bank and Chase Securities Corp . The board is composed of British and American financiers and industrialists  --  men who have proved themselves competent in the handling of large affairs . The names of the directors are : Sir Alfred Mond . Albert Henry al- , ggin , Lord Colwyn . Sir Harry Mel ; o ? an . the Marquess of Reading , Harold John Mitchell , Henry Mond , Clarence Graff and James Henry Gannon . An American committee has been organized . with following members : Albert Henry Wzggin , Charles M. Schwab , Robert L. Clarkson . Halstead J. Freeman , Alfred P. Sloan , John l'taskob , Matthew C. Brush . A. R. Granstein , J. Horace Harding , Frederick H. Ecker and Vi ' . H. Woodin . Sir Alfred Mond is very proud of this American committee . " I think everyone will see , " he says , " that the American committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it are practically the leaders of American industry , with an inside knowledge of the industrial developments of that country . " A Clearing House One London editor says that " the organization of this company is the most momentous happening in Europe since the signing of the Treaty of Versailles . " This Is , in fact , the general opinion in England . Strictly speaking , the new company is a development syndicate and underwriting and investment house , with a staff of practical effperts to ensure the success of its ventures . It is a clearing-house for the development of world industry and a method of canalizing British and American capital into the most useful and profitable channels . Sir Alfred Mond , in outlining the plans of the new company . says : " There will be no geographical boundaries to our efforts , except that so long as I am chairman none of our money will go to Russia . At the moment the cooperating financiers and industrialists are British and American , but there is no reason why those of other countries , including Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will do to a very great extent what the German banks have done to promote industrial development . We have got together a staff of experts able to advise as on practically all matters . There are ne limits to the enterprises in which we can participate , but we do not intend to go in for the ordinary kind of financial operation such as government or municipal loans . Out business is simply that of helping industries and making , investments here , there and everywhere. - Will Supplement the Banks The new company will do more than supply the necessary credits to industries . It will reorganize and develop them , which the banks in Great Britain are unable to do . There arc hundreds of good companies in Europe in weak hands . They need more than capital . They need More than now equipment . They need new blood  --  new directors  --  new policies . The fact is that British banks have no staff of industrial and scientific experts , as the German banks nave . When a company falls into the hands of a bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is controlled but not assisted . Such a situation as exists today in the British coal , cotton and iron and steel trades could not exist in Germany . The Gi.aman bankers would have reorganized the boards of directors and brought in experts to develop and strengthen the distressed companies . British hankers stick to banking . They refuse to promote ra ? companies or to reorganize disabled ones . They wit , e nothing to do with either promotion or salvage . so this new Anglo-American combine will fill a gap in Great Britain . It will supplement the banks . It will help fallen companies upon their feet and organize new companies as well . The new company has been warmly welcomed in England as a sign of a closer and more practical cooperation with the business men of the United States in the handling of world wide affairs .                     