@@687721

txt Serious consideration will be given by the Harding Administration to the appeal from the French Government . to the United States to sarticipate in the proposed international commission to investigate the Russian situation . But the probabilities are that President Harding and his Cabinet will be as reluctant to accept this invitation as they were the overtures from the allied powers , tendered through the Italian Ambassador at - Washington , for American participation In the Genoa conference . There has been no change in the fundamentals of the Russian situation and none in the general European situation since March S last , ' when Secretary Hughes by formal note informed the Italian Government that the American Government did not believe it should participate in the proposed conference at Genoa , although hope was expressed that progress might be made in preparing the way for the eventual discussion and settlement of the fundamental economic and financial questions relating to European recuperation which then pressed for solution . The appeal from the French Govern ' ment will be given the closest study in the light of the developments at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Government regards as the fundamentals of the Russian and general European problems , the discussions and moves at Genoa are believed by American officials to have torn the veil from much of the confusion ' that existed regarding the relations of Russia and the powers and so have revealed more clearly the basic facts of the situation . Genoa has demonstrated that the Soviet representatives are not ready to recognize the international debts and obligations of Russia , but seek financial support from the powers in the face of such repudiation : likewise that the powers are unwilling to grant monetary aid or political recognition to a e ... - gime that refuses to recognize its financial obligations . Officials of the Administration are disposed to think that Genoa has served the very useful purpose of drawing more clearly the issue between Russia and the outside world . President Harding and members of his Cabinet also have taken the view that the attitude of the powers at Genoa toward the Soviet has approximated a recognition of the principles laid down by the American Government in its steadfast attitude toward Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal of the French Government , as communicated by Richard Washburn Child , the American Ambassador to Italy , but officials declined to authorize any announcement that the invitation had been received . The absence of President Harding from Washington rendered it impossible for high officials ; cognizant of the latest developments in the situation , . to communicate to him the contents of Ambassador Child 's messages . The President was en route from New Jersey to Was'sington tonight by automobile . The progress of the Presidential party had been slowed up by rain and thunderstorms , and it was stated at the White House that he was not expected until midnight . No decisions in the matter can be reached until the Secretary of State has opportunity to consult the President whose decision ' will govern in the last analysis . While there was no official comment , the disposition of those in touch with the situation is to regard the invitation to . take part in the work of the proposed mixed commission as a mere continuation of the work of the Genoa conference . That gathering was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic conference . But it was the conviction of the American Government that the main theme for discussion at Genoa would be Russia , just- as the primary matter to be taken up by the proposed international cominission is the Russian problem . . IV was found impossible for the.Hard- ing Administration to escape the conviction that the Genoa conference would not be merely economic but would be rather a conference of a political character in which the American Gov , ernjnerit could not helpfully participate . While the American Government is not less desirous now than it was In Atarch , when it refused to go to Genoa , , to asslst in the recovery of the economic life of Europe , it is equally true that the Harding administration is as convinced now as then that it should not become involved in European political questions . The best opinion tonight is that if President Harding and his Cabinet feel that participation in. the Commission on Russia would involve the United States In political questions the response to the French appeal must be a firm though friendly refusal .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          