@@690919

txt Atter tieing buffeted by heavy weather nearly all the way from the English Channel to Sandy Hook , with hurricane squalls and sixty Coot seas , the Leviathan of the United States Lines arrived yesterday at her pier at the foot of West Fort ? - sixth Street . twenty-tour hours late from Southampton and Cherbourg , . Eleven of her ports on the E and F decks were broken by the seas . ' which dashed over the occupants of the cabins and caused some injuries to the passengers and members of the crew . Four in all were treated by the ship 's Surgeon , hut no one was seriously hurt in the storm . The Leviathan was hove to for twenty hours , during which sho made four knots headway , drifting at the same time four knots to leeward like a sailing ship , because of the pounding of the seas against her starboard hew . Captain Herbert Hartley , master of the Leviathan , said that it had been a very rough Winter passage but not the roughest he had ever experienced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " on Nov. 21 at 7:40 P. M. and had pretty fair weather up till the night of the 27th , when it began to blow hard from the Northward and developed into a fresh gale and there was a pretty big sea : One of the waves hit cabin 535 on the starboard side of the E deck , occupied by H. H. Putnam , a retired Chicago business man , and threw him out of his berth . He received a cut on the head about two inches long and his wife was shocked by being hit by the icy water . Mod Reaches ** Force . " During Thanksgiving night the wind shifted round to the westward , and early Friday morning it was blowing a whole gale with a velocity of seventyfive nines and hurricane force during the squalls , which is 100 miles or more . The seas were sixty feet from the 1101- ' low to the crest and swept right over the bow at frequent intervals , but did not stop on , the deck . No damage was done to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the starboard side . " The Leviathan was hove to for twenty hours with the port engine going ahead and the helm hard a port to keep her up to the sea . During the squalls she listed twenty degrees to port and remained there until the blast died away again . As the ship came up to the seas they threw her bow over to leeward three points at one sweep . which allowed the following sea to hit her abeam or toward the counter . which accounted for the ports being stove in aft , as well as forward . Although there were such high seas , the water was comparatively smooth on the weather side because of the oil that went out through the exhausts from the engines . " The wind died down on Sunday and was replaced by fog with the rough sea still accompanying us . Yesterday we had a westerly gale with heavy snow squalls to finish up with , and I was not sorry when we arrived at the Ambrose . Lightship at 5:20 A. M. today . " Atlantic travelers have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons and forget that not so many years ago they used to cross on 10,000-ton steamships . which stood on end the greater part of the voyage in Winter . " We have had a- good , bard Winter trip and the Leviathan stood up to tile wind and sea very well indeed . Some of the more inexperienced travelers missed a few or their meals , but the regular seagoers we 're there every time and ate sandwiches between meals to fill in . Captain Hartley said he had received radio messages from other steamships , including the White Star liner Olympic , telling him they were experiencing similar heavy weather and high bead seas . Another passenger who was injured besides Mr. Putnam was John Lawrence of 1,448 Sterling Place . Brooklyn . He was thrown to the deck of his cabin on Thanksgiving night when a sea smashed the port . His right arm was dislocated . Early Friday morning A. B. Moran , the representative of the Farm- era ' Loan and Trust Company , which has a branch office on the Leviathan. was - thrown out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received cuts on the face and abrasions on his nose . Dr. E. V. Sand . the assistant surgeon of the ship . ' said the fourth person who had reported to him for treatment of injuries received - during the storm was a barber in the second class , whose name he had forgotten .. The man was standing in the cotnpanlonws. , and was thrown down when the ship gave a sudden lurch to port . His right arm was dislocated . Among the first class passengers on the Leviathan was Charalambous Simononto% the newly appointed Greek Minister to Washington . who was accompanied by his wife : their son John Simopoulos , and his secretary , C. Diamantopoulos . The Minister , who did not look any the worse for his trip across the ocean , said it was his ' first visit to the - United States . He said that he had spent twenty-five years in the diplomatic service of his country and had served five years in London , Paris , Brussels and other capitals in Europe . Conditions were improving in Greece . the Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their trades with them and introduced carpet and rug weaving into the country with . great success . He did not believe there would be any change of Government In Greece for a long period because the people were tired of war and revolution and ' wanted to live In peace and restore their commerce and industries . The Minister said he was leaving at once for Washington . Lady Gilbert Parker arrived on the Leviathan to join her husband . the English novelist , who Is recuperating in Aiken , S. C. rielschmann says Me Wo n't Marry . Another passenger on the Leviathan. who said he had enjoyed the voyage very much , was Julius Fleischmann. the yeast manufacturer and rack horse owner . He denied he had any intention of marrying any woman , and said he would just as soon jump off the deep end as get married . Mr. Pleischmann added that he had established a racing stable at Chantilly , about twenty miles outside Paris . Dr. H. R. Chajas , chief rabbi of Vienna , arrived on the liner to deliver a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he would devote the funds he collected during his . month 's stay here to the benefit of the Jewish Theological Seminary in Vienna . Dr. Chairs said that people in the Ausfi  --  an- capital were not making sufficient money . to : iv , . properly . Wages were high , but tit. cost of living was much higher anc there were a great number of unemployed . The money . loaned to Austria , he added , had been utilized for State purposes and not for commerce or industry . The manufacturers needed Capital very badly , he said . Dr. Chairs said that the overthrow of the Seipel Government had had a bad effect on the financial and Industrial situation in Vienna . The Leviathan brought 357 first . 204 second and 26i third class passengers arid four stowaways. - one , American and three Englishmen . ? and 2,212 .. sacks of                     