@@691866

txt Whatever mays be the truth about the kitchen and the nurserY , it is being apparently demonstrated that- woman 's place is I not in the English Channel . The Good News From Brussels to Washington . Since everybody , apparently , is delighted with the terms of the Belgian debt settlement , it behooves this column to supply that touch of skepticism without which life 's credits as well as its debts would lose much of their charm . It is accepted by nearly every one that the principle of discriminating between Belgium 's pre-armistice and post-armistice debt is a. sound and moral one . France and Italy are preparing to invoke this distinction between war debts and reconstruction debts in their own behalf . And yet what it amounts to is this : We are lenient with debts incurred for the destructive operatjons of war , and we penalize debts incurred for reconstruction toward peace . In China , where they always do things the other way and often with good reason , they would probably argue that all pre-armistice debts should be charged with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compounded semi-annually ; whereas all debts borrowed since the armistice for the purpose of rebuilding schools , homes , factories and roads should be entirely remitted . As to the fate of the Belgian settlement in Congress , it is the opinion of one veteran Political observer that the House will quickly ratify , but that there may be delay in the Senate . Naturally . In the Senate there may be sometimes wisdom and sometimes not , sometimes courage and sometimes not . sometimes generosity and sometimes not , but there is always delay in the Senate . In the present instance Senate opposition will probably concentrate against the argument that generous treatment in respect to Belgium 's pre-armistice debt had been promised by all the Allies and that therefore a ' moral obligation exists . If there is anything the Senate hates and fears it is precisely A moral obligation . No poet 's eye in fine frenzy rolling ever glimpsed so many wondrous things in earth and air as the portents and catastrophes descending upon the American people from moral obligation , discerned ' by Johnson of California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since 1919 these Senators have seldom retired for the night without looking under the bed for a moral obligation . On the whole , however , it is the opinion of this department that the upper house of Congress will give its sanction to the Belgian debt settlement . Anything that takes sixtytwo years to work out is bound to have an irresistible appeal for the Senate . " Six Hundred Sleeping Guests Flee $400,000 Fire . " ? New York Evening Post . In other words . $666.66 2-3 per narrow escape . The Week . Government scientists have discovered the existence of a roof , 100 miles above the earth , against which radio waves strike and are deflected . . . . This is believed to be the highest roof ever hit by anything outside the field of politics . . . . A new club in London launches a campaign to make the British " a nation of fliers . " . . . The last two words should not be pronounced too rapidly . . . . Possibly under the influence of Oliver Cromwell , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coolidge has consented to be photographed ' with the toothache . . . . The number of fatalities in the Rhode Island excursion steamer explosion is expected to reach fifty , and may possibly surpass the number of investigations into the cause of the disaster that are sure to follow ... . The President of the American Federation of Labor wants to know why the Republican tariff has not prevented the slashing of wages in- the textile industry . . . . The answer is that it is a flexible tariff and works in all conceivable ways . . . . South Africa has recently bden yielding remarkable discoveries in ancient human bones and diamonds . . . . Oddly enough , the rush has been in the direction of the diamond fields . Among the achievements of tho Tulane University expedition which has just returned from a six months ' exploration trip among the ruins of Mayan civilization in Guatemala , is evidence - mat the Maya race possessed dentists possibly more skillful than modern molar experts . " Except as regards treatment against the tooth of time . Not far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beautifully filled and inlaid , they came across some stone slabs more than twelve feet high . These were presumably the dentist 's bill . He Fourteen-Points With Pride . A candidate in the New York Mayoralty primaries has issued a declaration of principles over which at least one newspaper hastened to write the headline , " Senator Walker 's Fourteen Points . " Actual count shows that Senator Walker touched . on fifteen topics and made as many pledges , but that does not in the least detract from the force or appropriateness of the headline . Parisian hostesses say , " On five o'cioquera A six heures . " If five o'clock tea may come at four or at six , Fourteen Points may properly consist of eight or ten or twenty-seven Points . The famous Three Guardsmen were four men , D'Artagnan , Athos , Porthos and Aramis . If only people would keep in mind this purely symbolic connotation of fourteen , it would be a boon for the reading public and a notable help toward the conservation a wood pulp and printer 's ink . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten points , but Woodrow Wilson needed four more . Events showed that Mr. Wilson probably would have fared better if he had omitted several points . But whatever may be one 's opinion in this respect , there is no denying that in letting loose the Fourteen Points Woodrow Wilson made the world unsafe against verbosity . Very few people since his time have found it frnpossible to state a creed or voice a protest in less than fourteen items . What 's wrong with the world ? Oh , these fourteen Paragraphs . Why is all well with the world ? For these fourteen reasons . No program for the rehabilitation of the Church . for reconciling the generations , for guaranteeing world peace , for reorganizing industry and for solving the tariff problem in the Borough of the Bronx will receive serious consideration unless it is fprmulated under fourteen heads . The stories about Miss Gertrude Ederle were incomplete in neglecting to state fourteen reasons why she tailed to swim the Channel . Some day we shall read of a political candidate or a college President succumbing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could think of only twelve things to say . An Outline of American History . It was in Delmonico 's that chicken and lobster salad first made their appearance , that chicken la King and lobster Newburg were invented , that French fried potatoes , Russian dressing and terrapin were first served , in New York , and the minute steak was ' invented by Edwin Gould. ? New Yogic Timm Incidentally , Mr. Edwin Gould would be entitled to honorary membership in General Dawes 's famous organization .                     