@@692924

txt Just before the theatre hour last night Broadway crowds were thrown into wild excitement by a running pistol battle between policemen and a robber . While the pursuers and the fugitive blazed away at each other , firing more than twenty shots , the crowds scurried for cover . Stray bullets hit five persons and caused injuries to two others . The robber was finally brought to bay in front of the Cinderella Shoe Store , on Broadway between Fortyseventh and Forty-eighth Streets , across the street from the Strand Theatre , after a chase ' eking fifteen minutes . Probably fatally wounded with four bullets in his abdomen , he was taken to the Polyclinic Hospital . The man , who gave his name as Glenn Miller , and said he had just come from Buffalo to get some " easy money , " entered Maloney 's Lunch Room , 854 Eighth Avenue , a little after 8 o'clock , with a pistol in his hand , according to the police . He demanded the cash register be opened . When John Lang , the cashier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the pistol . Lang fell to the floor . Walters Attack Bobber . Before the robber had a chance to press the keys on the register several waiters were upon him . Harry White , who vaulted over the counter , took the man by the back of the neck , pushed him out into the street and threw hith down on the pavement . The robber got to his feet and fired into the restaurant window . Then with gun in hand , he ran south for half a block . By the time he had turned the corner and was running east in Fifty-first Street , a crowd was In pursuit . At Broadway the robber turned south and at Fiftieth Street he turned east to Seventh Avenue , where Patrolman Grady of the West Forty-seventh Street Station , and Patrolman Joseph Sullivan of Traffic B , who was directing traffic at the corner , joined in the chase . For a minute the robber seemed to have disappeared . Nelson Benson of 40 West Fifty-fifth Street , however , pointed to the fugitive , who was then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the chase was in progress police reserves were sent from the West Forty-seventh Street Station , and the area between Fiftieth Street and Forty-fifth Street along Seventh Avenue and Broadway , was surrounded by a cordon , and traffic along those thoroughfares was diverted . Inspector Coughlin arrived - to take charge . By this time several policemen had joined in the chase . Patrolmen Grady and Sullivan , however , were in the lead , and they cornered the fugitive . A moment later bullets began to fly on Broadway . Although the crowd fell back while the pistols were blazing , wild shots caused injuries to seven persons . Philip Argus , who was with his 16-yearold daughter , was shot in the right knee and his daughter received a similar wound . They were treated by Dr.1 Hoyt of Bellevue hospital in a nearby drug store . awls Stern of 1,586 Broadway was shot in the left leg and was treated there also . Those taken to Bellevue Hospital were Miss Stephanie Stephenson , 3,5 years old , of 1,605 University Avenue , the Bronx , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 58 years old , of 320 Manhattan Avenue , with a wound in the right knee ; Mrs. Rebecca , 1 User , 45 years old , of 3,034 West Twenty-third Street , Coney Island , suffering from powder burns and shock . Morris Bosse of 1,355 Morris Avenue , the Bronx , who was in his taxicab near the scene of the shooting , received cuts about the face and body when his windshield was smashed by a stray bullet . The robber was put into a taxicab and taken first to the West Fortyseventh Street Station . He was too weak to be questioned at length , but he admitted his attempt to rob Maloney 's restaurant , and the possession of the .45-calibre German Mauser pistol which was found on the pavement near where he was captured . Later he was removed to the hospital , where his condition was pronounced serious . Those wounded during the pistol battle were carried into nearby drugstores . When the shooting was over , the crowds surged forward to the scene and the streets were jammed by excited throngs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traffic tangle that resulted became serious again . The police said that the confusion resulting from the chase and the battle that followed was greater than any they ever had witnessed . Detectives went to the hospital two hours after the shooting to question Miller further . They found in the pockets of his clothes four fully loaded magazines . Physicians said that Miller was unconscious . Word was sent to the Buffalo police Of Millet s oakture ,                     