@@689996

txt With Senate committees delving into masses of private correspondence or examining witnesses with police records on conversations with men now dead , any citizen who hopes to understand what is or has been going en can only wait for the mud eruption to subside . That Mr. Daugherty has lost his usefulness as a Cabinet member is a fact entirely apart from the truth or falsity of allegations made by the spectacular Gaston B. Means or the former wife of Jesse Smith . President Coolidge wisely perceives that it makes no serious difference whether Mr. Daugherty retires tomorrow or a few weeks &nee,; but that it is of immense ' importance that the head of our government shall not hit a man when he is down or even appear to take snap judgment in a moment of general political hysterics . Without attempting to read Mr. Coolidge 's mind , it may be surmised that he steadfastly refuses to'push Mr. Daugherty overboard just because it would be the easy . safe and momentarily popular thing to do . No one can suppose that he fails to recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can not appreciate the difference between Edwin Denby 's fine public spirit and Mr : Daugherty 's narrow vision . All the more will these considerations enhance the courage , the high disregard of his personal interests which the President exhibits in this artificially created crisis when his course comes to be seen in complete perspective . Meanwhile , some of the more glaring aspects of one Senate committee 's doings may be noted . The Brookhart committee is spreading on the public records the testimony . of a dead man 's divorced wife , consisting of imperfectly remembered conversations with the deceased , many of which she admits she did not understand . It goes farther and elaborates the testimony of a man once tried on a murder charge , now under five indictments obtained by the Department of Justice , a man who , if his own testimony is to be credited , has acted as the agent of grafters or bribe givers or both . Means , at least , knew what he was doing when he testified from behind a tombstone . - These witnesses might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leads for investigation without exposing innocent men to venomous slanders . The committee preferred to question them in open session where a wanton attack upon Secretary Mellon , for example , might perchance assist in defeating the only sound tax program which Congress has been asked to consider . Nor is it any defense of the committee to say that testimony from such sources uncorroborated is of no legal effect . Reputable citizens have ' been unconscionably subjected to the public slanders of a man whose motives , to say nothing of his morals , are obvious . In such a situation citizens with any regard for decency in public affairs can only reserve judgment until all the pertinent facts are known and hope that the self-respect of the Senate will shortly reassert some control over the conduct of its committees . Coolidge need not accept invitation to hunt lions in Colorado . He can find the finest coyote hunting in the world right in Washington .                     