@@689438

txt With little likelihood of any big campaign ahead , local political attention in connection with the election of Nov . G became centered on the Chicago Bar association . This verdict of the lawyers cast before each judicial contest is expected to have more than its normal effect this year became of the way the association helped arouse public opinion in 1021 . It is predicted that approval or disapproval by the bar will mean election cr defrat for more than one candidate . There has been no formal announcement concerning the primary but members of the committee on candidates , consisting of ex-piesidents of the organization , which originates such action is expected this week to recommend the usual form of primary in which all members of the association will be allowed to pick twenty-three candidates from among the Republican , Democratic , Socialist , and independent candidates . This ballot will be by mall . Democrats Get Busy . Neither Republicans nor Democrats are anxious to raise funds for the battle of the next month , , although control of the county board , through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the Democratic organization lost no time in opening its publicity campaign . As chairman of the county managing committee , Martin J. O'Brien issued a statement that the Democratic platform is one of law enforcement . " When the men and women of Cook county understand ihe principles underlying the campaign for the judicial election , " read the O'Brien statement , " they will appreciate the reason why the party 's executive committee exercised scrupulous care in its choice of names to be submitted to the nominating convention . Pictures a Crisis . " Chicago and Cook county face a crisis very grave in all Its aspects , a crisis threatening the community 's sense of order and safety . ? " Mayor William E. Dever has constituted himself the chain-nut of law and order enforcement . Be is fighting with exalted courage and tireless purpose the most important battle in behalf of public decency ever undertaken by a mayor of Chicago . And he is carrying on his fight singlehanded . " " The Democratic . organization is standing squarely and uncompromisingly behind Mayor Dever in his great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we feel , moreover , that complete success Will crown his efforts to restore order and respect for law in Chicago . ? . " We must have good judges , fearless judges , to uphold Mayor Dever 's hand . " Chairman O'Brien also indicated that a hot fight will be made for the vacant seat on the county board for which Daniel Ryan Jr . is the ? Democratic nominee against Robert M. Adams . It was directed at the Weber-Busse-Hoffman organization in the country towns .                     