@@696897

txt The paragraphs in President HOOVER 'S message devoted to the regulation of public utilities are significant , not alone because of the widespread interest in this subject aroused by pending investigations and legislation , but also because they seem to confirm the impression gathered from other recent utterances that he has to some extent modified his earlier views on the subject . He has always been a stanch believer in State control . Some years ago , when he was Secretary of Commerce , he delivered an address before the National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners on " Why the Public In " terest Requires State Rather Than " Federal Regulation of Electric and " Public Utilities . " The headings in that address sufficiently indicate his attitude at that time . " Public Dan " ger in Further Federal Centralization , " " Economic Character of In " terstate Power  --  No Parallel With " Railways , " " Individual States Have Full Control Over Interstate Power , " " No Federal Authority Required , " " The States Are Powerful Enough to Rule in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only about 4 per cent of the country 's electric current was crossing State lines . In the intervening years the proportion has increased to more than 10 per cent of the total . In the interval the Supreme Court has handed down a number of decisions which make local control in some instances more difficult . On the heels of State and Federal inquiries has come a demand for more effective regulation . Mr. HOOVER is no doubt well aware of all these developments . In his annual message he appears still as the champion of the States . They have built up their own regulatory systems , which are able to cope with 90 per cent of all traffic in power . He has no desire to interfere with this control . " There are cases , " however , of interstate character " beyond the jurisdiction of the " States . " To deal with them he proposes joint action between different State commissions made effective through a rehabilitated Federal Power Commission , which would , be given authority to act on its own initiative " in case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a strong hint of administration support , in principle at least , for one feature of Senator CouzEisrs 's bill to establish an interstate commission on communications and power . The . present draft . of that legislation , however , goes far beyond what the President appears to have in mind . It has met with considerable opposition among the State commissions and also among invest-. ment bankers . The public utilities themselves have for the most ' part . remained silent . A Senate committee is about to hold hearings on the bill , and its sponsor recently requested the Federal Trade Commission to inquire into the exact ' extent of present-day interstate transmission .. Pending the commission 's report , the latest information on this subject is contained in a bulletin issued only a few weeks ago by the National Electric ? Light Association . It ' shows that interstate transfer of electricity in 1928 amounted to 10.73 per cent of the total consumption . This compares with the 9 per cent reported by the Harvard Bureau of Business Research in 1926 . Legislation in Maine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving over State lines down to less than 1 per cent . In regions like New England , where a concentrated industrial district has to be supplied with hydroelectric power by neighbor States , the interstate movement is considerable .                     