@@692049

txt President Coolidge 's opinion , as reported here in cables from Washington , that the success of the Locarno conference may soon make it possible - for the United States to call a disarmament conference is not shared enthusiastically by those Frenchmen who in the press today express what may be called the public opinion of the country . On the contrary , they seem to regard the President 's idea as ill-timed and a meddling in European affairs . which comes surprisingly from one whose position as Chief Executive of his country is due to the success of a party whose election program was that there should be no mixing in European affairs . Coming , as It does , just after the failure of the French debt conference at Washington , this comment is perhaps rather more outspoken and bitter than it would have been formerly . None the less it represents a point of view which must be taken into consideration by Americans before any invitation to such a disarmament conference is issued . Here , for instance , is what this evening 's Temps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahcurately or not , that the President of the United States judges this moment opportune for taking the initiative and inviting the European nations to a conference which will discuss the reduction of armaments and in consequence the financial burden and so develop the program of limitation of armaments adopted by the first Washington conference . In our opinion there would be real danger In entering that road , and it should be said at once that if such is to be the indirect consequence of the conclusion of the security compact it will lose much of its , moral and political value in our eyes . Opposes " Easy Delusions . " ' The Americans who did not wish to give France the double guarantee which President Wilson consented to as an offset to the Treaty of Versailles may be taken to prefer that we should remain the sole judges of what is required for the safeguarding of our own country . It is conceivable that , protected by the great wall of the sea , the peace problem does not have the same appearance to them as to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of alleviating our financial burden in such a n.anner as to make It possible for us to pay more largely our debts to the creditors who were our allies and associates in the great war . Our anxiety for our independent existence , however . makes it a duty for us not to yield to easy delusions on this matter . ? - Furthermore , we believe we are not mistaken in thinking that England will show herself as prudent as France in entering disarmament discussion . Above all , is not the League of Nations already at work on this question ? There does not seem any reason in the worle ? why American initiative should take from the international institution of Geneva the question , the solution of which is one of its principal reasons for existence . " We would risk great deception if we allowed ourselves to embark on this venture . Our first preoccuption is the ratification ana application of the Rhineland compact and treaties and the regular admission of Germany into the League . If . one is to judge from the commentaries in Berlin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicating it further by premature conversations on the principle of the imitation of armaments . " Says " No , Thanks , ' to Proposal . Leon Bailby in L'Intranstgeant says - with less restraint the same as the Temps in an article under the heading " No , Thanks . " He thanks President Coolidge for his generous but platonic interest in Europe . but this time Europe , he thInke , will not be in a hurry to profit by it . Just why the President should wish now to mix in Enropean affairs he professes not to understand . Formerly , when things were not going so well , he declares that America 's unofficial observers contented themselves with saying : " You must help yourselves . we can not help you . " " And now . " he writes , .. A.Inerica , which did not keep the promises made by its chief representative at Versailles , which has for seven years shut its eyes and ears to the appeals of Europe , which will not agree to be paid out of the receipts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wants to come and control the value and weight and price of our armaments . One could say much on this subject . But here we are speaking among Europeans . Mr. Coolidge 's country is a great country , strong , imperialist and wants more nationalism It is all covered with flags and cockades and gleaming with military anti naval force , and perhaps at this present hour it is the most militaristic country in the world . We are not mixing in its affairs when we make that observation . But we also wish to remain the masters of our own affairs . "                     