@@694096

txt The proipect of an airplane flight from California to the Philippines , which Lieutenant Albert F. Hegenberger predicted last night as the next step in the development of American air policy in the Pacific , is a very live subject in Army circles but has yet to take definite form . It was admitted at the War Department today that there have been many conversations on such a project and that it is considered a highly desirable one . " Walie the transpacific flight excites the interest of everyone , " Acting Secretary of War Davison said , the War Department has not taken any definite steps to plan for such a flight . " Hydrographic officers of the Navy have made studies that have gone far to convince them that the proper route for such a flight is via ' Hawaii , the Marshall Islands , which are under the mandate of Japan , and Guam , in relays , rather than in a non-stop hop effort from the American West Coast to Japan or China and thence to the Philippines . The flight , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers have been guided in their deductions primarily by weather conditions , but to other officers acquainted with aviation and the strides it has made in recent years the prospect of a non-stop flight is considered by no means hopeless . One high official today said that the time was near when airplanes could be constructed that would sustain flight for sixty hours at an average speed of 100 miles an hour . This would be more than sufficient to reach Japan . The distance along a great circle from San Francisco to Yokohama is 5.223 statute miles . While experts of the Army Air Corps hold that it will be possible before long to construct planes that can fly continuously further , than that , naval hydrographic officers contend that the weather conditions almost certain to be met along the route would make such a flight extremely difficult . A plane flying that course . they said today , would run into weather much worst than that encountered across the Atlantic by Commander Byrd . This , they added , would be true at any time of the year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or February aviators would encounter excellent conditions the greater part of the way on a route to the Philippines by way cf Hawaii , the Marshall Islands and Guam . The distance from San Francisco to Hawaii is 2,408 statute miles , from Hawaii to the Marshall Islands 2,414 miles , from there to Guam 1.796 miles and from Guam to the Philippines 1,589 miles .                     