@@686097

txt Inquiry at the local offices of several of the largest oil companies operating in Mexico , regarding the reported refusal of drilling permits by the Mexican Government . brought the response that none of these companies has any advices on the subject from Mexico . If the report is true it undoubtedly means that the Mexican Government has withdrawn the temporary drilling permits under which American companies have been operating in Mexico since January of this year . These temporary permits were issued following the stand taken by the companies against the Carranzista decrees late in 1919 and which held up drilling operations for several weeks until the temporary permits were granted . An officer of one of the companies was inclined to doubt the correctness of the Mexico City dispatch , if it was intended to mean that the Mexican Government had I adopted a definite stand of refusing drilling permits on lands owned or leased prior to May 1 , 1917 . Ile said that such a policy could only be regarded as an attempt to carry out the policy of confiscation , threatened by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said , " have no fbar that Mexico or any other nation , when it fully realizes the injustice and shortsightedness of such a policy , will wish to carry it into effect , or that Mexico or any other nation , which might wish to put any such policy into effect , would be permitted to do so where the legally acquired rights of Americans would be confiscated . " The State Department has taken the stand which it has maintained in the very last exchange of notes with the Mexican representative against the retroactive application of the Mexican Constitution or by laws or decrees based upon that Constitution in such manner as to deprive Americans of their legally acquired rights " It is needless to say that the American companies who have propertie , and rights in Mexico , which they acquired prior to the adoption of the new Constitution . resist any attempts of any nature on the part of the Mexican Government to interfere with their ownership , or the development of the properties acquired by them in Mexic9 and that they will be supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so called nationalization outlined in the Constitution of 1917 , as interpreted by such Mexican officials as Pastor Rouaix . Alberto J. Patti and the Carranza decrees is one that so shocks the conscience and one that would be so suicidal to Mexico itself that no fear is felt that any such policy can be carried out . " Oil City , Pa. , ( I. N. S. dispatch ) ? While announcement has been made in press dispatches that Article 14 of the Mexican constitution of 1917 , would be enforced as well as the famous Article 27 by the Mexican Government , it is now stated at Mexico City that drilling permits have been refused to esthblished.companies on-leases which they hold and which were acquired prior to the adoption of the constitution in question . Washington ( I. : N. S. dispatch ) ? The only information the State Department has relative to the cessation of oil drilling in Mexico , is a report received several days ago to the effect that Rafael Capmany , Minister of Industry , had announced that final action on recent applications for oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been suspended pending full investigation . Officials of the State Department were of the opinion that pending investigation the Mexican Government might have ordered the cessation of drilling in all Federal zones . ' ender the interpretation of the Carranza order creating Federal zones , most of the Mexican oil property is zo characterized .                     