@@692268

txt Bankers in the Richmond Federal Reserve District , in special communications to The Wall Street Journal , express the greatest confidence in the business outlook for the coming year . In this district there is a wide diversity of both manufacturing and agriculture . A rapid recovery has been made from the depressed conditions following 1920-21 . John H. Miller , Jr. , president of the First National . Bank of Richmond , considers the outlook for business bright but advises caution . He says : " In my opinion , the outlook for business throughout the country for the next six months is very bright . Conditions in the Fifth Federal Reserve District are very encouraging . The State of Virginia has taken on new life and we are anticipating most beneficial results from the policies we are certain that our incoming Governor , Hon. Harry Byrd , will carry out during the next four ' years , such as tax reform , good roads and a more efficient administration . " As far as I can see money will be in abundance during the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Instalment selling and the building boom , in my opinion , have gone far enough and are inviting disaster . " ADVISE ! : ECONOMIC Morton M. Prentis , president of the Merchants N atiorial Bank of Baltimore , advises every effort be made to decrease production costs and effect operation economies . He says : " The reports which reach us incline us to the opinion that prospects throughout the country generally are for good business , certainly for the next six months . This applies to the Fifth Federal Reserve District so far as we can ascertain , with the exception of a few lines whose prospects while not unfavorable are not as bright at present as in most industries . " Business conditions in Mar. land and Baltimore are sound , their industries are generally well employed and prospects are bright for the next several niontly- , - . " Competition is keen in all lines with a narrow margin of profit in most of them . Buying continues to be more or less from hand to mouth and caution in this direction is very general . Consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cautious buying , quick transportation and rapid turnover , we do not believe the demand for increased credit accommodation will cause any material change in present money rates . " We are rather inclined to the opinion that money rates will remain at about their present level for the next several months with only the usual slight seasonal fluctuations . " However , looking further ahead we believe that all industries should continue to exercise every effort to decrease production costs and effect operating economies in order to meet not only domestic competition but the foreign competition which we must expect within the next " few years . " W. H. Wood . president of the American Trust Co. of Charlotte , N. C. , in a comprehensive review of conditions in the Richmond reserve district , says : " Every factor in the business situation today seems to justify us in expecting a continuation of the splendid prosperity we have enjoyed for the past year and a half , at least for the first six months of the new year , and it is a good guess that we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had during 1925 . " It seems to me we have the basis for this optimism in the fact that the farmers throughout the United States have had relatively good prosperity during 1925 , and through bounteous crops and good prices , their buying power is far greater than at any time since the deflation period of 1921-22 , arid labor is fully employed at good wages . " Whenever our farmers and wage earners are prosperous we never fail to have good business , and while all of our industries have continued to gain in volume of business throughout the past year , we still have had no boom and there is left much room for expansion . " It is well known that inventories are conservative and that our manufacturing concerns have the best cash position , generally speaking , ever known in the history of the country . The railroads during the past year have had record business and record earnings , and are being managed perhaps more efficiently than ever before . The promptness with which the railroads have been able to handle freight has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep down an accumulation of goods and keep their business more nearly on a cash basis . " Considering the great volume of business we have been doing during the past year , the money situation is certainly all that could be expected . We still have a large surplus reserve and it is difficult to see how we could have tight money any time in the near future . It is to be expected that with increased volume of business the surplus money will gradually diminish with consequent higher rates , but I think this will be gradual . " With the Federal Reserve System operating with great efficiency , I do not believe the business of this country will be allowed to become inflated through wild speculation similar to what happened to us in 1919 . It is not definitely clear- yet that the Federal Reserve System can prevent unreasonable speculation and boom , but it is my opinion they can , by the raising of rates at the proper time . The only mistake the Federal Reserve Board made - was in letting the boom or inflation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates . There was never any other just criticism of them . However , they occupied a very difficult situation at that time on account of the war financing and are to be excused for this mistake , as it was quite natural under the circumstances . They are at liberty now to act promptly and wisely , and will doubtless do so . CONDITIONS IN THE CAROLINAS - " Business conditions in the Fifth Federal Reserve District have steadily improved throughout the past year , and on the whole we are at the present time enjoying splendid prospects . The eastern and southern parts of South Carolina have made a wonderful recovery during 1025 from the ravages of the boll weevil , and they have a splendid cotton crop at fair prices and will have more money from this crop this year than they have had for many years . In the western part of South Carolina the cotton crop has not been so good this year , but they are in much better-condition to stand . it . The boil has been a great disaster to South Carolina . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " North Carolina has never suffered much from the boll weevil , and enjoyed unusual prosperity all along . In fact , it has been the bright spot among all the southern states . On account of the absence of the boll weevil North Carolina has taken rank as the second largest cotton producing state in the Union , ranking next to Texas . The government estimate of North Carolina 's cotton crop this year , as of December 8 , was 1,090,000 bales , which is her second largest crop of all time . " The tobacco crop in North Carolina for the past year has been good with very fair prices , and will bring an enormous amount to the farmers , probably $80,000,000 or $90,000,000 . " With the great diversity of farming and manufacturing in North Carolina we have been enjoying unusual prosperity . It is not generally known that North Carolina ranks fifth in the United States in the value of farm products . The textile business throughout - North and South Carolina , which with tobacco manufacturing is our leading industry , has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but today the outlook isInuch better and with a bounteous cotton crop , it is generally believed that the textile industry will have much better business during the new year . " Throughout the other parts of the Fifth District there seem to be uniform prosperity and equally good reasons for expecting a continuation of good lausiness . It seems to me all factors justify us in looking forward with confidence to continued prosperity in 1920 , keeping in mind that after a year and a half of almost undiluted prosperity , we are sure to run into some difficulties or flies in the ointment later on , which will tend to put a cheek upon our prosperity , particularly if the business of the country has become inflated to any extent .                     