@@692014

txt From New York , according to the Methodist Board of Temperance and Prohibition , issues a flood of propaganda that saps the foundations of morality in the broad open spaces where men would be men if only Broadway would let them . By means of vaudeville jest , comic strip and sophisticated drama the bad work goes on . Western editors who support the Prohibition law in their editorial columns extend the hospitality of their sporting pages to the syndicated cartoon in which the Prohibition law is flouted . Whether New York propaganda has been corrupting the Federal Council of Churches is not specifically stated , but it is interesting to note that the Methodist Board of Temperance hastens to dissociate itself from the council 's recent report on the results of prohibition . Even the rules of logic and arithmetic , apparently , are perverted under the subtle influences emanating , from Manhattan Island . No doubt New York has been active in standardizing popular humor for the country as a whole , just as it has standardized starched collars and ready-made clothes . In itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men deplore the loss of individuality in the country press . The small-town paper strives to be a replica of the metropolitan journal and finds that the easiest way is to go in for the " features " supplied by distributing agencies . Yet the motive behind this is exactly the motive behind the national distribution of college clothes . It is not propaganda but profits , accruing from giving the customer what he wants . The Western editor whose views on prohibition are assailed in the syndicated comic strip is at liberty to throw the obnoxious pictures out of his columns . If instead of casting them out he eats them up , the presumption is that his readers want that sort of comic . It does the syndicate managers too much credit to suggest that they are such ardent wets as to place principle above profits by ramming anti-prohibition propaganda down the throats of outraged Western customers . New York standards and Middle Western standards are not in all respects identical . The result is clash and reciprocal domination , which is not a bad thing in itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If New York imposes its spoken theatre on the hinterland , the hinterland imposes its movies on New York . The citizens of the metropolis explain the low estate of the " pictures " by the influence of the " hick " element . The fact that the movie magnates bank in Wall Street and lunch on Park Avenue means nothing . Their hearts are with the scores of millions of customers west of the Hudson . Bring back the days when the producer looked to the " road " for his profits and you will have a New York stage less obnoxious to the Board of Temperance and Public Morals . At any rate , it is of very little use to be continually reading New York City out of the United States . It is here to stay , and if it differs somewhat from Des Moines and Topeka that is not an unmixed evil .                     