@@692638

txt After a : ear 's consideration of the subject the House Immigration Committee today reported a revised form of the bill introduced by Representative William P. Holady of Illinois for the deportation of alien criminals and defectives . " The measure reported today , " said Chairman Albert Johnson , " is believed by the committee to be a far better measure than the one we reported last year , which passed the House but failed in the Senate . I expect to be able to get the new bill up in the House within the next ten days , and doubt if there are more than fifty votes against it in the lower branch . It will surely pass the House and we are hoping it can be acted upon favorably by the Senate this session , but that will depend on the state of business in the latter body . " The naturalization features of the Holaday bill are eliminated , the committee deciding this phase of the problem could be discussed on its merits in the House . The new measure calls for deportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defective classes and is expected to serve as a most effective means for ridding New York and other large cities , Chairman Johnson said , of alien gunmen , whose cases , he added , were cluttering the court calendars and filling the penitentiaries . Under the existing law it is difficult to deport aliens found carrying concealed weapons , Mr. Johnson explained , because those convicted under this category do not fall within the moral turpitude clause of the present deportation law . In the bill reported today aliens convicted of carrying concealed weapons are specifically made deportable . The measure also provides that all aliens of the criminal class are to be deported when convicted and sentenced for one year , and they may also be deported when their cumulative sentences , after conviction , amount to eighteen months or more . The present time limit for deportation , now five years , is increased to seven . Aliens found harboring or abetting the smuggling of other aliens into the United States in violation of law would be deported , and the burden of proof would be upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of a father harboring his own child . All aliens of the prostitute class , the surreptitious entry class and to opium smugglers . There is also a provision aimed at alien bootleggers , providing that those convicted and sentenced for one year or more shall be deported .                     