@@689348

txt , Police Captain Patrick J. Randles , whose testimony last week before Judge Crain provided one of the most startling developments of the police inquiry , retired abruptly from the Police Department yesterday , after a heated interview with Police Commissioner Enright . Emerging angrily from the Commissioner 's office , Captain Randles exclaimed : " I 'm through i " I He went immediately to the Chief Clerk 's office on the third floor and filled out his retirement papers . Retirements are usually effective at midnight , but Captain Randles made his effective at noon . In the few intervening minutes he relinquished his temporary command of the detective forces of the entire city , collected his personal effects and departed from headquarters . Captain Bandies , questioned by reporters last night upon his return to his home at 86 North Eighth Avenue , Whitestone , declared that he had retired voluntarily from the department . " No one forced me out . " he said . " I retired of my own volition . " " In justice to Commissioner Enright , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ever treated more courteously than I was-by the Commissioner today . The story that he pounded the desk is absolutely untrue . " . Captain Randles'S. tesgilOny before Judge Crain last week vas . the direct cause of-the rupture with Commissioner Enright which led to his retirement . Commissioner Enright declined to give any explanation , but elsewhere it was learned that Captain , Randles 's testimony before Judge Crain last Thursday had been followed the next day by a summons for him to appear at the office of Martin Dolphin , Assistant Corporation Counsel assigned to Police Headquarters , and that an inquiry into his testimony had been ordered for yesterday . Enright 's Explanation . " Captain Randles has just put in his retirement papers , and that is all there is to it , " said Commissioner Enright . Asked why he had retired , Commissioner Enright replied : ' He just put them in ; there is nothing more to be said about it . " Captain Randles declined to discuss the cause of his retirement . As a member of the department of more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . The retirement supported rumors that a serious rift among officials at Police Headquarters had come about as a result of the proceedings before Judge Crain . It was predicted that there would be other developments . The appearance of Captain Randles at the police inquiry under a subpoena issued at the behest of John D. Lindsay , counsel for Magistrate Corrigan in the libel proceedings brought by Commissioner Enright . which are the basis of the inquiry , provided some of the most dramatic moments of the hearings . Directly and unequivocably , Captain Randles testified that Detectives William Morrison and David Lambert had admitted to him that they had demanded a $2.500 bribe in connection with the so-called Petrucci liquor seizure ; that they had come to him for " advice " because the names of Alfred W. Thor , then Inspector General ; Inspector John O'Brien and Captain John O'Connor ? now Inspector  --  had been mentioned as the owners of a truckload of liquor which they stopped , and that because the Inspectors were involved he did not feel that he could take any action and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was then , however , under suspension . Randles declared that he never had been ordered to appear at an inquiry which the Chief Inspector later began after consultation with the Police Commissioner . Asked why he had kept Morrison and Lambert on duty after their alleged admissions. - he declared : - ? If they were good enough for the Police Commissioner they are good enough for for me . " Commissioner Enright was not present at the session of the Crain inquiry when Captain Handles testified . The following day  --  Friday ? after the testimony was printed in the newspapers . he ordered , according to Mr. Dolphin . that a copy of the testimony be obtained immediately . On Saturday a letter was sent to Assistant District Attorney Ferdinand Pecora asking that the stenographic rec. of Handles 's testimony be forwarded to headquarters . In the meantime , according to Mr. Dolphin . the Commissioner directed Second Deputy Commisstoner John S. Daly to conduct an investigation with a view to determining whether charges should be preferred against Handles for neglect of duty because of his failure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meantime Mr. Dolphin , who was present in court when Captain Handles testified , ordered him to appear at his office on Friday . The result of the interview was not disclosed , but following it the nearing before Commissioner Daly was set for yesterday afternoon at 2 o'clock . Whether Commissioner Enright summoned Captain Handles to his office asterday , or whether Handles went of own accord . was not learned . The interview lasted only about ten minutes , and Handles , on leaving , made no effort to conceal his anger or the fact that he would retire immediately . Inquiry Is Called Off . fon .. Dolphin said that since Handles eligible for retirement there was no ternative but to accept the resignsThe inquiry scheduled before Commissioner Daly was therefore called ' off . " Now that he is retired his testimony 13 of no interest , " was the official explanation . The speed with which the machinery at headquarters was set in motion to Inquire into ? possible . dereliction or duty . o de &ptain; Randles 's part was matter R. W t-st headquarters. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morrison . who were accused of extortion by witnesses before Chief Inspector Lahey , who admitted that they had let a load of liquor pass , and who later , during the Crain inquiry , admitted to giving false testimony in the presence of the Commissioner and other high police officials . Another matter for comment was that Deputy Commissioner Daly was ordered to make the inquiry instead of First ' Deputy Commissioner John A. Leach , who is the trial deputy . It was Mr. Leach who supplied United States Attorney William Hayward with the record of the Lahey inquiry , which proved to be the basis for the important disclosures in the Petrucci case . There have been rumors of a breach between Commissioner Enright and Mr. Leach , and also reports that Enright and Chief InspoLor Lahey were t.ot on ? good terms . The Cfilef Inspector , however , during his testimony last week , when asked by Mr. Lindsay whether his relations with the Commissioner were cordial , replied that they were . Before his abrupt departure from Police Headquarters Captain Handles declined to discuss his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on his return to " tiViutestone . He first brushed by the reporters with the remark that he " had nothing to say , " but he turned on the steps and said : " Well , what is it ! I have no statement to make . " No Threats , Handles Says . In answer to a question as to the details of his interview with Commissioner Enright , Captain Handles made his assertion that the Commissioner had treated him courteously Asked whether he had received any threats since his testimony , he replied : " No one threatened me . If any one had . you know me . I would - have punched him in the eye . " Captain Handles said that he had no plans for the future . " I am going to do nothing for a year . Then I may go In business , " he said . The fact that his retirement had not been contemplated when he went to Police Headquarters yesterday morning was apparent when members of his household admitted that it was a great surprise to them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient officer extended throughout the department . He is 59 years old . Before his appointment as a policeman he had been a penmaker . He became a parrolmau la Mi. a sergeant in 1902 , a lieutenant in 1907 and a captain in 1919. tIn ' 1901 - he received two commendationslrom the 41R1140338 ; **Cum Itc001AmIllial1AP.                     