@@693985

txt Indianapolis , which has had more than its share of corrupt machine politics , has taken a step toward better government by voting to adopt the city manager system . Although the vote was light , as is customary in special elections , the odds of victory were overwhelming  --  swelled by the fact that a few days previously the Klansman Mayor , JOHN L. DuvALL , was indicted for conspiracy to commit a felony in connection with his campaign fund returns . Not until 1930 will the new system be installed , and certain changes in the State laws supervising city management must make their way through the politician-beset Legislature before a workable plan can be evolved . Also , the Klan politicians who control the Republican city machine will make the same fight to elect the seven City Commissioners , who are to serve under the new plan , that they have made successfully in Mayoralty elections ; and the friends of good government who won the victory yesterday will have to overcome that obstacle when the time comes . But , even if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wider powers to the City Manager , and then are defeated on the commissionerships , they will at least have the newer form of government and can work for victory later on . If the performances of recent Indianapolis Mayors linger in the minds of resentful voters until 1930 , the citizens will be able to make their triumph complete . As usual , despite the efforts of respectable colored people in the city and from elsewhere to win members of their race over to the new idea , the negro wards voted strongly with the machine . It is largely a Klan machine , but its klannishness is not directed against negroes , and colored politicians have been kept in line for many years past . Since 1891 , when the negro influx to Indianapolis was first stimulated by Republican city politicians , the Democrats have held the Mayor 's office for a total of less than ten years . Among the Republican incumbents have been such personages as LEW SHANK the auctioneer , and the present executive , who was elected as the Klan candidate on a straight-out issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge that , with the connivance of his brother-in-law , another city official , the Mayor omitted a large contribution to his campaign from his sworn statement . Though the city management plan adoption is only the beginning of the move toward better government for Indianapolis , with a population of nearly 400,000 , and though it has many difficulties yet to surmount , it is the first move made by that city in recent years to escape from its morass of rotten politics . As such . it is heartening to the friends of self-government everywhere .                     