@@688942

txt In a brief on the Herrin massacre and the two trials which failed to convict anyone for the twenty murders , counsel for the Bituminous Operators ' Special Committee charge before the United States Coal Commission " that the verdicts of acquittal for the indidivtial defendants were ? in reality verdicts of guilty against the United Mine Workers of America . " The entire affair . according to the brief . was in Pursuance of " ah avowed purpose of preventing any person not a member of , the United Mine Workers of America from mining a ton of coal " during strike by the union and was de- , signed to help starve the public into tolerating submission to the union 's strike demands . " What has taken place in Herrin , " says a letter accompanying the brief , " was due to no ' accidental , sporadic outburst of mob spirit . Events in the five different counties of Ohio , already covered by our Ohio brief and evidence ; events in Northeastern Kentucky , covered by our Kentucky brief ; events in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Arkansas , Oklahoma , Kansas and Missouri , to he covered by our coming briefs on . those regions , completely dispel any such hypothesis . Mob passions were undoubtedly aroused is Herrin eventually on June 22 , but in Herrin , as in all these other cases , the original homicidal attack upon men , who under the law of the land had committed no other offense than that of trying to work , was pursuant to a deliberate , premeditated conspiracy , conceived and carried through to enforce policy and monopoly of the United Mine Workers . INEVITABLE RICA ? LT " What took place in Herrin was the logical and inevitable result of establishment of this Mine Workers super-government in an American state . Such a result will inevitably follow its establishment in any other state just as soon as aims and purposes of super-government run afoul of the laws of that Beate . " The brief is signed by four members of counsel : Col. Henry L. Stimson , Goldthwaite H. Dom Albert W. Putnam and William C. Chanter . It is stated to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the trials , and offers to prove its charges at open hearings . " Events . of last June in Herrin , " declares the letter with brief , " are not one whit more abhorrent to American Principles than the events which have taken place in Herrin and in Marion , the neighboring county-seat of Williamson County , since that date , culminating only a few days ago . The sovereign state of Illinois has been endeavoring to enforce the rules of American justice against the killers of last June . The ? supet-government of the United Mine Workers has been opposing this attempt Its representatives in open court , unrebuked , have claimed belligerent rights for those killers  --  the rights of soldiers waging honorable battle against wrong . And it has triumphed . ' Mutter is no longer murder in southern Illinois . The Attorney General , chief law officer of Illinois , publicly announced last month that American law could not be enforced in Williamson County . His announcement apparently bas been accepted by the state of Illinois . The stper-government has established its position and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In the eyes of the United-Mine Workers of America the real crime is not the murder of another human being but the loading of coal against the ordns of the union . The exercise of such a constitutional right on the part of an operator gives the armed forces of the United Mine ' Workers of America the rights of belligerents in honorable warfare . In their estimation the United Mine Workers of America are above the law of the State of Illinois . " By means of the check-off the United Mine Workers of America raised the enormous sum of nearly ; 900,000 for the defense of their indicted members , " We urge the , United States Coal Commissicn , which has fact-finding power , to examine ' to the %thallest detail how this fund was expended by the United Mine Workers of America to the end that the American public may know in what manner and to what extent this expenditure contributed to the defeat of justice in Williamson County . MINE WORKERV AIM " The testimony at the trials showed that hundreds of presons , men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strip mine , to the barbed wire fence ; that hundreds of people stood on the sidewalks of Herrin , the modern city ; , and saw the six prisoners marched through its streets on the way to their death at the Herrin Cemetery . And yet witness after witness went on the stand who *stifled that they did not recognize a single person among the captors . They dared not testify to anything else . The sole objects of the attack by the United Mine Workers of America were : ( a ) to aid its nationwide strike ; ( b ) to prevent an ounce of coal being mined or shipped by men not members of its organization , and ( e ) to preVent the people of the United States from receiving one ounce of coal while the United Mine Workera of America chose to strike . "                     