@@688200

txt Secretary Hughes announced today that the United States Government unequivocally approves the proposals of the Governments of Great Britain , France and Italy to the Turkish Nationalists to insure the freedom of the Dardanelles and the protection of racial and religious minorities . In this first statement of the attitude of the American Government toward recent developments in the Near East , Mr. Hughes also expressed this Government 's hope that , pending . a conference and final settlement , the Straits would be kept open . The Secretary of State declined to comment upon the ter'rltorial questions or other matters of a purely political nature involved in the allied proposals , but inasmuch as America has important interests in the Near East  --  cultural , educational , missionary and commercial  --  the Government is deeply concerned that the forthcoming settlement shall not ihfringe in any way on established American rights or interests and is hopeful that it will lead to a peaceful solution of the Near East problem . " The American Government , " said Mr. Hughes , " is gratified to observe that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the liberty of the Dardanelles , the Sea of Marmora and the Bosporus. as well as protection of racial and religious minorities . ' These points of the proposal are clearly in accord with American sentiment . " This Government also trusts that suitable arrangements may be ? agreed upon in the interest of peace to preserve the freedom of the Straits pending the conference to conclude a final treaty of peace between Turkey , Greece and the No Part In a Conference . The attitude of the American Government is understood to be that the question of a peace treaty is a matter that concerns only Greece , Turkey and the Allies . There is no present intent on the part of the Administration to participate in any such negotiations . Secretary Hughes has repeatedly emphasized the fact that this Government believes in equality of opportunity for the nationals of all countries and he undoubtedly would register a protest if the Allies attempted to work out a settlement that would permit discrimination against ' Americans . This Government aizeady is on record on this point as a result of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was made plain in both ' White House and State Department circles today that the American Government would take no part in the political activities of the Allies in the Near East , but no secret was made of the fact that this Government is deeply interested and closely watching developments there . The increasing importance of the United States as a commercial power , coupled with its plans for expansion of the American merchant marine , is regarded as making it Imperative that American ships shall not be restricted in their movements between the Mediterranean and Black Seas .. This Government wants the Straits kept open , with all nations admitted to the Black Sea for trade on a footing of equality of opportunity . This country is deeply interested in certain other definite rights which it has for years possessed in the Near Bast . First among these are the rights accruing to American citizens by virtue of the capitulary treaties under the terms of which Americans must be tried in American Consular courts instead of in Turkish count , . In 1914 Turkey declared all . her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted that declaration , but the United States and the allied nations refused . The United States Government , since that time , has consistently maintained its rights under the capitulary agreements and the Harding Administration is understood to be deter- mined that these rights shall be respected . American Cultural Interests . The United States also has a second group of interests of a very important ' character in the Near East . These comprise the religious and educational organizations which for years have been working there and in some instances have acquired considerable holdings . Sixteen American societies , colleges and institutions . all American corporations , are engaged in religious , educational and , philanthropic work in what was the Ottoman Empire as it stood before the World War . This group represents interests with property investments running into many million dollars and with total expenditures in Turkey , from the beginning , of more than $100,000,000 . It is estimated that at least a tenth of the people of the United States are personally interested in the work of these American institutions on account of contributions made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church , the Woman 's Board of Foreign Missions of the PresVssterian Church , the Near East Relief , American Bible Society , Y. M. C. A. , American University of Beirut , Y. W. C. A .. Robert College of Constantinople , American College for Girls in Constantinople , the International College at Smyrna , Anatolia College at Mareivan , Euphrates College at Harpoot , Central Turkey College at Aintab , St. Paul 's institute at Tarsus and the Bible House tit Constantinople . The matter of the " protection of the racial and religious minorities " was brought to the attention of the State Department today when M. Vartan Malcolm of New York , of the Armenian . National delegation in the United States , called on Under-Secretary of State Phillips and urged American Government interest in the plight of the Armenian people . Mr. Malcolm urged that the United States Government use its good offices or moral influence with the Allies to see that Armenia as a signatory of the Treaty of Sevres be invited to participate in the proposed Near East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty and make a new treaty of peace with the Turks . Mr. ? Malcolm also urged that the United States Government use its influence to support the Armenian claim for an Armenian national homeland , which project has been approved by Britain . France and Italy , as well as by the League of Nations . Kemal May Be Influenced . WASHINGTON . Sept. 26 ( Associated Press ) . ? Beyond Secretary Hughes 's expression State Department officials today declined to go in outlining the American attitude toward the Near East problem . No authoritative statement was available as to the possibility that the Washington Government would accept an invitation to be represented at the conference of Venice to negotiate the peace treaty . As the question has not arisen except in unofficial reports from London as to the desire of the British Government for American participation , it was deemed to be not now before the American Government . There was some feeling among officials that the positive assertion of American approval of the main allied principles of settlement might help smooth out the- situation . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain extent by knowledge of the American viewpoint . As a matter of routine , any governmental pronounce ' ment of such importance as Mr. Hughes 's statement of today is communicated to American diplomatic representatives abroad and Rear Admiral Bristol at Constantinople will without question be able to advise the Kemalist representative there quite fully of the American attitude . There also is little question that Sir Auckland Geddes . British Ambassador . in his long conference yesterday with Mr. Hughes , received a clear impression of American approval of the allied peace proposals in so far as the non-territorial points are invelved. - What further impression he may have formed as to American willingness to join in negotiation of the proposed treaty has not been disclosed . There was no statement to be obtained at the State Department . however , which seemed to foreshadow that course . No Part in Sevres Treaty . Thus far the American Government has not participated in any treaty negotiations arising from the war except where it was itself a. belligerent . Turkey and the United States never were at war and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angora ? Government and which the Venice compact is proposed to supplant. was framed without American participation . It is a fact , however , that in that treaty the United States was named as one of the powers to share in administration of the neutralized zone of the Straits the treaty would have created . The Washington Government was not consulted by , the treaty negotiators before it was included in this group of powers . A further complication to any direct American participation in the ; Venice conference may arise from the demand of Russian Soviet authorities to be represented in the negotiations and Kemalist support of that demand . Should an invitation to the conference be extended to the United States and also to the Moscow Government , the policy of abstaining from any political intercourse with Soviet Russia , which the Washington authorities have followed , would have to be considered . The original British proposal that administration of the Straits be provided for under the League of Nations also presents possibilities of complications for the United States . Up to the present time it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League to work out separate agreements for the safeguarding of American interests in mandated - territory with the mandatory power in each case , the form of the mandate having first been considered with that power . Just what multiplicity of treaties might be necessary to carry . out a similar course in relation to the Straits , should the British suggestion , prevail , is not now apparent . There were indications that the Near Eastern situation was discussed to some extent at the Cabinet meeting today . although nothing was said in ofal quarters as to the nature of the discussion . It appeared significant , however , that Mr. Hughes decided to give an official glimpse of the tiend of thought within the Government in relation to the crisis and it sdevelopments soon after the Cabinet meeting broke up .                     