@@689179

txt Removal of Principal Fred E. Smith will be demanded and charges of cruelty will be filed against seven instructors at the Parental school by Aid . Thomas S. Bowler of the Forty/1rd ward next Thursday afternoon . Mr. Bowler said yesterday ho will make his demands and file his charges with the civil service commission after he has presented the testimony of four former employes at the school to Charles M. Moderwell , president of the board of education . " If , after hearing this evidence , Mr. Moderwell does not : of his own accord remove Smith , " Aid . Bowler said , " I will go to Mayor Dever and demand Smith 's removal myself . Wants Change of System . " I think there is tar more than enough evidence to cause Smith 's removal right now , but aside from all that I am in this fight to stay until the Parental school is taken out of the ' power of one man with czar-like authority and placed under the supervision of the whole school board or a committee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chambers this morning Aid . H. W. Klinke of the Forty-seventh ward , Aid . Frank J. Tomczak of the Thirty-ninth , and Ald. Christ Jensen of the Fortieth will sit with Ald. Bowler and at 10 o'clock receive a number of mothers of boys who have been ' punished in the school . Trustees Hear Charges . Aid . Bowler preknted his charges officially for the first time yesterday at a conference called by President Moderwell of the school bodrd . Present at this conference with the president were Superintendent of Schools Mortensen , Principal Smith of the Parental school and Mrs. W : S. Het Soren and Miss Grace Temple , trustees , Mr. Smith denied all the alderman 's charges , stating he would " welcome " an Investigation . Supt. Mortensen later In the day issued a statement uphold . log Smith and stating that his faith in the manner in which Smith has conducted the affairs of the Parental school has not been shaken . Smith 's Job Tough . " I was principal of tho ' school for nine years myself . " Mr. Mortenson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In that position has to contend . with , " Ald. Bowler also exhibited a notice which he said had'been pinned ' up- on the wall in the kitchen of the school , stating he ' will demand to know what it means . The noticie reads : " Meals : All those not living at this institution are expected to pay , 26 cents each for meals eaten in this kitchen . " " What does It mean ? " Bowler demanded . " Who is it that they are feeding out there at the school for 25 califs each ? I Intend to find out , "                     