@@688838

txt Republican treaty lrreconcilables and isolationists insisted today that they found much comfort in former President ' Wilson 's letter to Representative Rouse of Ken , tucky , calling for " unconditional : ' adhesion of the United States in the Permanent Court of International Justice . They contended that Mr. Wilson'A letter linked the World Court proposal of President Harding with the League of Nations , and that this would work to the detriment of the President 's pro ' posal with many Senate Republicans 1 who were inclined to follow the President 's recommendation that the Senate give its sanction to American membershi , in the court . Coincidentally with the publication of Mr. Wilson 's letter , it has become clearer that President Harding does not intend to recede one step from his advocacy of American membership in the court . If anything , the opposition that has developed in the Republican Party to his proposal has made him more determined to press for action on It when the Senate reassembles In December . ' A stubborn trait with which the President is credited is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he intends to go through with the World Court proposal without regard to political cost . Mr. Wilson 's letter was drawn forth by a request from Representative Rouse for a statement . of his views. - Mr. Rouse , Who As Chairman of the Democratic Campaign Committee , sought the ' letter for publication and for party guidance . Mr. Wilson 's response that he did not approve the " conditional " adhesion of the United States to the World Court is regarded as a reference to the limited participation which President Harding proposed . Mr. Harding submitted to the Senate a set of resolutions to relieve the United States , if it became a member , from obligation under the covenant of the League of Nations and to make it clear that in any dispute between nations involving the United States this Government could not be made a party to the proceedings before the World Court without first giving its assent . Sitterender 's ' View of Letter . ' Mr. pilson , according to some interpreters of his letters , would have this Government enter the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not merely seeking limited membership in the League 's Council and Assembly to participate In the nomination and elt.cCon of judges of the court . I think it would be more'consistent with the fame of the United States for candor and courage , " said Mr. Wilson in his letter , " to become a member of the League of Nations and share with the other members of the League the full responsibilities which the covenant involvea . " According to the view of some irreconenables in the Senate these sentiments of Mr. Wilson will be used by them in an effort to prove that the world court is interlocked with the League , which opponents of the Versailles treaty assert was rejected by the American people in the election or IMO . With Congress not in session it is not possible to give a definite idea of what effect Mr. Wilson 's letter will have on the Democratic Senators ' attitude toward Harding 's World Court proposal . At the time the proposal was first advanced . in the closing days of the last Congress , most of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort was made to have it taken up for consideration . But Senators of both parties are not anxious to have the League of Nations issue revived In the 1924 campaign and // Just as They Argued . SUPPORTS HIM Borne of them , particularly on the Republican side , fear that the questions , which prevailed in 1920 , will again be brought forward and many of the electorate get the impression that American participation in the World Court means participation in the League . There was a disposition in some circles today to think that Mr. Wilson had embarrassed some friends in the Senate by his letter to Representative Rouse . One bit of speculation was that most of the Democratic Senators would not follow Mr. Wilson in his insistence that the United States should enter the World Court unconditionally instead of on the conditions suggested by President Harding . Senator of Tennessee , however . declared himself in hearty sympathy with the former President 's sentiment . ? ? I approve of former President Wilson 's statement that we should go into the Court of International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' he said . " Such reservations as have been proposed are nothing more than attempts at political juggling . Evidently the purpose of these reservations is purely political . If adopted their proponents would then be able to say to League advocates , ' We stand with you . ' and to the irreconcilables , ' We are not against you . ' In this way they would expect to catch them coming and going . The reservations constitute a very genuine article of political hypocrisy . " Other Democratic Senators ' Views . The following responses have been received by Ulric Bell , Washington correspondent of The Louisville CourierJournal , to requests sent to Democratic Senators for expressions of opinion in regard to ex-President Wilson 's letter to Representative Rouse : Bruce of Maryland ? " Except as an organ of the League of Nations , which with a larger measure of police authoritY . I cordially approve , the World Court is to me a matter of secondary importance , but I think that under proper reservations and safeguards we should bind ourselves to submit to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us . The time for shamefaced coquetry with the League and the Court has passed . Tail In and head out is a natural position f the shrinking mouse , but it hardly benefits the dignity of a great country in the forefront of civilization . " Heflin of Alabama ? " I believe that the influence of the United States should be used in promoting peace in the . world and in bringing about better and more cordial relations between the nations of the earth , and I do not see how any one can oppose our whole-hearted entrance into an international tribunal of justice . " Ralston of Indiana ? " As a great people we can neither afford to go into the League of Nations nor into the World Court , which is a part thereof , on con ( Mons that will require other nations to do more in outlawing war and keeping world peace than we are willing to do . I expect to support any program from whatever source it may come that reasonably promises to abolish war . " Shepard of Texas ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deal of South Carolina ? " We should have joined League long ago . We should join Court now and League as soon as possible . " Fletcher of Florida ? " I would say that I am in favor of having the United States adhere to the World Court set up by the League of Nations . " Meanwhile ieading Republicans continue to be agitated over the President 's world court recommendation . The arguments of those opposed to it have been made known to Mr. Harding and he has had ample opportunity to consider them . Although it has been represented to the President that his course is likely to split the party if he persists in having It considered by the Senate . the President has refused to be influenced by such a consideration . If anything , he is more determined than ever to press for a showdown on his recommendation that the Senate give its sanction to American participation in the court under the conditions stated by the President The President has informed members of his Cabinet that he does not intend to abandon his espousal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the political cost . While he has not been deaf to the arguments of I those N , s , ho are afraid he has put the party in danger through his proposal , his attithde , to carry out the figure , permits these arguments to escape without delay from the other ear . The President accepts full responsibility for making the proposal . He appears impatient with those who would have him be quiescent and let the arguments for American participation in the world court be presented by others than himself . Advice of that character is based on the supposition that if the President does not assume any more prominence in the world court discussion the country will be disposed to acquit him of being to earnest in having brought it forward , and his political fortunes will not suffer thereby . Another phase of this suggestion is aimed at Secretary Hughes and Secre ? Lary Hoover . The idea of the most ? perturbed Republicans appears to be that if the President personally fades from the picture and permits Mr. Hughes and Mr. Hoover to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get the brunt of the unpopularity which these timid ones expect to be produced by the proposal . But the President , according to reliable information , will have none of it . He does not desire to escape responsibility . He does not want any blame for an unpopular political move to be attached to Mr. Hughes and Mr. Hoover when the blame should be all his own . In this connection it is possible to say that the idea or proposing that the United States find means of participating in the world court originated with the President . In most of the discussion in Republican circles the assumption appears that Mr. Hughes was the prime mover . What Mr. Hughes did was to carry out the President 's instructions that a means be found for enabling the United States to participate in the selection of Judges for the world court without in any way obligating itself under the League of Nations covenant . Diplomatic exchanges with the powers concerned made it possible for the President to recommend to the Senate that American membership in the court be sanctioned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's proposal and Is expected to say so emphatically in the address he is to deliver before the International Law Association in Washington on April 27.                     