@@692971

txt Ambassador Herrick has received two death threats within the last two days . The first one informed Mr. Herrick that he would be shot just before the execution of Nicole Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti , which , according to the letters , was to take place tomorrow . The second warned him that he would be killed immediately afterward . The letters are believed to have been written by dangerous international anarchists who are taking a leading role in the present vigorous agitation in France against the infliction- of the death penalty on the two Italians . Both the Embassy and t ? e Chancellery 1. re been well gUardeety uniformed and plain clothes policemen sinde the cr , se came to the fore again , but the two death threats have caused the . Prefect of Police to take added precautions . All the streets leading to the Embassy and the Chancellery , which is only a few blocks avcra , are watched 24 hours a day and ever ? person entering is scrutinized carefully . Not even two persons are allowed to stand together near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to park some distance from the two American buildings . I The Ambassador himself is treating the threats with characteristic calm , although in October , 1921 , he narrowly escaped death when a bomb exploded in his bedroom just as he was entering the embassy . His valet was severely injured . The police were never able to trace the criminals , although the accepted theory is that a bomb was placed in the embassy by members of the same group who are behind the present threats . There was at that time similar agitation in favor of Sacco and Vanzetti . French Police Hunt Writers . Mr. Herrick said today that he had no intention of altering his usual routine . The French police , however , appear more concerned and it is their intention not to allow the Ambassador ' to leave their sight . In the meantime every effort is being made to trace the senders of the death threats , but letters of this kind , it was explained , are so cleverly camouflaged that detection is almost impossible . In addition to two definite threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters of protest against the " executions . " Some of these are threatening in character : although they do not go so far as to mention the shooting of the Ambassador . To those who have had the courage to sign their names the Ambassadoe himself has carefully replied , inclosing a copy of the American laws , showing that the American Government has nothing to do with the punishment of Sacco and Vanzetti . The matter , it is stated , is entirely in the hands of the State of Massachusetts , which , like other American States , would resent any governmental interference with the sacred rights of the State . Humanite , the official organ of the French Communists , has been denounc1ng the United States in round terms for several days in connection with . the Sacco and Vanzetti case . Today , under the headlines " Sacco and Vanzetti Must Not Be Executed ? Save Them , " the newspaper says it is impossible to believe that the people of France and her workers in the International Proletariat , without Unction of groups , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty , to rescue these two comrades from the claws of the infamous upper classes of the United States . But we are sure that tonight 's meeting of the worki. men and revolutionaries of Paris will raise a protest sufficiently strong ' . o be heard on the other side of the Atlantic . " 10,000 Communists Protest . Ten thousand Communist workingmen met tonight as a gesture of solidarity and . devoted part of their meeting to a bitter protest against the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti . Fiery speeches against the American Government and the sentence passed upon the two Italians were made by prominent Communists and at the conclusion a strongly worded resolution was presented by the International Communist Aid Society and vociferously adopted . It read in part ; " In the name of the Parisian proletariat , vehement protest is raised against  --  the threatened execution of Sacco and Vanzetti . After five years ' detention and at the moment when the American Govern- ment knows the true authors of-the crime with which they are charged , the proposed execution would stand out as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hate of the upper classes above all sentiment and justice , the responsible ones at Washington allow this crime to be committed , these men will carry the full responsibility of the murder and the working classes will take what measures they see fit to defend themselves from a recurrence of such attacks . " The International Communist Aid Society therefore makes a final appeal to the Government to withdraw the threat of execution and give Sacco and Vanzetti their rightful liberty , which can only be the most elemental justice . "                     