@@685853

txt Although a good many Southern bankers share the opinion of their New York correspondents regarding the necessity of liquidating loans on last year 's cotton still being carried so as to enable the new crop to be successfully financed , there are a number who take a contrary position and who , in fact , resent what they regard as interference on the part of bankers in the North . Some Southern bankers who , are stoutly advocating the holding of cotton go so far as to say that there is a conspiracy lin the part of New York bankers to bring about the liquidation of cotton loans in the South , and " shake the farmers loose from their cotton . " An instance of the point of view held by some Southern bankers , and not the less important either , on the present cotton situation is indicated from a letter recently published in the Montgomery Advertiser from G. T. MeElderry , president of the Talladega National Bank of Talladega , Ala. , and at one time president of the Alabama Bankers Association . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The innate selfishness of men naturally cause men t. ' look out for their apparent interest ; blinding them t3 their real interest , which is the general welfare of the community in which they live . What Mr. George E. Roberts , Vice-President of the National City Bank of New York is pleased to term ' facility of association ' , enables the inhabitants of the cities to get together more easily and co-operate for the interest of the circumscribed territory in which they hope to reside . ? " In the city of New York there is a combination called the ' National Association of Manufacturers ' , and hard by is another ' Association of Railway Executives and Bankers ' ; part and parcel of these associations is the New York Cotten Exchange ,  --  the interlock:1 'm directorates which the government found pernicious , as well as dangerous , threatening the very life of the nation . Laws were ' passed to dissolve and break up said interlocking directorates ; and yet this ' facility of association ' enables correlated interest to co-operate in such a manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South . " Men , bankers , cotton buyers and merchants have been invited to New York and made to see it to ? he ; r interest to urge selling at least a part of the cotton crop , and said men are at present bringing pressure to hear 911 farmers to shake them loose from their cotton  --  discouraging the effort to hold cotton by the majority  --  difficulties with statements put in their mouths by lying gamblers on the cotton exchange . " The statement is frequently made that southern banks owe money to New York banks that must he paid . Quit , ' the reverse is true . For months industrials such as the paper of Swift &; Co. , Armour &; Co. , duPont Powder Co. and others have been hawked about in the South at and above . ' Facility association ' , while this is going on , has enabled the associated manufacturers of print cloth , tire fabric and other manufacturers of cotton to pull out of the market in order to depress the price of raw cotton below the 25-cent mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " combination " on the part of New York bankers , or of the leading bankers in any other section of the country , to bring about the liquidation of cotton loans in the South , goes without saying . All that the blinkers of the North arc doing is to " advise " their southern correspondents that liquidation of last year 's cotton loans is the proper course to purstii. in the ciscunistances . In the face of the general readjustment in prices that is now taking place , such advice against trying to maintain an arbitrary level for one particular commodity can not be considered as anything ha : sound , bunkers here maintain . In what way the " National Association of Manufacturers , " and the " Association of Railway Executives and Bankers " are linked with the New York Cotton Exchange " to bring about pressure which is hurtful to the South , " local bankers are at a loss to explain .                     