@@694654

txt Colonel Lindbergh 's next hop , from here to Tegucigalpa , which he plans to start tomorrow morning between 11 o'clock and noon , will be only 130 miles , his shortest since leaving Washington . Unless winds favor him he believes this flight will ? take two hours . He will follow as usual the airline route from- here to the capital of Honduras . Practically all the country he traverses will be mountainous , wooded and extremely broken , with mountain ranges running in all directions , though not so high as between the capitals of Mexico and Guatemala . The Salvadorean part of the route is over fairly wellpopulated country , but after he enters Honduras the territory will be sparsely settled . Salvadorean pilots plan . to . : escort Colonel Lindbergh to the frontier'in two or three planes . The Minister of War and Aviation , Senor Gomez Zarate , has ordered that4431- ? of the best maps of Salvador and Honduras be placed at his disposition . Colonel Lindbergh hitherto has been flying with a small scale map of all r.:entral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intense heat here ? it was 90 in the shade today would interfere with his taking off at midday tomorrow , Colonel Lindbergh said it would not .. since the Ilopango airfield was very good and plenty large enough . Then , too , as Colonel Lindbergh put it , " the flight is short , and when I do not need to get up early I do not believe in spoiling my sleep . " Colonel Lindbergh. ? has ? noticed small whirlwinds of dust , however , and has learned that they are frequent here during the hot season , our Winter being what the Salvedortans call their Summer , as it is the dry season here . - " One of those wleirl*inds , " . Colonel Lindbergh remarked , " if strong enough , could give a pilot trouble . " A strong - norther blowing last night and yesterday along the Pacific Coast interfered with telegraph and cable communications , but it has not affected San Salvador ' itself and is not expected to affect the route of Colonel Lindbergh 's flying tomorrow if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will leave Salvador with the warmest good wishes of the people . President Romero Basque expressed them at luncheon today at the legation in this fashion : " We all hope . Colonel , that after you have flown around the world you will land safely home and then stay on the ground , not taking any more risks . " Colonel Lindbergh. with the quick , illuminating smile which wins him friends everywhere . answered : " Thanks very much . But in the United States we now think that flying is no more risk than taking a train . " The President , after laughingly remarking that Colonel Lindbergh only " kissed " the wine in his glass and expressing , incredulity that the Colo : . nel did not dance , though an American , said he had had many requests from Salvadorean girls desiring to fly with Lindbergh . Colonel Lindbergh replied : " On my next visit to Salvador I will come with a two-passenger plane and remind you of what you have said . " Brill:nit Scone at the Palace . Colonel 's Lindbergh 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10:30 o'clock . An hour earlier a straw-hatted crowd began to assemble before the six great columns guarding the door of honor fronting the shady plaza . Soldiers of the National Guard , in white uniforms with white shakos tumbling from the spikes of their black patent leather helmets , stood at the entrance and along the monumental stairway . Colonel Lindbergh , whose appear- : . since with Charge d'Affaires Dickson and Master of Ceremoni-s Mejia was a signal for cheering , stood in his car while the band played " The StarSpangled Banner . " Then he mounted to the hall where the President sat , flanked by his Ministers in formal morning attire , with generals and high officers standing around the other walls : their brilliant gala uniforms of blue . red and gold braid with a crest of blue feathers in their caps standing out in the room , which was darkened against the heat . President Confers Gold Medal . Colonel Lindbergh entered wearing his usual dark gray suit and stood alone in the centre of the hall before the President who arose and read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joyously the honor paid to us by your visit and will never forget the most glorious . of the conquistadores of the air who crossed our blue heavens to be our guest of honor . " In the name of my compatriots , my collaborators and myself , receive our most cordial salute and welcome and the homage of our admiration and respect . " I hope success will follow you , crowning your great efforts for the progress of aviation . Accept this medal as the symbol of the affection of our people . ' Then the President came to Colonel Lindbergh and pinned on him the gold medal . specially in his honor . After going with the President to the balcony , causing more cries of " Viva Lindbergh " from the crowd , the Colonel drove off with President for . a glass of champagne at the Presidential Palace . His soft felt hat , hanging conspicuous by among the formidable array of silk hats , was sufficient to indicate Lindbergh 's presence there if the crowd outside the door had not already attested it . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . the Ministers of Foreign Affairs . War and Finance , the Chief , of Staff , the Governor of San Salvador and the master of ceremonies , those present included W. W .. Renwick , who is the fiscal representative of the trustees of the bondholders of the 1923 Salvador loan ; Colonel M. E. Gilmore , in charge of the extensive paving work going on in the city , and TILE NEW Ibex ' 11 ss correspondent . Idolized at Society Function . Colonel Lindbergh then went to the Ilopango airfield and completed preparations for taking off tomorrow , and spent the evening at a reception and dance at the Country Club , where he disappointed the flower of Salvadorean Society by not dancing . . The reception at the Country Club gave Salvadorean society the chance it was apparently awaiting to give Colonel Lindbergh an enthusiastic unofficial reception . The largest crowd of the season gathered there at the dancing terrace , with the volcano of San Salvador looking down from the distance and pretty Salvadorean senoritas throwing colored paper streamers at Lindbergh where he sat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' crowd pressed around him as he left , President Romero Basque , ' who obviously was delighted with his guest , according to him the unusual honor of leaving the function before the Chief Executive , and Lindbergh departed festooned with streamer-ends trailing the wind from his car . Eulogy in the Newspapers . There were no papers yesterday , due to the holiday , but they are making up for this today with big headlines across the front pages which concisely give the impression which Lindbergh has created here . Thus The Prense proclaims : " Carlos Augusto Lindbergh , the greatest aviator , arrived yesterday in the capital in his powerful machine . " The Diario Latino says : " The Ambassador of the Air landing In the midst of an immense multitude which applauded him deliriously  --  the Espiritu de San Luis made its appearance all alone in our sky . " Foreign observers here who say that Salvador is one of the States of Central America most critical of our policy in Nicaragua express surprise at the cordiality of Lindbergh 's reception . They agree that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to counteract the chilliness toward us . Going Near Nicaragua Fight Zone . By The Associated Press . SAN SALVADOR , Salvador , Jan. 2 . ? Receptions and official ceremonies took up Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh 's time here today . President Romero Basque pinned  --  a commemorative gold- medal upon him at a reception at the National Palace . Members of the Cabinet , the diplomatic and consulate corps , and other high public officials were present at these ceremonies . When Colonel Lindbergh hops ff tomorro ? for Tegucigalpa he will be only a short distance from the Nicaraguan border . Fighting between American Marines and Nicaraguan rebels of the ? past few days is just over the border . and Colonel Lindbergh probably will fly almost directly over the scene of the fighting when he leaves Tegucigalpa for Managua , probably on Thu mile y.1 Among those who took pictures of Colonel Lindbergh today was the national film artist , Juan L. Orozco , who photographed the flier and a large crowd gathered at Ilopango Field , where Colonel Lindbergh landed yesterday . Colonel Lindbergh has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include Colombia and Venezuela , but will not make a decision until he reaches Panama . He told correspondents today he had made no definite plans in this respect , but acknowledged that they were under consideration .                     