@@689245

txt Fighting their way through the partly dismantled portions of Frontier Mine 1 of the Kemmerer Coal Company one mile from here , the scene of an explosion soon after S o'clock this morning . rescue workers tonight had brought out alive 37 of the 133 miners , entombed by the blast . It is Bared that the 101 men still unaccounted for have perished . Reports said rescue parties had counted more than seventy bodies in their progress through the workings . The explosion occurred near ? the 1,700-foot level . Tonight rescue workers had penetrated to nearly every quarter of the workings and it was indlOttO they hal . brought out itti the survivors . Smoke. ; blackened embers of trA.ne buried in a cave-in on the  |p3700-foot  level in entry 15. gave rise to-the belief that fire had followed the blast . The cause of the explosion . is presumed to have been a blow-out shot , according to a statement issued by the Kemmerer Coal Company . The company insisted that no fire had followed the explosion . At the same time it announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of victims would not be known for a few hours . Throngs of women , many of them widowed by the tragedy , and children gathered about the mouth of the shaft . Many were hysterical . When " trip " 1 cars carrying the survivors came to thel surface the crowd became almost uncontrolable , rushing forward in a mad effort to find their loved ones , and the police and volunteer workers experienced the greatest difficulty in keeping them back . One hundred volunteer . workers were searching the lower depths tonight . . Mine Rescue Car 2 of the United States Bureau of Mines arrived here this afternoon from Rock Springs , where it was intercepted after leaving here earlier today and members of the crew immediately entered the mine . Mine Rescue Car 9 was expected later today from Salt Lake City , Utah . The survivors were found in entries 27 to 30 . Nearly all of them were blackened by smoke and suffering from inhalation of fumes , though there apparently had been very little gas after the blast . Saves Six Comrades . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men to come from the workings . They had been in a section of the mine near the shaft and made their way out slowly through the smoke and dust after the explosion . Both were suffering from their experience . The greatest damage to the interior of the mine was dor. , on the fifteenth entry , where fifteen cars had been buried by a cave-in . The task of clearing the main slope delayed the rescuers for several hours . On the entries between twenty-seven and thirty the majority of the . survivors were found . Many had taken reffuge in rooms oft the main slope . One miner who had gone through three such . explosions Is credited with saving the lives of six comrades by instructing them how to avoid inhaling gas and directing them to a portion of the mine where the greatest safety lay , as they rushed toward the smoke-filled main slope . The first intimation workers on the outside of the mine had that then : had been a disaster came soon after S o'clock , when long streams of black smoke began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was immediately made to sound the electric danger alarm system with which the mine : is equipped , but the explosion . had torn down the wires . " Within a few minutes the first rescue workers went into the smoke-filled . mine . The first evidence of the extent of the disaster was on the fifteenth entry , where they found the body of a pumpman . A short time later they encountered the wrecked " trip cars . " Meantime company officials had begun mobilization. of rescue and first-aid forces . A temporary hospital ' was- established , doctors were . called and .. nurses were hurried to the scene . ?  - -  Most of Victims Suffocated . ? . Tonight six physicians were working at the mine , four undertakers ? were present and ? a dozen trained nurses were giving first aid to the survivors , and in some cases to bereaved women . Although the rescue . workers assert they saw many hi:Idles. , they did not small cloud of dust . This theory was upheld by the fact that the cars were wrecked , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials , was the first serious accident of its kind in the district since eighteen years ago , when twenty-five miners lost their lives in an explosion at Diamondville , near here . stop except to ascertain if the men were living . In some cases they resuscitated miners who were suffering keenly and carried them from the mine . In other cases they were able to help the victims walk out . Most of the victims lost their lives through suffocation on the main slope , it was indicated . Those who sought isolated rooms or passageways after the blast survived in most instances . P. J. Quealey , Vice President and General Manager of the Kemmerer Coal Company . directed rescue work from the surface . None of the dead had been brought to the surface at nightfall , - the officials preferring to wait until after dark before carrying out the bodies , most of which are blackened and in a few cases charred . There was fear that rising water in the mine , which is normally a wet shaft , would cause the death of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which had been out of commission , were again put into working order and the level was being pumped cut tonight . Tre largest number of survivors was brought out at 3 P. ' M .. when 29 of the men came up on the " trip " car . The day shift this morning was smaller than usual . Ordinarily 385 men are employed but today many of the miners had failed to enter the shaft , as they were preparing to celebrate a religious feast day tomorrow . The majority of the victims were Americans . Among them were a " few Japanese and Itplinns . Most of the men were married . Frontier , the little settlement at the mouth of the mine , was clothed in grief tonight and-it was here that the most touching scenes of sorrow were enacted as the returning survivors conveyed the sad news of the death of dear ones to neighbors . ' Hushed and fearful groups of mothers and children were gathered about the mouth of the mine or stood about on the lawns or doorsteps of , the miners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mine stated that bodies of the victims were strewn throughout the main slope , which is a mile deep . , Death occurred mostly from suffocation , they said , dense , black clouds of smoke ; apparently having rolled over the workers after the blast , which is believed to have centered in entry 15 , near the centre of the mine . It was difficult to distinguish- the rescued from rescuers as they carne to the mouth of the mine and only the glad cries of those  - -  v/ib were awaiting a husband . brother . father or sweetheart told the big crowd that survivors had bees found . One theory of the explosion , advanced soon after the blast , was that the 14 ' , trip " -. cars on'the fifteenth entry eltne , had jumped the track or otherwise caused -a attack which heel ignited a                     