@@694431

txt It has been our self-appointed task to maintain the denunciation of hyphenism , to point out that the hyphenism of the war , which was directed at certain peoples , applied even more definitely and to all peoples now that peace had come . We have stood for America as a country for Americans , not as a battle field on which factions of conflicting old world sympathies might fight out their differences . So this hurrah and , hullabaloo that is being raised now about King George is not at all a new topic . But its fault is that it is only part of the story and about 75 per cent of it is buncombe and , worse than that  --  falsity . We ourselves have denounced the American complex of inferiority to all things made in Great Britain . We have mocked and deplored the Anglotreaniac colonialism of certain sections of our peeple . But we have been impartial about it and we have done so with motives of patriotism which we think our war record will substantiate . What those who prosecute the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unpatriotic , as un-Ainerican , as to preach disunion . It is an attempt . not to settle old strifes but to stir them up by arousing the ancient antagonisms of unassimilated immigrant peoples . It is an incitement to civil discord . What might have been an earnest ' effort to open a question that admittedly needs discussion and Wise settlement has been turned by false appeals to unpatriotic emotionalism into a cheap burlesque show . . There is reason , we repeat , why our relations with England should be examined , natural enough though it is that a'country nearly half of whose population is of colonial ancestry should feel kindly toward the older nation front whom it drew its language , its legal fratneWork ,  --  the chief of its political principles and institutiona , : and most of its social customs and standards . But that does not signify that these relations should bo examined in a manner fit merely to furnish a holiday spectacle for those of other descent , especially those whose own relations with the countries of their ancestry are themselves equally in need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , comes a new monkey trial . ' - They held one down in Tennessee and the power of the state lined Itself up on the side of ignorance and intolerance . We are having one here in Chicago and the power of the city is lining itself up on the side of blab and buncombe . In Chicago they get in a . Judge out of a job to put on his act against the Court of St. James . What did it amount to Mr. Bausman offered not one item of proof of his charges . He contributed nothing new . Ho did nothing to make what might have been a serious topic less ridiculous . If thoie who are prosecuting King George look to win fame such as was won by the Tennessee case it is time they eliminated the buffoonery . In a case where something sensible is to be said they haVe handed out nonsense . They can not live on slapstick . People get tired of custard Pie . ' That a certain amount of British propaganda for the cancellation of the international debts is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the cancellation of the French debt , for Italian fascism , for decreasing the amount of German reparations , and for recogaiiIng Rumia . We also recollect a movement , that still exists , by the way , for the support of Irish freedom . Let America be warned , but reasonably and intelligently , and about all sources and forms of propaganda , not just one . That the British campaign of propaganda or tatty other campaign of propaganda is being financed wholesale from abroad is absurd . Europe lacks the money to spare . Mr , Baustnan did not show one instance where British money had been spent in a conscious effort to influence Anierica . As for Mr. Bausman 's oratoriof fancies about the desire of Great Britain to replace the Stars and Stripes with the Union Jack , that is a piece of the sort of tall talk which seems to flourish so luxuriantly on the ' Pacific coast . It.is common knowledge that a small section of the American people , to be found chiefly on the Atlantic seaboard , loves Great Britain inordinately . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willfully hidden by the tin knights battling King George . is the existence In this country:of orized societies seeldzig to establish other foreign mt ? tIons its the affections of the American people . There are German clubs , and Irish orders , and Polish alliances , and Italian fascist unions . And they not only work to maintain an old world consciouaness among their members but they also encourage foreign tongues . Let there bo as much criticism of unpatriotic sentiment for England , or Germany , or France , or Italy , or Poland , as the case warrants . It is the right ? levet , ' American to speak his mind . But let his mind bo spoken ns an American and for the snko of America , not as it German , or an Irishman , or an Italian , or an Englishman and for the sake or a foreign country .                     