@@689362

txt The process of finding a jury to try Walter S. Ward for the murder of Clarence M. Peters dragged along slowly yesterday , and when court adjourned until Monday ten jurors were in the box . At one point Ward offered to accept a juror who admitted that he believed in the death sentence but had scruples about voting it . Mrs. Beryl Curtiss Ward , again at her husband 's side , wept when the defense counsel announced Ward 's waiver , but brightened when the talesman was excused . Forty-eight veniremen were tested for Jury service during the day , and when the session ended the first panel of 121 talestnen had been exhausted . Supreme Court Justice Wagner ordered a new panel of seventy-five prospective jurors to report on Monday . Juror No. 4 , Michael Doherty , selected on Wednesday , was excused when the State informed Justice Wagner that Deputy Attorney General ' Dwyer was a personal friend of Doherty . In his place Napoleon Major . Tarrytown dasher , was accepted . The three additional jurors accepted Yesterday were Ivan P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Commerce ; David Horton of Hawthorne , tool manufacturer , and Stephen W. Batcheler , a Peekskill grocer . George ICibbe Turner , short story writer , qualified as a juror , but was excused by the Court when he pleaded that he was under contract to supply fiction within a specified time . State to Call Mrs. Ward . It developed during the day that Attorney General Carl Sherman had subpoened Mrs. Ward as a witness and did not intend to have her appear before the Extraordinary Grand Jury when that body resumes its investigations into conspiracy allegations on Tuesday . It was predicted that any effort to force Mrs. Ward to testify against her husband , even to facts not covered by the prohibition against a wife 's evidence . would precipitate a sharp legal battle . A second step against Ward 's family was the delivery of a subpoena to Sheriff George J. Werner for George S. Ward . father of the defendant . This will be served if the elder Ward ventures within the State . Mr. Sherman admitted that he knew where George Ward is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused has been absent from the State for several months . * The first talesman examined by Mr. Sherman was Thomas J. Sherwood , a carpenter of Ossining . He was excused . Two talesmen were then challenged by , the prosecution because they opposed the death penalty , and William Brundage , a farmer , was barred in a peremptory challenge by Mr. Mills . During the day the State ran its total of such challenges up to twenty-four and the defense fifteen . Each is allowed thirty peremptory challenges . Mr. Flood , chosen as Juror No. 8 , was acceptable to the State although he announced a personal prejudice against the imposition of the death setence . Farmer Is Rejected . During the questioning of James B. Parry , a Yorktown farmer , Mr. Sherman asked if the man had been talking to Edward Matthews , one of the confidential investigators employed by the Ward attorneys . Mr. Sherman asked if Mattheivs had not spoken to Parry on the Court House steps . The farmer denied this and reiterated his denial after the prosecutor had singled Matthews out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Campbell protested against what he called ' a play " by the State . and then issued a peremptory challenge , against Parry . Mr. Horton was chosen quickly , and after the next two talesrnen had been rejected by Mr. Sherman in peremptory challenges . Mr. Batcheler was accepted . When he was asked if he knew the Wards , he said that he knew the man who delivered bread- to his store , but not his name . Walter Ward smiled broadly at this . Frank Brannigan , a. hotel man ? of llaniaroneck. aroused the ire of the defense counsel by some of his replied and Mr. Mills banned him because he seemed to have made up his mind about the case . Ward 's offer to accept juror who frankly said he would . if pressed , vote for the electric chair penalty , came during the testing of the next talesman . He was Marcellus B. Parsons , a paper exporter , living in Rye . Mr. Parsons said that he would " not ? be a party to finding a man guilty of murder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen if the evidence indicated no other way out . Counsel for the defense went into conference , joined by Ward and his wife . ? ? Mr. Parsons , " said ? Mr. Campbell , finally , " if the defendant says to you that he is willing to waive his misgivings. , will you put - aside your feelings and act as a juror ? " - Mr. O'Neill at once interposed an objection . Ward and his wife leaned forward to catch the talesman 's reply , but before it came , Juiitice Wagner sustained the State 's protest . Mr. O'Neill then challenged the veniremen for cause .                     