@@685973

txt Failing in an adventurous attempt to quit storm-swept Point Isabel and conclude his vacation in more comfortable quarters in Brownsville , President-elect Harding returned here tonight after being marooned The failure to reach Brownsville was due to a breakdown of the narrowgauge gasoline-propelled railway train on which the President-elect. and Iola , party had started away early in the afternoon . After being informed that automobile traffic between the places was Impossible because of the storm that disrupted the party 's vacation plans , they returned ' at 7 o'clock in the evening , without having been more than two miles away from the Point . Another attempt - to move into Brownsville will be made tomorrow morning , but it is uncertain whether Mr. Harding will choose the railway or the winding , rain-soaked trail that leads into town through the monotonous expanse of cactus and mesquite . Late tonight there were some indications that possibilities of a passage by motor were improving , but the special train was held for his use if he should want it . Bore Up Good-Naturedly . The adventures of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isabel had many humorous and melodramatic touches . But both ' Mr. Harding and his guests bore their misfortunes good-naturedly and came hack smiling , to unpack their baggage and spend another night at this seashore resort , of which they had taken leave five hOtl ? s before . It was early in the day that Senator Harding decided he no longer could hope to be comfortable in his little frame cottage overlooking Laguna Madre , apparently a special target during the last three days of the cold , wet Gulf coast norther that overturned his ambitions for tarpon fishing and golf . He asked about the automobile facilities for the trip to Brownsville , but abandoned that avenue of departure whe- he learned by telephone that some members of his party who started to motor in last night had arrived after daylight and had walked almost all of the way . So he appealed to the narrow gauge . It was an event ' wl day in the history of the Rio Grande Railway . Hauling Presidents Js a novelty , for ordinarily its train makes but one trip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions during the morning and taking in a load of fish late in the day . It usually moves leisurely , two or three hours being given over by the Mexican train crew to a vfe and sane journey over the twenty nIles . Today it taxed its facilities to accommodate the party of thirty-five . Railway officials . decided to supply two trains , and one of them came out before noon and sidetracked in the patio waiting for orders . The other was not so fortunate . Half way out it was derailed and at 2 o'clock , the hour fixed for departure , the second train was not yet in sight nor was there any word from it . Because there is only a single track train officials waited nearly an hour for the second section of the Presidential special . But the Presidentelect and the ' Senators and his guests were on board and the driver grew impatient , cranked up his engine , and started . Party Unable to Keep Warm . The train consisted of the motor , an old style narrow gauge baggage car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general characteristics of a small-town street car . The seats ran lengthwise , instead of across the car , and a small stove in the centre of the aisle vomited smoke and sparks as it struggled valiantly against the icy gale . But its work was handicapped by the absence of several window panes , and the members of the party bundled themselves up in their winter apparel in an unsuccesful effort to keep warm . Less than - two miles out on the prairie the driver sighted the delayed second section coming toward him and threw his own motor in reverse to come back into Point Isabel . Then the tragedy of the day occurred . The load was too great for a reversed engine , and the crankshaft and one of the springs under the car gave way simultaneously . Night came on during the long wait , while the Mexican trainmen worked and swore and the wind whistled through the Presidential car . Newly-made. friends in Point Isabel heard of the accident through Mexicans who walked back along the track , and at nightfall a basket of sandwiches and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passengers . Mrs. Harding served , sitting on a suitcase in , the aisle and laughing at her troubles . Car Was Unlighted . Pesidential dignity and isolation went by the boards . Mr. Harding himself was one of the most active and cheerful members of the group . His car was unlighted and was also overcrowded , as the unguarded presence of celebrity always is , and as the overcoated passengers went up and down the aisle the red-hot stove took its unfailing toll and kept the enclosure pungent with the smell of scorching cloth . It was more than three hours after the accident and well after dark when the train crew finally pronounced their engine in working order . To flibine the forces of the two engines a railway tie had been roped in place between them and it caused another delay because it had to be removed to permit the chauffeur to the Presidential motor to crank up . But after , much sputtering and the use of much Spanish profanity the entire caravan rolled slowly away in the direction of Point Isabel . It was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisers that it was decided to remain over night . There are several long trestles between here and Brownsville and the raids have softened the roadbed so as to inject elements of chance into the carrying heavy loads . There are no intervening stations in the twenty miles , and indeed virtually no house standing in sight of the right of way . When Mr. Harding reaches Brownsville tomorrow he will probably go to the home of R. B. Creager , a Brownsville attorney , whose Summer cottage he has occupied here . He will remain until Wednesday morning , the time previously set for concluding his vacation and for departing for ' New Orleans to take ship ene .1311 tin ma.                     