@@687464

txt The constitutional convention 's adoption of provisions authorizing a state Income tax for Illinois ie one of the meet important features of its work to date . It appears to be  --  a move not only in ? the Interest of good government but of good citizenelite . Nets ? much can be  --  said In favor of an associated provision bestowing full power upon the legislature to spend the proposed tax levy as it sees lit . Frowe  --  er , . the latter may be a matter of application more than of principle , and though it will Properly come up for serious consideration if presented In its present for-in for public approval , it can be atfely laid aside for the moment . Argues such as those presented against it by Rufus C. Dawes and Martin J. O'Brien , that it would , . , enable the epending  --  of 97 per cent of Cook county taxes outside of Chicago , make certain that it will not be put through ' without adequate consideration . The Income tax feature may not be popular , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be because under it the present sport of tax dodging 1:9 likely to become hard labor . With a maximum exemption fL  --  ced at $500 it will mean that virtually every voter in the state will become a tn.xpayef . Probably nothing more conducive to good citizen ; ship could be devised . If the voters , have thus brought home to them the cost of government they will accept a responsibility for that govern-. meat such as they have never before known . Knowing that waste , extravagance , inefficiency , or the maintenance of political machines through the public pay roll will take dollars out of their pockets every year , the voters will be rnuch. , mow likely to seek and elect capable and honest ems and maintain in those who conserve the public weal . Good government is likely to result . Also there Is a matter o  --  justlee to be considered . Under our present system of taxation the dodging of taxes is morally condoned . " Rich tax dodgers " are assailed by demagogues and poor ' ? ones are tacitly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which afford ; the easiest ground for dodging and the only basis on which most persons of small means can now be assessed . Being told so often and so heatedlY of the sins of the " rich tax dodgers " tho pool salve their consciences by comparison and dodge even more effectively . Under the income tax plan much of that . error ' bids fair to be corrected . The poor man will have to pay  --  a little . . U0 will then see to it that the . rich also pays . Tax dodging should be reduced to a minimum and the evils and injustices of class hatreds and class powers - should be correspondingly reduced .                     