@@687505

txt In upsetting the arbitrary eighty-cent gas law , after . years of needless and costly litigatiOn , the Supreme Court has handed down a vital decision . It is that no legislation can compel corporations to work for the public at a loss . It is that their remuneration shall'be based upon the value of the service , including those wages of capital without which the service would never be performed , or.only performed by a city department at devastating cost to the taxpayer . Every politician in the country might well read the decision . Certainly every New York politician should read the scathing rebuke of wasteful litigation unanimously handed down by the nine justices of the Supreme . Court . They pointed out that there had been submitted 20,000 pages of irrelevant or minor evidence , a volume equal to something like sixty fairly long works of fiction . This intolerable bill against the taxpayer of New York city was piled up to make , fees for political lawyers . But what is more important than the relatively petty graft ? of needlessly multiplied legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If a public corporation can not be compelled to furnish , gas at a loss it can not be compelled to-furnish transportation at a loss . The retort that the city can always embark upon such losing enterprises is merely a device of . Hylan , Murphy and other politicians to convince the voter that he can be given something for nothing and that the taxpayer who meets the bill is not the voter . The voter pays . in foud , clothes , rent , light , fuel and everything else . The city election of November marked , the high record of ignorance . The revulsion is already.apparent . That the people of New York do not get a five-cent fare goes without saying and least of all , do they get it from Mayor Hylan 's wasteful bus ' system , which , at the best , is merely subsidiary and involves a further five cents at least in still another conveyance before the worker arrives at his destination . It was so firmly contended in these Columns that the cost of operation must not be measured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hesitation here in pointing out that perfected transportation , in New York or any other city , depends entirely upon the confidence of investors in.the security ofAcorporations and the dividend return to the investor . It is matter of satisfaction that we are in a fair way to secure a unified and competent traction system . The City:cannotrun.it except on terms involving ultimate bankruptcy . , But , : if.priVately owned and-wisely  --  regulated it will work , and - the . ConsolidatedGas decision should leave no ilfUsions as to the right to collect an adequatefare for the transportation given . If " Bulgaria is groaning under heavy taxes " she will find a remedy in being too busy to groan .                     