@@689888

txt General business conditions look all right , according to Secretary of Commerce Hoover , who said that he failed to see anything to worry about . The cabinet discussed the prevailing business conditions and it is understood found them to be fairly good . No reports on unemployment were received . While no large orders for future delivery seem to be filled , it is believed that there is a ready market . Building trades , boots and shoes , textile interests , as well as iron and steel business seem to be active . A ready market , it was said , indicates a healthy condition of the country . Attorney General Daugherty has not resigned . It was said at the White House his position was not discussed at the cabinet meeting Tuesday . The President , it was said , has given no special consideration to selecting a successor to Secretary Denby . He expects Assistant Secretary of the Navy Roosevelt to remain . The President plans to lay- before the government 's counsel all information relating to the oil investigation and to leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall Street do not entertain fears as to the future of business . They adhere to their recent expressions of confidence . The outlook for business is most promising . One banker said : " I am surprised at the confidence I find in industrial circles . Many manufacturers I have been in touch with recently have outlined to me all sorts of plans for expansion . All they- see is a clear road ahead . While I share to a certain degree this feeling of confidence , it is quite necessary to caution business about over-expansion . This is one thing the bankers must contend with . It is rather hard to enlighten business men as to advisability of keeping production within certain limits . It is this caution on the pa.rt of many bankers in the past few years that has tended to check any inflationary activities on the part of some business interests . " Another banker said : " - Conditions are two-thirds fine . Financially and industrially everything is all right , but politically there will be disturbance until after election day . " A prominent financier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask me to talk about the utterances of a speculator . Not me . I am amused the way some people follow Livermore . Personally , I would rather continue to be optimistic . I would prefer to bear in mind the industrial situation as it exists ; corporation earnings and dividends ; the trend of prices ; our financial structure ; not to mention our sound labor situation . Yes , I would prefer to read of the sweeping success of the $150,000,000 Jap loan that was sold in Sr. hour or so , than to a rehash of scandal surrounding an oil deal . And anyway , did Livermore tell us anything new ? He did not . Perhaps some shoe-string speculators were ready to listen , but those who take a position for the future have little to worry about . "                     