@@690849

txt Elsie , whom we met in " RIceyman Steps , " makes another appearance in the first 01 the stories in Mr. Ar ? nold Bennett 's n o w volume " Elsie and the Child . " In this story she is married to Joe , and a great deal of its interest turns . on her manage- meat of her s o rn c what difficult I husband . The story is little more than an episode . In It and the other twelve stories with which it is bound up , there are many contrasts between the lives led above and below stairs . Arnold Bennett has confided to the editor of a i.eekly paper what Is his real ambition in life . Ho says " My ambition In life is to own a three hundred ton schooner , capable of do ? ing ten knots under power , and any ? thing up to fourteen knots under sail . I shall never realize It , because I shall never be able to afford it , but it is my ambition all the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day without thinking an unkind thought about anybody living or dead . This is almost as unrealizable as my main ambition . " It is interesting to discover that Compton Mackenzie has almost the same ambition . Ho says . " My chief ambition at present is to be able to give up writing novels and write history instead . At the same time I have an ambition to acquire a 300 ton auxiliary sailing ship . and I do n't ace how that will over be gratified by writing history . " A novel that Is being much read and discussed here is Stella Benson 's Pipers and a Dancer . " It Is perhaps rather less ambitious than Miss Benson 's " The Poor Man , " but is a novel characterized by the most amazing keenness of observation . The action takes place in China and the charac ? ters , who are English and American , are quite ordinary and not very attractive . But Miss Benson makes every one of them live , and the writing of her novel is brilliant . If her fame has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention of the judicious . Yet another biography of Robert Louis Stevenson ! It in written by J. A. Steuart and its main purpose . is to dissipate the myth that as a young man Stevenson was too shy to look at a woman and that he was in reality , as Henley called him , " the lover and the sensualist . " Mr. Steuart has discovered that the particular young woman who caught Stevenson 's fancy in his boyha ) d days in Edinburgh was a Highland girl called Kate Drummond , who had come from the north and had fallen into disreputable ways in the Scottish capital . Stevenson was apparently as enamored as an imaginative boy often is of a strumpet . But for the fact that he had no money he might have married the young woman .                     