@@690980

txt Actors , musicians , architects , painters and sculptors pledged their support and cooperation yesterday to the campaign for the completion of the Cathedral of . St. John the . Divine . Some of the most prominent representatives of the arts in New York , guests of Bishop William T. Manning at the Hotel Astor , agreed to organize committees which will solicit contributions to help finish the cathedral . Frank Gillmore , Executive Secretary of the Actors ' Equity Association , accepted the Chairmanship of the Actors ' Committee , and said that he would put the plan before the council of the Actors ' Equity Association at a meeting today to decide just how the actors and actresses of New York could best help the movement . Walter Damrosch was appointed Chairman of the Musicians ' Committee , Thomas Hastings of the Architects ' Committee and Charles Keck of the Sculptors ' Committee . The Chairman of the Painters ' Committee will be announced later . The various committees mentioned will operate as sections of the Arts Division , of which Alfred D. F. Hamlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Arts Division is only one of many divisions of the Committee on Community Cooperation , which as a whole will cover every aspect of New York life , in order to make the campaign a civic undertaking , representative of every phase of activity in New York ? finance , commerce , science , art , the professions , sport , &c.?regardless; of creed and denomination . Professor Hamlin Presides . Professor Hamlin presided at yesterday 's luncheon , which was attended by men and women representing the arts . Pointing out the undenominational quality of the campaign , Professor Hamlin remarked that he was not an Episcopalian , but was a Congregationalist , being a deacon in the Broadway Tabernacle . " I am deeply interested in the cathedral enterprise , however . " he continued , " because of the broadly catholic spirit and purpose in and for which it has been conceived and is being promoted . " Conceived in the broadly Christian mind of the late Bishop Potter , It is being carried on in the same spirit and makes its appeal not as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American Christianity in its broadest sense . I am , therefore , interested in it not merely as an architect and critic , but as a Christian . who would gladly see a visible and material expression of our common Christianity surpassing in beauty and importance even our most splendid palaces of commerce . I now have the pleasure and honor of introducing our honored and beloved guest of honor , who , if this were Old England and not the U. S. A. would bear the merited title of the A .. Bishop of New York  --  Dr. Manning . Bishop Manning emphasized the fact that he and his co-workers were not seeking funds merely for the erection of a denominational house of worship , but for a cathedral that would be a symbol of the spiritual faith of the city , and the beauty of which would become an object of great civic pride . " We feel that every legitimate phase of life should have its special part in the cathedral dedicated to it and Indicated ty its particular symbols , " Bishop Manning said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by people of all walks of life during the past four weeks had been needed to indicate the part this cathedral is to play in the life of the city it was furnished by the gathering at the cathedral yesterday . Six hundred persons spent the entire afternoon from 1 : 30 to 6 o'clock on the site . " Groups to Be Identified . It was explained to the artists that the funds they collect and contribute to the cathedral will be used for the erection of some special part of the great structure , and that this part of the cathedral will always be identified with their group . Professor Hamlin suggested that the Arts Division might raise enough money to provide for the building of one of the bays in the great nave , construction of which probably will start in the Spring , according to Bishop Manning 's announcement on Sunday . The bay will be in the form of an alcove , which would become a chapel of the arts with the addition of an altar . In the alcove or chapel would be placed works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work . It was also suggested that the bay contain a framed prayer for each of the arts and that special prayers be offered there for the followers of the arts . Mr. Gilmore accepted the chairmanship of the Actors ' Committee in a brief speech . in which he said in part : " Even if I were an unbeliever , I would advocate to the people of my profession the support of the cathedral movement . because I realize that actors who have the spiritual quality reach much further than those who are purely material . " Professor William A. Boring . director of the School of Architecture at Columbia University . praised the design for the cathedral as in the best spirit of the European cathedrals . " The site is superb , " he said . " The design is magnificent . Its length of roof and contrast of towers will make it stand out above anything that may be built later . " Francis A. Nelson termed the build-ing of the cathedral the opportunity of the age . T. Tertius Noble said he would take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . Besides those mentioned , some of the representreved of the arts who attended the luncheon were : Electus D. Litchfield , Edward L. Tilton and Donn Barber . architects ; Maclyn Arbuckle , actor : Childe Hassam , Charles Webster Hawthorne and Will H. Low , painters . The Chairman or each arts committee will organize a committee of fifteen to twenty men and women and all these committee members will attend a group luncheon to be held on Jan. 5 at a place yet to be selected . Plans will be announced then for the conduct of the public campaign , which will begin on Jan. 19 . EDUCATION BOARD MEETS . Contract for Richmond School Approved  --  Playgrounds Chosen . At a special meeting of the Board of Education yesterday afternoon a contract was approved for the building of the new Public School 40 , Richmond , at a. cost of $384,000 . Mortimer D. Metcalfe was continued for the coming year as Associate Architect at a salary of $9,000 . James Meeks was reappointed Chief of the Special Division in the Building Department at $7,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Margaret 's Day Nursery , 211 Alexander Avenue , Brooklyn ; Keating Day Nursery , 531 East Twelfth Street . Manhattan : Little Missionary Day Nursery , 03 St. Mark 's Place , Manhattan : St. Clare 's Mission . 292 East 163d Street , the Bronx ; Greenwich House , 29 Barrow Street , Manhatta.n : New York Catholic Protectory . Unionport , the Bronx ; Hanna Lavanburg Home , 319 East Seventeenth Street , Manhattan ; St. Michael 's Day Nursery , 135 East Second Street , Manhattan : Holy Name House , Ninety-seventh Street and Am-'sterdtn Avenue . Manhattan .                     