@@691137

txt The head of one of the largest commission brokerage houses in New York , one that in times past has owed more than $60,000,000 , says : There can be no broadly sustained upward swim in stock market prices with the railroads as laggards . The real values are today in the railroads . They are again the backbone of the country 's investments . I do n't hesitate to tell the directors of the Southern Pacific that their stockholders will yet demand a 9% dividend instead of 6% out of this year 's earnings . " Stockholders are not going to be content with the dividends they have been receiving when earnings justify more . The railroad companies have given enough to their employes and to the public service . Railroad credit should be sustained with higher dividends for sound railroad investments , that railroad building may be again started in this country . " The high supertaxes are driving money out of business and out of Wall Street and if dividends are not increased capital will be driven away from the railroad field to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great believer in the future of this country and the future of its railroads . " There is n't capital enough in the brokerage business in Wall Street to finance a sustained bull market on the securities in which the public are trading . " You can count on the figures of your hand and have a few fingers to spare the number of houses with five millions or more of capital . The result is that when brokerage house wants to get in new business and nets orders , where it has to put up in bank borrowings as much money as the customers put up , it must invite other customers to realize their profits . ? " With advanced expenses for rents , clerk hire and accessories that go with a brokerage office , there is not enough money in the business to warrant brokerage capital expansion . " Now in my judgment stocks are cheap and are going to remain cheap until investment still further absorbs the floating supply and the brokerage and banking capital can Nee its way clear to finance advancing prices on in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you may see an old time market with rising prices and the railroad stocks leading . " I remain with my capital in business because of my junior partners . I have enough upon which to retire , but my partners can not get ahead or accumulate capital under the heavy Federal taxes . " I do n't propose to extend my liabilities , and I think many other houses feel the same way . to any considerable extent where there is any great risk and I take all the risk and give the tax gatherer half of what I and my capital earn . " It is going to take longer than in previous years to ' lay the brokerage foundation for expanding prices by speculative activity . "                     