@@691953

txt Industrial labor , directors of enterprises that cover the whole of the United States and members of such organizations as the Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs are emphatic in their opposition to prohibition , according to information compiled by the Research and Education Department of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ , copyrighted by the Rev. F. Ernest Johnson , in the final instalment of the report on prohibition . made public today . ..... On the other hand , of 170 editors of -. daily papers published in the States of Virginia , Kentucky , MissMirt " . - 7M1661.6 - -   ' sippi , Kansas and Minnesota no less than 116 expressed their approval of prohibition . In the past , the report charges , no adequate effort at enforcement has been made , and the fact that prohibition is still far from yielding the results that were hoped for does not warrant the widely current assumption that it can not be enforced , but the trouble has been with the people more than the Government . " If the new campaign of the Govern1 Iment succeeds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off of the liquor supply at its main sources may take the I profit out of the illicit liquor business . ? * ? On the other hand , its suppression may ultimately depend upon State and municipal agencies , In which case I the immediate future in several States lis dark . " Pubile Opinion Sounded . Discussing prohibition and public opinI ion the report says : " From the standpoint of practical significance icance the actual facts with reference to the results of prohibition are perhaps less Important than what people think about them . A careful observer of con1 ditions in Canada has stated that the I drift of sentiment away from prohibition has been due not so much to actual change in conditions as to an impalpable influence at work in the minds of the electorate  --  a sort of psychology of failure . It is a similar condition that we face in certain sections of the United States . " I A questionnaire sent to 1,000 of the most prominent name in the Directory of Directors in New York City yielded 169 replies , as follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 1 Favoring the Quebec system of Government sale 9 Vigorously opposed to prohibition 66 Opposed more mildly 23 Total . 169 " It should be noted . " the report continues , " that these men are directors of enterprises that cover the whole United States . They live in and about New 1 York , but their interests and business contacts are very general . The purpose of the inquiry was primarily to secure I information concerning possible effects of prohibition on business and industry . The replies illustrate what Is coming to be a familiar fact , that strong convictions and personal feelings weigh more heavily with most people than evidence . There is little doubt that prohibition has improved the morale of industrial establishments , but however great the effect has been it is not sufficient to offset a strong antipathy on the part of many who are indirectly benefited by it . " During this investigation votes on prohibition were taken in the Cleveland Rotary Club , the Rochester Kiwanis Club and the Kansas City ( Mo . ) Lions and Rotary Clubs . The ballots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , ( 2 ) ligh4 wines and beer , ( 3 ) regulated sale of liquors and ( 4 ) the saloon . The result was as follows : " Cleveland Rotary Club-186 votes , 64 favorable to prohibition , and the majority of the balance for the regulated sale of liquors without the saloon . " Rochester Kiwanis Club-70 - Votes , 30 favorable to prohibition , and the balance distributed among the several alternative proposals . " Kansas City Clubs-81 ballots , 54 favorable to prohibition and the remainder for regulated sale . This vote alone gave a Majority favorable to the prohibition laws . ' the hold that the idea of ' personal liberty ' has upon men 's minds is a lactate in the situation of the greatest social and political importance . It is by 320TMeans limited to persons who want to /indulge an appetite . Much harm hap been done the cause of prohibition byethe failure of its more zealous advocates to take this attitude seriously and to respect it where it is honest snO sincere . " Of Attitude of Labor . " Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely hostile to prohibition . An investigation was condOted in a considerable number of industrial establishments in various cities in the industrial section of the country . The major results may be summarized as : follows : ' 4itchburg , Mass. , a fairly typical influ ; trial city whose population was 41 , - 029 ; in ? ** were had with 149 : men . of whom 84 appeared hostile to ' prohibition : 50 were friendly to prohibition : 15 were uncertain . There was nc:qenthuslasm for the saloon , nor was the characteristic attitude of those opposed to prohibition merely ' wet . ' in the selese that they resented the restriction upon their indulgences . Many of them recorded a serious and sober judgment that the results of prohibition were unsatisfactory . " Lawrence , Mass. , well-known textile town whose population in 1920 was 94 , - 27te ? A meeting was arranged at one of the American Woolen Company 's plants on ? company time , attended by about 180 : employes , both men and women . The labhr manager who assembled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote was taken . The resnit was as follows : ... . , . : Sten . Women . Fa arable to prohibition ... ... : 8 Erlight wines and beer 1 ' 2 2:1 e Government dispensaries ( Quebec system 18 For return of the saloon 3 Total 121 " . : An attempt was made to secure an explanation of the lack of sentiment favorable to the saloon , but practically no ; light was thrown on the subject . ' There is some reason to think that many of those who recorded themselves as in 193  --  or of light alcoholic drinks have no particular concern over the possibility that this might mean a return of the saloon , but that they have been assured by i anti-prohibition publicity that it ' cyanid be poor strategy to ask for the saloon . This is only surmise , of course . " h appeared that this sample was fairly typical of Lawrence 's working . population . Lawrence is , to be sure , a ' notoriously wet city . ' " Springfield , Mass. ? Opinions of fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable to prohibition . " Rochester , N. Y. ? Eighty-four men were talked with in five establisments ranging in working force front 90 to 3,0e0 . They registered , 20 favorable to thtgprohibition regime , 64 against . " Cleveland , Ohio  --  Seven plants were visited and 105 men interviewed . Of these 13 favored prohibition and the balanace wished it modified . " Chicago , ** establishments Were visited and 260 men interviewed , of whom only 20 were favorable to prohibition . " Gary , Ind. ? Access to the steel plants wal not permitted , but 51 employes were talked with , either singly or in groups f two or three , of whom only four were ? - : . " favorable to prohibition . Several Work- men not connected with the steel plants vete found , however , who expressed themselves as faVcrable to prohibition . " $t- Louis , Mo. ? Here only two estab- ; eneetts were visited and 36 men were in ' 2 , tervewed . Only two were favorable to S thepresent prohibition regime . - " Ramses City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 103 men interviewed . of ' ; : . : whom sixty-two were friendly to pro.  - -  . ? hibetion . The proportion of favorable L ' . : 010WOn here was unusually high . - utltrixelte towns ' in - Pennsylvanf " Ja ? aSharnokin , Wilkes-Barre . KingseetonsaLuzerne and Scranton  --  Here an eff.forf was made through a woman ** to learn the attitude of the ' ' inlit.re ! families by interviews with wome " ' in their homes , since it was not Me to enter the mines . In all , liinvi : /-seven calls were made . In fiftyv ? fo ? ' cases- no ' interview was possible b tise , of , insufficient knowledge of Bri ' fish - ( either actual or simulated ) . ! Shitty-two-stated with startling frank . ness that the matter was nobody 's business . Among the eleven who were really willing to talk , no opinion favorable to prohibition was found . It is probably safe to assume that most of the reticent thirty-two were of the same mind . This attitude of convinced and apparently sincere opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " More striking and more conclusive were the results of a ballot taken at a meeting of District 9 , United Mine Workers of America . There were represented . through delegates , at this meeting 43,000 miners . The vote which was , of course , uninstructed , stood : For the present prohibition regime 7 For light wines and beer . 64 For regulated sale 27 For the return of the saloon 70 Total . " The result of the inquiry in the coal fields was unique in that it revealed the only strong sentiment found anywhere for the saloon . Nearly all of the other votes taken indicated that the men wanted , not the saloon , but a ' liberalization ' of the Volstead law . It should be borne in mind , however , that the Saloon in the mining towns performed a different and more nearly valid social function than was the case with the city saloon . " An interesting , but exceptional , bit of information was contained in the repo:1 of a ballot taken among the workers on The Seattle Daily Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known . Of the eighty persons voting . forty-seven , a clear majority , recorded themselves as favorable to prohibition in its existing form . The most plausible explanation of this exceptional result is that it reflects a well-known hostility to the use of intoxicants on the part of certain aggressive elements in the labor movement . " This constitutes , of course , only a meager sampling of industrial labor , but it helps to explain why the American Federation of Labor maintains its hostility toward prohibition . The workers covered in the canvass were , to be sure , mostly non-union men , but there is good reason to consider the attitudes disclosed typical of industrial labor . One would suppose that self-interest both from the point of view of the individual and from that of the labor union would dictate a policy of opposition to the liquor traffic . A representative official of the shop crafts unions has said that he would have dreaded to undertake the last great railroad strike had the saloons been running as before . Yet among workmen , as among managers , considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Newspapers . " A questionnaire was sent to the editors of the morning newspapers in the United States , numbering 680 , and to the entire list of daily papers in the following States : Virginia , Kentucky , Missouri , Mississippi , Kansas and Minnesota . The questionnaire yielded 170 replies , tabulated ak follows : Attitude of newspapers toward Volstead act : Favorable 110 For repeal For amendment 18 Neutral 30 Opinion of editor as to sentiment Favorable 106 For repeal IS For amendment 22 Mixed ...  - -  Passive Individual attitude of toward the Volstead act Favorable 113 For repeal 12 For amendment 24 Doubtful " Impossible to enforce " 5 Neutral For resubmission 163 " To those who have been impressed with the hostility of newspapers to prohibition , this preponderance of favorable opinions may be surprising . It must be recalled , however , that the influential press belongs to the larger population centres , where hostile sentiment is strongest . In general , ' dry ' sentiment proved to be stronger in inland States . The most conclusive returns came from Missouri and Kansas , hi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevailing sentiment favorable to prohibition . Conclusion of the Report . " When the darker side of the prohibition situation is faced , it must be remembered that no intelligent advocate of the new regime expected that it would be fully effective . Further , no one familiar with the efforts of those States which adopted a prohibition policy many years ago has been surprised that violations of the law have persisted in veryc obstinate fashion . The fact that prohibition is still far from-yielding the results that were hoped for from it does not warrant the widely current assumption that it can not be enforced . No adequate effort at enforcement has yet been made . " But there is a dangerous fallacy in the often heard statement that our failure to secure through prohibition the social results that had been desired and predicted is due solely to delinquency on the part of enforcement officials . The fact that the adoption of a national policy by so overwhelming a vote should be followed so soon by a virtual nullification of that policy by important sections of the population signifies something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have attended our experience with prohibition are part of the picture of what happens in a society like ours when such a reform is undertaken by political action . The illicit liquor traffic is quite as much the cause as it is the effect of the political corruption that is associated with it . The foundamental fact is that a large part of our people are unconvinced with reference to the liquor traffic . The trouble is with the people more than with their Government . " If the new campaign of the Federal Government succeeds , the shutting off of the liquor supply at its main sources may take the profit out of the business , break up the organization and reduce the traffic to controllable quantities . On the other hand , its suppression may ultimately depend upon State and municipal agencies , in which case , the immediate future in several States is dark . There are sections of the country in which the traffic is likely to continue until forces of civic organization and social educelion succeed in developing a public opinion strong enough to modify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus far refused to be governed by the law . The fact which must be kept constantly in the foreground is that a. favorable and encouraging trend which began several years before 1920 has been reversed since that year temporarily . many believe . There is no little ground for hope that we are turning the corner , but there is no basis for assurance . " COUNCIL AUTHORIZED REPORT . Believes Presentation of Facts Will Aid Enforcement of the Law . The Federal Council of Churches , through a formal statement issued to The Associated Press yesterday by the Chairman of its Administrative Commission , officially vouched for the authenticity of the six-part report on prohibition conditions issued in Washington by the Research and Education Department of the council . The authenticity and authority of the report had been called into question by Dr. Clarence True Wilson of Washington , General Secretary of the Board of Temperance , Prohibition and Public Morals of the Methodist Church of America . In the local offices of the council it was said that a possible explanation of the controversy was that the Executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member , is composed of widely scattered members , who meet but once a year . It comprises the Committee on Policy for the council , while the Administrative Committee , of which Dr. John A. Marquis Is Pheirmen , is the committee on work , or business of the council , and not concerned w'th polley . The prohibition report therefore could have been handled by the Administrative Council without the knowledge of some members of the Executive Committee . Dr. Marquis , who also is General Secretary of the Board of National Missions of the Presbyterian Church , in a statement said : " The report on the prohibition situation prepared by the Department of Research document dealine with the facts Council of Churches and issued to the press this week is precisely what it was arafounced to be , namely , a research document dealing with the facsts of the present situation and in no way involving the attitude or policy of the Federal Council with reference to prohibition , which is well knokn . The Federal Council has repeatedly made itself clear on this point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed to nation el prohibition . " The purpose of the . Department of search and Education of the council is not propaganda , but a scientific study of the actual facts in social situations involving the public welfare . It is composed of men and women who know the research business and are thoroughly scientific and impartial in their methods , The study in question has been going on for more than a year and a statement concerning its scope and purpose was made in a report at the quadrennial meeting of the Federal Council in Atlanta last December , " The present exhaustive report was issued in the conviction that a wise and effective handling of a great social task like prohibition requires a knowledge of all the facts , whether favorable or unfavorable . This the department sought to do ? simply to gather the facts and state them frankly and fairly to the public . "                     