@@688286

txt " Big Tim " Murphy was arrested again yesterday . At 3 o'clock " ' Big Tim " was pick ? 1 1,1 ) at Randolph and Clark streets I y : ergts . Charles Egan and Thom:c ; lurke and held for four hours at the . : rf calve bureau as a suspect in the recent robbery of the Grommes rich warehouse at 114 West Illinois kreet . Members of the firm of Grommes 1:11rien were unable to identify Murphy as one of the live men who a few weeks ago had held up the watchman and officials of the company and taken away a truckload of liquo ; ? . A t 772.1 the " suspect " was released on 320 ? 1 cash bond after being booked and will appear in Harrison street police court this morffing on a charge of disorderly conduct . Letter Accuses Murphy . The arrest , according to Chi , Detectives Michdel Hughes . was road , as a result of an anonymous letter which the police had received and which charged that Murphy had been implica ted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even know where the warehouse is , " said Murphy when interviewed last night shortly before him release . This business of getting picked up is beginning to bore " Big Tim " and he asserts that he is tired of having his social and business engagements interfered with by the law . " I wish they 'd telephone me the day before they are going to arrest me for something , " he said , as he lolled in his chair at the bureau and knifed the very correct creases in his very correct gray trousers . Ile hail a dinner engagement and was all dressed for the part . Disguise Hopeless Prospect . " They need n't be afraid I 'd tri , to skip . What 's the good . I ca n't disguise myself , " and for a few moments the " suspect " discussed the possibility of wearing a blonde wig over his sparse brown hair , and of glueing on a pound or two of mustache on his smoothly shaved upper lip . " It looks to me , " and " Big Tim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to liven things up at the bureau . Whenever it 's a dull day and nothing muckdoing , the boss tells two or three of the boys to ' pick up Tim Murphy . ' And they always do . Can you beat it ? " Why do n't they have regular ? Tim Murphy ' cops ? Then I 'd meet the same ones all the time and we could get real . well acquainted . " Proposes " Murphy Tag Day . " A Murphy tag day strikes Big Tim as a pretty clever idea for the police and he is surprised they have n't thought of it . Then " every copper in the town could work on me and they could give a prize to the brother who got me first . How 's that for a bravery contest , " and he nudged one of his " keepers " in the ribs . Suddenly he grew solemn , almost sad , He was reflecting on the respective glories of the Federal building and the Detective bureau , as hotels of incarceration . The Federal building , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad softer voices and there was elevator service ; The Bureau , he admitted , was noisy , rather dirty , and you had to climb the stairs . But he liked the boys , even though they were gruff . " Big Tim " left . the question still a draw . Fears Sheriff May Join . " I never was much good on figures , " the much-arrested man confessed , " but it 's pretty easy to keep score between ttho federal building and the bureau . First one , then the other . It 's pretty even . " But , gosh : suppose tho sheriff 's office gets wise to this contest . It 'd be just like them to have ' Tim Murphy ' hazards . And an extra pay check for the lad who got me first . Say , I never could keep the straight of that . A triple play  --  no , that 's too hard . "                     