@@696640

txt Richard E. Enright , former Police Commissioner , was nominated for Mayor by the Square Deal party at a mass meeting-convention in Town Hall last night . He accepted the nomination on a platform the leading plank of which calls for " a vigorous program of law enforcement for the elimination of graft , vice and the suppression of crime " and the re-establishment of " respect for law and order , public justice and constituted authority . " Charging that vice and graft have been widespread under the Walker Administration , Mr. Enright declared that the graft paid for protection by 32,000 speakeasies in this city amounted to $83,000,000 a year , and demanded the rigid suppression of all drinking places and bootleggers . Mr. Enright called upon Governor Roosevelt to appoint a justice of the Supreme Court ' to investigate .. the Rothstein murder case , which he termed " the most astounding failure of public justice that has ever stained the mottled criminal annals of this city . " " When the full story of this case is told it will shake political and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundations , " Mr. ' Enright declared . He ' promised to tell at least part of this story before the campaign is over . Others nominated to run with the former commissioner were George Polhemus. for Controller , and Katherine Parker Clivette , for President of the Board of Aldermen . Mr. Polhemus was formerly United States Attorney here . Mrs. Clivette is president of the Greenwich Village Historical Society and of the Immigration Restriction Society . 900 Attend Meeting . Some 900 persons were in the audience when Frederick C. Whitney , city chairman of the Square Deal party , opened the meeting after a delay of nearly two hours . Newton D. Gilbert , former Governor General of the Philippines , was permanent chairman . He referred indirectly to former Mayor Hylan , saying his withdrawal from the Mayoralty race in favor of Tammany Hall " disappointed his friends and justified his enemies . " What the audience lacked in numbers it sought to make up in cheers , din and flag waving . Mr. Enright was placed in nomination by Dr. Henry Knight Miller , a magazine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while Miss Clivette 's name was placed before the convention . by Samuel Taylor , chairman of the platform committee . Miss Clivette 's speech of acceptance was interrupted by Mr. Enright 's appearance on the platform . She said that the Square Deal party was aiming for " decent , simple , just government , under which we can . act , move and have our being . " " I know that miracles have been performed , " said Miss Clivette of Mr. Enright 's chances of election , declaring that she had hopes that a miracle would occur in November . Criticizes Walker on Prohibition . In accepting the nomination Mr. E , pright said that he stood with President Hoover on the issue of law enforcement and charged Mayor Walker and . Tammany Hall with responsibility for what he termed the complete breakdown of law enforcement in this city not only as to prohibition but also as to crime suppression in general . It was the repeal of the State enforcement act , known as the MullenGage law , under the Smith Administration , which opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The abolition of the Special . Service Division in the Police Department , Mr. Enright held , cleared . the road for the wholesale growth of speakeasies , disorderly houses and night clubs . Neither Tammany Hall nor the Republican party is capable of dealing with these problems or with any of the other questions confronting the community . such as taxation , schools . transportation , markets , reorganization of city departments and others , Mr. Enright said , and it is for this reason that the Square Deal party has been formed . " The present administration has been rocked by scandal after scandal in the various departments . " Mr. Miller said , in nominating Mr. Enright . " It is doubtful if there is a single department of this administration which is not being used as a means of public exploitation . The corruption . extravagance , waste , padded payrolls and graft during Mayor Walker 's administration make the classic iniquities of Boss Tweed and Charlie Murphy look like a Sunday school picnic in comparison with the feast of Belshazzar in the declining days of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best Police Commissioner New York ever had , " Mr. Miller declared that he was the man best qualified to lead a new political movement that would bring deliverance to the city . Such a movement , Mr. Miller said , is represented . by the Square Deal party . " It offers the one true fusion ticket , " he asserted . In nominating " this peerless executive. , this great leader , this humanist , scholar , fighter for righteousness , this man whose character and conduct are an open book that the world may read , " Mr. Miller declared that Mr. Enright " has the wisdom of a Webster , the eloquence of a Patrick Henry , the honesty of a Coolidge , the ability of a Hoover , the tender heart of a Lincoln and the ferocious courage of a Theodore Roosevelt . " " No man has ever been nominated for the office of Mayor who better deserves that reward for faithful and efficient service , " Mr. Miller said . " He would restore dignity , honor and undying lustre to that high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the city groans . He would sweep out the crooks from the temples of municipal administration as Jesus drove the money changers from the temple of worship . He will make every home safe and every heart glad . " Enright Announces Platform . Mr. Enright made known his platform at the conclusion of his address of acceptance . " The present administration , by countless sins of omission and . commission , absence from duty , neglect , inefficiency and lack of vision , " he said , " has miserably failed to advance the commerce , business or prestige of this city or advance the interests and happiness of its people . ? " It is a sad record for thb city , the record of a laissez faire administration , a do-little administration , which in passing leaves no worthwhile monuments to mark its futile reign . As against this shameful record . " Mr. Enright offered the following platform : 1 . A vigorous program of law enforcement for the elimination of graft , vice and the suppression of crime and to re-establish respect for law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . An honest revision of the tax rolls , eliminating all forms of favoritism , lifting from the shoulders of the poor the heavy burden of unjust and inequitable taxation . 3 . More schools and better schools ; the best teachers and the highest pay for their services . No favor ' itism or political interference in the educational service . Preference in appointment for teachers graduating from the city schools and colleges . 4 . More well-placed markets for foodstuffs , for public convenience and economical distribution . 5 . More subways for passenger transportation ; vehicular tunnels under the waters to all boroughs and . to New Jersey and vehicular tunnels through the congested sections of the city for the relief of traffic . Relief first . Next , intelligent regulation . 6 . The immediate installation of an adequate high-class bus system in all boroughs , supplementing or replacing broken-down or obsolete facilities . 7 . Remove the elevated structures which deface tile city , impede traffic , injure public health , ruin property valuations and reduce city revenues . 8 . Rigidly maintain a five-cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporations to live up to their contracts and pay their debt to the city ; give every passenger a seat within reason ; clean up the disgraceful , dangerous and inhumane conditions now prevailing upon the transit lines in this city . 9 . Increase the pay of policemen and firemen ; increase the pay of all deserving city employes ; pay the union scale of wages to union employes of the city and labor employed upon all city contracts . 10 . Increase the starvation pensions granted to policemen and firemen now on the pension roll ; increase the pensions granted to the widows and orphans of deceased officers and increase the pensions granted to the dependents of men killed in the service . 11 . Reorganize all city departments where corruption has been exposed or inadequately punished , and . reorganize and consolidate all city departments , bureaus or divisions where this may be done in the interest of efficiency and economy . 12 . Render to the taxpayers a dollar 's worth of improvement and a dollar 's worth of service for every dollar of taxation . Says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dislike that humanity has to having good done to it , but we shall not weary of doing good , nor relax our efforts to redress the wrongs under which our people suffer , " Mr. Enright declared in his peroration . " We will do oiur best to destroy the invisible government , the government of graft , of waste , of cynical disregard of the public welfare now prevailing . The people are weary and sick of relying for fair service . fair play or justice upon the hard-boiled conscience of Tammany Hall . We will fight to win this year , and , if we fail , we will fight again next year , and every succeeding year , for we are here to stay . " Mr. Enright concluded with an appeal to the independent voters of the city to support his candidacy . Having paid his respects to Tammany Hall , he declared that " so far as the Republican party is concerned there is no relief in sight , and that great party , so potential in the nation . seems to be weak ane. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule and widespread corruption of the Tammany Hall machine . " Denies Tammany Is Invincible . There is no truth in the propaganda that Tammany Hall is invincible , Mr. Enright declared . " It is not invincible , for that which is defective or crooked must disintegrate and come apart , " Mr. Enright said . " The Square Deal party is new , but great oaks from little acorns grow . The Square Deal party is starting on a strenuous journey . It is driving against the winds of privilege , but let me state as an incontrovertible fact that public opinion , when aroused , is stronger than the strongest political machine . It is aroused by universal lawlessness and crime unchecked- and unpunished ; gross favoritism in the public service , favoritism in the awarding of contracts , failure to reward the services of deserving city employes , to propertly care for the wards of the city in hospitals , asylums and other eleemosynary institutions ; failure to solve the transportation and traffic problems of this city ; failure to put buses on the street ; failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disposal of sewage and garbage , which pollute the waters and destroy the beaches ; failure to build vehicular tunnels under the rivers to New Jersey , to the Bronx , Queens and Brooklyn , and under the Narrows to Richmond ; failure and neglect to defend and promote the interest of the city and its people in a thousand different ways . The political machine of Tammany Hall will break down and the people will be served . " Mr. Enright said that at the close of his administration as Police Commissioner the number of speakeasies in the city had been reduced from 13,000 to 3,000 and that if he had another year of office these , too , would have been driven out of business . He asserted that under the administration of Mayor Walker , whom he called the " long-distance Mayor , " the number of speakeasies , according to the official police estimate , had increased more than tenfold , and said that this estimate was below the actual figure . The sum of $83,000,000 paid annually for pro-tection by illegal drinking places accounts only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " There are many more , " he said . " Neither does it include the bootlegger 's tribute , the gambler 's tribute and a hundred other ways of reaping a fascinating revenue in New York . Yes , these are happy days , the halcyon days for the political grafters . " Assails Handling of Rothstein Case . I Re declared that Rothstein was " the friend and financial banker and barker for many politicians of high I and low degree , " that he contributed liberally to political campaigns " and later got his pound of flesh in gambling immunity . " " I drove him out of business in New York early ' in my administration as Police Commissioner , " Mr. Enright said , " but he resumed business the day I left headquarters . " He enjoyed the company and friendship of our very best and highest political society . The handling of this case is a great public scandal . reflecting upon the integrity of public justice in this city . When the full story of this case is told it will shake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their very foundations . The machinery of justice in this city seems to be paralyzed . The city administration has miserably failed in its duty , and it is high time that the Governor of this State , in the interest of public justice and to restore confidence in and respect for law and order in this community , should appoint a justice of the Supreme Court to investigate this case , to summon witnesses , and even at this belated hour , when the trail is blurred and cold , determine just who is responsible for this crime , and why through sheer stupidity or political duplicity , or fear of exposure , it has never been solved . " Other Candidates Announced . The names of other candidates of the Square Deal party in New York ' County and Brooklyn were announced . yesterday . The candidates in New York County are Frank Joyce for County Clerk , John Petruzzi for Sheriff and Mrs. Catherine Parker Clivette for Register . None of these has ever held an elective office . The appointment of William H. Van Houten as acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was named candidate for Borough President , William Steinhagen for Sheriff , Mary P. Sculley for Register and Philip Munter for City Court judge . Frank Dalton , Brooklyn county chairman , said that the party will indorse ' Cornelius Furgueson , municipal judge , for re-election . The party will endorse Frederic R. Coudert Jr. , Republican-fusion nominee for District Attorney of New York County , it was indicated at the Enright headquarters .                     