@@685061

txt SENATOR WADSWORTH . Mrs. Whitehouse Says Suffragists Want an Explanation from Him . To the Editor of The New York Tunes : When I saw in your paper the other day that Senator Wadsworth said he no longer opposed woman suffrage I had to rub my eyes and look again . I thought : " Surely , here is something wrong . How can it be that Senator Wadsworth , whose consistency in 013-posing suffrage was the one thing in his opposition which even his enemies had to admire , is no longer Consistent ? " Look at his record . He opposed the indorsement of suffrage in every Republican State Convention , or conference , of which he was a member . He opposed the adoption of the woman suffrage amendment in the New York State referendum of 1915 . He opposed it again in the New York State referendum of 1917 . He voted against the Federal woman suffrage amendment 1n 1918 , when his vote alone prevented the passage of the measure , and he did this in spite of resolutions from his political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; in spite also of the overwhelming sentiment in favor of suffrage which the electorate of his own State had expressed at the polls in 1917 . He voted against the Federal amendment again in the Senate in 1919 , when , however , his opposition was no longer effective to delay or defeat the measure . Yes , Senator Wadsworth has been a determined and consistent opponent of woman suffrage . His party knew , the United States Senate knew , his constituents knew , that Ile was an irreconcilable . What has brought about so sudden a change ? Why is it that the Senator is no longer opposed ? In spite of all he has been able to do , thirty-three States have already ratified the Federal woman suffrage amendment , and ratification by the three additional States necessary for adoption is assured . Women will vote in the next Presidential election , and the women of New York State will vote , also , in the Senatorial election of next November . Senator Wadsworth is a candidate for re-election . The New York State League of Women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground that he has failed to represent in the Senate the electorate of his State  --  that , in fact , his opposition to woman suffrage was based on principles so strong that they led him to defy the principle of representative government . The opposition to the Senator of this powerful non-partisan organization is not to be despised . Senator Wadsworth must have the votes of women as well as of men if his campaign for re-election is to succeed . The women voters are asking themselves if his eleventh-hour conversion is a bid for those votes which he now needs and which he tried to the very last to deny to women . They must have a clear explanation , I think , from the Senator before they can see anything in his sudden change but a sacriflee of his strongest principles to expedienCY . WHITEHOUSE . Colorado Springs , Feb. 23 , 1920.                     