@@686639

txt Federal Reserve Board 's decision miholding demand loans on real estate means nothing to New York bankers . Regardless of the decision , state hanks and trust companies will not lend money on real estate without a definite maturity , ' and national banks can not lend money on real estate either with or without definite maturity , if located in a central reserve city . Tice Federal Reserve law provides : " Any national banking association not situated in .4 central reserve city may make loans secured by improved and unencumbered farm land situated within its Federal Reserve district or within a radius of one hundred miles of the place in which such bank is located , irrespective of district linos , and may also make loans secured by improved and unencumbered real estate located within 100 miles of the place in which such bank is located , irrespective of district lines ; but no loan made upon security of such farm land shall be made for a longer time than five years and no loan made upon security of such real estate shall be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision a leading state banker said : " New York banks have not in the past and will not in the future make demand loans secured by real estate . Such loans are payable at the option of the holder . The lender can , of course , call the loan any time , but he may wait a long time before he gets his money . Collecting money on real estate is a slow process . " Our bank is organized under state law . We make loans on real estate in considerable volume . These loans are usually made to run about three years and are secured by mortgage . In every case the maturity date is fixed and we would not consider a demand loan on real estate . " National banks not situated in a central reserve city under certain restrictions are permitted to make real estate loans to mature within one year , but few national banks make loans on real estate without a definite maturity . " Of course , there are times when hanks must make demand loans on real estate . It sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite maturity could . " For instance , Jones may want to build a house . Be wants to pay it off as quickly as possible to be relieved of the interest burden , but he is uncertain just how soon he may have ' sufficient funds to liquidate the indebtedness . He may expect money within thirty days , but he may know that he may not get it short of six months . In such case he would not want to make the note for thirty days because he might have to renew it . On the other hand , he would not want to make a note for six months , because he would have to pay interest on money six times longer than he might need it . The demand note , in such it case , solves the problem . But it is a loan , not actually payable on demand , but at the option of the maker . "                     