@@686602

txt Thomas S. Kearney , president of the Chicago Building Trades council , yesterday demanded arbitration as the logical method of settling the building trades deadlock which for more than a year has tied up 5200,000,000 worth of construction in Chicago . The demand came after a conference of union executives on ways and means of creating employment for nearly 70 , - 000 Chicago workers in the trades , who are now idle . " Arbitration Is the only way in which this controversy can be settled , " Mr. Kearney frankly admitted to Tim TRIBUNE last night . " The demands of the employers and of the unions are so far apart as to preclude any agreement except through arbitration before a board qn which the public , as well as the employers ? and workers , has representation . Low Rents Ringo on Revival . " Low rents can not be obtained unless there is a revival of building . There will be no revival of building Unless this controversy is settled . Both contractors and workers are losing thousands of dollars daily because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible terms . During the war the eraployers ' slogan was ' A Full , Day 's Work for a Full day 's Pay . ' Tho only thing we are asking now Is ' A Full Day 's Pay for a Full day 's Work . ' " There has been some complaint about mechanics not doing a full day 's work in the last year , when the demend for labor was great . No doubt some workmen did take advantage of conditions . This appears to have been done in every walk of life . It is dishonesty , and Is and always was condemned by the rank and file of the building trades workers . Totters Must Earn Their Wage . " Because a few were dishonest , wo must not condemn all , or any considerable porportion.of the workers , any more than we should condemn bankers as a class because a few have been dishonest . " It is the policy of the Building Trades council to discipline any workman who does not do .. a good , fair day 's work and who does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who builds now will get the best efforts of the building trades workmen . " The summer has started  --  the best season of the year for building purposes . As union men we realize the awful waste in human energy and in material that this idleness entails . The only way out is to arbitrate . " If the employers are willing to arbitrate the question , the building revival will be well on its way by ? this time next month . If they 're not willi ng  --  well --  " Unions Ready to Arbitrate , J. J. Conroy , seeRtary-treasurer of the council , corro rated Mr. Kear : ney 's statements . " The , attitude of the union workers is shown in their recent ' strike vote , ' " he said . " But unions have always been willing to arbitrate a question and the council is willing in this case . The whole question is  --  who 'll make the first move ? Are the employers and contractors willing to end the deadlock ? " Prospects of an early settlement of the lockout received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager of the builders ' association , told Peter S. Shaughnessey , president of the bricklayers ' union , that $1 an hour is the best his men can hope for . ' Until then the negotiations had been progressing smoothly , agreements having been reached on all questions of working conditions , but the $1 offer was flatly rejected . Wage discussions ? will be resumed Friday . ? Woman Found Dead with Glass of Poison Nearby Miss Emma Aurelia . Boolter , 35 years old , war found dead in her room at 1244 North La Salle street last night . Beside the bed was on open book and a glass which had contained poison . Although - Miss Boolter had suffered from dementia , had been in several sanitariums , and once , several years ago , had tried to commit suicide , It is thought her death was accidental .                     