@@695698

txt The long fight in the Senate over the Boulder Canyon project apparently ended when the Swing-Johnson bill was passed late this afternoon by a vote of 64 , to 11 . Voting for the bill were thirty - one Republicans , thirty - two Democrats and one Farmer-Labor member . Against it were seven Republicans , Bingham , Glenn , Goff , Gould , Green , Hale and Reed of Pennsylvania , and four Democrats , Ashurst , Blease , Glass and Hayden . The bill will go to conference for an adjustment of the differences between the Senate and House bills . It is believed that unless Arizona Senators continue their filibuster , as in the past two sessions , the conference report will be approved by both House and Senate . Friends of the bill profess confidence that President Coolidge will sign it if the conference report follows the general lines of the Senate measure . The Senate rejected an amendment to the Boulder Dam bill . by Senator Reed of Pennsylvania , expressing the . sentiment . of Congress that the government should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after failing to lease power ' rights to States , municipalities or private interests . The amendment . which provoked sharp debate over the question of governmental invasion of the field of private business , was defeated by a vote of 53 to 24 . Borah Withdraws Amendment . There were suggestions that President Coolidge might veto the bill when Senator Borah proposed an amendment to make it mandatory upon the government to construct the power plant . The Idaho Senator withdrew his amendment at the request of sponsors of the bill who recognized the peril of an executive veto . ? Senator Johnson obtained adoption of an amendment providing that nothing in the act should be " construed as a denial or recognition of any rights , if any , in Mexico to the use of the waters of the Colorado River system . " In the debate over Senator Reed 's amendment declaring for construction of the power plant by private interests , Senator Johnson , who - opposed it , expressed belief that despite the recent declaration by President Coolidge and statements during the campaign it would be de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norris , who assailed the " power trust , " and Senator Borah Senators Ashurst and Hayden of Arizona voted against the bill as a result of failure to obtain approval of various amendments . The concessions they obtained , particularly on division of water among the lower basin States under the Colorado River compact . are believed to have been sufficient to cause them to urge ratification of the compact by the Arizona Legislature . Will Be World 's Biggest Dam . WASHINGTON , Dec. 14 VP ) . ? Tina Boulder Canyon Dam bill as passed calls for the harnessing of the Colorado River at the Black Canyon site by the construction of a dam nearly twice as high as any in existence . This structure would impound millions of acre feet of water which would be used to bring under cultivation the many miles of arid lands in the Southwest and provide electric power to that section of the country . A special board of engineers and geologists has estimated the project will cost $165,000,000 , or $40,000,000 more than originally requested . This amount is carried in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an estimated capacity of 26,000,000 acre feet of water . The power machinery would develop about 1,000,000 horse power of electrical energy . It is estimated that the entire cost of the project will be returned to the government with interest within fifty years , although some of the bill 's sponsors believe the cost will have been amortized within twenty years . After the stream has been stemmed by the dam the plan is to throw up flood control works around the rim of the Imperial Valley and build an all-American canal which would cut across Southern California from the Colorado . also figured prominently in the debate in opposition to the Reed ' amendment . The vote on the bill was as follows :                     