@@691095

txt County Judge EGAN , who presided with so much fairness over the trial in Jersey City of the two civilians and ten policemen charged with conspiracy in the Weehawken rum ring transactions , said to the jury which , after deliberating for almost nineteen hours , was unable to agree on a verdict : I believe you have been conscientious and honest in seeking to arrive at a verdict , and in consideration of this I wish to discharge you from further jury duty in recognition of the services you have done for the bal-* ance of the term . Colonel VICKERS , the Special Prosecutor , sees in the fact that the jury stood 9 to 3 for conviction the vindication of his " judgment that the " jurors could be trusted to act as " honest , decent , law-abiding citizens " should have . " That is , by necessary implication , the three jurors who could n't honestly and conscientiously make up their minds to convict did n't act as honest , decent , law-abiding citizens . Colonel Vicasas showed his judgment by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " uttering the verdict , if it was against conviction . We do n't know ' that it had any effect on the jury . Here in New York cynical lawyers Predicted a disagreement as soon as they read that remark . Jurors are not to be insulted or bulldozed into a verdict . Prosecutors in liquor cases have trouble enough without creating a perhaps unconscious but dangerous prejudice in the minds of jurors and of the public . It would be hard to collect any twelve men in a room who would all agree about anything . That men so discordant in private ? opinions should so often agree in opinions about-evidence is a surprising , continuous til1 umph of the jury system , so often assailed ; and an honest and conscientious disagreement makes for justice , in the long run and irrespective of any particular case , as much as an honest and conscientious agreement . Look at this Jersey conspiracy trial as it might seem to any jury of twelve men in any State and not forgetting that conspiracy is traditionally hard to prove . The principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence , courage , scrupulously careful of the exact truth , as his admission of his inability to Identify the defendant who was the architect , the brains of the alleged conspiracy , showed in particular and the body of his testimony showed in general . Ah , yes , " if - we were on the jury " and all the witnesses were Father Bennetts ! There are other witnesses who might be scrutinized closely , might stir suspicion or hostility in sonic of us . There is the reformed bootlegger . There is a political adversary of one defendant . There are Treasury agents , one of whom has been convicted of petty larceny . In his clear and impartial charge the Judge tells the jury it " must consider such con " viction solely to determine the eredi " bility of the witness . " It is a misfortune , or part of the penalty of even petty crime , that it not only affects the credibility of but is generally damaging to the criminal witness . Then these agents , in the exercise of their duties , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't have ? to be of ' Irish qwq Then , incidentally , almost - :extraneously , the possibility , suspicion , of a political motive appears again , and this time sensationally , as the name of a United States Senator is " dragged in. " - Say what you like about material and immaterial evidence , in , such an imaginary case would n't some of our imaginary jurors remain unconvinced by the prosecution ? Apart from the substance of evidence , there is its origin , its manner , its vehicle . There is much talk about the difficulty oft getting verdicts in liquor teases on account of local dislike of prohibition . Add the dislike to informers , crooks , to prohibition agents , even if they are honest . Father Bennetts have to appear in shabby company .                     