@@686782

txt The Japanese exclusion question came to the fore in - Congress today . informed that HaiVall was being flooded with Japanese , the House Iinmigration Conunittee asked the State Department to furnish details of the " gentleman 's agreement " of 1008 with respect to Japanese control of emigration to the United States . Diplomatic correspondence leading to the understanding , which , the committee Was told , ' does not apply to Hawaii , never has been made public and the committee decided to investigate . Despite the contention of some members that discussion of the subject at this time might impede- plans for the international conference on disarmament and the Far East and Pacific situations , the committee decided to take up the thirteen-year-old immigration arrangement after it had heard J. V. A. , chief of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs of the State Department ; and had received a telegram from V. S. MoClatchy of Sacramento , Cal. , a publisher , dealing with the general subject of Japanese immigration . The committee has under consideration a resolutioh which would authorize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seasonal requirements for labor by importing Chinese and thus to aid the insular territory to get overrough economic spots : The resolution was immediately subordinated to the broader question . ? Mr. told the committee that Japan had never regarded the agreement as applying to Hawaii , ana added that , inasmuch as it was a voluntary proposition from Jupan , this country was diplomatically bound until the other party to the understanding should withdraw . His statement concerning Hawaii brought froin ChairMan Johnson the exclamation that the time had arrived for a declaration that " Hawaii is a patt of the United States with respect to Japan and all others . " Mr. said that the Japanese Governinent had regulated the number of laborers to whom paSsporta to Hawaii were issued through an informal arrangement worked out with the sugar planters of the iSlands by the Japanese consular officers , who were informed each season of the number required . Mr. Johnson interrupted to say that he understood the number allowed to go to HaWaii each year was really below the requirements ,  --  a method taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the agreement between the employers and the Japanese Government was immediately denied by Royal D. Mead , special labor agent of the planters ' organization . From that point every angle of the exclusion question was touched on in some form or other , and members of the committee freely expressed disS  --  tiefaction with loopholes which they said apparently were left in the agreement They denounced the practice of permitting " picture brides ' to enter this country , which , Chairman Johnson said , continued despite the diplomatic understanding . Because of the delicacy of the subject . Mr. answered most questions guardedly and some were not answered at all . It was said that if the correspondence was forthcoming , it would be gone into behind closed doors . Mr. Johnson was not certain that the diplomatic exchanges would be supplied by the State Department and he planned to confer on that phase with Secretary Hughes and other Department heads . He said . however , that he saw no reason why the documents should not be made available to Congress and deplored the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into with Japan had not required ratification by the Senate . Mr. McClatchy 's telegram , which was read prior to Mr. MeMurray 's statement . warned of impending - racial , political and economic control by the Japanese in the islands . unless the American Government acted immediately . He neither supported nor opposed the resolution which the committee had under consideration , but asserted that if such were not the legislation deemed proper by Congress it should seek some other measures at once .                     