@@687194

txt All previous record:3 for attendance at football games in the tlig Ten were broken during the last season . More gridiron fans crowded into the ten fields than ever before , and every athletic department in the conference made enough money to support its basketball , baseball , track , and minor sport tc:i is for the rest of the college year of 1921- 22 . The drives for new stadiums are ( 111 in half n ilnyon ? universities , yet strangely the one school where the stands are totally insUllieient to handle the crowds has lone nothing to improve conditions . - " hat university is Chicago . Stagg field holds 30.000 ' spectators , ? d nine times In the last three years , nive the gates been closed and thouandp turned away . This fall if was so had before the Ohio State and WisaAsin games that Chicago alumni were efused tickets . ! Maids Stadium to Seat 70.000 . The Illinois memorial stadium at Champaign , when finished in 1923 , will hold over 70,600 spectators . A large part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last spring students pledged more than the total cost of the Yale bowl . Ohio State expects to have her huge stadium at Columbus completed by next October , and there are rumors that Chicago will play the inaugural game . The double deck stands will hold 65,000 . Wisconsin has completed two sides of the lower level of a concrete bowl at Madison . The Badger authorities have gone about the rebuilding without a flare of trumpets , erecting a section at a time . with the profits froM football each fall , and will have a fine oval holding 56,000 . Michigan Also Busy . Michigan turned its stadium into a horseshoe during the summer and the Ann Arbor seating facilities now are over 40,000 . In sewn games , including one Princeton , at which the crowd only half filled Palmer stadium , and one at Illinois , Chicago drew over 160,000 spectators and the gate receipts were over a third of a million dollars . Michigan , with its enlarged capacity , had its greatest year , with a record of 113 , - 000 at five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No Slump at Illinois . Illinois , with its worst season in recent years , did not feel a slump In attendance . Thousands wore turned away from the homecoming Chicago game . With the worst season In history , possibly excepting last . fall , football fans at Minneapolis turned out as usual to see the Gophers . The Iowa game drew 23,000 . Iowa 's champions outdrew any other Hawkeye team in history . The Hawk ? eyes made $14,000 profit out of the Illinois game , which broke attendance recGrds at Iowa City , and made a similar profit at Minneapolis . K. OF C. BASKET LEAGUE OPENS . ' the Enights of Columbus basketball league will open their 191- ' 22 season Sunday with a north and south division . The north ' division will play at Broadway armory and the south at Englewood High A chnol . Games start at 2 p. m . Four games will be played each Sunday .                     