@@690010

txt A campaign aimed at the pirating of trade-marks or brands in the trades devoted to the manufacture of various types of men 's clothing . including under and outer garments and apparel for both work and street wear , has been started by the International Association of Garment Manufacturers . Often this piracy is unintentional , said Secretary A. F. Allison yesterday in announcing the campaign , but more frequently it is deliberate . Amplifying the annearezement , Mr. Allison said that there is at present no existing list of trade-marks in the clothing industry . Even the Patent Office in Washington has no such list , although it is estimated that there are 250.000 or more trade-marks in use in the various trades that go to make up the men 's apparel industry . One of the first campaign steps , which is already well under way , is the compilation of a directory of this kind in book form . This . according to Mr. Allison , will enable manufacturers and wholesalers to determine whether trade-marks they have under consideration are valid and usable without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their adoption . " During the past three years , " Mr. Allison continued . " the International Association of Garment Manufactures has carried on a trade-mark registration service for manufacturers , and one of the things that thin service has brought to light is that the interest shown in registering protective marks is growing steadily . Manufacturers who never before bothered to protect their brands by registering them are awakening to the need of such protection , and during the three years the association 's service has been in operation the number of registrations through it has been larger each year . " Several thousand trade-marks have already been collected by the association for publication in the proposed directory , which will embrace every branch of the men 's apparel industry and in which the listing will be done according to the various types of garments . The directory will first be issued in loose-leaf form for verification by those whose trade-marks are registered . Compilation of the first list , as received from various sources , is now being completed and the preliminary list will be ready for distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to say that there is no doubting the need of a campaign ' of the kind the association has put under way . In many instances , he said , the trade-mark is the most valuable property the manufacturer has , because it represents years of fair dealing and of making and marketing an honest cam ' modity . " It is estimated that there are 250,000 clothing trade-marks in use in the United States , " Mr. Allison continued . " It is further estimated that less than 1011,000 of them are original and distinct trade-marks . In other words 150,000 of the clothing trade-marks now in use are plagiarisms or weak variations of the others . Undoubtedly many of these thefts are innocent , because less than one-third of the trade-marks in use in the clothing trade are registered in the United States Patent Office , which is the logical place or record . " The proposed directory of trademarks will , of course , include not only registered marks but also every unregistered mark that we can possibly discover . We are at present getting marks from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its final form we shall have been in communication with every manufacturer and wholesaler in the men 's apparel industry , in order that our list may be complete . " Although we believe that the present set-up of the trade-mark division of the Patent Office requires certain changes , particularly those evnlch will make Vie trade-mark registration service a feature of the Department of Commerce work , disassociated from the granting of patents , we feel that all firms with any regard for their trade-mark rights should make use or the present Patent Office service without delay . If all trademarks were property registered at Washington much of the work we are now doing could be avoided . While it is true that ownership of a. trade-mark does not depend ' upon such registration , it ie only common sense to see that there must be some central place where authoritative recognition can be given and reference made . As it is now , trade* mark thefts are an endless source of difficulty , and sometimes cause great embarrassment and expensive litigation . " CHANGE IN HATS LATER . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for use with tailored suits , as it gives a greater contrast with the small brims that are seen in the new boyish creations . " There is the opinion about the trade , " the bulletin goes on , " that the small hat will remain the premier merchandising and style item throughout the entire Summer season , but this is not to be so . The shingled and bobbed nair cuts that are worn by so many I women , young and old alike , imply the ! small hat , but nature must be served.1 Shade hats will be worn In the warmer weather for all that the small , close-fitting tricornes and cloches argue to the contrary . " It is a matter of common knowledge that the large brim will be adjustable to the small head if crown and head size are made in proportion , and the clever designers are striving for two sizes of shade hats  --  the pokes and the broad mushrooms that will make their appear- I ance later in the season . On the mat- ter of head size , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large one for the big woman who can not bob her hair because of its incompatibility with her figure and carriage . This type of hat is being neglected by the menu- facturers , however . In their efforts to make quantity hats of the ' shingled ' I type . " In giving their attention to the latter kind of hats the manufacturers are not on the wrong track , for shingled hair undoubtedly means the sale of more hats per person than is ordinarily the I case , particularly to young women . Hats I are easily ruined by the ruthless way lin which the younger women pull them on and off , which they do a great deal oftener than if they had not bobbed their hair and had to keep their coiffures in mind . The modern young girl who wears a hat indoor is more likely to be the exception than the rule . "                     