@@689018

txt ? Bankers and business leaders continue to adhere to the belief that America 's industrial activities will broaden upon a more comprehensive scale in the near future . It is freely admitted that of late there has been some hesitation in business , especially in construction lines , because of labor 's demands ; but from a general standpoint it is said there need be no real apprehension over the future . Business men and financiers feel it is just as well that the brisk pace at which industry was launching forward has been temporarily arrested . This is looked upon as a " breathing spell , " and will afford an opportunity to look back upon what has been accomplished as Well as gauging the future . The fear of inflation has been uppermost in the minds of big business . In fact , business has been watching that angle more than the bankers . flank loans have expanded in the last year or so , but the expansion was an economic and esiential one . There has been no inflation , except perhaps in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an excessive borrower today . Manufactures are readily disposed of , so funds are not tied up . Many Large businesses are actually lending money on a large scale at present . Liberty Central Trust Co. of St. Lents in commenting on general conditions says : " While there is considerable divergence of opinion as to the economic outlook , there are certain main points that are conceded , directly or , otherwise , by most of those who have given study to the ' subject . It , seems to be generally agreed that we are well advanced in a period of prosperity ; that there is a psychological element inducing some fears of depression later on ; that this feeling , so far as it creates pessimism , is unjustified , but at the same time it is most important to keep our heads and to remember the lessons of 1920 .. Conditions at present are fundamentally different than three years ago , but it is easily possible , nevertheless , to manufacture a situation that could relult in a setback to business ? ? ? We need to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spirit of Caution . " There is little question that the higher security prices in the past year or so were an acknowledgment of improved industrial conditions , largely domestic . That such betterment occurred , with the European situation so complex , has caused surprise to many . Bankers and business men say further betterment will be visible in all markets once the darkened European skies give evidence of clearing .                     