@@690242

txt A report urging the utilization of American capital in operating the Bagdad Railway has been submitted to the Board of Directors of the Ottoman American Development Company by Henry Woodhouse- Mr. Woodhouse made his report yesterday as Chairman of a committee recently named by stockholders of the Ottoman American Bevel- ; opulent Company to study conditions affecting the company 's Interests in Turkey and the Near East . Back of his recommendations lies a story of international conflict in the effort of virtually every large European nation to acquire a strategic foothold in the rich resources of Turkey including large oil and mineral lands . American business men have also entered the f largely with the approval of the Angora Government , and recent efforts of all these rival groups have been converging on the Bagdad Railway which is the vital traffic artery of the Near East . In his report , Mr. Woodhouse says i that American operation of the railway is important because it would end once and for all a brewing diplomatic conflict between several European nations , would give Turkey a fairer assurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ottoman American Development Company , would give that organization a better chance to realize its aims . The directors of the Ottoman-American Development Company will meet next week to formulate a plan to be placed before the Turkish Government . The stakes are large in the most recent international effort to get control of the Bagdad railway 's operation . A business of $10,000.000 annually for the next five years alone would accrue to American railroad equipment companies should American capital acquire the Bagdad lines , according to Mr. Woodhouse . The question was brought to an acute point , according to the report , through the " recent effort of the agent of the Stinnes interests to form a GermanBritish-French group to get control . " This plan , as several preceding them , fell through because of the opposition of other nations which were not party to , it . he indicated . Likewise . other Proposals made to the Turkish Government have brought on new conflicts , and these , too , have gone by the boards , leaving , he reported , " an exceptional opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Near East and to remove the main cause for such conflicts , which is the control of the ' Bagday Railway. - His report shows that the Turkish Government owns most of the railroad line , requiring only a small loan by which to get full control . An American Participation would necessarily have to be with the full consent of the Turkish Government which is said to be eager for American intervention through the enlistment of private rather than government capital .                     