@@689546

txt By the largest margin since Harding was elected President the Republicans captured Westchester County yesterday . William L. Ward , Republican leader and L'hairman of the State Executive Committee , announced last night that the Republican county ticket had won by a plurality of 27,500 . The Board of Supervisors is also in Republican hands . Arthur S. Maudlin of Yonkers , present Under Sheriff , has been elected to succeed George J. Werner of Rye as Sheriff . He defeated Dudley S. Valentine . who is connected with the Department in Yonkers . Harry E. Colwell of New Rochelle was re-elected County Treasurer over James F. Carroll , Democrat , of Pelham . Franklin Montross of Peekskill , for many years clerk of Part I. of the Supreme Court at White Plains , was elected County Register to succeed James E. Apgar of Peekskill. who held that office for six years . His Democratic opponent was Clarence C. Ferris of Scarsdale . George S. Edie of Yonkers was re-elected County Controller over Edward J. Walsh . Democrat . In White Plains , from which the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frederick E. Weeks was re-elected for the third time over his Democratic opponent , Frank J. Lamb . Weeks polled 3.412 votes . The following Republican City Councilmen were elected : John J. Ackerman , William T. Graff and Thomas Pinchbeck . The Republicans also had a big majority in the Board of Supervisors , electing William J. Weiss . James H. Moran and Joseph B. McCarthy . Mr. Moran of White Plains is 81 years old and is the oldest member of the board . He was reelected . Win Whole Yonkers Ticket . One of the most interesting Mayoralty elections in Westchester took place in Yonkers , where besides taking the Mayor 's chair Republicans captured every other city office . Ulrich Wiesen. - danger , Republican candidate , who was defeated two years ago by Walter Taussig . Democrat , turned the tables and won by 838 votes . In 1921 , Taussig won by 000 votes . Yesterday Wiesendanger polled 15,535 votes , against Taussig 's 14,697 . Mr. Ward . early in the day had sent telegrams to the 110 members of the Republican City Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wiesendanger and other Republicans on the ticket . The appeal read : " The Republican organization of Yonkers is on trial . I call on you to put forth your utmost efforts to get every vote for Ulrich Wiesendanger and the whole Republican ticket . " This plea , together with Ward 's activities before erecti. , n in behalf of Wiesendanger , took Westchester somewhat by surprise . From 1920 until the recent county election Ward and he had been bitter political enemies . In the 1921 primaries Wiesendanger , a former Westchester County Sheriff , defeated Ward 's choice for the Mayoralty nomfnation . They conciliated their differences this year , however . Scott Carries New Rochelle. incomplete returns from New Rochelle last night indicated that Harry Scott , the Republican Mayor , had been reelected by a plurality of 1,000 . About 8,000 votes were cast . With Wiesendanger in Yonkers , the voters elected the following Republicans : Robert Ferguson , Controller ; Albert Watson , President of the Board of Aldermen , and William Halley , Treasurer . The proportion of Republicans on the Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Ossining Supervisor Curry Barlow and Town Clerk Cornell Dietrich , both Democrats , were re-elected . Henry Law , Republican , was elected Justice of the Peace and George Cowie , Republican , was re-elected to that position . The women , who have equal representation on the County and Executive Committees of the Republican Party , took an active interest in this year 's election . Besides voting in large numbers , they were workers at the polls . In Yonkers . Mount Vernon , White Plains and New Rochelle , where there were hot Mayoralty fights , the women took an especially large part . The Republican plurality in the various towns was as follows : Bedford , 803 ; Cortlandt , 1,766 ; Greenburgh , 2,702 ; Mamaroneck , 1,302 : New Castle . 420 : Ossining , 777 ; Pelham , 1.085 ; Rye , 1,500 ; Scarsdale. 507 ; Mount Vernon , 2,500 ; New Rochelle. 3,500 ; White Plains , 1,000 , and Yonkers , 1,500 . Ward Sees National Promise . Chairman Ward issued the following statement : " The majority for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the biggest majority ever given in Westchester County since the year Warren G. Harding was elected President . " The result is a great victory for the Republican Party and is a forerunner of what the Republican Party will do next year . Success in the State and nation next year seems an assured fact . " The victory in Westchester is of great importance because it is the first time the party has carried four cities In Westchester in the Republican column . " We elected Mayors in Yonkers , New Rochelle . White Plains and Mount Vernon by big majorities which is very gratifying to me . The Republicans control the Board of Supervisors by a bigger majority than ever . "                     