@@695260

txt Though we no longer braid our tresses we can certainly braid our dresses . No less a personage than Rodier says so , and he has personally invented and put on the market a whole throng of new braids which form an important factor in the modern fashion season . Some of the new braids are cirri in effect and others are  --  well , let us say , Syrian . For they betray an interest in high color which only the east could inspire . Also , let it go without saying that every metallic experiment in the world has been tried on these new trimming details .. One of the manifestations of our interest in braid occurs in late ensembles which use some sophisticated Rodier braid as the trimming basis for both coat and gown . In the case of today 's sketch , however , we do not go in for such excess . For this is not an ensemble  --  Just one of those practical , comfortaple smart coat dresses which every woman can do with , and which the commuting woman ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coat dress of beige wool crepe which is quite as easy to get into as a light novel . It is trimmed with brown and beige braid , and the seaming is characteristic of this year 's finesse . Notice especially the slant connecting the single button with those two seams at the side . Bright . Sayings of the Children The Tribune will pay 35 for each childish saying printed . The story told tuna : never have been printed in any magazine Cr paper . It la not possible to aclmowledge or return unavailable contributions . Write on one side of the paper . Address bright sayings to Aunty Ike . The Tribune . Chicago . The children of our recreational cen ter , where I am one of the leaders , are eager to belong to our " Six Year Old club "  --  and when 4 year old Beth presented herself for membership , she was asked , " Are you 6 years of age ? " " Yes , ma'am , " she replied , brightly , " in one year and eleven months I 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the elevated platform little Doris weighed herself , and at her aunt 's house she weighed herself again on the scale in the bathroom . The figures did not tally , and she rushed out excitedly , " Oh , auntie , your scale is two pounds fast . " George , otherwise known as " Jibby " to the boys in the neighborhood , was opening up a package received through the mail , containing fishing rod , tackle , hooks , etc. ; in fact , everything pertaining to fishing . Ills little cousin , aged 6 , was intently interested . When finally everything was removed from the box , he looked up at him and excitedly exclaimed , " Tibbey , where 's your worms ? "                     