@@685252

txt When presenting his budget to Parliament the British Chancellor of the Exchequer said that the commission sent to this ' country to study our methods had reported that our system was not suitable for England 's adoption , and he concurred . He might have added that American opinion is that our tax methods are not suited for our own use , and that there are British ideas worthy of our consideration . For example , the British war profit tax is levied on the difference between peace and war profits . If the war profits are larger , there is no reason why they should not pay a larger tax than would be levied on peace profits , and many reasons why they should . Our profits tax is levied on the excess over an arbitrary allowance of what profits are suitable for corporations to earn . The British profiteers arise in futile rebellion against a war profit tax of 60 per cent. , for the stubborn Chancellor says that he will stand pr fall on a proposal which 8annot be withdrawn unless something more objectionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frank confiscation of a certain percentage of capital , ' proposed by those Englishmen who think with some of our extremists thatt'a tax is useful izaz proportion that it punishes the wealthy by reducing wealth . That was the idea behind the brutality of our 80 per cent . excess profits tax , since reduced to 40 per cent . maximum , and more objectionable than the British increased percentage because of the obnoxious method of calculating it . How is it possible to defend a tax which , as reported by one of our leading corporations , took more than twice , the nominal profit left to the company and more than fivefold the dividend paid ? Even after the reduction of the excess profits tax the law takes income taxes from the owners of the investment taxed to the corporation . And the economic effect of the ' conversion of the excess profits tax into practically a consumption tax has been condemned too recently and notoriously to justify enlargement on the Voint . It is a safe prediction that the excess profits tax of 1920 will be the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be put to a good use , the obnoxious law may be entirely recast or a substitute enacted applicable even to current business . There is a proposal to raise $100,000,000 more from incomes above $5,000 as a contribution toward the soldiers ' bonus . Yet the fact is that our income tax is even more extortionate than our excess profits tax . The British tax the income of an average of three years . That is a great relief to those whose incomes vary widely in times like these , to say nothing of the great variations in the rates of income tax when lawmakers act on no settled principles of taxation . The English tax the lower incomes more heavily than we , about sixfold below $5,000 . But the English maximum surtax is 221 per cent. , while ours ' is 65 per cent . The highest income tax rate in England is about twice the minimum ; ours is seventeen times greater . And that leaves State income taxes out of calculation . No one has brought out these contrasts more clearly and powerfully than Mr. Orro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the depletion of the fund for investment , with the result of taking support from industry . Just as our corporation income tax disturbs costs by encouraging them as a deduction from the tax basis , so the . individual ' income tax disturbs investments , driving them into tax-free securities rather than into those which encourage enterprise and employment . Mr. KAHN calculates that a man with a million income can not buy bonds unless they yield over 16 per cent . There are no such bonds , and without the money which would buy taxable bonds with a reasonable yield trade is stran-crl                     