@@694614

txt The visit of Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh to Mexico already has brought about same remarkable results , political , - conornic and social . He has acted as a clarifying agent in a slowly developing situation . Not even he Ambassador Morrow , who paved the way , probably expected anything - fo Immediately valuable to an accord between the two nations . Out of the dramatic interest in Colonel Lindbergh , who seems ciesfc. - .. ed to make men of alien - race forget their differences in a common admiration of a splendid manhood , has come a definite advance toward a solution of the so-called Mexican obins . The most significant of the movements in that direction are the re3.orts that President Calles will go to Havana to meet President Coolidge I at the Pan-American Congress . Just what might come of such a meeting in the form of a better economic and social understanding between the two countries men grown o:d and discouraged in Mexican affairs do not dream of predicting . Mexico Eager for Amity . All they know is that with Calks apparently seated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace in Mexico and with a wave of sentiment breaking down the barriers between the United States and Mexico , there might come from a meeting of the two Chief Executives an understanding of which the consequences could not be estimated . Mexico is tired of fighting . Mexico wants peace and a greater degree of prosperity . There are those who believe these lie in a very distant future . But at the same time , under the stir of the emotional reaction of Mexico to Colonel Linetiergh 's visit and the honest . common-sense work of Ambassador Morrow , there are many who see a new opportunity for Mexico , both financial and social . Mexico seems willing to try to win the friendship of the United States . with all that may imply in a country rich in resources and needing only capital and fair dealing to develop them . Morrow in Leading Role . As a factor in bringing about this situation Ambassador Morrow has played a leading role . He has placed diplomacy in Mexico on a new basis , treating those with whom he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their country . If he differed with them , he tried to see their point of view , to find some point of mutual agreement . ' he result has been remarkable , and it is not stretching the truth to say that Ambassador Morrow is one of the most popular men in Mexico . Slowly there has penetrated to the minds of the Mexican people a suspicion that the gringo is not the national enemy of Mexico . Ambassador Morrow 's unfailing courtesy  --  his tact , his willingness to go personally to members of the M -- :ican Government instead of writing notes to them , his refusal to be anything but frank  --  has brought . bout the feeling which led today to there being carried in a parade of workmen , the workmen who have been called Bolshevik , a banner with the inscription , " Morrow is an honest ? man . ' Lindbergh Crystallizes Situation . This tendency to change the Mexican attitude toward America and its representatives was still inchoate when Colonel Lindbergh crystallized it . When this frank , simple and courageous representative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his famous plane , Mexico was swept by a wave of proAmericanism which is difficult to realize , even in the midst of it . There is something about this young aviator , a magnificent simplic- ity perhaps , which baffles an attempt at analysis . But Mexico , just as have France , England and all of Europe and the United States , saluted him as a man who typifies their ideals and aspirations . And he was an American . Almost immediately the effect of his dramatic flight  --  and destiny seems deliberately to have determined that Colonel Lindbergh should do something dramatic , even get lost , that his purpose be consumated  --  became apparent . It was not only the emotional response . It had a material , concrete result . Commercial Houses Again Active . The day after he arrived Mexican shares , which have wavered on the edge of the bottomless pit of financial obscurity , began to rise . The Exchange showed an upward movement in securities which have been stationary or retrogressive for so long that they seemed mired in disaster , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , these shares went up . Confidence and hope that between Ambassador Morrow and Colonel Lindbergh some way out is to be found has brought a revival of business confidence . Commercial houses are buying materials and supplies for the first - time in many months . Even the dealers in curios are laying in stocks in the hope of an influx of American tourists . It may be optimism run wild , but it is an optimism out of which many things may come , perhaps dependent upon an interview which President Calles may have with President Coolidge in Havana . Never has-President Calles , or any other President of Mexico , been known to show such effusive cordiality toward an American as he did toward Colonel Lindbergh when he welcomed him at Valbuena flying field in the midst of smoke and dust and turmoil . President Calles was moved as no one ever expected to see him moved . He has kept his grip on Mexico by ruthless smashing of the opposition . But when Colonel Lindbergh came to him after hours of great anxiety , President Calles was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then he has gone twice to the American Embassy to meet Colonel Lindbergh and he has shown in every possible way that he wished to honor the American . Just what effect this flight of Colonel Lindbergh 's has had on the mind of Mexico 's Chief Executive is still to be known but it is not without significance that the report of his trip to Cuba follows only a few days the landing of the one called in Congress . " America 's most attractive citizen . " View of Americans Changing . And it is not only among Government officials that this reaction to Colonel Lingbergh 's personality is apparent . It has taken several days for some of those in Mexico City to realize that the aviator of 26 years who has stirred the entire world is among them . Slowly they have learned who he is and that all alone he flew the Atlantic and flew from the North to Mexico . The Gringo has been looked upon instinctively for many generations as the national enemy of this country . Colonel Lindbergh has given to the Populace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that after all there must be something to the Americans , and they are wondering if they have been right about a country which has produced a man who has done in their eyes so heroic a thing and who remains so modest . Ali these things have begun to move the Mexican situation . No one familiar with Mexico thinks that there will be a miraculous change in the conditions which have made any tenure of office or business prosperity uncertain . But it is believed that under the surface there are influences and tendencies which augur well for the future of Mexico and Mexican American relations . Some of this feeling cropped out today when 50,000 worlanen , members of the Regional Federation of Labor which corresponds to the American Federation of Labor , marched past the National Palace while President Calles , Colonel Lindbergh and Ambassador Morrow stood on a balcony and reviewed them . The Mexican labor laws have been the object of attack by every foreigner doing business in Mexico . They have led to charges of Bolshevism . From the most lenient point of view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for which they were created . But the workmen in the great square before the Cathedral cheered Colonel Lindbergh to the echo and now and then could be beard cheers for Ambassador Morrow . They bore bonnets complimentary to the United States . One of them was that which called Ambassador Morrow an honest man . Others read : " One man in one machine has done more good than all the armies and fleets . " " Lindbergh has fcund the hearts of the Mexican people . " " The Mexican laborer is not a Bolshevik . " " Lindbergh is a comrade of the Mexicans . " That Mexican labor , which has been almost consistently antagonistic to American business , should feel this way toward an American indicates the feeling which has brought optimism not only to an American but to Mexican business men as well . The visit of Colonel Lindbergh has had some effect , also , on the political fortunes of President Calles , for it was noticed that one of the largest banners carried in the labor parade was one which read " Glory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Morrow and Lindbergh , Who Understands the Aspirations of the Mexican People . " When Lindbergh went to the bull fight this afternoon , to sit only two boxes away from President Canes , some of those who have attended many similar spectacles remarked that President Calles received the most noteworthy ovation of his career when he took his seat . There is no doubt that the popularity of the Mexican President has been greatly increased by his invitation to Colonel Lindbergh and the feeling on the part of Mexicans that he is doing everything in his power to bring about a better understanding with Mexico 's neighbor to the north . Even his political adversaries are admitting that President Canes has done much to fortify his position by bringing Colonel Lindbergh to Mexico and thereby creating a feeling of sympathy between the two countries . Colonel - Lindbergh was accompanied to the bull- fight by Lieut . Commander W. F. Hamilton , Naval Attach ? and Colonel A. J. , Military Attach ? of the American Embassy . After the aviator had taken his ? seat he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention on the arena- where , in big letters , " , Welcome Lindbergh , " was painted - on the ground : - General Obregon sat a few boxes away . The custom at bull fights is to dedicate a bull to the guest of the day . The first bull was dedicated to . President Calles , the second to Colonel Lindbergh and the third to General ( ebregon . There was a tremendous crowd at the arena , 30,000 persons , the largest attendance ever recorded . . . Most of those present paid as much attention , the flier as they did to the bull fight , particularly the women ; who kept their eyes fixed upon him and- were disappointed because he did not turn around so that they could see hire : He did not Move ' and did not say a word during the entire two hours , and afterward would not comment on the spectacle . After Jose Ortiz had killed the bull dedicated- to Colonel Lindbergh the matador presented to the aviator his capote , a beautiful cape worked with gold thread and ornamented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedication to Colonel Lindbergh from Ortiz , who draped it about the shoulders of the - aviator while the latter smilingly thanked him . It is worth about $500 . He also received some banderillas paper-covered darts which are hurled into the shoulders of the bull as he charges . Tomorrow Colonel Lindbergh will be the guest of the city at Xochimile ? , where the floating gardens are situated , and one of the most attractive places near the city . The gardens are some of the islands which have been preserved since the days of the Aztecs .                     