@@692275

txt Aaron Saenz , Minister of Foreign Re ' lations , hits back strongly at Washington for the note delivered by Ambassador Sheffield in protest against the new petroleum and land laws . which are considered by the American Government as retroactive and injurious to American interests , breaking the solemn promises made to Charles Beecher Warren and John Barton Payne when signing the Claims Commission agreement . The recognition of the present Government is said to be involved . Senor Saenz declares that Mexico will sustain her rights as a sovereign nation and pass such legislation as she pleases , the Mexican courts being capable of deciding if the legislation Is injurious to foreign interests . Says Americans Can Appeal . ? " If the laws are applied to American , interests , " he says , " these interests have the right to appeal to the Mexican courts . The American Embassy has a number of times presented objections to ** foreign relations and we have always tqlswered : " ' By all means when the application of the Jaws constitutes facts that prove the laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to the courts . Mexico 's legal resources will always , be open to remedy acts that infringe acquired rights . ' " On the other hands the Mexican people have the complete right to pats such legislation as they see fit as an independent nation and to exercise the full rights of sovereignty . The Government will only take into consideration those cases in which it is proven , according to Mexican law , that rights have been infringed . But it will be necessary to wait until the laws are enforced and applied in order to provide concrete cases , as with any other legislation . " The Mexican Congressmen who framed , the anti-foreign laws resent the American protest and Congressman Justo Santa Ana in a statement to the press says : " We are most determined that one characteristic of the sovereignty of a nation , is the undisputed right to make laws . In making use of this right the Mexican people are reforming back legislation , looking for better orientations and fixing a firm basis for future prosperity . Sees Sovereignty Involved . ItAll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as stated , and it causes them deep sorrow to see that a great part of those who : re considered as intellectuals in Mexico echo the demands of American capitalism in trying to change the ample nationalist labor which the actual Government of Mexico is carrying out with firmness and resolution . " Who that is not a traitor to his country or a reactionary could conceive that any Government of Mexico I would agree to clauses which restrict the national sovereignty ? ? Is it possible that Alvaro Obregon , the revolutionary without stain , and an intense Nationalist , could in any moment agree to such clauses ? No , . a thousand times , no ! The agreement which is pretended to exist is nothing but the product of bad intelligence produced by the enemies of the revolution who are unable to fight the Government and invented the statement that the Government entered into a dishonest agreement . " When the Constitution of 1917 was written all the hired pens attaciced the revolution , which they pretended gave the Mexican people a new code , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . which is revolutionary , has decided to stand shoulder to shoulder with Press ident Calles again cries start from those who wish to sink their teeth into the revolution made by the Government . " Americans must not forget that the Congress of the ' United States on July 7 , 1798 , issued decrees stating that it had been decided that Congress may rescind a treaty made by the United States with another nation . Who can doubt that the American Congress did not do well when it made this agreement ? " Cites International Law Experts . Congressman Santa Ana cites a list of prominent international law experts and adds that Mexico has the right to pass legislation in conformity with the necessities of the moment in which it is living and that It is absurd to try to impede progress by the treaties or agreements made . He cites the case of the District of Columbia , where , according to Santa Ana , rights to own property . are forbidden to foreigners . " The Legislature of Mexico . " he concludes . " always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , and in spite of all we are unable to liberate ourselves from our strong neighbors . We are not willing , to establish a Chinese wall nor systematically to attack aliens ; we only desire our country to be on guard to defend its riches so that it will not be destroyed nor taken by force so that we may enjoy what these riches produce . "                     