@@690519

txt Organization of the " board of strategy " for the Democratic national campaign was discussed yesterday by John W. Davis , Democratic nominee for President , with Daniel C. Roper , former Internal Revenue Commissioner ; Robert W. Woolley , former Interstate Commerce Commissioner , and Senator Key Pittman of Nevada . The conference took place at the nominee 's home at Locust Valley , where he remained during the day . Mr. Davis will visit his New York City headquarters , which will be moved from the Murray Hill Hotel to the Hotel Belmont , today . Six members of the " board of strategy " or " campaign committee , " which will act in an advisory capacity to Clem L. Shaver , Democratic National chairman , have already been selected . They are Thomas Taggart of Indiana , Norman E. Mack of New York , George White of Ohio , Homer S. Cummings of Connecticut , Vance McCormick of Pennsylvania and Cordell Hull of Tennessee , all former Chairmen of the Democratic National Committee . Labor Day Speech in Wheeling . Mr. Davis decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Va. , and accepted an invitation of the Ohio Valley Trades and Labor Assembly to speak there . He will proceed from Wheeling on his first Western trip , and , although no definite schedule has yet ' been arranged , undoubtedly will go as far as Des Moines , Iowa . At Wheeling , Mr. Davis will amplify his views on labor , expressed in part In his acceptance speech at Clarksburg . Des Moines Is considered an appropriate place for expression of his views on methods of farm relief , and , if he should not go there he will express them in some other city in a Middle Western agricultural State . Arrangements for Mr. Davis 's trip to Seatgirt , N. J. , were practically oompleted during the day . Mr. Davis will leave here Thursday afternoon at 4:30 and will be the guest of Governor Silzer at New Jersey 's Summer capital over night . At noon on Friday he will speak at a luncheon of the Democratic State Committee at the Essex and Sussex Hotel and in the afternoon he will speak at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the National Guard camp and also review the 102d Cavalry of the New Jersey National Guard . Others to Make Sp4echeo . Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City , one of the newly elected Vice Chairmen of the Democratic's:National Committee ; Unitel , States Senator Edward I. Edwards , City Commissioner Harry A. Moore of Jersey City and Mayor Frederick W. Donnelly of Trenton , unopposed candidate for the Democratic nomination for Senator , will make short speeches at the mass meeting , preceding the speech of Mr. Davis . for which arrangements are being made to broadcast by radio . Joseph P. Tumulty , former secretary to President Wilson , and Fred M. Pearce , secretary to Governor Silier , called at the Democratic headquarters at the Murray Hill Hotel and assured Thomas J. Spellacy. the Eastern campaign manager . that everything was in readiness to give Mr. Davis a great reception at Seagirt . Mr. Tumulty said there was always a great crowd on Hudson County Day at the State encampment , and that he considered that an estimate of from 25,000 to 35,000 to hear Mr. Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at headquarters from Washington during the day . said that conferences with leading Democrats and information obtained from reports at the Washington headquarters , the main headquarters of the National Committee , had convinced him that Mr. Davis would be elected . Comments on Statement by Fess . Commenting upon tile statement of Senator Simeon D. Fess of Ohio , Republican , who urged conservatives to vote for President Coolidge , son the ground that there was danger that no candidate would get a majority of the Electoral College or House of Representatives and that Governor Charles W. Bryan of Nebraska , Democratic Vice Presidential candidate . Might be elected by the Senate , Mr. White said : Senator evidently lies very good grounds for his fear . However , we are not , afraid that Congress will have to elect a President , because we will win the election at the polls . Senator Fess 's statement is a dying appeal to the voters to vote far Coolidge . " Mr. i White said he believed the situation n Ohio " fairly safe " for both the Democratic national and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State and that Governer Victor Donahey would be re-elected . " Although Senator Fess claims publicly that the Ohio Republicans have a. chance of electing a Governor , probably the Senator is a a different opinion personally and Privately , Mr. White added . Just before leaving for his home in Los Ageles Isadore Dockweller , Nationaln Committeeman from California , said his State would be found in the Democratic column on election night . and declared that the Republicans would be In for the same kind of surprise as they were in 1916 , when Charles B. Hughes 's apparent victory as turned into defeat by the loss of Calw ifornia . Davis Popular in West . " Reports received from the West . " he said , " especially : sines Mr. Davis 's acceptance speech , prove that I was right in my contention that Mr. Davis is not in the process of becoming tremendously Popular in that section . " Mr , Dockweller slid the labor vote in California . was Republican , and declared that Senator La Follette would draw heavily from it . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the full Democratic strength in California , but in additon will reeeive the support of thousands of indePendents , " Mr. Dockw eller pinion , sPeetive Johnaon following , in my opinion , irrof whatever Senator Johnson may himself do . will devide between Davis and Bryan and La F.ellette and Wheeler . " Davis is regarded most highly and admired by not only the legal profession in California . but by the business intercets as well . and I believe that gleetion day in California will prove almost as great a surprise to the nation as election day in 1916 . Since the nomination of Mr. Davis- I have not heard a , single obJeetion made to him . On the contrary , I have talked to many prominent Republicans in California . who in discussing Davis have invariably stated that if he were elected President the result would be entirely satisfactory to them . California a Doubtful State . " Having in mind the strong support that La Follette will aeceive from Republicans and the support the is going to receive not only from the Democrats generally but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a doubtful State . and the country need not be surprised if , as a result of the division in the Republican Party . California should again go Democratic next November . Because of the splendid prospects in the West for the Davis and Bryan ticket . I believe regional headquarters should be established at both Denver and San Francisco . The San Francisco headquarters would take care of the party 's interests in California , Oregon . Washington , Nevada and Arizona , and the Denver headquarters would take care of the Rocky Mountain States and a few States to the east thereof . " There is no doubt , of course . that Davis and Bryan will carry Nebraska and the grain States , because of the dividing up of the Republican vote by La Follette . " The Democrats of California and the Pacific Coast are exceedingly anxious to have Mr. Davis make a few speeches on the Coast . " LABOR COUNCIL ACTION TRIVIAL , ' SAYS TUVIIII Asserts ' Misunderstanding ' Over Third Party City Convention Will Be Straightened Oat . The recommendation or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not participate in the local convention called by the Conference for Progressive Political Action , to meet ' in Beethoven Hall , 210 Fifth Street . Wednesday evening , was treated yesterday as a " trivial incident " by Abraham Tuvlin. hi charge of the Labor Division of the La Follette-Wheeler campaign here . Mr. Tuvim said the situation arose through a misunderstanding and would be straightened out . " The Central Trades and Labor Colin-. cil did not participate in the Cleveland convention . ' Mr. Tuvim said . " After that convention persons here who were interested in the La Follette movement decided that they could not wait for the American Federation of Labor Executive Committee meeting before organising . Therefore we went right to it . " The council waited for the Atlantic City meeting before taking any action . They now base their refusal to participate in the local convention upon the fear that funds being collected for the La Follette campaign will be diverted to local uses . Their fear is groundless . Not one cent of the money collected for nationaljeurposes will go anywhere else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the council , did not intend to " kick over " the program of the American Federation Of Labor and would support Senator La Follette . " We do n't want to endorse Norman Thomas . the Socialist candidate , for Governor if there is some other candidate we favor more , ' " Mr. Coughlin said . " We want absolute independence in the matter of State and local political endorsement and I believe the unions will act independently in accordance with the non-partisan political policy of the American Federation of Labor . We want to endorse as many friends of labor as possible and the candidates most popular among the members of the unions . " Arthur Garfield Hays , selected as State Chairman of the La FolletteWheeler movement at the third party conference at Albany on Saturday , sale ! he would open headquarters at once in the neighborhood of those at 25 West Forty-third Street , occupied by Glib la Ie. ! toe , regional director of the thin party movement Robert M. La Foliate Jr. , who is mr gaging his father 's persona ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will he at the Eastern Madnuarters today to confer with Mr. Boo and other lecal leaders ,                     