@@696198

txt Unless the mechanics . affiliated with the Building Trades Council who are on sympathetic strikes in support of Electrical Workers ' Union , Local 3 , are returned to the jobs , the Building Trades Employers ' Association will order a lockout of the 75,000 men in their employ by next Wednesday , according to a statement yesterday by C. G. Norman , executive head of the employers ' . as:iodation : " ' The lockout . Which , WOUId berthe first one , in the *tiding tradisistilee the historic lockout of 1903 , would affect 1,200 employers of labor affiliated with the Building Trades Employers ' Association , who are responsible  --  for between 60 per cent and 70 per cent of the building in New York . Mr. Norman 's -. organization completed about $600,000,000 worth of building last year and is new engaged in completing $100,000,000 of structures and planning for an additional $100,000,000 . The 50,600 mechanics employed by independent builders would not be affected by the lockout order except in so far as mechanics in fabricating shops employed by members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be unable to finish material intended for the buildings of the independents . Informal Conferences Fail . The decision on a general lockout was taken by the Executive Council , the , steering group of the employers ' association , yesterday afternoon at a session lasting three ? hours , which was the culmination of a hectic week of informal conferences that failed to clear up the situation . Mr. Norman asserted that the Building Trades Council , of which John Haikett is president , had failed to live up to its promise made last Saturday to call oft the sympathetic strikes . The employers ' association last Saturday granted the five-day week to 125,000 mechanics , ' and the under : standing , according to the employers , was that the sympathetic strikes would be abandoned . The employers waited all week for the council to take action . After Mr. Halkett , during a conference . with Mr. Norman yesterday , was unable to make categorical reply to the demand that the men be returned to work , the employers ' executive committee decided to recom- ? nand that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective Wednesday morning . Meeting Set for Monday . " Our executive committee has agreed to meet the executive committee of the Building Trades Council at 10 A. M. Monday , " said Mr. Norman yesterday . " A special meeting of the board of governors will be held Monday afternoon . " Failure on the part of the Building Trades Council to carry out the agreement made with us last Saturday morning as to returning the mechanics to the struck jobs will mean that our board of governors will act Monday afternoon off the recommendation made by our executive committee providing for cessation of work on all jobs if the men are not back on Wednesday . " In taking this action the executive committee is meeting the demand of men who are interested in building operations and who insist that something be done to clear up the impossible situation created by the electrical workers ' leaders in refusing to supply men to the contractors desiring to employ union men . " Apparently the only possibility of averting the lockout will be the joint conference on Monday . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for peace may come out of the weekly meeting : tt- Building Trades Council on Tuesday . Strikes Against Three Concerns . The origin of the present impasse is the series of strikes of electricians called by the union against the Harry Alexander Company , Inc. , the Tucker Electric Company and the Erickson Engineering Company , three electrical contracting concerns which withdrew from the Building Trades Employers ' Association with other members of the Electrical Contractors Association during the dispute on the five-day week . Most of the others went into a new association , but the three whose jobs were struck reentered the Building Trades Employers ' Association as individual members . The union refused to furnish men to the three contractors , whereupon they hired men of a rival union to complete their jobs . The Building Trades Council then ordered its mechanics to strike in sympathetic support of the electricians . As the price for calling off the electricians ' strike . International Vice President H. H. Roach of the electricians ' union demanded that the three contractors leave the Building Trades Employers Association and that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Industrial Survey Commission concerning the alleged inefficiency of union men . The contractors refused to leave the association , which decided to support them at all cost . The pressure for an early termination of the dispute , it is understood , came from the building owners whose operations have been tied up . Among the jobs affected are the new residence of William R. Hearst at Sands Point . L. I. ; the Stewart Building at Fifth Avenue and Fiftysixth Street , the Jacob Ruppert residence at Garrison , N. Y. ? , the Flushing Terminal Building at Corona , L. I. ; the Queens County Savings Bank , the Beacon Tower Building at Port Washington and the George Washington Hotel in this city . Strikes Called in Other Cities . At a meeting called Tuesday by architects and other factors in the building trades , charges of collusion between the union and the electrical contractors ' association , of which John Hooley is president , were made by Mr. Norman and denied by Mr. Hooley . Following the strikes on the jobs of the Harry Alexander Company in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sister local in Washington , where . Mr. Alexander had other important contracts . The contractors last week filed a petition for an injunction in Washington to restrain the continuation of the sympathetic strikes and the matter was to have come up next Monday . Late yesterday afternoon Walter Gordon Merritt of ? Gleason , , Mcrritt &; Ingraham , counsel for the Alexander company , announced that the union in Washington had agreed to return its men In that city . This action may have an important bearing on the New York situation . " As there is nothing further to litigate in Washington , the suit is therefore to be withdrawn . " said Mr. Merritt . Detroit Union Found Guilty . Mr. Merritt also received word from Detroit that the Federal District Court had found the local union of electricians in that city guilty of violating the Sherman anti-trust law in refusing to erect fixtures shipped from New York and which did not bear the union label . The temporary injunction was made permanent , said Mr. Merritt . The court also held that a similar charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case as against the parent body . The decision as to the local union was regarded as important in building circles because it held that union men might not refuse to work on non-union manufactured materials shipped into their jurisdiction in interstate commerce . Mr. Broach declined to comment on the lockout threat last night . " That is a matter that is up to the Building Trades Council , " he said . Mr. Hackett was not reached last night for comment on the situation .                     