@@689364

txt Official cognizance of the cumulative evidence of graft by policemen in liquor cases , brought out during the inquiry before Judge Crain , was taken by Police Commissioner Richard E. Enright yesterday . when departmental charges were filed against Detective Sergeants William Morrison and David Lambert , accusing them of failing to prevent the transportation of liquor and demanding and receiving a $2,500 bribe . The accusations against the two detectives were the same as were made two years ago and which were the occasion for two departmental investigations , both of which came to naught . Magistrate Corrigan , in his defense of the criminal libel action brought by Commissioner Enright , produced evidence to show that the Commissioner was kept informed of the progress of these previous inquiries . Commissioner Enright , following the announcement of the action against the two detectives , broke his long silence with regard to developments in . the Crain inquiry , and for the first time since the inquiry was resumed last month issued a statement in justification of his course in the form of a letter to Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ launched abruptly into an attack on the newspapers , referring to the ' Amore a newspaper buzzards . occupying ' the ' jury boxi as a jury " in the Crain inquiry . The rest of the , lettae- .. linealagtaetil.sloz- , the Commissioner 's version of the retirement of Captain Patrick J. Bandies and Lieutenant Moriarty and his course in the Petrucci investigations . Detectives Face New Charges . Lambert and Morrison , already under suspension as a result of their admission i that they testified falsely before Judgel Crain , were summoned to headquarters yestrday . They were taken to the office of Chief Inspector Lahey and reinstated so that the additional charge could be preferred against them . The new charge is neglect of duty " in that they stopped ' an automobile containing alleged liquor on West Thirtyseventh Street and failed to bring to the station and put under arrest the person or persons transporting the alleged liquor , and demanded and received *2,500 for failing to put said person or persons under arrest . " Lambert . before his Suspension , was attached to the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street Station . After the filing of the new charge they were suspended again . When their eves will be called for trial at Police Headquarters has not yet been decided . The charges against the two detectives related to the now famous Petrucci ' liquor seizure on May 28 , 1921 . Evidence intebduced by John D. Lindsay , counsel for Magistrate Corrigan , disclosed that two departmental inquiries into the case had been conducted , one by Sergeant Frederick C. Kruse , confidential investigator for Commissioner Enright , and the other by Chief Inspector William J. Lahey . Both said that they kept the Commissioner informed of developments . Both Detectives Confer . The witnesses called before Inspector Lahey , with one important exception , were the same as those Mr. Lindsay produced . One - after another denied making certain statements bepere Inspector Lahey , until Mr. Lindsay put in evidence a record or the Lahey hearing obtained by chance from a source outside of the Police Department . Lam- bert and Morrison , in the face , of this record , broke down and admitted to Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relating to the Petrucci case was in substance this : That Morrison and Lambert stopped a truck containing liquor on May 23 , 1921 ; that they demanded or received a bribe of $2,500 to let the liquor pass ; that they were told that the liquor belonged to Alfred W. Thor , former Chief of Staff in the Police Department ; Inspector John O'Brien , and Captain John W. O'Connor , who Is now an Inspector ; that following the seizure Morrison received a message to call up a man named Phillips in Commission &; Enright 's office , and that Morrison declared that , in response to the call . some one warned him to " lay off Petrucci . " The person who called the attention of Chiew Inspector Lahey to the case was Patrick Handles , until five days ago Police Captain and temporarily commander of the detective forces of the entire department . Captain Bandies testified before Judge Crain that Morrison and Lambert had admitted to him deniand.ng or receiving the 42,500 bribe and had said they wanted his " advice " because they wer afraid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while adm.tting that Handles had called his attention to the case , denied that Randles had told himo f the detective 's alleged confession . Handles was not called before the Chief Inspector during his inquiry . Randles 's damaging testimony against Morrison and Lambert was given on Sept. 6 . Four days later he retired from the department after an inquiry had been begun into his testominy . Four days more gla-psed befare Lambert and Morrison were called to account . Text et Enright 's Letter . Commissioner Enright 's letter to Mayor Hylan follows : September 15. 1023 . Hon. John F. Hylan . Mayor , City of New York , New York City . My dear Mr. Mayor : Your illness unfortunately may prevent you from examining this comunication for some time to come , but in order that you may have a true record of passing events relating to the hearing of my complaining against two libel mongers . Corrigan and Cuvillier , who. acting in concert with several newsvilifiaatton are carrying on a campaign of and misrepresentation against the Police Department and its responsible officers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The preliminary examination before the Hon. T. C. T. Crain a Judge of General Sessions , sitting as , a Magistrate at the Criminal Courts Building , in the matter of the People of the State of New York against Corrigan and Cuvillier. was resumed after an adjournment of six weeks , on August 14th last , since which time the Tuesday . and Thursday sessions of the Court have been devoted to this examination . The courtroom continues as arranged at the beginning . of this gesture to give a preliminary examination to two defendants charged with a particularly mean and despicable misdemeanor , with a score of newspaper buzzards occupying the jury box kcting as a jury , passing judgment and/ publishing their decisions and verdict several timeh each day in the press of this city , upon which rare , racy and wise editorials are publiabed in certain newspapers from time to time . A number of apparently respectable citizens who were previously - examined as witnesses have been recalled many times in turn to the stand , and they have been required to explain the technique of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to furnish information that would be of some value to persons interested in such commercial enterprises but totally irrelevant in respect to the complaint against the two libel mongers who were supposed to be the defendants in this case . Refers to Randle . Case . At about the close of the last session held on Thursday . Sept. 6 . Captain Patrick J. Randles of the Detective Bureau was called to the witness stand . Among other things he testified that Detectives Morrison and Lambert had stated to him , about two and a half years ago , they had either demanded or received $2,500 from the driver of a truck transporting liquor through the streets in violation of law . although it was also . stated that the driver of this vehicle had a Federal permit , and that the driver told them the liquor belonged to several inspectors of this Department ; that he immediately arranged an interStew with Chief Inspector William J. Lahey. who was then under suspension Z9:12n the force . and that he met him at the Pennsylvania Railroad Station in Brooklyn . bringing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this confession , but so far as it can be ascertained Captain Randles neither officially , nor otherwise made any record or report of any money 1 ? aving been des:nailed or received on the occasion referred to by these two detectives until appeared as a witness in this proceeding . . ? On the day following the court session at which Captain Handles gave this testimony I requested Judge Crabs and ' lb , District Attorney to furnish me with a transcript of the testimony of Captain Handles and Chief Inspector Lahey , so that I might take such action in respect to any statement Concerning their official duties in this department as might be warranted . At the same time I directed Second Deputy Police Commissioner John Daly to obtain a copy of this record and to make an investigation for the purpose of determining whether or not Captain Handles or any other officer of this department had neglected his duty or violated any regulation of the department in respect to any matter that was disclosed by their testimony in this proceeding , and I am Informed that Captain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection therewith at 2 P. NI . on the afternoon of Monday . Sept. 10 . On the forenoon of that day Captain Handles presented himself at the office of the Police Commissioner and requested an interview for the purpose of submitting his application for retirement I informed him that as he had served more than twenty-five years in the department he was eligible to retire upon his own application and that I had no alternative under the law but to accept it , whereupon he presented and filed his application for retirement from the force as provided by law . Denies Forcing Resignation . Captain Randles 's action in respect to his retirement was not influenced by his directly or indirectly , and his motives for retiring , so far as I know , were en -- tirely personal . His interview , as well as his personal a.na official relations with me. was thoroughly amicable , notwithstanding the vicious and untruthful statements in the press , editorial and otherwise , to the effect that his resignation was demanded after a furious interview with me  --  all of which was intended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he gave in this proceeding he was coerced or browbeaten and driven from the department . Captain Randles was in command of the Third Detective District , Manhattan , at the time the alleged confession was made to him , and it was his duty to place them under arrest forthwith , make a record of the facts and present the case to the then Acting Chief Inspector Murphy or the then Acting Police Commissioner Leach at Police Headquarters , so that these two officers might be dealt with according to law . His failure to do so was manifestly a gross neglect of duty , which would have warranted disciplinary charges , and . in accordance with the customs and the regulations of the Police Department , when these facts were disclosed for the first time through his testimony , the matter was referred to the Second Deputy Police Commissioner for investigation and report . The testimony given by Captain Randies in this hearing has been the subject of an investigation by the Second Deputy Police Commissioner for the purpose of determining whether or not further charges growing out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lambert , who are now under suspension from the department , without pay , and as a result of this investigation additional charges have been preferred against them . The Law on Suspensions . The law and the City Charter prohibits the Police Commissioner from suspending any member of the police force except upon formal written charges served on the accused officer , and the proceedings subsequent thereto respecting the trial and determination of such charges are in many respects similar to the proceedings in our criminal courts . The law prohibits the Police Commissioner from fining , removing or dismissing any member of the force unless such charges have been duly prepared and served upon him , nor until such charges have been examined , heard and investigated before the Police Commissioner or one of his deputies , and such hearing must be upon reasonable notice to the member or members charged with an offense . In the event that an error is made in such proceedings the accused officer has the right of appeal to the highest tribunal in the State . and upon error in such proceedings affecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is entitled to receive all of his back salary , anhough he had performed no duty for the city . It is a matter of public record and you will remember that during 1921 the notorious Whitman Grand Jury , in the course of an investigation of this department , indicted the Chief Inspector , two captains , twelve acting detective sergeants and two patrolmen , not one of whom was ever brought to trial , but the indictments against every one of them were dismissed , and in many cases with a scathing criticism of the manipulation of our criminal courts and Grand Juries for political spoils , and . although none of these officers performed any duty for the city . under the law they were entitled to receive and were , paid the sum of $32,918.99 . Some of the newspapers of this city have eagerly grasped at the recent retirement of Lieutenant Daniel Moriarty. formerly commander of the Twelfth inspection District Detective Office , as an excuse for front page publicity , with the same ' ridiculous and sensational headlines which they have been pleased to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past , especially just prior to an election , and in this instance they also state that Lieutenant Moriarty retired after a row with me . I do not recall ever having met Lieutenant Moriarty. : lc certainly has never appeared in the ? fice of the Police Commissioner to my knowledge . and action upon- his application for retirement was a routine function imposed by law upon the Poice Commissioner when an officer of ' his department who has served twentyrive years presents his application for retirement . Under the law such an aplication is effective even without the Signature of the Police Commissioner . This is a fair sample of the willful and malicious falsehoods that are broadcast daily by the degenerate press of his city regarding matters affecting the Police Department . Assails Actions of the Press . Recently the same newspapers , almost without exception , published a frontpage story with editorial comment upon a statement issued by a representative of one of the burglary insurance companies operating in this city , to the effect that apartment house burglaries in this city had increased 100 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made out of whole cloth and it has been repudiated by the official representatives of the company employing the man who gave out the statement . As a matter of fact , it is asserted upon good authority that this statement was published for the purpose of subtly advertising and " pulling over " the sale of a special burglar-proof lock manufactured by one of the largest lock manufacturing establishments in this country Nevertheless , cheap bunk of this and finds a preferred place on the front and editorial pages of the New York press for the obvious purpose of discrediting the Police Department and , , - ; clentally , encouraging all crookdom . I am informed by counsel , and even Justices of our highest courts , that the only issue presented to Judge Crain is whether or not there is probable cause to believe that Cuvillier and Corrigan , the defendants in this case , are guilty of the crime of criminal libel when they charged me with collecting graft or having graft collectors . They admit the publication of the lilbel and their only recourse now is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a civil action pending against him in the Supreme Court that he did not intend to impute to me any personal dishonesty . In other words , he and his confederate , Cuvillier , were on a libelous joy-ride and did not care whom they destroyed , so long as their political ambitions might be advanced . As I have stated before , I am determined to fight against these libelers and scandal-mongers to a decision . if these persons or any of their kind have a license to destroy the reputation of a public officer or any citizen at will , I am determined to find out where they get their license . Will Protect the - Force . I am determined also to see to it that the decent men of the Police Department who are earnestly performing their duty are not subject to wilful and malicious vilification by the cheap politicians , gamblers and muckrakers of this town , who " toil not neither do they spin . " but who seam to make an easy living by sucking the festering sores of society . The press of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a daily practice to hold the city up to public ridicule at home and abroad . They maliciously denounca and vilify its public officials and do all that they can to thwart them in their service to the public . The late Mayor Gaynor characterized them as the " rag-bag newspapers . " but they maliciously assailed him and did much to bring him to an untimely grave . They have by day and by night assailed you and endeavored to inoculate you with their poison pen , as they do every man who will not yield to their dictation and do the bidding of the sinister and unsavory influences whom they serve . But there ' is hope while Mr. Munsey lives , for one by one he is sending them to the boneyard . The public , by almost unanimous consent , as demonstrated by the almost unanimous vote by which you wena elected Mayor of this city , have told the World that a New , York newspaper is not honored in its own town . This is all for today . I will tell you , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( Signed ) R. E. ENRIGHT , Police Commissioner . Seek Records for Inquiry . Letters exchanged between Mayor Hylan and Commissioner Enright in July . attacking Magistrate Corrigan and Assemblyman Cuvillier , were sent out by Commissioner Enright as General Order No. 21 for " the information and guidance " of members of the department , it became known yesterday . It is understood that Mr. Lindsay will offer this general order hi evidence on the ground that the punpose of broadcasting it in the department was to warn policemen all over the city not to falter in their loyalty to the Enright regime . It was predicted that some of the police records asked for in a subpoena duces tecum issued by Judge Crain would not be found in the files of the deparanent . One of the records demanded was a report made by Sergeant Kruse in his inquiry into the Petrucci matter . Kruse , when he appeared before Judge Crain , testified that he was not certain that there was any written record . Another record sought is that of the Lahey inquiry . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copies of it could be found in the files of the department . Mr. Lindsay 's contention is that in a case of this character , police department regulations require the keeping of written records and that the lack of them shows neglect of duty somewhere . The Civil Service Reform Association . whose legislative counsel . H. Eliot Kaplan , announced Thursday that he was taking steps to block five promotions by Commissioner Enright on the ground that they were illegal and were made to " look out for friends , " is investigating all promotions made during the Enright r  --  gime. ? Taxpayer suits are likely to be filed in five cases next week and , according to Mr. Kaplan , many other cases are under &ern;                     