@@685863

txt Delegates of the British coal miners decided at a conference today that strike notices issued recently shall expire on Saturday next , the last day of the fortnight 's truce agreed to , and if no settlement is reached in the meantime the longthreatened strike will probably begin on Monday . Robert Smillie and other leaders recommended voting in favor of what is known as the datum line proposals , but the men rejected the Government 's offer by a majority of 453,670 out of a total vote cast of 816.526 . At present there does not appear to be a rcmote chance of further proposals being offered . The conference 's decision was communicated this afternoon by letter to the Prime Minister , who issued e. reply this evening which amounts to a definite statement that the Government will not- reopen negotiations . Mr. Lloyd George draws attentan to the fact that the men have voted contrary to the recommendations of their most responsible leaders , and that the community at large will judge . The miners ' leaders , on their side , today gloomily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strike and that under such **27;158;TOOLONG unlikely to succeed and would probably split the Miners ' Federation from top to bottom . Even the most sanguine among them , however , saw no possibility of a fresh move coming from the men 's side . Thus it seems probable that a great contlict between one section of the community and the rest of the nation will begin at the end of this week . The prospect is a severe blow to those who through/out the long continued negotiations have built their hopes of a strike being averted upon the common-sense and political sanity of the British working classes . See Revolutionary Designs . The startling fact appears , according to information obtained by THE NEW YORK TIMES in responsible quarters , that there is throughout Great Britain a Red revolutionary organization which has spread its tentacles far and wide , especially in the mining areas . In Scotland , particularly , this , movement has been successful , and there are revolutionary centres in five of the chief mining districts in that country . At a secret conclave held recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , called the Communist-Labor Party , which is based on dictatorship of the proletariat and acceptance of the Soviet system of the Third Internationale . A well informed Scottish correspondent , telegraphing to The Westminster Gazette recently , said : " William Gallagher , who was gripped by the police authorities at a certain stage of the war , has come back from Moscow as a Red missionary to convert Scotland , and more especially industrial Scotland , for Lenin has designs on all the world 's industries . Gallagher has instructions to carry out his work in four months . That is , he has to arrange and complete plans for taking over all the Industries , and he has absolute freedom to raise hell so long as he succeeds in his attempts . With the Sinn Feiners arming secretly in Ireland , and open drilling in not a few country districts in Scotland , the revolutionaries are drunk with Lenin 's deadly brew , spreading themselves all over the Scottish mine fields . " Is it any wonder that certain sections of the miners are kicking over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Wales and Lancashire the revolutionary elements have also gained the upper hand , and even Yorkshire and Northumberland , where the miners recently cast a heavy vote against striking , the extremists , judging by this week 's balloting , have made considerable headway . It is too early yet to judge what effect today 's developments are going to have on other great laboring organizations . Coming after . the protracted negotiations during which all the weight of other trades unions was thrown into the scale against extreme measures , the decision of the Miners ' National Delegate Conference precipitated by a huge majority in the ballot on the Datum Line proposals , has conic like a bombshell on tire general public . The challenge is one which no Government could fail to take up , and Lloyd George 's letter makes it clear that the fight will be fought to the finish . Lloyd George Answers . Lloyd George 's reply to the miners ' letter conveying the conference 's decision is addressed to Robert Smillie . It says : " It is impossible to conceive of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trade of this country , especially when it is recollected that at the present time industry is confronted with great and increasing diffi- culties , and the prospect of unemployment among the masses of our people is - causing grave anxiety . ? ? Nor is it only in these isles that the injurious effect of your action will be felt . Many struggling peoples on the dontinent of Europe are today dependent upon the ' supply of Coal which this country is in a position to give them , and it is 4mpossible to exaggerate the privations 1. nd hardships which the cessation of their supplies will bring upon " The Government has exhausted every effort to prevent , this calamity . " The Premier then refers to two Doss ' . tole remedies suggested by the Government . As . regards the proposed Datum Line he points out that Smillie him-elf acknowledged on behalf of the Miners ' Federation the anxiety felt over : he declining coal output . " It is very unfortunate , " says Lloyd . c.orge , " that recent increases in v.-ages have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceeds : " I can not express too strongly my disappointment that this proposal has been rejected . I take cote of the fact that our suggestion was , upported by you and other leaders of great prominence In the Miners ' Fed . ration , and the whole country must ? leploN ; the fact that your ' advice has been followed . In facing the trials 7,1:ich the decision of your conference . ? ( her has imposed upon our people , the ounlry will no doubt be fortified in its , , , , - termination to endure by the fact that n.t , proposals made by its elected Gov , nment have received the support of : he most reasonable and experienced minds within-your federation . Upon taw part we have explored , and still are ready to explore , every ' avenue that might lead to a peaceful solution of this difficulty . " The Government 's plans for coping with rho prospective strike are chiefly in the hands of the Food and Transport Ministries . They long have been prepared , and could be put at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be to see that the people , are fed . Valuable experience was gained during the national railway strike , and if need be there would again be a metropolitan clearing house in Hyde Park , and the country would be parceled out into divisions . The Transport Ministry may not at first be affected directly , but a certain amount of railway traffic would be stopped , though it is not anticipated that passenger services would be considerably curtailed at first . In the other great coal-consuming industries , - such as shipping and gas and electric light production , although there are stocks of coal available , rigid economy will be enforced . Late tonight the Daily Chronicle labor norrespondent learned that although the Prime Minister 's letter made it clear that the Government would make no new offer , it ? is possible there will be " some one in the neighborhood of Downing Street tomorrow With material for a. bridge . " The Chronicle adds : " It is not , yet believed that the miners will strike without renewed efforts to avoid such a course . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Men of all parties and all politics except that of revolution have rallied to the support of the Government on this national Issue . Its position is unassailable . If the men persist ih wanton and ' ignorant ' strike it " will protect the consumer with all the powers of the State against the national holdup aimed at by extremists . "                     