@@690140

txt The replies of the allied Governments to the Reparation Commission 's note of April 17 recommending the Governments ' speedy adoption of the experts ' plan and asking to be informed of the steps they intended to take bring into relief the divergencies between Paris and London which have arisen since the Dawes committee made its report . The British and Italian answers indicate clear-cut acceptance and readiness to take at once the necessary measures . The answer of the French Government presents the argument that the allied Government should not act until after the Reparation Commission has put the Dawes recommendations into " practical form " and the German Government has taken the measures needed to begin operation of the experts ' system . In reply to the Reparation Commission 's request that the French Government state its intentions on those provisions of the plan within the sphere of governmental action M. Poincara v.-rites : " It is only when the Reparation Commission has completed its work and has thus clearly defined all the matters within its competence under the treaty and those not within Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Governments concerned . " With regard to the re-establishment of economic unity of the Reich , which Means giving up Franco-Belgian exploitation of the Ruhr , the French Premier says it is for.the Governments to decide the manner of giving up exploitation , and adds that this can not be done " until Germany has effectively put the plan into execution . " He declares that the Governments must decide the guarahtees to accompany surrender of the Ruhr exploitationBritish for Going Ahead . The British note , in emphasizing that the experts ' plan does not make any change in the total of reparations , indicates that Mr. does not desire discussion of the interallied debts in connection with the plan , as does M. Poincare . The tenor of the British note is that the Reparation Commission has the power to proceed at once to put the plan Into effect , referring to the allied Governments for action points which may arise . The Belgian note comes in between the British and French , mildly taking M. Poincard 's stand that the Reparation Commission should first draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the allied Governments act . The French stand tends to delay put . ting into operation the experts ' plan , and it may cause friction through being translated as an attempt to dictate to the Reparation Commission . In considering the effect of this the French desire safeguards They have the largest interest at stake , since they get 52 per cenL of all reparations , and since they bear responsibility in the Ruhr . The basic difference between London : and Paris is that of penalties . As Mr. Nia.cDonald repeated in the note deliv- I ered to M. Poincare last night . Great I Britain does not favor drafting a penalties plan in advance , but , nevertheless , ' in case or German default London is ; ready to take energetic reprisals .. This : does not satisfy the French , who wish ! a program of penalties adopted now , I including a British agreement to cooperate in the exploitation of the Ruhr ; if this is resumed as a result of default by the Reich . The political effect of M. Poincare 's note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to withhold final official action on the Dawes plan ; in order to leave time for negotiations i with England , which negotiations England regards as unnecessary . : r hilt IJ.e allied notes do not , of ! e- ? urse , empaasize the differences among 1 , , overnmer.a ? , their text considered ! t .. Onr.eCtion with the negotiations of toe last ten years give an excellent ideal or - me needed accommodation of views before the Dawes plan can go into operation . The Belgian Prime Minister is coming to Paris tomorrow to see M. Poineare , after which he will see Mr. in an effort to smooth out divergences . Texts of the Allied Replies . The texts of the allied replies to the Reparation Commission follow : M. Poincare writes : have studied the experts ' reports with the greatest interest . They fulfill rx2til.ly the tasks assigned them by the on the one hand to ascertain tit. i , leasures iiece ; Esa ry to secure the balancing of the German budget and stabilization or currency , and on the other to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its return to Germany . These documents were to enable the Reparation Commission to consider , in conformity with the provisions of Article 234 of the Treaty of Versailles , the resources and capacity of Germany . The experts ' reports form an extremely interesting and complete whole and I can only congratulate myself on having taken the initiative in requesting the French delegate on the Reparation Commission to propose convocation of the experts . I am glad to take this opportunity of paying tribute to the great competence which they have shown . their impartiality and appreciation of the actual facts . In possession of such detailed and valuable information . the commission is now in the position to pronounce judgment , and the Governments have a right to expect from it a definite decision which will embody the conclusions contained in the experts ' reports , will support them with argument , will give them practical form ? since in most cases they are drafted , as is orris- proper in the case of reports from advisers , in the form of mere indications  --  and will complete them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself to deal with or on which they have not expressed any opinion . It is only when the Reparation Commission has completed this work and has thus clearly defined all the matters which come within its competence under the treaty and those which are not within its jurisdiction that it will be in the position to communicate the latter to the Governments concerned . Must Rave Definite Information . The Governments will not , in fact , be able to take useful action until they have exact Information as-to the Practical effect which the Reparation commission gives to the experts ' proposals . They must also be in the positior. to ascertain whether the German Government has for its part taken the necessary measures to carry out the commission 's decision . It is cvi  --  ent that this decision can not be taken until the commission has approved the drafts of the laws and decrees which it has requested the German Government to submit to it with a view to insuring execution of the plan . But it is also evident that only after this decision will the allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming within their jurisdiction in order that the plans proposed may be brought into full operation without delay . " In the circumstances , the German Government and the allied Governments can not in fact be places ! on the same footing . The Reparation Commission , acting In virtue of its powers under the peace treaty , can take into account the observations made to it by the German Government . which is entitled to a just opportunity to be beard , and must then give its decision with all the authority which the treaty confers upon it . The experts have , moreover , stated that in their opinion the economic and financial unity of the Reich should be restored as soon as the plan recommended is put into execution . Since the commission has decided to accept the experts ' conclusions as a whole , the French Government ventures to assume that on this point of capital importance it does not intend to modify these conclusions . The Governments will have to consider together under what conditions the guarantees at present held by France and Belgium shall be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over as an undivided whole to all the Allies . These operations can not , however , take place until Germany has effectively put the plan into execution . It is for the Governments to determine by common agreement the guarantees which these operations may render necessary . It is , moreover , understood that in the course of the conversations to be entered into the French Government , which appreciates the experts ' work as do the other allied Governments , will In a spirit of conciliation and mutual understanding make every necessary effort compatible with the vital interests of France to facilitate prompt ? execution of the definite ? decision to be communicated to it by the commission . POINCARE . Reply of the British Government . Following is the British reply : His Majesty 's Government note with satisfaction that the Reparation Commission has ' unanimously approved the conclusions of the committees of experts and are taking the necessary steps to give effect to these in regard to the matters within the jurisdiction of the commission . His Majesty 's Government for their part accept and will do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendation of the commission that the allied Governments should likewise adopt the ' conclusions of the committees in regard to the matters falling within the jurisdiction of those Governments . The recommendations of the experts do not appear to involve any reduction of the total of the German reparation debt and necessary modifications of the schedule of payments of May , 1921. appear to be within the competence of the unanimous decision of the Reparation Commission and not to require the specific authority of the several Governments represented on the commission under Article 234 of the Treaty of Versailles . If , however , there is any doubt on this point . His Majesty 's Government are prepared to grant such specific authority . Other Matters for Governments . The only other matters arising on the experts ' recommendations which appear to be within the jurisdiction of the allied Governments are : " ( a ) Restoration of the economic and fiscal authority of the German Government over the whole of the German territories . " ( b ) The steps necessary to give binding effect to new guarantees and controls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - the existing provisions of the Treaty of Versailles . " ( c ) The inclusion of all the financial liabilities of Germany under the peace treaty in a single annuity . " On the first point his Majesty 's Government are prepared to give their full support to the expel ts ' recommendation to take , in consultation with the other Governments concerned , whatever steps may be necessary to effect date . .. Ss regards the second , agreement of the German Government having already been obtained . all that remains to be done is give formal effect to it : His Majesty 's Government will be prepared to proceed by whatever may be found the most convenient and effectual method of achieving this object On the third point his Majesty 's Government accept the experts ' recommendation and are prepared for thier part to ask the Reparation Commission to propose a scheme to put this provision into execution . Should any other of the recommendations of the experts be held by the Reparation Commission to require endorsement by or action on the part of the allied Governments his Majesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take whatever steps may be necessary to give effect to them . In the absence of the Secretary of State . ( Signed ) W. TYRRELL . Belgian Government 's Reply . The Belgian reply reads : The Belgian Government has examined the experts ' reports with the greatest interest . The indisputable competence of the members of the two committees . their objective aims and the cooperation of America have given their unanimous conclusions a. high moral importance which the Belgian Government is pleased to recognize . It has the honor to inform the Reparation Commission that it is prepared to accept the experts ' conclusion as a whole with the view to a Practical and equitable settlement of the reparation problem . It hopes the Reparation Commission will give careful consideration to the drafts of the laws and decrees which it has asked the German Government to submit to it and which are necessary for complete execution of the experts ' plan . The Belgian Government further hopes the Reparation Commission will lost . no time preparing measures the details of which are entrusted . to it by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried out the plan recommended may be brought into prompt operation by common agreement among the allied Governments . The Belgian Government is placing itself immediately in touch with these Governments . ( Signed ) HYMAN 'S THEUNIS . Italian Government 's Note . The Italian reply is appended : The Italian Government has the honor to acknowledge receipt of the letters of the Reparation Commission under date of April 17 communicating the reports of the two committees of experts , together with copies of the letters exchanged between the commission and the German Government and the text of the decision adopted by the commission on the same date . The Italian Government has taken the greatest interest in examining these two reports , which on account of the competence of the experts and the unanimity with which they adopted their conclusions must be considered documents of the greatest value . Since the royal Government . considers the contents of the two reports as an indivisible whole , it notes with satisfaction that the Reparation Commission adopted them in their entirety and is sure the commission will be able to pursue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is willing immediately to adopt the experts ' reports In theoir entirety , as well as the principles underlying them , being convinced that these conclusions and principles can constitute a fair basis . for settlement . of the question of the reparations and connected questions in accordance with the line of action always followed by the royal Government . The royal Government considers , moreover , that the conclusions unanimously adopted by the experts and approved by the Reparation Commission will facilitate the solution of the general problem by a settlement of the questions among the allied Governments which are ? wIthin their Jurisdiction and which were not within the competence or the committee of experts , ( Signed ) MUSSOLINI . The Matin takes the view editorially that the British reply is conciliatory and foresees an understanding between Great Britain and France on the question of guarantees . Whereas Mr. Macbonald'hitherto had full restoration at the earliest possible declared himself flatly hostile to fixing in advance the penalties to be taken in the event of Germany 's default , in today 's response he mentions " the steps necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This Ts accepted by the Matin as providing an opening to discuss the subject of guarantees .                     