@@693491

txt Counsel for Edward W. Browning are planning a " witness parade " or the numerous boys with whom Peaches Browning " made love " according to entries In her diary when the Brown ? ings ' separation trial is resumed Mon-day An effort will be made to dig into the " past " of Peaches  --  into her life before she became the 16 year old bride of the millionaire realtor . Peaches admitted In her own testimony that she had gone out with numerous " fellows " and then written up her experiences In her diary . But she insisted with petulance that these experiences were entirely harmless and that she " was a good girl " when she married the Cinderella man . Not So Innocent . Attorneys for Browning do not think these bits of youthful love making by a girl only 15 years old were to innocent as Peaches would have the court believe . Hence , they will resort to the tactics of calling as many of these boys mentioned in the diary as they can reach . Some of them will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stand and fails to complete his story . Peaches told on the stand how the actions and antics of Browning shocked her during their short ' married life . His demands that she walk around their bedroom in the nude was too much for her delicate sensibilities , but the indication iG that Browning 's lawyer will attempt to show it was not the first time that Peaches had heard of a nude parade . J. W. Mack . one of Browning 's nounsel , repeatedly asked Peaches if she ever appeared in the nude before any one previous to her marriage , and answered negatively . Browning 's attorney , Henry Epstein , is likely to be much longer . " When I get Mr. Browning on the witness stand  --  If I ever do  --  I am sure that everyone will be more than ever convinced of the sincerity of Mrs. ? Browning . " Epstein said . Four Found Guilty of Fraud in $100,000 Mine Stock Sale ' Two offIciabs of the Las Animas Mining and Milling company , a. sale ? man and a saleswoman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the concern , were found guilty of fraud yesterday In the court of Mu . niclpal Judge Francis Alle , - retti . Sen ? tenco was suspended , and the judge indicated a light penalty would be assessed if the complaining victims were reimbursed . The defendants were George W. Ray , 6040 Harper avenue , president ; Milton Denny , 210 North Grove avenue , r ' ak Park , secretary treasurer ; II . W. Thornton and Mrs. Betty Pines , both of 901 Windsor I avenue . 310TIIER ILL . SON IS III ; NTED . Chicago notice were yesterday asked to search for William E. Burton of Danville , Ill .. who , according to Information from Lanrile , bad been employes by the Palmer I.tunro Securities company                     