@@694865

txt A person 's chances of recovering from a disease that formerly was considered serious are increasing materially through modern science , according to Dr. William J. Mayo . famous surgeon of Rochester , Minn , now here . Science through the use of ultra-microscopic knowledge and information gained from taking photographs at one 12-** of a minute is enabling medical men to know more of the processes and diseases of the human body , the surgeon said . More widespread knowledge of the advantages of frequent physical examinations , according to Dr. Mayo . are reflected in the fact that diseases are being treated in earlier stages than ever before . ? ' Modern science can tell what chance a man has of recovering from a major operation . " Dr. Mayo says , - and thus we know when it is advisable to operate and when the chances of death are greater than any percentage of cure that might result . Estimating the Risk " Before being operated on a man today is subject to a physiochemical examination that ail ! reveal much more than the old-fashioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long line of surgeons . My father used to remove huge tumors . They had t be huge before the surgeon could recognize them and bete , : e the family would be willing to run the risks or operations . Today this is changed . " Before a patient . suspected of having cancer , for instance , is operated on , a specimen of the tumor is frozen and placed under a powerful microscope . Immediately two things are learned : whether the tumor is cancerous , and the state of its malignancy . If it is malignant. chances  - -  -  greater that the operation will prove fatal . For example , if there is a 10 , E risk of death through an operation and only a cure can be hoped for , we do not operate on that person , but treat the descase through radium and x-rays . Experimentation on Animals Valuable " Application of chemistry to the human body has done much for science . This can be illustrated in diabetes . It is not the high sugar content that proves fatal to the sufferer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body of Oats without enough sugar to work off the ash So we inject either sugar or insulin , and bring easement of the condition . Insulin is not a cure . but is an aid that brings relief for a period . " Much has been said against experiments on the bodies of animals , which have been of great benefit to medical science . The same persons who protest against this search for knowledge will go hunting and leave countless ducks wounded in the marshes , where they have fallen out of sight and slowly die of wounds and starvation . Those who object to animal experimentation also go fishing and allow fish to die out of water dangling at . the end of a line . These fish and ducks suffer , but nothing is gained through their pain that is a benefit to the well being of mail . It all depends on the view point . "                     