@@693952

txt Moscow is in a state of panic and foreigners are fleeing from the city , according to a Warsaw dispatch to The Daily Mail , quoting statements by people who have arrived in the Polish capital from Moscow . These arrivals report that a state of " strengthened military protection " has been proclaimed in Moscow and neighborhood . The population is panic-stricken and crowds of foreigners are leaving . The Soviet authorities are refusing passports to their own nationals . The telegraphic censorship has been tightened and even private telegrams are not accepted for transmission abroad . There have been innumerable arrests and a state of siege is expected at any moment . The army reservists in the Ukraine have been called up for longer training , a step which will increase the strength of the army in Ukraine by 300,000 men . This is considered in Warsaw , says the correspondent , as masked mobilization . More Reprisal Executions . Further reprisal executions in Russia for the assassination of Voikoff are reported in a Riga dispatch to The Daily Mall . Twenty-eight more ex-Czarist officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this dispatch , while at Odessa tin Ogpu announces that eleven former merchants and officers have been executed on a charge of spying for Rumania . The reprisal shootings now number more than one hundred . It is added that the new Red terror has more than doubled the number of suicides in Moscow , where there are ten to fifteen daily . One thousand middle-class people have been arrested in Moscow and Leningrad in the last few days and from both cities heavily guarded freight trains are being sent to Siberia every night with prisoners . An announcement by the Ogpu is quoted from the Moscow Izvestia , stating that should further attacks be made on Commissars twenty-five more prominent Russians held as hostages in Moscow prisons will immediately be executed . Training Girls in Warfare . Extensive war training of children , including girls in Soviet school . is proceeding . Moscow papers received in London , says The Daily Mail , show that girls are being taught rifle shooting and the universities are to provide officers for men 's and women 's battallions . All girls in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily to rifle practice in addition to " gas drill " and handgrenade attacks . It is reported In the Izvestia that the " amazons " are showing great progress . As for the boys , it is stated that military preparations are more serious . Three hours of rifle practice daily is the minimum , and games and sports have been stopped in favor of war training . The British Government is carrying out its policy of deporting all Russian Communists who are known to have been in England in furtherancenof Moscow 's revolutionary plots , with the result that more than 150 Reds have been sent borne since the Government 's decision three weeks ago to break off relations with the Soviet Government .                     