@@685994

txt Putting the final polish on the Army eleven is the task of the coaches for the balance of this week . Today four teams worked out on the two gridirons on the " Plains . " On the North Field Major Daly , head coach , personally supervised the big team 's drill , which lasted an hour and a half , and extended into the darkness , when the searchlights on Fort Putnam and the nearby hills were brought into play . Daly had all his ' Varsity men out today . There was no heavy scrimmaging , althollth the men got in a half-hour 's " dummy " drill . This sort ' of drill will be continued tomorrow and Wednesday , after which the Army will burn its bridges and take a last , final signal practice on Turkey Day . The persistency with which White is being used in the doubtful end position indicates to . many that he will be the ultimate choice of the coaches for the Navy battle . The former University of Maine wingman was in for nearly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice Reeder , Pitzer. and Glasgow were all used sparingly . White is twenty pounds lighter than his nearest competitor , Pitzer. who tips the scales around 183 pounds . White 's experience , though , may count for him in the final reckoning . Pitzer 's aggressiveness is a big asset in his favor . The race for this position will be a merry one for the next couple of days . Don Storck , the former Rutgers end , was at the other flank today . Mulligan , who has practically beaten Lou Storck to the position , was used at left tackle , while Davidson was in the other tackle position . Breidster and Clark were the guards . Goodman , a heavy Californian , who is coming fast , got a chance in Clark 's place at guard for a brief spell . He will probably play against the Navy only in the event of injury to either Breidster or Clark . Goodman kicks well and this may help him in the final . assignment . Greene played the whole afternoon at the pivot position with Enderton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strohecker , the giant plebe substitute for Greene , has definitely been put out of the running . His recent injury is still bothering him to the extent that Trainer Harry Tuthill declared him out for good and all today . He was out on the field , but not in togs . Behind the line , Daly used his backs in a kicking and signal drill two complete sets of ball-carrying backs getting into the play . Captain Wilhide at quarter drove what is expected to be the soldiers ' first string of backs , French , Smythe and Lawrence . Ogden , the " plebe " quarter , worked with the ' Varsity for a while when Richards and Ebersole ran through a brief session which also saw French at fullback . Ebersole 's excellent punting may land him a berth behind the Army line dur ? ing some stage of the Navy conflict .                     