@@694134

txt Students of child psychology have ever been impressed with the plasticity of children 's minds . They are so easily and quickly molded , and they retain with such firmness the stamp of others ' influence . Adults , on the other hand , have been thought of as fixed in the lines of their childhood and youth . WILLIAM TAMES said : " Outside their " own business , the ideas gained by " men before they are 25 are practically " the only ideas they shall have in their " lives . They can not get anything new . " Recent studies of the capacity of grown people to acquire knowledge and fresh skill indicate the scrapping of an old notion . A booklet issued by the American Library Association is filled with such a variety of proofs that adults can learn , and moreover that they are eager to do so , that enthusiasm about the possibilities brims over . One of the most interesting reports is that of Professor E. L. THORNDIKE of Teachers College , Columbia University . During the past two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ averaging in age 42. the other 22 . Both were compared with a group of children . The adults were taught to write with the wrong hand , to operate the typewriter , and there were classes in algebra , science , foreign languages , For all three groups there were classes in reading , spelling , arithmetic and other elementary school subjects . In general , both adult groups learned more rapidly than the children . The older group of adults learned almost as rapidly as the younger  --  roughly , about five-sixths as fast . The conclusion is that ability to learn increases until about 20 , when it remains stationary for a time , and then declines very gradually . No one under 50 should be deterred from trying to learn something new by the fear of being too old , and even after 50 the decline is so slow that the attempt to learn is still well worth while . Not lack of ability , but lack of opportunity or desire to learn , now appears to be the reasonable explanation why adults so seldom learn a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire have greatly increased everywhere in this country in recent years . Which one causes the other , if they are cause and effect , can not be decided , so closely have they moved together along a rising plane . Correspondence schools are a part of the general development . Perhaps they have somewhat stimulated the yearning for higher education ; certainly they have taken advantage of it . The Public Library of Newark reports that about ten thousand young people in that city , mostly men between 20 and 82 years of age , pay yearly more than 5200,000 to correspondence schools . These young men have had little formal education and are mostly working at trades not requiring great skill . They are keenly aware of the handicap of ignorance , and enthusiasm and the simplicity of the first lessons carry them on until the fourth . or fifth , which are apparently made very difficult for the purpose of discouraging the purchaser of the course . He has paid in advance for ten or twenty lessons , but seldom takes more than three . Newark investigators say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courses for which they pay . " The Newark Library is bent on giving these would-be learners help . It can not take the place of an honest correspondence school , with its special textbooks , lessons in series and checking up of students ' papers . But it is making out lists of books suitable for students of technical subjects , and the advisers are prepared to give personal advice to student-workers who want to " learn to do better work and to get better pay . " Last year a million books , not novels , were loaned to Newarkers . Personal contact between borrowers and the library staff in any town points to an interesting phase of library work . The librarian of the Bangor Public Library observed that a remarkable increase in the reading of poetry among adult borrowers had taken place . It was explained by the fact that the two assistants in charge during the busiest hours of the day had an unusual knowledge and interest in that department of literature . They had fired their clients with a like ardor . Exchange of personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar incentive . The librarian of Missoula , Mont , had been sending books by parcel post to a homesteader 's family in the mountains ninety miles away . It is worth while to quote from a letter written by the homesteader 's wife , for it reflects the happiness of thousands of others who are finding delight in reaching out for knowledge . She first acknowledged receipt of TRINE 'S " History of English Literature " and ARNOLD 'S " Essays in Criticism , " which were supplementary reading in a correspondence school course she was taking . Information of other study follows : My husband wishes to thank you for the many informative books he has had on forestry , geology , soils and the birds and animals of this particular region . We have extended our horizon and look forward to many happy hours to come , where formerly we dreaded the Winters . Surely no better place could be found for quiet study of deep subjects . It is a long letter , with accounts of neighbors who have come ten or fifteen miles to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " to study the Alpine flower book , " preparatory to identifying the flora of the near-by glacier . The entire letter , like the entire subject of adult education , may be drawn to a point in one sentence of hers ? " It is u ) renew one 's youth . "                     