@@686052

txt The economic blockade , the only weapon of the League of Nations against covenant-breaking States , was very much dulled by a decision of the Assembly today leaving to each country to decide for itself when the blockade should be applied . This obviously weakens the system , through the chance of dissension among members of the League , it being apparent that the economic blockade of any nation is not workable in an effective manner unless all the surrounding States join . It was , however , the only step left to the Assembly , since many of the smaller nations refused to leave to the Council , controlled by the big powers , the right to say when the blockade should be applied . Article XVI . of the covenant binds all members of the League to blockade any nation breaking the covenant provisions in making war . The paramount question naturally is , When has a nation violated the covenant ? It was proposed by the . big powers to leave it to the Council to notify countries of its decision . The Scandinavian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unanimity being required , a change of plan was necessary . Therefore , the report presented this morning provides that the Council shall hold a meeting on notice from the Secretary General of a probable violation , and shall send the minutes of the meeting to all the members of the League . Then Paragraph C says : " As soon as it , member of the League is satisfied in consequence of the communication of the proc ? s-verbal that a breach of the covenant within Article XVI . has occurred , it is ' its duty to take measures for carrying out Article XVI . " Belgian Rebukes " Shirkers . " The unwillingness of certain Governments to commit themselves to the use of the League weapon brought on a heated debate in the Assembly , in which Delegate La Fontaine said that Belgium had not been afraid to do her duty in 1914 and was disappointed to see so many " shirkers " in the League . He said : " The opinion of Belgium is that , however grave a peril the blockade system may involve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones , should fulfill their duties . That was the way Belgium acted in 1914 and under similar circumstances in the future that is what she would do again . She considers that all countries should adopt the same idea of their obligations . Do your duty whatever the result may be . " This attack was especially forceful as coming from - Belgium , because the reason the small countries give for their attitude is that the blockading of some powerful nation might result in their being crushed . In presenting the report Lord Robert Cecil said that public opinion would in most cases achieve the ends of the League , but that for exceptional cases of international wrongdoing the blockade system had been established . He declared that the covenant was very unsatisfactory in its provisions on this subject , because while making it obligatory upon members to blockade an offending State , It set up no machinery for deciding when a nation was offending . His report called for the establishment of a Blockade Commission to work out a plan for submission to the members , at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Blockade Commission was to consider the principle that each nation was to decide when a State was offending and then it was bound to act . This was more or less reasoning in a circle , for if a State did not wish to blockade another it might very conveniently provide evidence not convincing . Swiss Cling to Neutrality . M. Motta of Switzerland declared that he wanted it emphasized that " each State is free to decide for itself whether it shall apply the blockade or not . " He added that Switzerland must guard her neutrality , sanctified by centuries of observance . it . was then that Lafontaine spoke . Lord Robert said that he did not ae ? ent Motta 's statement that . each country could decide whether ? to apply the blockade . He said that each country could decide if any State had offended . Motta replied that it looked all the same to him . Leon Bourgeois said that France believed that all nations should shoulder their burdens in case of the need of applying the blockade , and mentioned that Article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the little nations suffer through the performance of League duties . Nevertheless . because of the objections of certain nations , particularly Norway , Sweden and Den . mark , he thought that the report plan should he adopted for the present and a better plan worked out In time . The report was then adopted . President Hymens announced a plan for limiting speeches to ten minutes , which was adopted . He said that It was necessary for the Assembly to adjourn Dec. 18 at the latest ' and that session. , would be held both in the morning and the afternoon next week . May Name China on Council . China may become a member of the League Council . Recommendations of a commission which were made public tonight provide that in the election of tl4e four nein-permanent members of the Council three shall come from Europe and North or South America and one from Asia or some other part of the world . This clause was inserted at the request of the Chinese delegation . which will probably become the Asiatic representative . The four non-permanent members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of these , the first three will probably be re-elected , but Greece will almost certainly be superseded . The Council today submitted to the Assembly a report saying that it could not at this time hand over a definite statement on the mandate situation because the terms of the mandates were still under discussion by the powers which had assumed the direction of the former German colonies . The two chief points under discussion are the right of the French to recruit black troops , and Australia 's attitude with regard to Japanese immigration to the Pacific islands put under Australian control . The Japanese complain that if the Australian exclusion law is applied their position in the islands will be worse than when the islands were under the Germans , against whom they took part in the war . Any definite action by the League on the subject is therefore pretty well prevented . The Assembly will set up a mandate commission to which the , mandatory powers will report . But inasmuch as under Article CXIX of the Treaty of Versailles Germany renounced all her rights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers , the mandatory commission 's powers seem likely to be somewhat limited . Draft on Compulsory Arbitration . GENEVA , Dec. 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? The International Court of Justice Commission today adopted a plan for a certain form of compulsory arbitration subject to the approval of the members of the League . The plan provides that all members of the League shall recognize compulsory jurisdiction if a certain number of States ratify such an arrangement . Following are the auestion.s which are to be subject to compulsory arbitration ; First , the interpretation of treaties ; second . questions of international law ; third , violations of international engagements ; fourth , the interpretation of sentences rendered by the intcrna ions ) court , and fifth , the nature and scope of reparations due to the breaking of an international engagement . The plan was adopted after Harmodio Arias . the Panaman del .. , zate , offered an amendment providing that the recognition of compulsory arbitration may be subject to a certain number of States agreeing to such an arrangement . The plan will come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction in Esperanto in public schools was introduced in the Assembly today .                     