@@688601

txt Among the properties of the previous management taken over by the Bolsheviki when they seized the Government of Russia was , it may be supposed , the black eagle of the RoMANOE'r 's . It was always the misfortune of this bird that , being twoheaded , he faced in opposite directions at . the same time . He never knew whether his eyes ought to be fixed on the Dardanelles or the Sea of Japan , and this uncertainty got him into a geed deal of trouble . Similarly the I3olsheviki seem undecided whether their future as a dominating power in international affairs lies M the Far East or the Near East . No doubt , like their predecessors , they will try to get their way in both places ; which may not be so easy as it looks . By way of stirring things up in the Near East , TCHITCHERIN announces at the end or intermission ot : the Lausanne conference that no settlement of Near Eastern affairs can be permanent unless it takes into account the interests of Russia . Nobody will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a settlement which suits their interests . They want to leave the Turks in unrestricted control of the Straits . This will keep the British out of the Black Sea . Provisionally , it will also keep the Russians in the Black Sea ; but when they want to get out they will have little trouble with the Turks . In other words , there Is room for doubt whether this Russian plan for the settlement of the Straits question provides , or intends tee provide , for a permanent settlement . Some Turkish Communists were lately arrested at Angora and sentenced to death , as opponents of : SI USTAP I-1 A Xi:MACS Government Usually are . The semi-official Moscow press is now warning the Turks that execution of the sentence will have its effect on Russo-Turkish relations . " Do n't go too far , " says an encouraging headline . Little episodes such as this must give the Turks something  --  to think about . At the other extremity of Russian territory lies Japan . The Moscow press is now publishing long dispatches from Tokio to show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concession of oil lands in Northern Sakhaiin , owned by Russia but still occupied by Japan , to the Sinclair Oil Company . One suspects that these dispatches tell most about the state of feeling in Russia ; the Japanese probably do not like this Sinclair concession , but they understand American affairs a good deal better than the doctrinaire Communists in Moscow . It need not be doubted that Moscow granted this concession chiefly in the hope of making , trouble between America and Japan . That is the first result of Moscow 's reabsorption of the Far Eastern Republic ; the men in Chita were more interested in getting American capital ) to develop their country . They want no Japanese-American war ; they have had enough war . What they want is peace and a chance to catch their I breath . But Moscow believes firmlyH in Ih a coming Japanese-American ' conflict , and will do its bit to help it along . Moscow stories that Tokio is wildly ' excited by this concession are not very plausible . A stipulation in the con- ' tract provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Soviet " Government within five years . We are now asked to believe that Japan thinks the Sinclair concession will move the State Department to recognize Russia , and that it was the real moving force behind America 's pressure on Japan to withdraw from Sakhalin . This is the reasoning of economic determinists : it may seem plausible in Moscow , but Tokio knows better . The Russians are gleefully going in for guile in international politics , but they seem to be fooling few people besides themselves .                     