@@695308

txt Governor Smith wrote to the Rev. Dr. John Roach Straton from Albany yesterday demanding a " yes or no " answer to his request that the pastor meet him in Calgary Baptist Church and Dr. Straton replied , in a statement to reporters , by calling the letter " just childish " and asserting , " I am not going to allow Governor Smith to run away from a fight . " . tie announced that he would hire " the largest hall I can secure " and go ahead with the " debate " regardless of whether the Governor appeared to defend himself . He would ask Mayor Walker and the Governor for " police protection and , if it should be necessary , military protection , " he said . With the two protagonists thus at odds , there seemed last night to be little likelihood of their meeting . The Governor 's Letter . The Governor 's communication , as given out yestvydaNr in Albany , follows : Dear Dr. Strator : I have your letter of Aug. 9 , covering three p iges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted to come to your church and there have you repeat in my presence the statements you made about me , with such proof as you care to adduce , and give me an opportunity to answer you before your own parishioners and in the place where you made the statements . Your reply chows that you misunderstand the situation . I have no intention of conducting a political debate with you . I wrote you not in the capacity of a candidate or personally , but as the Governor of the State of New York , whom you have traduced . The answer to my request to appear in your church before your parishioners under the conditions I mentioned is Yes or No . Unless and until I hear from you in the affirmative , the matter is closed . Very truly yours , ALFRED E. SMITH . The missive had not yet reached the preacher at his Summer home at Greenwood Lake . Reporters , whose activities have boomed the business of rowboat renting there , arrived in a flotilla at 3 o'clock in the afternoon only to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son , pastor of a Philadelphia church , that " Father is not feeling so spry today . He is taking a rest and can not be disturbed . " Insurance Man Arouses Him . A few minutes later an insurance agent was successful in efforts to " disturb " the slumbering minister , so the news gatherers were encouraged to send in a copy of the letter by the wife of their first informant . She reappeared with the announcement that " Dr. Straton will be here in a moment . " The preacher , whose charge in a sermon at his church a week ago Sunday that the Governor was America 's " deadliest foe of moral progress and political wisdom , " led the Presidential candidate to demand a repetition of the charge and an opportunity to reply before the same audience , stepped out on the porch of his lakeside abode frowning deeply . He was clad in a shirt of lavender stripes , without collar or coat , and black trousers of a thin weave . His callers awaited his words with pencils poised . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter . " Assuming that this copy of the letter from Governor Smith is correct , it Is the most remarkable and amazing document I have ever heard of . " As far as ' traducing ' him goes , nothing under Heaven could be further from the fact . Of course , I can not answer until I receive the Governor 's letter . However , I believe the heart of my reply will be to this effect : " He challenged me to a joint discussion . I accepted . He stipulated that the debate should be held in my own church . For obvious reasons , which I have already advanced , it can not be . " However , the Governor insists and , refuses to debate with me unless he can come to Calvary Baptist Church , which I have already pointed out is impracticable . " Will Hire Largest Hall .. Dr. Straton paused and looked from one to another of his visitors with the expression of one who seeks light . But his brow cleared abruptly . " Then I will hire the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I will notify Governor Smith that I am going to repeat in that hall the exact sermon that I delivered in Cal vary Baptist Church , and to which he objected . " I will see to it that tickets are given to everyone of my parishoners so that those who heard the original sermon will be there . The balance of the tickets will be divided in equal numbers between Democratic and Republican headquarters for distribution as they , wish and will . " I am going to ask the Mayor of New York and Mr. Smith , as Governor , for all necessary police protection , and , if it should be necessary , military protection . I will repeat my sermon verbatim  --  I have it all in manuscript  --  add to it , and indicate the additions , cite additional proof of my allegations , give Governor Smith all the time he wants in which to reply , after which I will offer whatever remarks I may think wise and necessary . " Although it was made plain that Dr. Straton was not certain that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he would permit the Governor to speak again after he had made his second address . " He may have the privilege of a sur-rebuttal if he wishes it , " the minister replied . " This will all take place sometime during the week of Sept. 2 , as the Governor has desired . " Governor Smith mentioned that week in his first letter of challenge as a time when he would be at liberty to face Dr. Straton 's charges if repeated in the latter 's church . Wo n't " Run to Cover . " Dr. Straton added , " If he does not appear at the meeting I shall have something to say about him , whether he is Governor or Presidential candidate . We will see who will run to cover in this thing . " Calling attention to a cartoon in The New York World depicting himself fleeing into a cellar to escape from a cyclone representing the Governor , he said , " What amuses me is the meager and weak proportions of the Smith cyclone . The twister was but a May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as I am concerned . " He glanced at the copy of the Governor 's reply and , shaking it , said , " This whole thing is just childish . " Recalling occasions when Dr. Straton has accused newspapers of misquoting him , a reporter asked again if he intended to " hold the meeting and make your charges even if the Governor refuses to attend . " " I certainly do , " he said . " I am not going to allow Governor Smith to run away from a fight he has got himself into .. It was as a candidate for the Presidency of the United States that he wanted to speak at Calvary Church in the first place . It wads entirely a political . move . " While the Governor has not been disposed to discuss the controversy with the pastor at any length , it has been said by his friends since its inception that his only desire was to reply to charges peculiarly obnoxious to him before the people who heard them . When asked for comment yesterday upon the letter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to say was contained in the letter . " I guess anybody who can read the English language knows what I mean , " he said . The alleged purchase of whisky at the Sterling Forest Hotel , property of Dr. Straton , as leader of the projected Greenwood Lake Christian Assembly , was called a plot yesterday . " I refuse to say anything about the hotel , said Dr. Straton . " Just last night I had secured evidence which showed pretty clearly that the whole story about liquor in my hotel was a deliberate frame-up between The New York World and the liquor interests . It was dastardly and contemptible , and in my opinion the . most abominable trick ever worked in the history of New York journalism . The evidence of liquor being bought has gone back to New York and probably been consumed in The World office . " William Hecht , lessee of the hotel , did not take the impeachment of his honor as a law-abiding hotel proprietor calmly . He charged that Dr. Straton , in discussing the situation the preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pastor 's statement that the rent was paid to the estate of Louis Brandeis was false , and displayed a check stub for $250 . This was rent money , he . declared , and the check had been given to Dr. Straton . The pastor , he said , had threatened to eject him if the money was not paid . The proprietor said he had been forced to delay its payment because he had had to expend considerable sums in " improvements . " He also denied that Dr. Straton had admonished him not to sell liquor as a source of income . Local authorities took no action today , standing by the edict of Sheriff Charles McCoach of Orange County that the evidence  --  the quart of alleged whisky  --  should be shown to a Justice of the Peace and a search warrant obtained on the strength of it . It was reported on the best authority last night that the evidence had disappeared .                     