@@696152

txt Two fleets.ot combat planes will be pitted against each other under actual fighting conditions during the spring maneuvers of the army air corps at Wilbur Wright field , near Dayton , May 15 to 26 . The refueling principle established by the Question Mark will be put to practical use during the maneuvers in a 1,500 mile mock bombing mission from Dayton to New York City and return . Another feature of the demonstrations will be a mass attack on Cleveland by a fleet of bombing , pursuit and attack planes . Foreign sale of French planes fell . off nearly 20 per cent during the last year , according to figures released yesterday by the French Chamber of Commerce in New York . During 1927 the aggregate value of French planes sold abroad was ' 197,000,000 francs ** In 1928 the figure dropped to 139,000,000 francs $5,321,0003 . The Robertson division of the Universal . Aviation corporation , with a mark of 97.02 per cent , led the twentyfour air mail lines in the United States in efficiency over the period from April 15 , 1926 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between St. Louis and Chicago . A proposed merger of the Universal Aircraft corporation with the newly froced Aviation corporation has not met the general approval of stockholders of the former company and is not likely to be completed on the present terms , it was learned yesterday in New York . A share for share exchange is die proposed basis of the merger , which is dependent on the deposit of 51 per cent of Universal stock before May 20 . Johannes Wendt , 2543 Sunnysidel avenue , yesterday obtained warrants before Judge Joseph L. McCarthy in Town Hall court for F. Kendle and . E Nelson , whom he charged with the theft of a plane he was constructing for them . According to Wendt , the two men placed an order with him eight weeks ago . Last week , he charges , Kendlo and Nelson removed the plane from his machine shop at 3220 Armitage avenue In his absence , without paying a balance of $600 due him for labor and parts . Pilot Harry Lewis of the National Air Transport lipcs , flying the mall from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mo. , late yesterday afternoon when his motor stalled at 3,000 feet . The ship , a new Curtiss Falcon powered with a 625 horsepower Conqueror motor , was badly damaged . Lewis escaped without injury and the mall Was saved . The Universal Aviation corporation 's plans for summer expansion include the opening of three new schools and two new air lines . Kansas City , Cleveland and Columbus will get the new flying schools . On May 1 the company will commence operatiops over a , line between St. Louis wand Chicago , with Springfield and Peoria as stops . The same day a mail and passenger service from St. Louis to Kansas City and Omaha will be inaugurated . Officials of the company announced yesterday the purchase of $100,000. worth of new training planes for use in the schools .                     