@@685060

txt ENDOWED PUBLIC SCHOOLS . A Neglected but Direct Way of Serving the Public Good . To the Editor of The New York Times : In the midst of the numerous drives that are now in full swing for endowments and funds for private educational institutions , it may not be amiss to call attention to ' the fact that . our public schools are being entirely overlooked . It was quite natural that , while one 's relations , to his fellows were local and concrete , benefactions for the public good- should be closely related to the benefactor . This ; impuise found expression in a library or hospital for the old bon* town . The simple education of the little red school house did n't need much outside help . Before the State applied itself to higher education there had to , : be , in the nature of things , an era of endowed academies and colleges . Gradually all that service is being taken - over inoro  --  and more by the State , and it new snort of public ' spirit has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With . a mass - of new ideas and untested theories crowding ' aggressively upon us , we need as never before to get at the truth ; and how shall we find the truth unless by earnest , tolerant , openminded inVestigation ; ? and through the constructive processes of education ? How shall we maintain the old American ideas of individual energy and thrift and of respect for honorable individual success unless by convincing the great body of our citizens ' from childhood up that the American system is based upon sound views of justice- and common interests ? The public schools are In a. great measure dependent upon the teachers for whatever success may be accomplished . Their training and attitude toward their high calling is a. greater determinant ' of what the schools shall , be than the character of the building or the mere physical equipment .. And let me add that - most of these teachers are trained in public schools , especially in the State Normal and teacher-training institutions and our city and State dollegeS . It is a fact which should challenge attention that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of great fortunes have done little to allay the Suspicions of those In our country who are preaching the gospel of class hatred , the gospel which thrives on the belief that our men of wealth are not interested In the welfare of the masses of our people . - What better antidote to this than liberal giving to the schools of the people ? Gifts to museums , libraries , hospitals and great corporation universities are laudable . But they do not touch the great masses of the American people closely enough . Whether justified or not , there is even a feeling abroad that they exemplify the , rich giving to /the rich . " To them that bath shall be . given " will . never bepopular doctrine . It is one of the solemponp jokes of New England tradition that no person within the Boston pale can die in an atmosphere of respectability without leaving some gift to , Haryard University . Can we hope to see a similar loyalty developed with respect to our public schools ? Suppose memorial high schools or elementary schools were as many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chemistry department or a music department were specially endowed at Hunter . College or the . College of , the City of New York , is there any room for . doubt what it would mean to the taxpayers of this city ? What bet -- ter way to perpetuate a name or sweeten the memory . of a departed one ? Let us square our practice with our theory in dealing with the great American schools . Let us Make them truly the bulwarks of democracy and the open door to opportunity . Builders of great fortunes , men and women or wealth , holders of " public trusts , " a splendid opportunity is open to you . HENRY T. FLECK . Hunter . College , March n , 3D2o.                     