@@696227

txt With the farm relief bill reposing for the time being in conference , the LongworthTilson organization is now directing its energies to bringing about the early passage by the House of the tariff revision program . When that has been accomplished negotiations will be resumed looking to a long re , cess by both branches of Congress pending consideration of the tariff measure by the Senate Committee on Finance . As things now stand , the Republican leaders do not look for the passage of the tariff bill before the end of August , and they express fears that the measure may not reach the White House until the Autumn leaves begin to fall . The House Ways and Means Committee spent months in whittling rates prior to the introduction of its revision bill on May 7 , and the House itself probably will ratify the . job , modified more or less , on or about May 28 . While under the Constitution the House originates all legislation affecting - the revenues , the Senate usually works its own will on such measures , and as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the initial product . after it has passed through the burly-burly mill of Senate processes . Recess Program Favored . Gathering about him the other day his official advisers . Speaker Longworth took pencil and pad in hand and figured that it would take the . Senate Finance Committee about a month to re-revise the Hawley tariff revision bill and at least another month for Senate debate on the report of the Senate committee . Accordingly , he suggested an armistice. under which the House would take a two months ' vacation and the Senate a thirty-day vacation , while the Senate committee is at work .. This program , it is understood , is satisfactory to the Senate leaders who see no reason why all Senators should remain in Washington to bake during June and July , while the Senate committee is deliberating over tariff problems . They are in entire accord with the recommendation of Speaker Longworth that the Senate chamber should be closed for a month after the House has passed the tariff bill , and that the House should then suspend its labors for sixty days pending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unless complications ensue in connection with the farm relief bill the program for a. recess as indicated will be carried out . Meanwhile , the . House Ways and Means Committee is meeting daily behind closed doors in an effort to compose differences over numerous items in the Hawley bill . A drive was made before the committee today for protection on crude petroleum and this may cause trouble before the bill is taken up for a vote in the House . Hearings on proposed changes in rates were closed and the committee , in executive sessions Monday and Tuesday , will reach its conclusions . On Wednesday , probably , the House Republicans will meet in conference to decide upon a rule for limitation of debate on the floor . Chairman Hawley of the Ways . - tnd Means Committee said today that he . saw no reason why the bill that bears his name should not be passed a week from today . Other leaders were not so optimistic . They fixed May 28 as the probable date upon which a vote would be taken . Sugar still continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers . The provision fixing the world rate on sugar at 3 cents a pound and the rate on the Cuban product at 2.40 cents a pound has excited determined opposition among Eastern members , and the American Federation of Labor has taken its position on the firing line against it . Garner for Sliding Seale . Representative Garner of Texas , the Democratic leader , today accentuated the controversy over the sugar schedule by advocating a sliding scale of rates on the product , to be governed by the New York price or indicated production in the field . Under the Garner plan , as its author explained it , heavy importations of sugar would automatically raise the rates , thus assuring protection to American producers as conditions In the market rendered it necessary . Thus 96-degree sugar , the kind that comes from Cuba , would carry a rate of 3.20 cents a pound if the New York land price was one cent a pound . This would make the , few York price at wholesale 4.20 cents a pound . The 1-cent rate , he asserted , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method the duties would trend downward , until , if the New York land price reached 5 cents a pound , the duty ) would be wiped out . Commenting on his plan , which he will embody in an amendment , and offer if the sugar schedule is thrown open to changes on the floor , Mr. Garner said : " I understand the rates I will propose are not acceptable to the sugar people , but it seems to me the plan is a fair , just and equitable solution of the problem . " If one must judge by past experience , it will give to the American people not exceeding 5 to 5% cents sugar at all times , which , I think , is a reasonable price , and constitutes the cheapest food in America . Moreover , it will enable the meet and cane sugar people w know in advance that they are going to receive at least $4.20 per 100 pounds for 06-degree sugar and they could plant their crops accordingly . Change Proposed by Garner . " This proposal would probably stop in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Cuban sugar was selling low , as it is now , the rates would be high . When Cuban sugar was selling high the rates would be low . It seems to me this is to the best interests of all concerned , Cuba as well as the United States . " Here is the text of the proposed Garner amendment : Page 105 , strike out lines three to seventeen , inclusive , and insert : Paragraph 501 . Sugars , tank bottoms , sirups of cane juice , melada , concentrated melada and concrete and concentrated molasses and mixtures containing sugar and water testing by the polariscope above 50 sugar degrees : ( 1 ) . Any of the foregoing , if testing by the polariscope 96 sugar degreen , shall be subject to a duty per pound equal to the amount , if any , by which 5 cents exceeds the ' wholesale price per pound of sugars testing by the polariscope 96 sugar dedrees . For the purpose of this paragraph such wholesale price shall be the weighted average of the prices ( including cost and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivery , of sugars testing Iby the polariscope 96 sugar degrees , In the New York wholesale market on the last day on which sales were made prior to the day on which entry is made or merchandise withdrawn from warehouse . ( 2 ) . If testing by the polariscope below 96 sugar degrees and not below 75 sugar degrees , the 96 degree rate shall be reduced by 2-100 for each sugar degree below 96 sugar degrees , and fractions of a degree in proportion . ( 3 ) . If testing by the polariscope below 75 sugar degrees the 75-degree rate will apply . ( 4 ) . If testing by the polariscope above 06 sugar degrees , forty-six one thousandths of 1 cent per pound for each sugar degree above 96 degrees , and fractions of a degree in proportion , and in addition thereto , the 96-degree rate . Appeals for Higher Rates . The Hawley bill , as reported , continued crude oil on the free list . A delegation of Western members , headed by Representatives Sproul of Kansas and Hastings and O'Connor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty of at least 25 cents a barrel on crude petroleum , insisting that the industry in the Southwest needed protection . California members , it was said , are in sympathy with the move . Representative Hull of Illinois asked for a duty of 8 cents a gallon on black strap molasses , used largely for the production of alcohol . He told the committee that it foreign black strap had to pay the rate named it would assure the sale of 40,000,000 additional bushels of domestic corn in the home market . Higher duties on granite and slate were urged by Representatives Brigham and Gibson of Vermont . Mr. Davillo , the Porto Rican delegate , urged higher rates on pineapples . Porto Rican pineapples reach the American market duty free , but they feel the competition of the product from the Bahamas and Cuba . Higher rates on pecans and china clay were advocated by Representatives Vinson and Larsen of Georgia , while Representative Woodruff argued for increased duties on dried beans , potatoes and onions . Representative Brand of Ohio asked for a , substantial increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cooper of Wisconsin protested against any increase ? flti the tariff on wrapper tobacco . Representative Strong of Pennsylvania appeared at the request of the Glass Bottle Blowers Association , stating that he had received telegrams from five towns in his district asking for an increase of 871 , per cent in duty on cologne bottles . This , he thought , would make its own appeal to the fastidious gentlemen of the committee . Mr. Strong also submitted a telegram from John W. Light , secretary of the Pennsylvania State Grange , speaking in behalt of Pennsylvania agricultural interests and urging support of a tariff of 45 cents a bushel on potatoes , 15 cents on butter , 8 cents on casein and 4 cents on dry powdered milk . Seek Another Debenture Vote . The strategy of the Republican leaders on the eve of the conference over the farm relief bill seems directed toward efforts to force another Senate vote on the export debenture feature to which President Hoover objects . There is a strong likelihood that the House conferees will stand fast against the debenture , whereupon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate will probably reverse the action by which it included the bounty in the farm bill . Except for the debenture , there are few major differences between the House and Senate bills , these chiefly concerning the composition of the Farm Board and the scope of the authority of the stabilization corporations .                     