@@685487

txt To ' the psychological effect of Bryan 's presence and pronunciamento in favor of a bone-dry plank in the Democratic platform is attributed a statement made today on behalf of Governor James M. Cox of Ohio by James E. Campbell , exGovernor of the Buckeye State and one of the most active workers in the Cox pre-convention campaign . Like Governor Edward I. Edwards of New Jersey , a rival aspirant for the Presidential nomination , Governor Cox has enlisted the support of advocates of a wet plank in the platform , and has depended for success on the " personalliberty " element in the convention , which will open here on Monday . Many of his supporters received a severe Jolt when ex-Governor Campbell , as his chief spokesman here , said this morning : " Governor Cox does not consider the Democratic platform the proper place for treatment of the wet or ' dry issue . We do not look upon prohibition as an issue one way or the other . " Governor Cox has refused to be used by either faction . His record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great deal of comment among delegates from New York and Illinois , who , it is generally understood , were prepared to swing to Cox after fulfilling their obligations to other . candidates  --  Attorney General Palmer , with the men from Illinois , and Governor Alfred E. Smith , with the New Yorkers . At the headquarters of Governor Edwards , . the statement of Mr. Campbell was characterized as the worst case of " pussyfooting " and " cold feet " since the pre-convention fight of the various candidates has been conducted from bases in the convention city . Afraid of Reaction . Many of the Ohio men connected with the Cox boom , speaking privately . declared the statement of the ex-Governor unwise , and expressed fears that it would react disastrously among the forces that up to the present had formed the backbone of what strength Governor Cox had among the delegates , without getting him anywhere with the other side in the wet and dry controversy . There were indications , apart from the Campbell statement , that the Cox supporters were seeking to appease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past has expressed bitter opposition to the candidacy of Cox , branding him as a " wet . " Suggestions came from the Cox camp that the Secretary of Agriculture , Edwin Meredith , who would have the approval of Mr. Bryan for the Presidential nomination if he were seriously in the race , would be aceptable to Cox as a running mate . Mr. Meredith is dry , as was his home State , Iowa , even befpre the Eighteenth Amendment was ratified . Some ether promoters of the Cox boom expressed the opinion tonight thzt. the Democratic platform ought to pass by prohibition in silence and leave it to the voters to draw their ' own inference in the character of the nominee as to the stand of the party on prohibition enforcement . This vrogram , from all indications , would suit to a " t " all except the most extreme wets in the convention , but would invite a fight from the latter as well as the dry following of Mr. Bryan , in which as likely as not the hopes of ? any candidate occupying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boomers at ' Work . A host of Cox boomers arrived today and began to " whoop it up " for their candidate . In all there were about 400 , members of the Gem City Club of Dayton , Ohio , the home of Governor Cox , and of the Cox-for-President Club of Columbus , Ohio . Each brought a band and gaudy Cox banners , and the members flaunted the flossiest of flossy silk badges bearing the name and the photo of Cox . Their coming caused quite a stir in the Palace Hotel and the St. Francis , which are the ' principal centres of pre-convenvention activity . The Gem City Club marchers , arrayed in natty suits with black coats , white flannel trousers , white shoes and white straw hats with red , white and blue silk ribbons , made immediately for the St. Francis , while the marching club from Columbus invaded the lobby of the Palace Hotel , where the band broke forth in melody , while the Gem City Club Band was similarly occupied in the St. Francis . Another Cox Club from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will come the Columbus Glee Club , which conducted a tuneful pre-convention campaign for Governor Judge Hammel in 1912 . " Uncle Jud " himself is expected here tomorrow . He is one of the delegates at large from Ohio and an ardent supporter of Governor Cox , as are the Buckeye delegates . When all the Cox boomers have arrived there will be at least 600 or 700 on the ground who will make it their business to clamor for the nomination of Governor Cox and conduct a missionary campaign in his behalf among the delegates . In another direction , too , psychology has entered the situation here on the eve of the convention . Delegation after delegation coming in yesterday and today has brought delegates who declare they favor either as first or second choice . The psychological effect of all this has been to create an impression among convention goers generally that Mr. 's empnatic protestations were not to be taken at their face value , and that , by design perhaps , he dropped out as a candidate only to become a dark horse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is being groomed by the White House . This impression is surely gaining ground hourly , despite the declaration of many persons who may be regarded as in a position to know what is in President Wilson 's mind , that " the President has no candidate. ! ' Hurting Palmer 's Chances . This rising sentiment for Mr. , according to all indications , is hurting Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer more than any other candidate , just as the " withdrawal " of Mr. , when it was taken seriously by the leaders here . was more helpful to him than to any of his rivals . A swing of delegates who went from to Palmer back . to their first choice is predicted , and apparently is being promoted by a host of Federal officeholders affiliated with the Treasury Department who are here doing missionary work . The boom for John W. Davis , Ambassador to Great Britain , is continuing to make noiseless headway , according to the volunteer workers at his campaign headquarters in the Palace Hotel . The Supporters of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boom and the Cox boom , which now appear most promising , have run their course in the convention , Mr. Davis will fall heir to a host of footloose delegates . ? Ex-Governor W. A. MacCorkle , Govrnor John J. Cornwell , ex-United States Senator C. W. Watson of West Virginia , Stephen G. Jackson and Willard Snider of the Clarksburg Davis-forPresident Club are among the most active workers . Mr. Jackson is manager f the Davis pre-convention campaign . The West Virginia delegation caucussed here today and decided to be for Mr. Davis first , last and all the time . Davis Votes from Fifteen States . " We have received today , " Mr. Jackson said . " assurances from delegates representing fifteen States we can have Davis votes from their delegations at any time we want them . But we are not at any time trying to get delegates who are pledged or under obligation to support other candidates . We are playing Ambassador Davis purely as a second choice . We have personal assurances from delegates who . will vote on the early ballots for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and are released they will support Mr. Davis . The same is true about a large number of delegates who on the early ballots will join in favorite son 's votes with other delegates from their respective States . When the convention enters upon its last lap and candidates must stand before it on their own merit or be counted out , Ambassador Davis will he in the running more strongly than any time . " It is ' the consensus of opinion among the campaign managers who at present are going through a period of worry that the aim of such leaders as Tammany Chief Charles F. Murphy of New York , Thomas Taggart of Indiana , and George R. Brennan of Illinois , who is trying ' to fill the shoes of the late Roger Sullivan , is to bring about a deadlock over candidates which will make it possible for an entente of bosses with a common program and a community of interest to dictate to the convention both in the matter of platform and candidates . They are not overlooking the fact that Messrs . Murphy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not here for the purpose of paving the way for a Democratic national victory which by some of them Is regarded as far from likely to materialize , but to promote a program that will help them in the fights to come in their respective political bailiwicks . Murphy , especially , is believed to be more worried about next year 's Mayoralty election in New York City than he is about the national fight this year , and , if the surmises of persons who are in his confidence are correct , he intends to make in the National Convention the beginning of a drive to win back the vital Irish vote without which Tammany can not win in the City of New York , and to pile up prestige for Governor Alfred E. Smith that will be helpful to him in the fight he must make next Fall , whether he is a candidate for re-election to his present office or for United States Senator against James W. Wadsworth , Jr . Nixon buttons appeared today /or the first time . Public Service Commissioner Lewis Nixon , who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when shown one . He disclaimed any complicity in the launching of his boom and said he was " in the hands of his friends . " " But are you doing anything to stop it ? was suggested . " I do not know that there is anything to stop , " said Mr. Nixon , with a laugh . MEREDITH ' NOT A CANDIDATE . ' Says He Is ' Perfectly Happy ' as Secretary of Agriculture . SAN FRANCISCO , June 26 ( Associated Press ) . ? Secretary Meredith announced today that he was " not in any sense a candidate " for the Democratic nomination for President . He has been among those for whom nomination work was in progress , and plans for presenting his name to the convention had been made . The Secretary 's formal statement did not say whether these plans hart been canceled . Joint headquarters for Meredith and former Ambassador Gerard , also a contender for the nomination , had been opened here . Their names were linked in the sign announcing the whereabouts of workers for the " twin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a Delegate at Large from Iowa , " Secretary Meredith said . " I appreciate more than I can say the friendship and confidence expressed by Iowa friends in their suggestion of my name to the San Francisco Convention , but I am not in any sense a candidate for the nomination . " I am ? perfectly happy as Secretary of Agriculture , and if I may continue until March 4 next to serve the entire people of the nation by encouraging agriculture and by urging proper support of it . through adequate appropriations to the Department of Agriculture , I will feel that I am working in a ' field in Which I can be most effective . " Democrats are confident of success with Senator Harding as the Republican candidate and with the Republican platform drawn at Chicago leaving the people in doubt as to just where the Republican Party stands on the League of Nations Issue . "                     