@@690299

txt The women of the Republican Party on their long fight for equal representation on the National Committee today when the Rules Committee , with only three members dissenting , voted to report favorably on the proposition to the National Convention. - William M. Butler , selected by President Coolidge to be the new Chairman of the National Committee , took personal charge of the fight for the women and spent more than an hour with the Rules Committee before the decision was made . This did not serve to calm the emotions of some of the oil-timers , who feel that Mr , Butler is taking over too much power before actually being selected National Chairman . The Old Guard did not surrender to the dominance of the Caolidge-Butler machine without dealing its prestige a blow , however , by electing Paul Howland , who was chief of counsel for former Attorney General Daugherty at the Brookhart inquiry at Washington . as Chairman of the Rules Committee in defiance of the edict of Mr. Butler that another should hold that post . There has been trouble brewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates also , because announcement has been made in advance of the men Mr. Butler had selected : is heads of various committees . In making his decisions Mr. Butler did not consult the Old Guard leaders , and announcements were made before most of the delegates who were to form the committees had arrived in Cleveland . It is ? the understanding here that Mr. Butler had first decided on ex-Senator Frellnebuysen of New Jersey as Chairman of the Rules Committee . At any rate , a telegram was sent ? to Mr. Frelinghuysen asking him how IL : stood on the " equal representation " plan and offering him the Chairmanship of the committee if he was in favor of the Proposal . Mr. Frelinghuysen accepted . Hitch in the Butler Program . This action stirred up a row which Promised to result in a fight of some proportions not only on Mr. Frelinghuysen but on the 50410 plan as well . Certain leaders who are working with President Coolidge and Mr. Butler . despite their dislike of some of the methods adopted , are said to have advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a serious break in the party ranks was certain to follow . In any event it later was announced that Senator Ernst of Kentucky . whohas always held the reputation of being " regular " and on kindly relations with the old crowd ; would be Chairman of the Rules Committee and not former Senator Frclingbuysen . That was the way the situation stood when the Rules Committee began its session at 3 o'clock this afternoon behind closed doors , and then the delegates took a hand in affairs . They found themselves facing a situation where they were expected to do certain things , among them elect Senator Ernst their Chairman and pass the 50-50 resolution . The delegates were in a ' mood to revolt if the opportunity was presented . although It is said that a large majority of them had been prepared from the start to concede that equal representation for the women on the National Committee must be granted as the only sound political course to follow . ' When the meeting was called to order it developed that Senator Ernst was not in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized , and some one suggested Paul Howland . Daugherty 's counsel and delegate from Ohio . as Chairman . Before the movement could be checked a vote was taken and Mr. Howland was elected . Senator Ernst appeared an hour later and expressed no opinion about what had happened . The report which came from the committee room ' was that Mr. Ernst said he thought the meeting was to begin at 4 o'clock , not 3 o'clock . There was also a report that Mr. Ernst , who is , a practical political leader , was not very greatly depressed because the members of the committee had elected a Chairman who , as counsel and close friend of Mr. Daugherty , scarcely could be labelled as of the Coolidge-Butler wing of the party . Whatever the truth of these reports the satisfying thing to the old-time leaders was that Mr. Howland had been elected Chairman , without regard to orders issued from any camp . because of what the Democrats had done four years ago for their women folk . It was generally accepted tonight that the action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Convention when a report Is made tomorrow and that the women need nave no further worry about their future importance in the national committee . Ex-Senator Beveridge offered a resolution in the Rules Committee to the effect that no minority report may be rendered from the Resolutions Committee . which draws up the national platform , unless signed by at least seven members . At present any member of the Resolutions Committee may submit a minority report . It is understood that the purpose of the resolution was to avert . it possible , submission to the National Convention of a minority report supporting any of the doctrines advocated by followers of Senator La Follette . The resolution was voted down , and it is said but few ballots were cast for it . Another resolution submitted would have had the convention remain in continuous session 5eginning tomorrow until all of its business was competed . It was apparent that an overwhelming number of the committee members were against It and no record vote was taken . The committee elected Mrs. Nancy K. Long of Lancaster . Pa. , as Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan the women members of the National Committee who are now classed as " associates " will have equal authority with the men . it will increase the active membership of the National Committee from 53 to 106 . A resolution also was adopted increasing the number of Vice Chairmen of the National Committee from one to three , without specifying whether the Vice Chairmen should be men or women . At least one of the posts will go to a woman , however . The arguments that Mr. Butter used in requesting that the committee report favorably on the 50-50 plan were not made public , but he is said to have made it plain that the President believed the importance of women in politics today demanded it , particularly in view of the fact that the Democratic Party gave the women equal representation on the National Committee at the 11 ) 20 convention . Women members of the Republican Party who appeared before the Rules Committee emphasized the fact that the Democrats had done more for the women than the men . Among those who joined in the fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that she knew the committee could not hold off longer ;                     