@@696576

txt Ambrose J. Ward , 20 years old , whose recent escapades Include burglary , stickups , an escape from police , recapture , and release on ball , held up the Morrison hotel coffee shop late last night . In pursuit by police , two bystanders were shot and the loop was thrown into panic . Ward was captured and in a cell again early this morning , unscathed by the 18 rounds of bullets fired at his back . The two bystanders were in the Iroquois hospital , neither seriously hurt , according to reports . Ward walked through the hotel lobby to the coffee shop at 11:30 p. m. when few patrons were in the restaurant . Holding his hand in his coat pocket as if it gripped a gun , he demanded the contents of the cash register from Miss Elinor Mars , the cashier , of 1808 Farwell avenue . She handed over 8100 . Girl Screams ; Chase Begins . As he strode swiftly out through the lobby the girl screamed to her mother , Mrs. Dorothy Mars , who had called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O'Connor , in plain clothes , jumped to the chase . Outside at the southeast corner of Madison and Dearborn streets Policemen John J. Geary and P. J. Murphy joined in pursuit . Ward wheeled south in Dearborn street , the three policemen and a rabble about 30 paces behind . As pedestrians ducked to cover in doorways the officers opened fire . Peter Werner , 44 years old , 5648 Goodman street , en route to his job as elevator , man in the ' Great Northern hotel , became confused as Ward whizzed by and , hearing the pistol fusillade , took after him . He fell with a bullet in his left leg and another in his back . Second Man Is Shot . At Dearborn and Monroe streets there was another casualty . Walter Filiska , 24 years old , 622 South Lain street , ' stepped out of a shoe shine stand and caught bullets In the cheek and left ankle : The fugitive ducked east In an alley . He came out at State street and the mob of pursuers was swelled as he swerved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adams . He was caught in a storeroom in the Bankers ' building at . Clark and Adams streets . On the night of June 18 Sergt. Josepht Collins caught Ambrose breaking into a tilling station . The youth broke away and turned up a month later in Cheyenne , Wyo. , where he failed to scare a cab driver with a toy pistol and was jailed . Returned to Chicago , he was arraigned before Judge Joseph L. McCarthy and released on ; 10.000 bond .                     