@@688009

txt John Stevenson , 3S years old , of 125 Washington Place , a film actor employed at the George B. Seitz Studios , 1.900 Park Avenue , said to have been working as a double for Pearl White in a new screen serial thriller . " Plunder. " missed his swing from an elevated girder to which he leaped from the top of a bus at Seventy-second Street and Columbus Avenue yesterday morning while camera men kept on grinding . Stevenson suffered a fractured skull from which he died in Roosevelt Hospital at 10:10 o'clock last nigh t . A fair-sized crowd was gathered at Columbus Avenue and Seventy-second Street at 10:30 o'clock yesterday , having heard the rumor - that Pearl White , whose " stunts ' ? have thrilled movie fans , was to leap from a bus to the elevated structure overhead and swing herself up to safety , thus Making her escape from a daring villain who still pursued . Stevenson . dressed as a girl , blond curls and all , and said to have been inmerSonating Miss White . although somewhat taller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . it was said . lie wore a white dress , white stockings . patent leather shoes and a blond wig . The " set " was complete . with cameras in place , and the crowd was ready for its thrill - When the bus hired from the Fifth Avenue Coach Company for the scene and filled with rnovie ? " extras " got under way , headed in West Seventy-second Street toward Central Park West . Crowd Thought It Was Pearl White . So far as any one in the rapidly increasing crowd knew Pearl White was the woman sitting in the front top seat of the bus . Storekeepers around Seventysecond Street and Columbus Avenue recalled that a week ago the actress had been " shot " in several scenes on the elevated structure and on the stairs of thestation . There was much action in these scenes , but the real thriller was to have been staged yesterday , with the dressed up Stevenson in the leading role . Traveling rapidly under the guidance of James Cotter , the bus rumbled under the structure , where the conductor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hold your seats . " Once under the big steel framework the blondhaired figure In the front seat poised for the leap which was calculated to provide the thrill and jumped , hands outstretched to grip the overhanging girder . Only the film which recorded the scene will be able to tell whether Stevenson actually reached ' the girder or not . Anyway , in the twinkling of an eye he was flung forward in the wake of the Pus , probably after missing his hold in dust collected on the bar . The crowd heard one frightened cry ? that of a man . The wig was wafted to the ground , and a second later the body of the supposed Pearl White was lying prone on the pavement , about twenty feet away from , the elevated . The momentum of the swing apparently had carried him far beyond his objective , adding greater weight to the fall . Had he dropped in a straight line from the structure he would only have fallen about twenty-two to twenty-five feet . Policeman John Walsh , the camera men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ render first aid . The injured man was carried into Segall 's drug store at the corner of Columbus Avenue , while George B. Seitz , producer of " Plunder , " explained to Policeman Ay a1sh that the man had volunteered for the effort as a substitute for Pearl White after others had rejected the opportunity because of the risk involved . No Ambulance ; Taken Away in Cab . With blood streaming from wounds in his head and from his ears , indicating a fracture of the skull ; Stevenson lay on the floor of the drug store unconscious ambulance to arrive from Knickerbocker A physician finally volunteered his IN A. FLYING LEAD sehrvitcesdatfiter , drugldclerdkss had rendered that LEAP Stevenson b ; immediately removed to Roosevelt Hospital in a taxicab . There it was . found that Stevenson had suffered a fracture of-the skull and cerebral concussion  --  he had landed on his head and an operation was performed in an effort to save his life . At the offices of the Pathe Company , which has Pearl White under contract , it was said that nothing was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a double , always acting In daring " stunts " herself . Questions were referred to the George B. Seitz Studios , At the George B. Seitz Studios it was said that all persons who could discuss the accident had gone for the day . A young woman employe assured inquirers that Miss White had not been injured and that Mr. Stevenson was on location . " An effort to reach Miss while his friends . were . . for tat ' White failed .                     