@@692717

txt Prime Minister Baldwin brought himself an ovation this afternoon fa cne House of Cornmona ny making a two-fold announce , ment of a nature calculated to arouse high hopes that Britain will soon fight her way back to normal , despite the terrible crisis through which she has just passed . The first part of this announcement was to the effect that the employes of the British railways and of the London underground railway , omnibu and tramway systems were returning to work as a result of agreements already signed between the underground , omnibus and tramway employes and their employers , and about to be signed between the railway companies and the railway workers . The second part of Mr. Baldwin 's announcement was that , having decided that the coal mine owners and coal miners were in hopeless disagreement , . he had himself framed a set of proposals aimed at ending the coal dispute which he would submit to the coal - disputants for them to ponder during the week-end . Both statements were received with relief by the House of Commons , especially the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted it will mean the end of the coal crisis . which precipitated the general strike . Honors Premier . Former Premier Ramsay asked the Premier to preside personally over the discussion of his proposals , thus giving renewed evidence of the confidence which Mr. Baldwin inspires alike among the adherents and opponents of the strikers . David Lloyd George , the other Opposition chieftain , also expressed satisfaction at Mr. Baldwin 's statements and seconded Mr. 's suggestion that the Premier preside over the coming discussions . " Otherwise , " added Mr. Lloyd George , " I am afraid they will not be guided to a satisfactory conclusion . " Thereupon the House adjourned for the week-end , which gives infinitely greater promise of enjoyment than the last one when the black shadow of the general strike darkened Britain . Coal Terms Are Outlined . The Prime Minister 's proposals for settling the coal dispute , which has proved of such terrible gravity , are embodied In a letter addressed to Evan Williams and Herbert Smith , representating respectively the coal owners and the coal miners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption of all practical means for improving the organization of the industry and increasing its efficiency in accordance with the recommendations of the Royal Commission . The Government sets out the legislative and administrative measures it proposes to take . The additional financial assistance it offers the industry is a grant of f3,000,000 to be used primarily in aid of wages during the period that the National Wages Board with . n Independent Chairman is framing , a National wages agreement to govern the principles on which the general wage rates shall be ascertained in each district and deciding the minimum percentage of the basis that shall be paid . Subsistence wages are not to be reduced in any district where at present they are 45 shillings a week or Less . The Government proposes that pending the decision of the Wages Board the miners shall accept for a number of weeks , at present unspecified , a reduction in the minimum wages , other than subsistence rates , in all districts . The amount of this reduction is not indicated , but is left for decision in the forthcoming negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the industry ( according to the January-March ascertainments ) must be used for the payment of wages , and any gap will be payable out of the ? 3,000,000 of State aid . Cut in Wages Proposed . It is apparent that the Government contemplates an immediate reduction of all rates of wages , In the national wages agreement minimum percentage in addition to the basic rates ( but whether district or national is not clear ) , and in the district variations of wages in accordance with the economic position of the industry in the several areas . The boundaries of the present districts are made subject to revision . The effect of the reorganization proposals of the commission will be a relevant factor for consideration by the Wages Board . The immediate action proposed by the Government includes legislation on four points , viz. , amalgamation of undertakings , a welfare levy on royalty owners , restriction of recruitment and the setting up of a Wages Board . The Government leaves open the possibility of a lengthening of the working day . The constitution of the Wages Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines of the board to be established permanently , and the giving of a casting vote to the Chairman is designed to prevent the perpetuating of the present state of deadlock Grip of the Strike Relaxing . The grip of the strike is now completely relaxed from the railways and the road passenger transport services . Events moved rapidly today toward a removal of the deadlock over the reengagement of all . classes of strikers and by early afternoon settlements had been reached in the case of the railwaymen with the London general omnibus combine , and with the underground railway system , the associated street car undertakings and the London Cainty Council street cars . Conditions also improved as regards the transport of freight by road , and negotiations are in progress for the resumption of work at the docks . There is little doubt , though difficulties are being encountered in London , Glasgow . Bristol and Southampton , that by Monday Britain will be free to begin the laborious task of returning to normality . The effect of the settlements announced today was immediately apparent in the London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The number of street cars running was great , and many omnibuses and taxicabs were plying as usual . One omnibus manned by a volunteer driver carried the message " Our Last Ride Together . " The terms of the settlement between the railway companies and the railway unions were the outcome of prolonged conversations . The agreement does not touch rates , pay or general conditions of service as these existed before the strike , but in other ways commits the unions to acceptance of the drastic consequences of the disorganization caused by the stoppage and gives the companies a guarantee there will not be a strike again without previous negotiations . Union Admits Wrongful Act . The trades unions under the terms of settlement admit that in calling the strike , they committed a wrongful . act and agree that the companies do not by reinstatement surrender the legal 1right to claim damages from the striki ers and others responsible . They undertake that they will not again Instruct their members to strike without previous negotiation , will give no support of any kind to their members to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes in the special class to take part in any strike . The settlement will not extend to persons guilty of violence and intimidation and may involve the transfer of certain employes to other positions . but with no reduction of salary . J. H. Thomas , who is one of the signatories of the agreement , said it was eminently satisfactory . The London underground railway and omnibus employees will return to service on terms very similar to those accepted by the railway unions . Volunteers desiring to remain in the London street car service , it is announced are to be retained . As regards general road transport and dock labor , an official of the transport workers union said tonight , that in many parts of the country , men had refused to work on the old conditions with the old agreements recognized by the employers . The dock workers , however , have returned at some ports , notably at Liverpool . No serious difficulty has arisen in resumption of work by the building industry and the employers hope next week to resume the negotiations entered into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conditions in the trade . Negotiations for return to work in the printing trades have not yet produced an agreement , although representatives of the Federation of Master Printers , the Newspaper Society and the unions in the Printing and Kindred Trades Federation conferred today for ten hours . The employers say the men can be taken back where work is available on a day-to-day basis at the former rates , pending a national settlement . Cost Put at $250,000,000 . Now that the strike Is over the experts are trying to compute what it coat Britain . In competent quarters the loss is placed at $25,000,000 for each day the strike lasted , or a total for the entire duration of the strike of about R50,000,000 . One unfortunate consequence of this enormous loss is thus summed up by one expert : " In consequence of the general strike the current year 's national production will be short by a sum which may amount to ? 50,000,000. and the proportion of this loss which must inevitably be borne by the wage earners and others with small incomes is computed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will fall upon the wage earners in various ways , including decreased employment and the increase in the general level of prices . " All branches of British manufactur ' ing were affected by the general strike , though in varying degrees . Those not directly involved , such as the great textile trades , boots and shoes and the pottery trade , were soon disorganized not only by the compulsory restriction of their power supply and the lack of transport , but by the cancellation of orders . This last is especially true in the drapery and clothing trades , wherein it is feared the Whitsuntide season trade has been ruined . Pottery Industry Is Hit . In the pottery trade the unemployment figures , which have been about 12 per cent. , rose by the middle of the strike to 45 per cent . of the total work ' ers employed In Staffordshire . Iron and steel works closed either In obedience to the strike order or through lack of fuel . The latter difficulty will remain until the coal mines are reopened . The end of the strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last ten days there has been a growing demand from oversea markets for goods . In order to maintain manufacturing operations great efforts were made to establish a roan transport system , and these are meeting with considerable success , the problem of securing return loads having been successfully tackled by Chambers of Commerce and other bodies . The London Times in its issue tomorrow will pay this tribute to Premier Baldwin for his record during the great strike : " The Prime Minister has led the nation through these dark days in a manner which is beyond all criticism . His reputation in the country was in palpable jeopardy when the subsidy failed in the end to avert a strike , yet it stands unmistakably higher this morning than eft did a fortnight ago . He has shown himself possessed of the very rare combination of determination , steadiness and conciliatory good-will . No other member of the Government inspires anything like the same universal confidence or can produce the same atmosphere of fellowship . " Mr. Baldwin is infinitely more valuable for what he is than for anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is to be hoped that he will be restrained from complete absorption in the details of the economic controversy . He has an expert colleague in the Minister of Labor and Mines and a most patient and skillful negotiator at his side in Lord Birkenhead , who are entirely competent to take the burden off his shoulders . " Now that he has launched his policy let him remain in the background and leave it to others to pursue . No man knows better his own reserves and limitations of endurance , but the strain of this last fortnight is not easily computed and it would be nothing short of disaster if his influence were interrupted through sheer physical incapacity to exert it . "                     