@@687825

txt President Harding , who appoints three representatives of the Railroad Labor Board on the nomination of the carriers , three on the nomination of the employes and three on his own volition , could very properly take notice of the action of the three labor members , who are charged by their six associates with having issued " incendiary arguments to employes in favor of striking against the decision of the board . " If the language of the dissenting opinion , part of which is alleged by the majority members to have been drafted at the headquarters of the railway employes ' department of the American Federation of Labor , sustains the charge of incendiarism , the action of the-minority in signing such a document borders closely on malfeasance . Nothing could manifest better than this dissenting opinion the statement frequently reiterated in The Wall Street . Journal that the constitution of the Railroad Labor Board is so bad in principle , that it could hardly function well . Three members of the board have proven by their recent action that they hold their obligation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three ra ; 1-road members have been too sagacious to give a sin-War demonstration , but it may be taken for granted that their obligation to the . interests responsible for their nominations is too strong to permit of their retaining a judicial attitude on wage questions . Thus . we have a court constituted of three judges and six advocates  --  a body that can never hope to function as a court . If justice be postponed indefinitely , there might as well he no justice , and interminable delay is inseparable from the functions of a body created as the Railroad Labor Board . The desire of counsel to expedite a strong case and delay a weak case is well known . The one hopes for speedy justice and the other hopes to delay justice . Put such counsel on the Bench , as has been done in the ease of the Labor Board , and procrastination is inevitably ; substituted for action . Economic conditions arc constantly changing , living costs are in a process of constant fluctuation ; and wages , while less sensitive than some other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delay which has marked the actions of the Railroad Labor Board  --  undoubtedly in spite of the efforts of the three public members ? has kept wages swimming upstream part of the time and unsuccessfully struggling against the current the rest of the time . This process will continue as long as advocates are permitted to sit on the bench instead of being compelled . as they should be , to stand in front of the railing . If the " Sudan ' is vital to Egypt . " the revolted American colonies were vital to England . A revolted colony belongs to whoever reconquers it .                     