@@691327

txt Senator Borah , Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations , in a speech here last night declared that he was against the Wild Court until there was an " established body of international law under which to operate . " - Until the nations are willing to respect treaties and the rights of others , he added , " world courts and leagues of nations will simply be a building which has no foundation on which to rest . " Mr. Borah also declared for recognition of Russia as the only way to combat Bolshevism and for the return of confiscated German property as d mand-1 ed by a proper respect for our treaty obligations . " It is said that I am opposed to the World Court , " said Senator Borah . " Without an established body of International law under which to operate it would be no court at all . It would be a tribunal controlled undoubtedly through power of politics , not of law . Furthermore , if there is b. body of international law , then there must be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body . The question of peace at home and peace abroad Is largely an attitude of peoples of nations and what they have established in the principles of law . " Wont ! ' Survey of Foundations . " In discussing the great concerns of international life , " Senator Borah said earlier in his address , " those which relate to the schemes for peace , such as the League and the World Court , we ' ought first to survey the foundations upon which these things must rest if they are to be at alk , " I favor recognition of ' Russia , not because I believe in confiscation or Bolshevism. but because the only way to destroy communism arid Bolshevism is to bring the nations of the earth in touch with those people . Bolshevism is an economic disease . The only way to get rid of It is to adopt such a policy as to bring about a condition of affairs which will bring prosperity and a sane course of conduct to 140,000.000 people . " We can not have peace disarmament or normal conditions until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish peace in Europe if 140.000.000 people are on the outside in that condition of affairs ? " " We are now engaged in the United States and elsewhere in discussing how we shall bring peace to the world , " Senator Borah said , in leading up to the German property question . " Unless the nations of the earth are willing to make a determined effort ft. respect treaties and rights of other nations and the'rights of nationals of other nations , World Courts and Leagues of Nations will simply be a. building which has no foundation upon which to rest . Sees Test on German Property . " Jn my opinion , we are going to meet ! in the next session of Congress a real test as to whether the people of the United States are to become standardbearers with reference to the respect for treaties or whether they are to join some of the other nations in *disregarding them . " In 1799 Adams , Franklin and Jefferson were Instrumental in writing the first treaty ever negotiated in which rights of property with respect to ' nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensue between these nations . In 1828 the treaty was rewritten . Again this clause was incorporated . That treaty was continued down until this time and in my opinion Is as binding upon the United States at this hour as then . " Under this treaty thousands of Germans came to this country and Invested under laws of the United States . Their property . at the outbreak of the war in 1914 was worth millions of dollars . When they invested it was not only under solemn guarantees of a treaty , but under established principles of international law . When the ' war came we seized their property , which undoubtedly ; under conditions stated in the ' seizure . we had a right , to do . We seized it for purpose of . preventing its - use against the American -- nation during the conflict and under solemn statements made by Congress that after the war the ' property should be returned ' to individuals . " Property  --  was seized and has been administered , that ' is , that portion which has n't been wasted or dissipated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of the United States as to whether or net they are going to return property to nationals whose property it was when seized . If it Invioves a question of a few million dollars that would be important enough , but it involveS the supreniest question of whether it is possible to make a treaty which will be . respected by this great Christian nation , notwithstanding a conflict with no ' other members of the treaty , and involves a question of whether treaties are to be regarded with sufficient solemnity by the nation which la , . now seeking to lead in the great cause of establishing integrity-of purpose and integrity of peace plans . " Prior to the " Russianrevolution many Americans invested in Russian property : Russia confiscated the property . She has been denounced by the other nations a the world and we have refused to recognize her for one reason  --  that she did confiscate the property . What Is the difference between an American investing in property in Russia ; which is confiscated there , and a German investing in property in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We denounce it as communism , as Bolshevism and we undertake to defend it in the name of statesmanship and wisdom . " The United States had Infinitely better compensate every American citizen who suffered damage in the late war than to take one dollar of property which was invested here under solemn principles of protection under treaties of international policy to apply to the satisfaction of any such debt . " The Senator deplored the tact that one of the aftermaths of the war has been a growing disrespect for law and order in this country , and tonight manufacturers , business men and other citizens interested in law enforcement in Connecticut are discussing the possible effect his declaration will have un a liquor enforcement bill now pen Zing in the Connecticut Legislature . ?                     