@@691802

txt In this city the Democratic primary is to be such in more than one sense of the word . It will be not only first but foremost . The election in November will be not only secondary but subordinate . This is a reverse of the natural order , and it plainly Upsets the ordinary tests and standards for candidates . Usually the question is what man can best go before the whole city to show that he is qualified to be Mayor . This year the inquiry is who is the one to go into the primary fight with the best chance of defeating the Hearst-Hylan combination . The big battle is felt to be the Primary , and the combatants are chosen largely for their warlike ability in that field . It is undeniably a pity that we have drifted into a situation where , for the time being , the large and lasting interests of the city have to be made to take a place second to a contest in the primaries . Perhaps this could not have been avoided . For the main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can be nothing but praise . It is hard to think of any great question which more immediately concerns the City of New York than that of freeing itself from a Mayor whose conduct in office has been a source of constant reproach to this great metropolis . Moreover , aside from his defects of personal character and of official bearing , he has been so serious an obstacle to intelligent municipal growth that the demand of the hour is for some one who has a far better grasp than he of the needs and possibilities of Greater New York . To get rid of him is the earliest political step that should be taken . And if , in order to achieve that desired end , there has to be a fierce struggle in the Democratic primary , so be it . Some of the incidental effects are unpleasing ? but the chief objective is certainly worthy . With more than a month before the enrolled Democrats are polled in the primary of their party , we are obviously in for a period of strenuous campaigning . The report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fray . That is inevitable if he is to maintain his position as leader of the Democratic Party , and to beat back an attack openly directed from this city upon his work as Governor at Albany and upon his plans and hopes , if lie is cherishing any , for future political advancement . Both for him and the Tammany leaders the Primary will be critical . It will be no time for using foils with the buttons on . The rapiers must be thrust home . If Governor SMITH goes into the campaign with the energy and -plainspokenness which are promised , he will say things calculated to arrest the attention of the voters and to make the Hearst-Hylan ears tingle . When so much hangs upon a bitterly contested primary , the preparations for it and the methods of influencing the electors will naturally be under close and jealous scrutiny . It will be strange if the Mayor , with his skill as a lightning calculator in the matter of corruption funds , does not attempt to horrify simple-minded citizens by Picturing the vast sums of tainted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used against him . It may not relieve his fear , but it may possibly be instructive to all concerned , to print the following clause from the Election law : No contributions of money , or the equivalent thereof , made , directly or indirectly , to any parties , or to any party committee or member thereof , or to any persons representing or acting on behalf of a party , nor any ys in the treasury of any party . or party committee , shall be expended in aid of the designation or nomination of any person to be voted for at a primary election , either as a candidate for nomination for public office , or for any party position . This may seem hard reading to collectors of campaign funds , but it at least shows what is the intent of the law of New York as regards the holding of a primary election . This is a way of settling disputes within a party . No one but enrolled Democrats can take part in the nomination of Democratic candidates by means of a primary election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of preferences from voters neither bought nor coerced . But leaving out wholly the use of money in possibly unlawful ways , there will be excitement enough in making ready for next month 's primary and trying out in it the strength of competitors . Both sides will go into it as on an issue of political life or death . Both say that they are making ready to fight it through to a finish . It Is certain that for one or the other the primary will mark the finish .                     