@@689315

txt The Japanese Consulate here was without news of Tokio and Yokohama yesterday beyond that contained in the morning newspapers . Mananso Hanihara , Japanese Ambassador , received the news of the catastrophe at the Hotel Plaza , where he has been spending a holiday with Vice Consul J. Aneha , Acting Consul in the absence i t Tokio of Hyo Kamaski , Consul General . Ambassador Hanihara left on the Congressional Limited for Washington at 3:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon and will try to get in touch with his Government through the Imperial wireless stations . " So far as I have information , " he said a few minutes before his train left the Pennsylvania Station , " this is the most terrible earthquake in the history of Japan . The loss of life must have been appalling . " In the absence of more definite information the Ambassador did not care to make a further statement . He said that an appeal might be made to the American Red Cross , . although the Japanese Red Cross had been highly organized , and had a record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hanihara was asked if he knew the Mitsukoshi department store in Tokio , where , according to early dispatches , the fire that swept Tokio had its ztart . The Ambassador said that it was a fine stone structure , completed within the last three years . He declared that it was difficult for him to understand how fire could spread from the building , and that it was close to the centre of the . city and to the grounds enclosing the imperial palace . The Ambassador said that it appeared to him that the fire had started in many localities at the same time and that to this should be attributed the speed with which it jumped from one street to another . He said that he had no personal knowledge about the Asakusa Tower beyond that it was twelve stories in height and was located near a temple . Mr. Hanihara satd that it would probably develop that the greatest loss of . life had been among the poorer classes who were crowded in lower quarters . , Fire Apparatus Is Modern Commenting oh reports that the fire-fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aneha issued a denial . He said that the fire departments in both cities were well trained 1 and that the apparatus contained the latest American and European developments . He said that the Tokio and Yokohama fire engines were operated by steam and that the hose was not of the " garden " variety , as had been reported , but was equal to the hose used in , this city . Mr. Aneha also said that the Americana and other foreigners - were not grouped into one quarter , but had their homes and Places of business scattered throughout both cities . He said that neither city boasted high buildh*s , adding , that the ' average height Ni , the . business structures was about seven stories . He said that most of them were of wood , and he said that this style of construction was most popular because it had been demonstrated that steel and stone did not stand the earthquakes as well as the wooden type . In recent years , he said , the earth tremors had been slight , although one of substantial strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , occurred now and then along the coast , but that the last one of any dimensions was some years ago , when several fishing vile lages , about 300 miles from Tokio , had been wiped out . He , too , thought that the Emperor 's Palace in the heart of Tokio was safe from the devastation . Imperial Palace Set in Gardens . The Emperor 's Palace ' in Tokio , unlike the palaces reserved for . the use of the Crown Prince and other members of the royal family , is of old-fashioned Japanese construction . The palace is zealously.guarded and no outsiders are permitted to enter the gates . Celebrities , diplomats and those of , royal blood are admitted only when they come in response to a royal summons . No pictures have been taken of this palace . The grounds are extensive and chance glances , obtained by bold tourists , showed ' them to be marvels of beauty . Consul General Aneha reported that he had been besieged throughout the day by telephone calls from his compatriots in this city who were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said that as soon as he received news he would make it public . At the office of the Commercial Cable Company it was said that cable communication was being maintained with Osaka . This city is about 450 miles from Tokio and , it was said , couriers are being employed to carry messages between Tokio and ' Osaka . The Radio Corporation of America reported that it was maintaining wireless communiA , cation with its big station in the ! Province of about 250 miles , lrom Tokio. r                     