@@687363

txt Once Americans took for granted the existence and preservation of State and local self-government and initiative . They were jealous of Federal ingestion in their affairs . They were suspicious of an overgrown Federal bureaucracy . They jeered a too paternal Government . Now they have not merely a paternal , but a maternal , Government , as the Sheppard-Towner law shows , and lying-in and infancy in the States must be nursed and protected by the Children 's Bureau , the Federal Board of Maternity and Hygiene . Sentimentalists , Socialists , cranks and job-hunters are busy to the top of their bent . Economy means the finding of new ways to bleed the taxpayers , new grants at the dictation of coteries of busybodies , new posts for the everlasting meddling , muddling Federal supervisors and regulators of all things and persons . Is this Federal gobbling of powers to continue or is it to be resisted and prevented ? The people have been blind or easy about it of late . Yet it is the strongest and most dangerous tendency of Federal legislation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been used more advantageously than in his remarks on the subject at the dinner ' of the State Bar Association . He spoke not for New York alone , " but for all the States " in " warning " against the present tendency to " build up a Federal bureaucracy to " supervise State activities under the " guise of Federal aid , and thus by indirection to change our system of " government and to destroy the limi " tations upon the exercise of Federal " power fixeu by the Constitution . " It ' Was long the theory and practice that the Federal Government had only the powers distinctly named and granted to it by the States and such further powers as by inevitable implication were necessary for the full exercise of the delegated powers . All other powers were reserved by and belong to the States . . The Federal power to regulate commerce has been properly extended on account of modern conditions and because only the Federal Government can deal effectively with that regulation . But now a discovery appears to have been made by Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on any subject which it deems to involve the general welfare , and under that interpretation it has recently passed the so-called Sheppard-Towner law " to promote the welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy . " Under that law the health departments of every State may be brought under the supervision of a Federal Department of Health . If Congress , under the pretense of providing for the common defense and general welfare , can do " whatever It may deem necessary " for those purposes , it can do anything and everything . Its powers , though neither specifically enumerated nor neces- , sarily implied , are absolute and unrestrained . A pleasant prospect for the States and the taxpayers ! Governor MILLER examines closely that famous elastic Subdivision 1 , where cover is sought for a multitude of Federal encroachments , of Section S of Article I. of the Constitution : The Congress shall have power to lay . aid collect duties , imposts and excties , . to pay the debts and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States , but all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uniform throughout the United States . /Does that mean as , considered by ** it might be thought to mean , thOt Congress has the power to raise nrey " for what it considers to be in " e public interest , for whatever is " fit the public interest must promote " the public welfare " ? The Constitution would never have been ratified ! that had been the meaning , , The States , jealous of their powers , would never have given so ample a grant . to the Federal Government . 111Tamina. t16 of the context show ? that Subdivision 1 " was intended merely as r grant of power to raise money . " Or account of the chronic financial v  --  eak ? ness of the Confederation , that power was enumerated first and its objects were amply and comprehensively stated . The ensuing seventeen sub ? divisions enumerate plainly what Congress may do " to Provide for the " common defense and general wel ? " fare , and none of those specifically " defined and enumerated powers in " eludes the practice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sheppard-Towner law will have to be passed on by the Supreme Court Meanwhile , every taxpayer , every be . liver In government according to the Constitution , every unbeliever in tr. ! . umphant bureaucracy and Federal ab . solutism , should keep in mind Gov. governor MILLER 'S warning : With the power to collect threefourths of the Federal revenues from ten States , as is now done , it requires no imagination to foresee the riot of extravagance into which the Federal Government will De plunged if Congress have the power to appropriate public money for whatever it considers to be the public interest .                     