@@696272

txt Ald. Dorsey It Crowe of the 42d ward was seriously Injured shortly after dawn yesterday in an automobile accident on Waukegan road at the western limits of Lake Forest . The alderman , John Marr , his partner in a real estate firm , and two other men were driving from a Lake Geneva cottage to breakfast at Marr 's home , 2284 South Green Bay road , ' Highland Park , when another machine crowded them into a ditch . The car rolled over three times and burst Into flames . Marr , who was driving , and Sam Barafede , 312 Locust street , and Alex Medill , 836 Cambridge avenue , who were in the back seat , escaped with cuts and bruises , but the alderman was pinned amidst the at , rAnk n trfs . Rescued from Fliunes , A passing motorist extricated him just as the car caught fire . He was taken to the Alice Home hospital in Lake Forest by the village pollee and remained there last night , suffering a concussion of the brain , a possible skull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lake Forest police had a report stating that a Betty Miller , 3125 North Lewis avenue . Chicago , was in the Marr machine and had suffered a bruised knee and lacerated scalp . Marr denied n .. n.nn .1 in rho ear and suggested she may have been an occupant of the other machine . The brain concussion left Aid . Crowe unconscious for six hours . Hid mother , Mrs. Catherine Crowe , with whom ho resides at 65 Bellevue place , and his brothers , Owen E. and Stephen R. Crowe , were called to his bedside and remained with him late last night . The hospital staff physician , Dr. A , J. Hissinger , called in Dr. Louis E. Schmidt of the St. Luke 's hospital staff and Dr George L. Davenport of Mercy hospita at the request of the Crowe family . Four Other Deaths In Hay . Two men were fatally injured by hit and run drivers in the city yes . terday , while two others died in collisions on state highways outside the county . The victims of the runaway drivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The dead : Earl Lyons , 24 year old cab driver of 6427 South Peoria street . Run down as ho was changing a tire on his cab tit 40th and Halsted streets . He died In St. Bernard 's hospital . Neal Ashley , 33 years old , a battier of 4000 Drexel boulevard . Hit by a sedan as he tried to cross Cottage Grove avenue at 39th street . Ho died in the Chicago hospital . John Hogan , 19 years old , 6432 Stewart avenue , a student at St. Amhen .. onneee . Davenport , Ia . Instantly killed when an automobile in which he was riding with five others shot over a forty foot embankment on the Carbon Cliff road near Rock Island . The others , all at the Moline hospital with serious Injuries , are : Jacqueline Gunner , Evanston , attending a convent school In Rock Island ; Rita Phillips , Chicago ; Peggy Ball , Moline ; Richard Mosley , Rock Island , and Zelia Jane Oakley , Adeline . Mrs. ' felon Rowland , colored , 6410 Vernon avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Douglas , also colored , 6906 South Park avenue , overturned in a ? .. . 6ettth of Mouth Rend . Ind . Seven Hurt in Crash . Seven persona were injured , two seriously , when an automobile driven by Mrs. Albert Hieksteln , 3805 West 62d place , collided with another machine driven by Richard Horn of ? Kingston , Wis. , at an intersection one mile north of Randolph , Wis . One of Horn 's daughters , Lois , 10 years old , suffered a wrenched spine and possible Internal injuries , and the other daughter , ilarjorie , 12 years old , suffered a skull fracture .                     