@@690417

txt Great Britain is still a creditor nation , in the respect of investment Abroad , and it can not be said that the United States is in the same class unless we are to count uncollectible foreign debts arising out of the war . What is even more is that Great Britain is still actively lending money for reproductive investment all over the world and , for the present at least , is a much better market for new capital than New Xork . During the first six months of 1924 the new capital raised in London amounted to ? 106,215,000 , or approximately , at current rates of exchange , $480,000,000 . This was less than the amount of new capital in the correspond- , ing period of 1923 by about 14 per cent . It is important to note , however , ' that there was a large increase in the new capital raised for domestic purposes and also for the British possessions , exclusive of India and Ceylon , while the reduction was mainly in the new capital raised for foreign countries . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what may be called empire building , while British investors show that curious mixture of caution and courage which can be called almost a national trait . The decline in investment of capital in India may be taken as due to political agitation , which is the one thing of all others that the capitalist , great and small , loves least . The reduction in the amount lent to foreign countries has perhaps a little of this aspect , although it may be largely fortuitous . But the increase of something like 20 per cent . in the loans to British possessions outside of the Indian Peninsula , including , of course , the great self-governing colonies , tells.the real story . To take a single but significant instance , Jamaica is going into the cane sugar business with a highly modern plant . The capital of $12,000 , - 000 was raised in London in the past fortnight and the British government finds one-fourth of it , under what is called the Trade Facilities Act , without claiming any part in the management of the " Jamaica Sugar Estates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as it should with such backing . And in spite of the heaviest taxation in the world Great Britain is finding money for its own development and expansion . The hew domestic capital for six months shows an increase of 17 per cent . over the corresponding period- last year and that was one of genuine activity . London is still the financial center of the world and is likely to continue so for an indefinite time to come so long as courage , circumspection and a superlative knowledge of sound banking principles continue to prevail . Butlei will report weekly to the Senate Committee contributions to the Republican Presidential campaign funds , but the La Follette collection sounds too sacred for publicity .                     