@@685257

txt The breakdown of prohibition has never been as painfully manifest as in the scene created in a well-known restaurant by two Enforcement Officers . Stripped of its melodramatic incidents , which were thrilling enough , their offense is sufficiently described in the charge upon which they were arrested , namely , " disorderly conduct , " intoxication , and using indecent , " abusive and obscene language " , in the hearing of patrons of the restaurant . One of them was charged with threatening to use a revolver . Both attempted to escape the police in a taxicab , and on one of them was found a partly emptied bottle of what the police described as ' booze . " They were discharged by a Magistrate . That the law should be enforced is a general rule to which no true citizen of a republic can withhold his consent . The saying of a former Police Commissioner , THEODORE ROOSEVELT , that the best way to get rid of an unwise law is to enforce it has commanded wide approval . It condemns the ? Volstead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these precepts , tried and true , have broken down . A situation has been created almost without precedent in our republican experience . Even among citizens whose standards in most respects are the highest , there is no general agreement that the Volstead act should be enforced . Though the circulation of recipes for home brew is illegal , it is widespread and unashamed . Men , otherwise lawabiding , carry theta own liquor in flasks when they are dining in public places , and no effort has yet been made to prosecute them . In the face of revelations from the pulpit , restaurants and saloons are numerous in which old customers can still buy what they want . Former liquor merchants are known to the knowing* who still sell hard liquor by the case . A rapidly increasing number of men in all walks of life freely confes  --  to owning and operating a still . There has probably never been a law so generally violated by people of such standing in the community . Is enforcement of this law the best way to get rid of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very serious question . Spies , and indeed detectives , can not be recruited from among the more dignified and responsible element of society . Even against criminals the use of such agents has many regrettable incidents , which range from brutal persecution to blackmail and graft . Yet there is this mach to be said for employing them , that those against whom they are employed are violators of the law and can be dealt with in no - other way . Those who break the prohibition law , though technically criminals , are in actual fact of a totally different character . And , on the ( showing thus far , the Enforcement Officers are of an order of humanity far ? inferior to the detectives in the employ , of the police . They are , moreover , confronted with an impossible task . Even with limitless funds , and public funds today are far from limitless , they could not fully enforce the Volstead law . The trouble with . the law is that it goes far beyond the measure of public opinion and that it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advice or consent . A condition has been created under ' which no law could prosper . In many parts of the country ' strict prohibition has general approval and can be adequately enforced . ' In other communities , of which this is one , the cause of temperance would be better served by acceding to the popular demand for beer and light wines . If this were heeded , there would be vastly less trouble in stopping the sale of hard liquor .                     