@@696367

txt The conversations now taking place in London ' with a view to arranging for further - ; naval armament limitation are-leading to a separate conference of.thelflye naval powers . All the indications ' are that the conference.will take place in London and in the near , ftittire . ? In t.the , , present informal London ' exchanges the French and Japanese At:Iiiiii:Ssictors and the Italian Charg ? ii* .. faii:kR " ; are participating with : Ramsay : , Prime Minister of Great Britain , and other British officials and Ambassadors Dawes and Gibson , representing the United States . The participation of French . Italian and Japanese diplomatic rep resentatives has not hitherto beer disclosed . ' . Two.Major Points . Discussed . Two major- points for prelimina settlement are now under discuss ' , in London between the represent : - tives of the United States , Grea Britain , France , Italy . and Japan They ** . 1 . Shall there first be a meeting of civilian political negotiators to de termine the scope and character of the conference or shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meeting of the civilians to discuss the so-called yardstick for measuring naval values ? 2 . Shall the scope of the conference be limited to cruisers or battleships and cruisers or be unlimited , so that the conference would deal with reducing all classes of combatant , vessels  --  capital ships ( battleships and airplane carriers ) , cruisers , destroyers and submarines ? When a definite , basis . for , holding the formal disarmament conference has been reached , Prime Alinister will make his projected visit to the United States to discuss the naval armament question with President Hoover . As the preliminary exchanges now in progress in London are moving forward rapidly , Mr. 's visit may be expedited . It Is expected in official circles here that the conference will take . place within seven months , but there is a strong likelihood that it may begin in October . Prime Minister s taken the initiative in the situation , much , to the satisfaction of the Washington government . He seems to have entered wholeheartedly into President Hoover 's desire for - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The entrance of the French , Italian and Japanese diplomatic representatives in London into the exchanges between Prime Minister and Ambassadors Dawes and Gibson is in accord with the desire of the American and British Governments that the proposed armament reduction should be undertaken by all the five naval powers . In the current exchanges there has been a suggestion that the naval conference should include all nations represented in the preparatory commission for a disarmament Conference , which is expected to resume its sessions in Geneva in September , but it now appears to be agreed that any naval armament conference will be confined in its participants to the United States , Great Britain , France . Italy and Japan . It is not intended to , work entirely separately from the preparatory commission if there is a marked desire to have the five-power naval arma : ment conference keep in touch with the preparatory commission , but all the current exchanges are designed to bring about a definite separate agreement for naval armament reduction . The preparatory commission was organized by the . League of Nallons to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of armaments , and has no authority to make definite agree- , remits for . aotual limitation or reduo . Lion of armaments . " It appears to be clear that the London exchanges are to lead to the organization of a separate conference empowered to take definite action on the naval armament problem and not merely to propose a program for consideration by an armament conference of all governments to be called some time in the distant future by'the League of Nations . One proposal considered in London . was to have the preparatory commission authorize the treatment of the naval armament question through representatives of the five naval powers acting as a subcommittee of the commission , but this is seen as purely a negative course , as the ' preparatory commission could not invest the subcommittee with authority to make a definite agreement for the reduction of armaments . Hoover Wants Quick Action . The Hoover administration favors A special conference of the five naval powers . This method furnishes greater assurance of quick action , and that is something at which theadministration is aiming . The London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a separateconference . It is expected that the preliminaries now being conducted in London will advance so rapidly that a definite announcement of their . outcome will be made in a.few.days . In his speech last night Prime Minister intimated that he-might be in a position in a few days toannounce the meeting place of a , disarmament conference and its objects . That information accords - with what has been received here . The whole situation as revealed in information - reaching Washington is propitious for a special naval conference in the near future . While the American . naval experts have not completed a formula for measuring the relative strength of navies that is entirely satisfactory to them , their efforts have progressed to the point where they are able to discuss the yardstick problem with the naval technicians of the four other naval powers . Should the conversations in London lead to a decision that the naval technicians shall have a meeting prior to the assembling of political representatives of the various governments , the American technicians will be able to explain the methods for obtaining relative naval values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been working by direction of President Hoover . It is understood that considerable progress toward manufacturing a yardstick has been made by the technicians of other naval powers so that if the technicians are to meet first all of them will be in a position to discuss the yardstick problem intelligently . If the proposed special naval armament conference takes place in London , as now seems probable , the matter of its success would be put up squarely to the British Government as the host of this important international gathering . To hold it in Washington would not be pleasing to some of the League of Nations members . Some time will be necessary to prepare for the conference . With reference to Japan 's participation there is the time element of travel for representatives sent by that government to Europe . Envoys Expected to Lead Way . It is probable that , the preliminary political conference is cok. pected to eventuate from the current exchanges in London will be participated in. by the diplomatic representatives of the United States , France , Italy , and Japan now there and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangements for the disarmament conference . Officials of this government feel that the greatest assurance of the success of the disarmament movement is in preliminary understandings such as those now in progress . Many messages from London and other capitals concerning the conversations which are being conducted in the British capital were received at the State Department today . They led- to conferences between State Department officials . Late in the afternoon Secretary Stimson and Under-Secretary of State Cotton held a long conference with President Hoover in the executive offices .                     