@@689548

txt It is not improbable . A Typical or at any rate not imMember Possible , that , without being a member of the of the Klan ? Ku Klux Klan , but with the same real or imagined grievances . the man Fox , down in Atlanta . would have done exactly what he did ? that is , would have shot and killed the man COBURN . Yet it is not to exaggerate the responsibility of the Klan for this atrocious assassination to say that Fox 's act was in precise accord with Klan Practices , however out of accord with Klan professions it may be . Just as the Klansmen , ae a group , wherever they have the poa. r. exercise what they think their right to : , r1 ) stitute themselves for courts and the 14. w , so Fox . having decided in his own darkened mind that Coauax deserved to die . sought him in his office and without warning shot him down . He only followed the example set by the organization he had found congenial and commendable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whose conduct its members disapproved or whose antagonism they resented or feared . Sometimes the man or woman thus condemned was merely driven out of town ; oftener the offenders have been taken to lonely fields or woods , stripped pf their clothing and savagely flogged , and more than once the delegated or sett-appointed agents of Klan vengeance have murdered their selected victims . There is no reason , therefore , why the Klansmen , all of them , should not stand by Fox in his " trouble " and save him from the gallows if they can . If they do not do their best for him , it will be because in Atlanta the Klan is divided into two bitterly hostile factions  --  over the disposal naturally , of initiation fees and other Klan incomes  --  and Pox having been active in one of the factions against the other , has personal enemies as well as personal friends in the Klan . While Ku Klux Another Form Klanism was getting of the the familiar illustration of assassination Same Thingt in Atlanta . in Louisiana the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were watching the trial of Klansmen charged with the minor crime of invading a man 's house without a warrant and by force of arms dragging him off to a jail to which no lawful authority had committed him . The leader of the little band of armed men who did this testified that he had the verbal ? he meant oral  --  permission of the Sheriff to do this , but the Sheriff himself , when on the stand , admitted that he would not have liked to do the same thing without a court 's order . Somewhat surprisingly , the defendants in these cases were convicted . That shows either a dwindling of the Klan 's , power in that county or else that the Klansmen have decided In these cases , of no great Importance in their eyes , to refute the charge that law is not permitted to operate there . On either theory the testimony Is highly significant of conditions under Klan rule . According to ProAn Advance lessor HENRY FAIROnly FIELD OSBORN of - the . KnowledgeAmerican Natural in History Museum , it is questionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the Stone Age . Men had brains of good size at that period , and in his opinion the gain since then has been in knowledge rather than in intelligence . That is a rather fine distinction , but no doubt it is a real one . Just the same , for most practical and immediate purposes , the ignorant man might as well be a stupid one . He is as much of a danger to himself and others , and his only or chief superiority is the capacity to learn if opportunity and occasion serve . Possibly enough , the Stone Age man . like savages now , was a shrewder and more capable fellow  --  more capable in the ability to do many things for himself and his family  --  than are the many moderns for whom civilization finds use though their health and minds are poor . To live in the wilds requires a close approach to physical perfection and not a little of mental power . The weaker strains and the incompetents are rapidly eliminated there in the stern struggle for a living . Society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not seem so sure . That the delivery of Second-Class newspapers and magaMail eglectedzines by the Post OfIs Tice is slow , uncertain Neglected . and generally unsatisfactory it did not need a recent investigation made at the request of the Merchants ' Association for use by a committee of the United States Chamber of Commerce to prove . This already was known by everybody who has tried to Utilize postal facilities for this Purpose . Delays of a day or snore are not frequent , but habitual , and people who want a periodical publication as soon as It is issued take other means to get it . Nobody wants any diminution of the present efforts to expedite the delivery of first-class mail , but mail of the second class is not so unimportant that its distribution should be done as- a sort of afterthought when there is nothing else to do . And the treatment of second-class mail has grown worse instead of better in recent years , the result , according to this report , of the Government 's changed plan of paying the railways . for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis , instead of by weight , and the result has been both delay in distribution and an increase of expenditures instead of the expected or desired economies . As an instance of what happens un- , der the present system , a suburban subscriber to a magazine that is on the city news stands Thursday never gets it till Saturday , and usually not until the following Monday . He , thinks that too long for a magazine to be in traveling sixteen miles .                     