@@689263

txt The German Government is opposed to the proposal made by Major General Henry T. Allen , former Commander of-the American occupational forces in Germany . that the Rhineland be made a separate State . When this suggestion was laid before the State Department upon General Allen 's return to America . Secretary Hughes made a comprehensive study of the report , and even sounded the foreign governments , Including Germany , with a view of ascertaining its acceptability- . It became known today that the Allen report had never been made the subject of formal and official negotiation . but It was said that the Chancelleries of Paris , Berlin and London had been " felt out " and that Berlin at least had indicated absolute opposition to the ProPosaL Therefore , unless the Stresemann Government of Germany should reverse the policies enunciated by Chancellor Cunt ) , there is no reason to believe that the matter of erecting a separate German State in the Rhineland will be more than a suggestion . While no secret is made of the fact that General Allen submitted this plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assign credit for the origination of the plan . There is nothing particularly new in the idea of a Rhineland State constituting a buffer between France and Germany . it was Pointed out . If the Allen suggestion has any points of originality It consists in the fact that he has proposed a separate Rhineland State , constituting a buffer between the French and German peoples , but at the same time he has stipulated that this State should remain in the German Reich . As experts here interpret the suggestion , this would be equivalent to a return to the former days of the German Confederacy , when all German States acknowledged allegiance to the Berlin Government . but at the same time exert cased certain independent functions , much after the theory of the Democratic principle of State 's rights in the early history of America . Flan Fully Considered . There apparently Is no doubt that : dr . Hughes gave full consideration to this plan . and . knowing the reputation of General Allen for diplomacy in his difficult task of intermediary between the various more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General 's views the weight which naturally would be Wecorded to them . Despite the fact that no official ex- I change of notes ever occurred with respect to the Allen plan , the State Department , through its normal sources of unofficial information , learned that the German Government , at least as exemplified in the Chancellorship of Herr Cuno , was absolutely and unqualifiedly opposed to the Allen plan . There has been no intimation from the Stresemann Government as to its official attitude en this question , but in the absence of anything to the contrary . State Department officials regard it as certain that the German People are practically unanimously against this idea . The suggestion of General Allen is in reality a variation of a plan supported in some French quarters a few months ago for the setting up of an independent State in the Rhineland which would be under the administration of the League of Nations . This plan proved to be in very bad odor with the German leaders , inasmuch as it was well known what power could be exerted by the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allen 's plan are not forthcoming in Washington at this time . Experts on international law , however , who have studied the suggestion are unable to see how the project involves a very great surrender of sovereignty , inasmuch as the Rhineland I State in question , under the Allen plan , would still be entirely subject to the domination of the central Government at Berlin as regards foreign relations . Just how , under these circumstances , the Rhineland State would constitute a " buffer " is not exactly clear . and French authorities are quoted a. ! , saying it would be neither the one nor the other . The Allen plan for a buffer state is understood to have met with some support from large American business interests , which see in it an opportunity to give France a bqundary guarantee such as was refused by the American Senate in  --  the three-power alliance initiated by M. Clernenceau and Woodrow Wilson . These business interests , however , are rather free to admit that they are prompted largely by expediency in advocating one solution or another of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coolidge Administration does not consider that the Allen plan offers any Immediate solution or the reparations tangle . It also was made clear that the new Administration has been somewhat embarrassed by reports which have been widely circulated to the effect that some new panacea has been distilled by tile American Government as a cure for Europe 's ills . President Coolidge has signified his complete endorsement of the Hughes policies . He has rejected the French suggestion that reparations and foreign debts are interrelated , and that cancelation is immediately an outlook for foreign Governments . He also has discouraged the idea that the United States is so interested in the settlement of the reparations question that it is about to rush forward with a proposition for a general relinquishment of its just claims against foreign Governments .                     