@@687656

txt Another bomb outrage marks the opposition of the recalcitrant building trades to the Landis arbitration award . This , the fourth bomb ' exploded in the course of the controversy , was dirocted against a building just completed under the Landis award , on West Jackson boulevard . The material damage was comparatively , small . Probably it was completely covered by ? Insurance . As in most such cases the greatest loss.is that to the unions which employ such methods to enforce their demands . Every bomb they explode carries them nearer dissolution . ' The city of Chicago has not yet become so mean spirited and contemptible that it will stibinit to a rule of terror conchicted by ignorant , criminal , and . shortsighted men , who repudiate their pledges and seek to extort money from residents of the city by such methods : Eventually the police or the state 's attorney 's office or the citizens ' committee or I some other authority or ? organization will run down some , of these bombers . When they do the weight of public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is accomplished and the criminal Influences in the recalcitrant labor unions are eliminated can these union men expect any re , ? apect or consideration frotn , the public : Every bombing , every slugging , and every other outrage which they commit casts a blight upon union labor . The honest men In the unions which have shown good faith are suffering under that blight . The whole cause of unionism is injured . Decent men who have the interests of organized labor at heart should help to throw out and punish and repudiate such criminal leadership . With theso bombings the unions involved are blasting their own graves and menacing their associates . WHEN THOMPSON SEES A SUBWAY . Mayor Thompson plans a week in New ' York with various city officials . They are to look over the New York subways and New York , ' , raction generally . The local transportation cominittee also Is considering a trip to see how New York and other eastern cities care for the car users . ' If Mr. Thompson will look at tho New York subways he will see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its citizens . With the subways New York has a 5 cent faro , although it is not resting on a sound economic foundation . Nevertheless , New York is paying 5 cents , and we believe that 5 cents is car fare , and that it can be obtained If it is sought by construction and not by political flimflamming . Mr. Thompson has opposed construction as if it were a plague . We do n't hope for much change in his character or methods . There is more : pone in a chance in the mayor 's ? ince .. Anold Indiana farmer , operating a two man saw on a log with a helper , said : " I do n't mind you riding on the saw , Jim , but I do wish you 'd stop dragging your feel " That 's about all wo can ask of Mr. Thompson . ELECTIONS TO THE BENCH . The decision of the Republican anti city hall and Democratic leaders to combine on a nonpartisan judicial ticket will be welcome to every one who cares for the Integrity of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' of partisanism . In this instance the ft/Sion will have the additional weight of the- principle of reelection of appro'lied sitting Judges . As It happens , five of the candidates for reelection are Democrats , but all are men whose service on the bench has AP : proved them to the bar , and the voters will not hesitate , we are confident , to keep aoilX1 on the bench . The situation is one which is not confusing and there should bo no doubt of the ' BUCCeS9 of the fusion ticket , representing ** does the princi . Pies which should govern choice of judges at all times , the principle of nonpartisantsM in Judicial election and . the principle of retaining proved men on the bench .                     