@@687175

txt The Admiralty announced today that it had notified the contractors to suspend all work on the four new capital Ships of the super-Hood type . pending the decision on a naval holiday by the Washington conference . The news of this order for the ' cessation of naval construction authorized by Parliament and contracted for only two weeks ago has been received here as the logical consequence of the attitude the British Government 's representatives I.have adopted toward ' the Hughes preposal . I The belief is expressed that the Ad= miralty 's order is almost certain to bring about a measure of relief for the taxpayer . The four super-Hoods were to have cost a total of ? 32,000,000 , of which only a trifling sum has already been paid to contractors . At the same time it is recognized that it is unfortunately inevitable that the suspension of naval work will aggravate the unemployment situation , as the contracts had been assigned only a few weeks ago as a part of the Government plan to fight trade depression . The loss of wages involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several thousand workmen . Labor Effects Far-Reaching . It was calculated that this work would have kept 4,000 men employed for from two and a half to three years and each major contract would have meant subcontracts to 200 firms . The loss to workers on the Clyde alone in wages is estimated at ? 15,000,000 in the next three years , and Sheffield and the Tyne also will suffer severely . William Beardmore &; Co. , one of the large Clyde firms which only relit its Parkhead furnaces a few days ago , bas ordered them to be let out again . Vice Admiral G. A. Ballard , who was director of the operations divisions on the Admiralty war staff , makes an interesting point in tonight 's Evening News . He says that if these.four monster battleships are not built , the design embodying the ' experience of the great war can never be carried out . Capital ships which under the Hughes proposal may be constructed ten years hence are to be limited to 35,000 tons , and this , Admiral Ballard says , " will necessitate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital ship . " Admiral Sir Cyprian Bridge , commenting on the suspension in The Evening Standard , says : " I think the news is the most cheering we have heard for a long time . It looks as if it foreshadows the final defeat of the megalomaniacs . Considering the readiness of the United States largely to abandon its 1916 program , I think it is only decent that we should make some response . It seems that at last naval strategy and naval tactics are going to be allowed to have a look in . " Sees ? 100,000,000 Saving . Admiral Sir Percy Scott , who a few months ago conducted a vigorous campaign against battleships on account of their " uselessness , " reckons the saving at Eloa , 000.000 , and says : " With submarines it is different . No country will scrap submarines except possibly the long range ones , because they are weapons of defense . The way to peace is not to make your country so strong in offensive power that It can attack , but so strong in defensive potentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country could throw up a sort of wall of poison gas , airplanes and aerial torpedoes which would make it impossible for a battleship to get there , " Admiral Mark Kerr praises the suspension as a logical step , and remarks : " We have already sufficient battleships for Europe , although the ships used overseas are not of much use . I fancy the shipbuilding firms will be awarded some compensation , but even that will be cheaper than spending money on unproductive labor . " , Commander Carlyon Bellairs , M. P. , in citing , the excellent psychological effect of the Admiralty 's action , says : " Everything will now depend upon what Japan does . There is no question about the good intentions of the American people . There is no question that the Senate on this occasion is going to act with the Government . "                     