@@687869

txt In the absence of any outstanding event today in-connee ? Lion with the strike of railway shopmen , which began yesterday , the chief interest of both railway executives and strike leaders centred in the meeting At Detroit tomorrow of the General Council of the maintenance of way employes to decide whether their army pt workers was to join the walkout . Optimism as to the outcome of this session prevailed in railroad executive circles tonight . It was predicted that E. F. Grable , head of the brotherhood , would advise against issuing a strike call , regardless of the fact that the vote of the rank and file of his members authorized him to order a walkout . ? That failure , of B. M. Jewell , head of the Federated Shop Crafts , tO gain the support of . the maintenance-of-way mon would be a serious blow to his canto seemed generally conceded by nylon leader.i here . Mr. Jewel/ Was non-Coin= mittit on the  --  aitit . He merely said , " It 's up to them to decide . " Mr. Grebe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the summons of the Railroad Labor Board to the hearing of Friday , left for Detroit early today . Report/ that he had a conference with Jewell were denied at the office of the Railway Employes ' Department of the American Federation of Labor . Importance of  --  the Decision . Tomorrow 's developments in Detroit , according to some observers , will not only indicate the position of the maintenance of way employes but will also serve as a cue for three other railway labor groups who are apparently undecided as to their course . These are the railway clerks and freight handlers , the signal men and the telegraphers , who , with the maintenance men and the six federated shop crafts , constitute the Railway Employes ' Department if the American Federation of Labor . Indications a week ago were that many of these would join any walkout , putting the total of the strikers above the million mark . Reports now assert that only in case Grable 's Council declares for a strike the officer , of the three other unions sanction a walk . out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's union , and D. W. Helt , the chief of the signal men , are said to have been in frequent communication with Mr. Grable since the crisis became acute and particularly since the Labor Board meeting on Friday . if , as reported , Grable is inclined to hold out against a strike now by the men of his organization , it seems likely that he will base his attitude on the assurance given by the railroads Friday that contract work outside would be abandoned on virtually all lines and on the assurances of the Labor Board that It will offset the recent wage reduction by making wage increases whenever cost of living conditions require it . Differ on Number of Strikers . Reports were conflicting today as to the number of shopmen responding to the strike yesterday . Mr. Jewell contended the walk-out was virtually 100 per cent . effective . Railway executives maintained that probably fewer than 00 per cent . of the shop men had quit " Not only 400,000 ehopmen but about 300,000 men of other gimps went out yesterday , " Mr. Jewell asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , oilers and stationary firemen and maintenance of way men . " Announcement of the results of the ehopmen 's strike vote , final tabulation of which was completed Saturday , will probably be made . tomorrow . " The strike ballots , " 1 Jewell riseerted. " show a most intelligent understanding of the issues . Three ballots , one each on wages , working rules and outside contracting by the carriers , were submitted , and the results in each were different , indicating that the railroad men know their wants . " Mr. Jewell said his organisation stood pat on its demand that the carriers must make concessions on all three points . " It 's their next move , " he added . Mr. Jewell said a few words concerning scabs tonight . These were interpreted as a reply to Ben- W. Hooper , Chairman of the Railroad Labor Board . who in a statement yesterday maintained that " men who assume the work abandoned by the striking railway employes should not be regarded as scabs , " because the walkout was against decisions of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the American public . " Mr. Jewelsaid , " that it is wrong to ' scab . to take the positions vacated by union men because of disagreement with their employers . " No reports or violence Italie come front any part of the country . itoOprding to Mr. Jewell . Bortral moslo , da of polloir men were held in reserve here , but the Sunday peace was not disturbed . ? Guards and special police were stationed at entrances to ehops where strikers walked out Saturday , but beyond keeping out a fevf visitors their services were not needed . In some yards preparations have been Made to take care of new workmen torpoiTow . Special freight cars are being Prepared for feeding the men and work clothes have been bought for them . At the Santa Fe yards men were at Work cleaning cars and four mechanics Were in the shops where 127 are normally employed . At the Budlington yards three workmen in new overalls were repairing car ; trucks . Three freight cars were fixed lip as eating quarters . The Chicago , Milwaukee &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven - Idle engines and no one wet-king on them . The Northwestern yards were also in a state of calm . Railway officials declared that the Strike had not hampered either the freight or passenger movement , saying that a record-breaking holiday traffic Was being taken care of . Jewell Explains Ignoring of Board . CHICAGO , July 2 ( Associated Press ) . M. Jewell , head of the shoperafts Unions , explained today that he ignored the Labor Board summons to Friday 's hearing because the board failed to exdude from wage reduction hearings almost eighty roads that had in part or Wholly violated rulings of the Government tribunal , which , he said , ' caused railway employes to regard the board With no slight misgivings . " Practically all of these eighty roads violated decisions of the Labor Board , " Mr. Jewell said . " Yet they were included ? in the wage reduction hearings . If the board had ruled that these roads Were not entitled to participation In these hearings , the respect of railroad labor for the tribunal would have been Increased materially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as a tribunal , willing and ready to deal Out justice . If this had been done , the officials of the shoperafts could have gone to the men with this as an argument and averted the strike . But this was not done and postponement of the Strike was humanly impossible . " In the first place , my appearance before the Board could not have reSuited in arbitration . The Board should have subpoenaed officials who signed the telegram authorizing the strike . Only those men could recall the order . If I had dene any such thing I would have forfeited my office immediately . " Justification of my refusal to obey the summons is seen in the fact that the men are now on strike , without bloodshed or loss of life and are upholding law and order . If I ad ? gone before the Board there would have resulted misunderstanding ? which would have ended in chaos , among the shop crafts organization . " ? This announcement was made by the Pennsylvania System : " On Saturday . July 1 . a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any grievance that had been brought to the attention of the management . " The management believes these employes took this action because they had been misled and feels that they should correct their mistake and avoid disturbing the harmonious relations which have existed between the employes and the management . " The tabulation of reports , received from all points of the Northwestern region , confirm the announcement made yesterday that a majority of the Pennsylvania shop craft employes are remaining loyal to the company . "                     