@@696340

txt Morris Mansfield , alleged wholesaler of poison alcohol which caused the deaths of twenty-two persona in Peoria last March , was the storm center of a hotly disputed legal tangle last night which included clashes between officials of Kano and Peoria counties , issuance of a warrant for the arrest of onerur Grant Minor of Peoria and charges that race prejudice in the latter city has been permitted to deprive Mansfield of his constitutional rights . Following refusal of the Peoria coun ? ty courts to fix bonds for Mansfield , the alleged " pivot man " of the liquor ring . and an unsuccessful petitioning of the State Supreme court to have such bonds ordered , Attorney George W. Sprenger last week filed a petition before Judge Frank E. Shopen in the City court at Elgin , bringing up the race prejudice question and asking that Mansfield , who is a Jew , be brought into court and bonds for his release fixed . Charges Race Prejudice . The attorney alleged in asking a writ of habeas corpus that because of ' his nationality his client @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others indicted with him , all of whom nave peen annuttea to pail in bonds of $7,600 each . Judge Shopen allowed the petition to be filed and authorized Sprenger to serve a summons on Sheriff Minor in Peoria county , ordering him to have the prisoner in the Elgin court yesterday . The sheriff refused to obey the summons arid as a result is named in an attachment issued by the court and faces ' possible Prosecution for violation of the state habeas corpus law and for contempt of court . Last night diplomatic relations between Kane nnuntArt whore Elgin is located , and Peoria county , threatened with invasion by " alien " process servers , were exceedingly strained . Ffiction developed at the outset when court opened and there was no a.nswerns Mansfield 's name was called . Instead , State 's Attorney Henry Pratt of Peoria county stepped to the bar and laid a lengthy document before the court . Peoria Presents Ammer . " What 's this ? " queried the judge .. " An answer to the summons served on Sheriff Minor and a plea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorization is outside the jurisdiction of this court , " was the reply . " Overruled , " snapped the judge . " Produce the sheriff and his prisoner at once , " When no sheriff appeared , the judge issued the attachment and ordered it placed in the hands of Sheriff Leslie urica of Lase county for service . " It is preposterous to assert that I have no jurisdiction over the sheriff of your county In a question like this , " Judge Shopen told State 's Attorney Pratt . Defends Ws Jurisdiction , " This court ' was established in 1867 as the Court of Common Pleas of the city of Elgin , " he continued . " Its powers have been consistently enlarged and its jurisdiction Increased since that time , although Its name has been changed to the City court of Elgin . An act by the session of the legislature just closed made its jurisdiction concurrent with that of a Circuit court . " While Kane county officials remained convinced of their power and Mr. Pratt hurritd homeward for a consultation vita ' the sheriff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned that an official from another county threatened to invade their territory and arrest their own arresting officer . Sheriff Minor expressed himself as satisfied that the only person with authority to arrest him is the coroner of peoria county , and the coroner announced he had no intention of exercising this power .                     