@@691805

txt The effect of surprise being essential to art , Mr. A. B. WALKLET hails the early demise of the sex play and sex novel that are raging in London as elsewhere . VELASQUEZ surprises us with the sinister scowl of Pope INNOCENT , CARPACCIO with the geometrical symmetry of Saint URSULA ' bed . BEETHOVEN with the sudden sound of horns in the C minor symphony , WREN with the dome of Saint Paul 's . " Art " without surprise is like Piccadilly " Circus without Eros . " The field of sex is too limited , the theme too scant , to give scope for surprise , and so " artistic monotony " will do its perfect work . One is reminded of the flapper who explained that she kept her hair curled forward over her ears so that when she and dear Willie were married she would hate something with which to surprise him . It may be surmised that the new Psychology has not reached London , at least with anything like the surge and volume inundating these shores . It has added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of sex ; it has enlarged its theme with variations that reverberate through the corridors of history and subvert the Decalogue . Certainly it is full of surprises . No one of us Is so humdrum a plodder in the highway of opinion as to escape that awful Oedipus complex . The more completely he is married , the surer the new psychologers are that matrimony is only " a disguised and substituted form " of the deep sin of Swellfoot the Tyrant . If he honors his father instead of being insanely jealous of him , his seemingly biblical virtue is " a repressed revul " sion all the more vigorous and ex " treme . " Even in loving the Lord the presumption is that he is " trans .. ferring " an impulse of homage from some quite mundane object . When paterfamilias gives up golf for the daily dozen , prompted by mounting blood pressure , he is warned against the patience and calm that are his nearest need ; he must " keep the libido flowing " or his subconscious will become a sink of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novels and plays , new themes replete with artistic surprise ? Possibly not . For the individual it is a proud joy to grope inward for complexes ? an ecstasy unparalleled since M. Tourdain discovered that all his life he had been speaking prose . Practitioners roll the sounding vocabulary over their tongues with amazing relish . And there is enough truth in the new psychology , a sufficiently keen analysis of phenomena hitherto vague , to bolster both parties in their conviction of strange , exclusive wisdom . But the stuff in hand is that of private quackery , not popular art . Herr FREUD is well advised in heading the new foundation which is to purge psychoanalysis of flubdubbery . Literature and the theatre have little in common with the dim confessional or with the private clinic . The psychology of the crowd is in many ways crude , but it rejects the ego centric . " On the stage , " says Mr. WALKLET , " nothing surprises us more than what " we know already in common ex " perience . " Also , there is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In many phases the Freudian psychology is as deeply repugnant to our collective consciousness as that other product of the Continent , the triangle play . It lacks artistic surprise because it is not a matter of common experience or at least of common conversation . " You say , " Mr. WAI.H.I.EY exclaims , " that it is holding the mir " ror up to nature ? Nature replies " that - she can not bear it , that the " mirror ought to be smashed , that at " any rate it is like your cheek to hold " it up ! "                     