@@685940

txt THE TIMES today publishes the first of a series of articles by H. G. WELLS in which the distinguished scientist , novelist , prophet and UtoPist tells what he saw in Russia a few weeks ago . WELLS writes in many characters and writes well in most of them ; and his first article gives him an opportunity to depict the actual fact which he has more than once set down as a fancy of the future  --  a great civilization fallen into ruins . For the collapse of culture is to WELLS the dominant fact in Russia today ? as it doubtless is to the Russians who wonder where their next meal is coming from , and if they will ever have a thoroughly satisfactory meal again , or a warm suit of clothes . Compared with this disaster the revolution is an incident , he ' thinks , and political controversies idle chatter . " Our dominant impression of " things Russian is an impression of a " vast irreparable breakdown . " Petrograd is a city of 700,000 people , against the nearly two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million at the beginning of the revolution ; a city whose wooden houses have all been pulled down for firewood , whose streets are full of holes , whose shops are closed . People do not go about in the streets because there is nowhere to go . Food is scarce , unpalatable and not nourishing ; it is rationed inadequately by the Government , and these rations must be supplemented by whatever can be purchased from illicit food traders , with rubles some 4,000 of which are worth a dollar . A suit of clothes which ? wears out , a dish that is broken , can not be replaced . Nothing is plentiful except tea , cigarettes and matches . The death rate has quadrupled and the birth rate has been , cut in two . There are no medicines and medical appliances . City life in Russia is a reversion to the primitive for which people of our day were never prepared . This civilization which has broken down , and which apparently can never rise again in its old form , is in essentials the civilization which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by nineteenth century industry , invention and credit on a basis of , eighteenth century political and social organization . True , not all of Russia is dying . Back of the cities is the country and the eternal muzhik . He is prospering , in his humble way . The peasants look well fed says WELLS , and I doubt if they are very worse off than they were in .1914 . Probably they are better off . They have more land than they had and they have got rid of their landlords . They will not help in any attempt to overthrow the Soviet Government because they are convinced that while it endures this state of things will endure . This does not prevent their resisting whenever they can attempts of Red Guards to collect food at regulation prices . Insufficient forces of Red Guards may be attacked and massacred . Such incidents are magnified in the Lon'don press as peasant insurrections against the Bolshevik ! " They are nothing of the sort . It is just the peasants making themselves comfortable under the existing regime . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city means nothing to him but a chance to get good prices for his food , failing which he will not sell it . Yet perhaps it is not wholly his fault ; he wants to . get something for his food , when he can , and the cities offer him little but Bolshevist paper rubles ( worth one two-thousandth of their old value ) . Bolshevist industry does not produce anything the peasant needs , so he manages to get along and make himself comfortable . As New York State dairymen have observed whenever the price of milk goes up , one must live . But there seems little hope of saving the pitiful remnant of Russian urban civilization through the muzhik . The old civilization is dead , and whatever replaces it , whether in a dedade or in a century , will be something new . The Bolsheviki will set up their Communist paradise if they can , but Mr. WELLS is not one of those enthusiasts who see a paradise in Russia now . However , he does not blame the Bolsheviks for the collapse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war ; of capitalism that reared the cities ; of imperialism that somehow , somewhere , started the war ; of French and British interference which kept annoying Russia with " subsidized raids , invasions and insurrections " when Western Europe had begun to recover . There is , of course , a good deal of truth in all this . The war put upon every nation a terrible strain , and if it had lasted a few years longer more than Russia might have gone down . Russia went first because there modern civilization was most recent , least extensive , and more than anywhere else an importation with few roots in the soil . Also , Russia was the most inefficiently and corruptly governed of the great nations . Granting all that , some allowance must be made for the Communist theory which postulated a complete destruction of existing institutions as a preliminary of the new world . Russia was going to pieces under KERENSKY , but the Bolsheviki helped it along . For a time they insisted on fitting the nation to their own Procrustean theories , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presently they began to be opportunists , they cling to the dogma that all the world must forcibly be made over on the Russian mbdcl . If Russia had been devastated by an earthquake , the whole world would deny itself to send aid to the victims ; but that aid could not be used to promote earthquakes in other countries . Allied policy toward Russia is more easily understood if one remembers the Third International .                     