@@694324

txt International problems promise to furnish major issues in the coming .... , ? o-ros. , donal session . Adminitsration policies with respect to questions relating to European countries , Mexico , Nicaragua , and China will bo under fire as part of the broadside which the Democrats are preparing to launch In advance of the approaching presidential cam-Algri ? Echoes of the Harding disarmament conference and the more recent unatceessful Coolidge naval armament conference at Geneva will be heard in connection with appropriations for Tiara ! cruisers . The British are likely to he targets for criticism on the floor of ? Ingress for their attitude at Genova . Topic for Oratory . Relations with the French tionably will be a topic for In connection with several pending matters . The recent controversy over the French tariff , which applies duties ca certain classes of American goods four times higher than those effective m German goods , will provoke discusion , as will the failure of the French ratify its debt funding agreement Y.th the United States . Any overtures which may bo made 17 the French-government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to meet with the disapproval of congress . The last congress was firmly against anything approaching debt cancellation and the new congress is expected to maintain the same position . There seems to be little disposition to reopen the world court issue at the corning session , although some senators may attempt to agitate the matter . Resolutions rescinding the action d the senate in proving American adherence to the world court were of . fered last winter , but were not seriously pressed . The administration appears content to allow the matter to rest as it is , this government having remained out of the world court through the failure of other nations to accept the American reservations . Situation in Mexico . The Mexican situation will figure Prominently in congress . The senate will be called upon to take action early in the session on the confirmation of the appointment of Dwight W , Morrow as amhacgador to Mexico . Mr. Morrow 's connection with the Morgan banking firm , which has figured , prominently in connection with loans 10 the Mexican government , will mean a sharp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may summon him to explain the extent to which he has separated himself from the Morgan firm and lust what his policies will be . In Otte of the opportunity given for attacks upon the Coolidge culministradon , there is a feeling that the ap- pointment will be confirmed . The clashes of the Mexican gcrverament with the Catholic church were the subject of committee inquiries and of speeches on the floor in both houses In the last session and likely are to tome up again this winter . V. S. Nicaraguan Policy . Resolutions dealing not only with the policies of the Coolidge administration with respect to Mexico but also ha intervention In the Nicaraguan situation are certain to be offered in both houses . The La Follette radicals Le well as the Democrats are preparIn to attack the administration in this Pmnection . The plight of China and activities of the united States government to Protect American interests there also MS receive attention . Several memberl of congress have made personal thvestigallons of the Chinese situation during the summer and are known to he preparing speeches for delivery this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of action in the senate last winter , again will be brought forward with the Lacking of the administration .                     