@@688015

txt Officials investigating the bombing of a Weehawken-bound local passenger train of the West Shore Railroad near North Bergen Sunday night , in which several persons were injured , said last right that one or more arresta  --  probably would be made today . Detectives had several men under surveillance , it was announced , ' and looked for immediate results . Chief of Pokice . Leonard Marcy of North Bergen , N. J. , who is co-operating with the New York Central 's detective force , declared that he ' knew the men who had committed the crime and was convinced that it was the result of a deliberate plot to wreck the train and kill or maim many passengers , tieing up both the West Shore arid the Erie Railroad tracks . Marcy 's theory , which differed somewhat from that of other officials , most Of whom maintained silence , throwing an atmosphere of mystery about the bombing , was thata four sticks of dynamite had been employed , presumably by strikers , and that the dynamite was set off by time fuses rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were placed on the east-bound tracks , over which the local train passed , and two ' on . the . westbound tracks , although there was no certainty that the west-bound tracks were affected . Of all the bits of debris , including a badly . scarred . railroad tie . which was pitched up by the explosion , ' Chief Marcy considered most important a . piece of steel one foot long , weighing about a pound and a half , which was blown through the floor of the third car of the five-car train . Believes Plot Was to Tie up Erie . " It seems quite evident that the men who tried to destroy this train wanted also to throw it over into the Erie Railroad cut and possibly tie up that line . There was ... a- total disregard for human life and those guilty surely will be punished , " Chief Marcy said : - " There were two explosions from five to ? eight seconds apart and about thirty feet from each other . A couple of railroad lies were broken , one length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were broken . " ' The North Bergen Chief refused to say whet/ier. the men under suspicion were strikers . R. . T. , Humphreys , - chief of the West Shore Railroad 's detective division , said , hOwever , ? ? that : mere seemed little doubt ? that ' the bombing plot was directly connected with the strike . ' . We expect to make arrests , and when We do- get them they will be the right ones , " ? he said . " I do n't ' understand how the train managed to : stay on the rails . It seems miraculous , even , that there ' were not more serious injuries ' from flying glass and from the ; explosion itself . " Humphreys - he was not " coriViiiCed that dynamite had been placed on the tracks , in. view . of the upward direction of the ' explosion , . which was revealed in an examination ' of'the trucks of the cars involved . An - official of the International Fireworks Company , whose name was . with held , reported that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short distance ? ' dray from the railroad tracks . Detectives . said that he was convinced that ' the blasts ! sounded more like dynamite than black , powder , the only other explosive so far ' considered by officials as an alternative to their dynamiting theory . Shops Now Heavily Guarded . The New York Central placed a heavy guard at the Granton shops of the-West Shore ? yesterday . As quickly as men appeared for patrol work at the Weehawken headquarters they were hired . James Roosa , Chief of Detectives of the New York Central , arrived in Granton early yesterday ? morning and remained there throughout the day . He would make no statement as to the bombing , referring all . inquiries to J. H. Hustis , Superintendent of Property Protection at the Grand Central Station . There it waa. said that Mr. Roosa. and a representative of , the Bureau of , Explosives of the American ' Railway Association were working on the case , but had not reportedLfurther - than that so far as they could tell the , explosives - were , planted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : opinion of high officials , the explosive was : dynamite , set Off by percussion caps , but there was no report as . to the quantity . of the explosive ' used . Soon after daylight / detectives and patrols ' barred persons seeking to see the scene . No one was permitted ' to examine the spot or to cross Bridge No. 4 , a steel trestle near it . Granton Junction , where the ' explosienoccurred ; is about five miles from the Weehawken station ? of the West , Shore , arid .. was bristling with . armed ' ' railroad guards and pollee yesterday when reporters sought ; to interview railroad shopmen . , Alfred Lax , Vice . Chalrnian of . the Strike Committee of , the shop crafts at Grahton , said that union officials had checked up all the strikers as ? soon as the facts of . the explosion became known and so far had been able to account for all but two or three of their men . " The committee has been against violence of any kind and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not ' due to the strike or , if it was a bombing , that it was not committed by strikers , " he said .. " Our men know very well that violence of any kind alienates public sympathy , , which we need in situations of this kind . " From railroad officials it was learned that there had been little disorder at Granton during the seven weeks of the strike in the shops there . The shops are less than a mile from where the explosion occurred . No Dynamite Missing . , The stone quarries of the BelmontGurney Corporation near by , where considerable dynamite is used , reported that their supply was intact . Soon after midnight Sunday State and local ' police had blocked avenues of escape to the supposed dynamiters , if indeed-they should seek to put distance between them and the scene of the bombing . The Police examined - " several automobile parties found in the vicinity of Grantwood , and one policeman reported , though toe . late , that a party of - men had sped along a road near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobile he had seen was ' broadcast and the ferries watched , but it:could not be located . . All of , die injured , none of whom was seriously-hurt  --  they suffered either from shock or from cuts caused by flying glass  --  were able to leave the North Hudson Hospital soon after treatment . The last patient , it was reported , left the hospital at 7 o'clock yesterday Morning , after their ' statements had been taken by detectives . ' The train , which:Was known as the Dumont local , was left in the - Weehawken yards to remain one of the exhibits in the case and- to aid in the investigation of the explosive experts . Many of the windows of-the third and fourth cars were broken and the under parts of the cars scarred .                     