@@686724

txt In proclaiming the State as superarent , Judge LINDSEY of the Denver ! children 's Court is very convincing , ut convincing of something quite diferent from what he apparently blends . Th'e State has accepted the esponsibility of educating the child nd " no one today seriously uestions this responsibility . " " It s far more its duty to feed the child " . nd in general to take responsibility s to its " health and morals . " " The child must no longer be the victim of conditions over which it has no ' control , but for which society and ! the State itself are to blame . " The vords are doubtless inspired by a high pirit of Lumanity and patriotism ; but constructive statesmanship requires something more than that . ? Let us first reconnoitre the pass to which sentimental philanthropy has already brought us . The cost of State aid  --  public schools , public baths and playgrounds , maternity hospitals , Americanization schools  --  falls upon those who pay taxes , which is to say very largely upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the class struggles that it can no longer afford to have children and educate them according to the traditional American standard . In this important field statistics are mainly lacking , but there are certain straws in the wind . We know that , on the average , a Harvard graduate and his wife have one child and a Vassar graduate and her husband seven-tenths of a child . If any of our advanced Institutions were limited to children of its own graduates , it would shrink by approximately one-half with each generation . What else can this mean than that the brain power of the nation is shriveling ? For several decades the increase of our population has come almost exclusively from immigrants and the children of immigrants . Yet Judge LINDSEY proposes that the national wealth be still further diverted to the care of the children of the in-competent and improvident . A curious sign of the times is that I women of the middle class seem blind to this danger , and not always because of philanthropic sentiment . When committees of the House and Senate were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service , they gave several reasons , some of them rather clumsily expressed , why men should receive higher pay than women . They were sharply taken to task by the President of the National League of Woman Voters . If woman 's sphere is the home , argued Mrs. MAUD moon PARK , it is " up to the men to " make that career so desirable that " women will choose it ! " What else had the dear Congressmen intended ? If men are to be husbands and parents , they must have incomes scaled to the service they are rendering to the future . As an abstract principle , equal pay for the sexes is as convincing as the super-parental responsibility of the State ; but in the actual world of today both would work inerrantly and powerfully against all the high interests of women and of children . The tendency of modern impulse , and of such thought as it inspires , is somewhat too individualistic , considering only the particular hardship , the particular " right . " The prime concern of the State is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as related to their children . The problem is by no means simple ; but it can not be solved by insisting , whether from , motives of philanthropy or of selfishness , upon individual rights which can be granted only at the expense of the family .                     