@@696319

txt I see that Mr. Knopf has changed the title of Charles Morgan 's novel , " First Love , " to " Portrait in a Mirror . " The latter is the English title , but the book was originally called " First Love " here  --  before publication . This is the first Instance I , have ever known of a book being actually published under one title and then having its Attie altered . No doubt the greater success of this particular novel In England than in America . as well as the unfortunate clash of title with Miss Delatleld 's " First Love " has been responsible . But , strangely enough , something similar has just occurred in London , in connection with a play . This play , greatly praised , was first given under the title " These Few Ashes . " That was not a very attractive title , as it apparently led many people to thtnk that the play Was about cremation ; and so the title has been altered to " Ladies , Please ! " Whether this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not seem an absolute inspiration . Miss Ethel Colburn Mayne is to write the first " life " of Lady Byron , and for the purpose of this work she has been supplied by Mary , Countess of Lovelace , with many documents of great importance , some of which never before have been published , even in the much debated " Astarte . " Nobody could make better use of this material than Miss Mayne. whose ilioe-mnhv of Byron is a work . of real scholarship . But then Miss Mayne is a very remarkable person . She is Irish , and I should Judge , from her remorseless novel , " Gold Lace , " lived as a child in an Irish garrison town . Her short stories are very well known here as the nearest thing to Henry James ' short stories . She is a delightful hostess , and a delightful talker ; and , besides writing with great distinction herself , as novelist , con tist Of I may adapt a word to indicate the writer of short stories , and biographer , she translates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe , who translated Ludwig 's " Goethe , " and I remember with satisfaction her translated version of a German collection of Dostoevsky 's letters . In short , a very gifted woman ; and the life of Lady Byron should be as bold and as admirable in taste as anybody could wish . As I am speaking of translations , I must not fail to praise the translation which Mr. and Mrs. Muir have made of Ludwig Renn 's brier book , " War . " This short work , which Is on the point of appearing , is one of the really authentic books about tho war . The author speaks throughout in his own person , and he describes with the 1 greatest simplicity his own expertences M the war . The truthfulness of the descriptions gives them extraordinary effect . It is as though the ' writer had kept an hourly record of his sensations , and had now reproduced this record with minor cuts . But that does not mean that the book is minutely dull . It is anything but dull , just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its brief way , free of trappings and the heavy over emphasis of other books of war experience , It supplies a very striking picture . For veracity I should say that there has been nothing and will be nothing to beat it . It does not challenge comparison with " Sergeant Grischa , " but for those who desire an account of actual fighting it could hardly be bettered . Melville E. Stone Award Goes to Detroit Youth New York , June ** Melville E. Stone award for the best work during the school year with the Newman News , student publication of the Newman school at Lakewood , N. J. , has been given Charles Stevenson of Detroit ; the award is presented annually and consists of fifty dollars in gold . The prize was established several Years ago by Walter Fahy of New York , formerly with the Associated Press , for which the late Melville E. Stone was general manager and counselor for many years .                     