@@689053

txt Coincident with the news that the steamship Parrs of the French Line had sailed from Havre to New York with complete wine supplies for crew rations for the round trip , it became known tonight that Secretary Mellon today had issued instruc .. tions to officers ' of the Public Health Service at all American ports ' to comply with the laws of foreign nations compelling ships under their flags to carry sufficient supplies of " medicinal liquor . " " Dietary " rations were con- , strued as " medicinal " in character at a conference of Treasury and Public Health officials . Specifically , the American port officers were ordered to accept the affidavits of foreign shipmasters and surgeons as to the amount of medicinal liquors necessary to take care of their passengers and crews . Officials of the Treasury Department said tonight that this additional latitude allowed in the amount of medicinal liquors to be carried on foreign ships would relieve the embarrassing situation created by the protests of foreign nations , ' notably France , Italy and Spain , that the daily wine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be cut off by a strict enforcement of the Volstead law , OH the line of the- recent  - -  Supreme Court decision . It was understood at the Treasury Department that authorization to a health officer to use discretion In construing the word " reasonable " would allow him to issue a permit allowing a stated amount of liquor as sufficient for both passengers arid crew . Under no circumstances . it was said , would any permit allow such an additional amount of liquor that the real intent of the Volstead law ( the importation of liquors into this country ) would . be defeated . Prohibition agents will ' keep a close check on the requisitions made and the importation within the three-mile limit . Old Regulations Remain . Secretary Mellon , it ? was understood from Public Health Service officials . does not believe that ship 's doctors should be deprived of the supplies prescribed by the laws of their own countries as adequate to provide for passengers and crews . The requisition made by ships ' Captains and surgeons will in no instance be honored if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they should at least be allowed the amount their own countries have prescribed , it is held by Washington officials . No alterations in the regulations sent out a short time ago following the Supreme Court decision will be necessary , It was said tonight . Section 11 of these states : " Any merchant vessel arriving in port with liquor not classed , in these regulations , either as cargo of sea stores , but claimed by the master to be held for non-beverage purposes , or with wine claimed to be held for sacrament pur1 Poses , but without a permit or certificate authorizing its possession under the national prohibition act , may be allowed to retain a reasonable quantity for such purposes until the master nas had fair opportunity to obtain either a permit or a certificate of medicinal need , or ' otherwise satisfy the requirements of the prohibition law and regulations . " Negotiations with the French Government led to the instructions to the Public Health Service , authorized by Secretary Mellon. through Dr. Htigh S. Cumming , the Surgeon General , so it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with both State Department and Treasury Department officials . The story goes that the agreement reached covering the situation of the French crews was at once seen as able to apply to the ships of all foreign nations , and that Government heads were delighted to see that some solution of the vexing question had been discovered . Through the latitude allowed by the public health surgeons , crews on for -- eign ships would be allowed to have their wine rations , in spite of the recent regulations , so it was generally agreed tonight . There seemed to be a fine point involved , however , for some officials insisted that the affidavits of the ship masters and surgeons would be accepted solely when they asked for more " medicinal " liquor . Whether the foreign ship surgeons would prescribe wine for their crews is a question . While it was understood that the Government did not want to be put In the position of allowing additional liquors for crew 's rations instead for medicinal purposes , it was not difficult to see that the crews would be'supplied under the suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter were not forthcoming , but it was explained that efforts were being made to systematize the administration of the regulations so that . the ship 's doctors on foreign vessels would be able ' to retain for medical purposes the amount of liquor they estimated would be required for their ship . The present regulations Instruct- thei public health officer authorizing the issuance of the permit to require the amount of liquor held on each ship as medicine to be " reasonable . " but it 18 understood that the Treasury is adopting the view that whatever amount of liquor is covered in the ship 's doctor 's affidavit ' should be exempt from seizure . In other words , it seems that the Treasury is planning to hold its officers from going behind the affidavits of the ship 's doctors as an act both of medical and international courtesy which would place such liquors as foreign vessels sought fit to retain exempt from seizure . In this connection it was indicated that there have been a number of complaints against the amount of liquors allowed foreign ships for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxious to avoid emba.rrassing the shipping of other nations in American waters as little as possible from the administration of the prohibition laws .                     