@@696419

txt The creditors of the bankrupt private banking partnership of Clarke Brothers were notified in a brief public report made yesterday by the Irving Trust Company , as ' Federal receiver , " to obviate as far.:5as . posel ? ble uncertainty , " that nothing could be paid back before three months at the earliest . The receiver also presented the result of an accounting ordered immediately after Clarke Brothers closed their doors two weeks ago , already published as a preliminary report , declaring that the eventual payments to the creditors might reach 25 cents on the dollar or might be as little as 5 cents . " In the event that depositors who may be unfamiliar with bankruptcy matters receive offers for their claims , " the receiver 's . report concluded , however , " the ' receiver recommends that they first consult a reputable attorney or their own bank before agreeing to sell them . This advice is given for the reason that while the receiver , ' with the information now at hand , does not believe that the realization to ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of more favorable developments and a greater realization , although this seems unlikely at the present time . " bepositors Meet Tonight . The news that nothing could be got out of the ' bank for three months was a further blow to the 3,000 depositors , the majority of whom had been . induced to deposit their lifetime savings with Clarke Brothers by the offer of 5% per cent interest . A meeting of the depositors , who formed an organization last week called " Depositors of Clarke Brothers , Bankers , Association , " will be held in the Aldermanic chamber of City Hall at 6:30 o'clock this evening to discuss the situation . Their distress was revealed only partly at the , hearings before the United States Commissioner last Thursday , resulting in indictments of the Clarke partners within two hours . For ? a week previously they had been coming in procession to the office of United States Attorney Tuttle , with horrified faces and tales of an old age suddenly left unprotected . Some were broken by the realization that their years of selfdenial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were too old . to work . They have come in as great numbers to tell Mayor Walker about it and that was how the association happened to get the aldermanic chamber as a meeting place . Mr. Plitt also explained that this evening 's meeting had been set for 6:30 o'clock because more than 900 of the Clarke savings account depositors were hard-working men and women employed in trades , offices or the city service , with balances of less than $500 , and these creditors could not meet until after the day 's work was over . There was some uncertainty as to the action that this meeting could take , but Mr. Plitt said that some of the depositors , led by Fred Heubner of 54 Lafayette Street , . who is chairman , favored , asking Governor . Roosevelt to help and perhaps investigate the State Banking Department . Elizabeth Silver of Brighton Beach , who said she had lost the vacation money which she had gradually accumulated in an account in the Clarke bank , was working last might with Mrs. Helen Lieberman of 115 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor . Man , 70 , to Go Back to Work . . A retired blacksmith , 70 , whose savings had gone this way , shrugged his shoulders when he learned he would get nothing for three months and prepared to go back to work . William Wanter , a bridge tender , of 309 East Ninth Street , had been saving since 1916 on a salary of $1,800 a year , and had accumulated $5,990 in time to lose much of it . Delia , 80 years old , 1949 Amsterdam Avenue , ' a widow , had on deposit all the money her husband left her , and was facing the necessity of living somehow with no resources . Winnie Hormel , 60 , employed for forty years in the office of the Commissioner of Records , had put her lifetime savings of $10,000 in the Clarke company . Her chief regret , seemed to be , . however , that she recently had a friend , Margaret Patterson , to transfer her account of $1,500 to Clarke Brothers . Depositors who were destitute spoke bitterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Accompanied by six of these de-1 positors , who say that Clarke Broth-1 ers accepted deposits from them the day before closing , Acting District Attorney Pecora plans to go before the grand jury today to seek State indictments of  --  the four Clarke partners for violation of Section 295 of the State banking laws , forbidding the acceptance of deposits by a bank which knows it is not solvent . Such indictments would bring the Clarke bankruptcy into the State courts for the first time . At present the four Clarke partners . James Rae Clarke , Hudson Clarke Jr. , Philip L. Clarke and John F. Bouker , are under Federal indictment charging them with using the mails to de-1 fraud . In addition , United States Attorney Charles H. Tuttle plans today to go before the Federal grand jury to ask for further indictments charging the Clarke partners with conspiring to conceal and . to sequester assets of a bankrupt corporation . In this connection , Mr. Tuttle said , he has subpoenaed Joseph A. Broderick , State Superintendent of Banking , to produce records showing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books in 1923 and that the partners denied it . had jurisdiction . This afternoon at 2 o'clock United States Commissioner Cotter will resume his John Doe inquiry int ' ? the ? criminal responsibility - of the Clarke bankruptcy . Assistants of Mr. Tuttle under George J. Mintzer are working over documents to which , it was said yesterday , income tax statements are to be added . The Federal receiver 's inquiry into the existence of assets either belonging to the partnership or to the partners , which has been running parallel to the criminal proceedings before Commissioner Cotter , will be resumed at 3 o'clock Wednesday afternoon before John L. Lyttle , referee in bankruptcy , at 299 Broadway . Hudson Clarke Jr. , one of the four indicted Clarke partners , was released yesterday on ** bail , after he had spent Friday and Saturday in the Federal House of Detention because of a surety company official whose signature was necessary on his bond .                     