@@695537

txt Maurice E. Connolly , former Borough President of Queens , who was found guilty on Wednesday of conspiring with the late John M. Phillips to defraud the city in sewer contracts , was transferred from the Queens County Jail in Long Island City yesterday afternoon to Welfare Island , where he will serve his sentence of one year in prison . Frederick Seely , who was Connolly'sdesign engineer in the Queens Sewer Buread , and who was convicted with him , ' remains in the county jail pending action by Supreme Court Justice Arthur S. Tompkins . He was not sentenced at the same time as Connolly . Connolly and Seely awoke at 7:30 o'clock yesterday morning in adjacent cells overlooking the Long Island Railroad yards and the Queens County Court House , where they were convicted . Send Out for Breakfast . The regular prison breakfast of oatmeal , coffee and bread did not . appeal to Connolly and Seely , so they sent out to a near-by restaurant foi stewed apricots , ham and eggs , toast and coffee . This is a privilege accorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their own meals . Warden Frank W. Fox said that Connolly and Seely did not ask for or receive any privileges not granted to all prisoners . After breakfast at 8 o'clock the cell doors were opened and Connolly . Seely and the other prisoners were allowed to exercise in the corridor . The guards said that Connolly and Seely walked up and down together , talking in low tones , and did not mix with the others . Max D. Stelzer , counsel for Connolly , held a half hour 's conference with his client in jail about noon , and on leaving said : " Connolly seems to like it in jail . He is like a child with a new toy . " Shortly after Mr. Steuer left the jail , and after Connolly and Seely had had lunch from a near-by restaurant , Connolly was transferred about 2 P. M. from the jail , where his guards were mostly his own political appointees , to the New York Penitentiary on Welfare Island . He was taken to the island in his own automobile . driven by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sister of the convicted engineer , visited Seely , and a man who refused to identify himself brought him cigarettes . This man said Seely 's aged mother was recovering from the shock of the conviction . Steuer Serve 's Appeal Notice . Mr. Steuer served notice of an appeal upon . Emory R. Buckner , Special Assistant Attorney General , who conducted the prosecution , but did not succeed in getting a certificate of reasonable doubt , which would have acted as a stay of execution and would have gained Connolly his freedom . pending the appeal . Judging from the objections and exceptions he registered during the trial , Mr. Steuer will base his appeal chiefly upon the argument that Mr. Buckner failed to introduce evidence directly linking Connolly and Phillips . Ire is also expected to argue that testimony regarding cash payments by Connolly and cairn deposits by Clifford B. Moore , consulting engineer in the Sewer Bureau , should not ' have been admitted in evidence because it was not shown that the cash came from Phillips . The use of a chart of comparative prices charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queens for the same sewer pipe , this chart made up in the court room in front of the jury while the trial went on , is also expected to be used in the appeal . Another ground for appeal will be Justice Tompkins 's rule that the two defendants should have only five peremptory challenges between them , instead of five each , to the prosecution 's live , in the selection of the jury . . A. new and more technical basis for appeal indicated by Mr. Steuer in the last day of the trial was the argument that the prosecution proved that if there was a conspiracy it was successful , and that therefore the whole State 's case was illegal on the ground that the law in New York State provides that the State can not prosecute for conspiracy if the conspiracy . is . auccessful and : I , becomes merged- in completed Offense . The 1111:41011 for the ' appeal ' will be heard in - the Appellate - Brooklyn , at , a date not Yet ' set . ? Justice Tompkins ' decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon on a at , -3 N. A. Weidberg , Seely 's counsel , to Aet aside the verdict ' against - Seely " as against- the weight of evidence . The prosecution and .. defense will . file briefs on Seely 's case on Saturday morning , and the - Court will go over the evidence : dealing with Seely ' to see first , . whether he should go to jail at all , and second , ' whether be should get as long a sentence as Connolly . Criticism in some newspaper ? editorials that Mr. ' Buckner prosecuted Connolly , for conspiracy , a misde- , meanor . with a. maximum penalty of one year , instead of prosecuting him ' for a felony with a. long prison sentence , caused Mr. - Buckner to make the following statement : " Neither the crime of larceny nor bribery could have been lodged bacauseneither could have been proved in view of the ? lack - of specific evidence as to . tirees , . and amounts of money . We had to . prosecute for conspiracy or not at ' all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law making conspiracy misdemeanor with only a year 's pnalty " to - remain on the statute ' books for years . It is not my fault that this is the case . It is up to the Legislature , which certainly should pass new legislation providing for a more serious penalty . Everybody would ? ? agree that con , spiracy to defraud the city of milliens is a serious crime , yet on the statute books .. it . is only : : a . misdemeanor . " . Henry H. Klein , . attorney %for. a group of Queens , home ; owners , who first brought " tthe high " assessments for Queens - sewers to ; public ' Aftontion.last Whiter , - announced he would press for action ' by - 1he .. Board Assessors to reduce . the . assessments as a result of Connolly 's conviction. - - Alderman George - U. - ' Harvey . of Queens , who preferred charges against Connolly with Governor Smith last December , ' wrote to Borough President Patten of Queens yesterday , demending the removal of all Connolly appointees in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. Harvey is the Republican candidate for Borough President against Mr. Patten at next month 's election . After Connolly resigned in April , Patten was chosen for his place by the Democratic Aldermen from Queens . - In commenting on the demand . Mr. Patten said : " If my election should depend upon the wholesale discharge of the men and women whom I know to be honest , experienced and efficient , then I would not want to be elected . " Mr. Patten wrote to Mr. Buckner yesterday for a copy of his chart of comparative prices , saying that he wanted it to protect the taxpayers in the future from . similar excessive costs . . No action was taken by the Corporation Counsel or the Controller on Alderman Harvey 's demand that the city institute a taxpayers ' action to compel restitution by Connolly , Phillips 's estate- and the contractors of the millions illegally spent on sewers during the past ten years .                     