@@691938

txt Even though Robert M. La . Follette should be selected as the Republican candidate tor United States Senator to succeed his father in the Wisconsin primaries tomorrow , Senator Butler of Massachusetts , Chairman of the Republican ' National Committee and close friend of President Coolidge , gave it as his opinion today that the son who aspires to the leadership of his father will not receive the support of the National Committee . A decision on this point , however , lie said , would rest with the Senatorial Committee and the voters of Wisconsin . Senator Butler spoke freely about the political situation and particularly of the contest in Wisconsin , where tomorrow 's Primaries precede the special election on Sept. 29 to fill the vacant La Follette seat . It Is evident frrAn Senator Butler 's words that there has been no progress made toward softening tile bitter:1 ness of feeling among disciples of La Follette in the Northwest and the Coolidge Administration . Senator Butler 7 , - as emphatic in saying that in his opinion those who joined with the late Senator La @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were now seeking to elect a Senator from ' Wisconsin on a platform which made La Follette 's principles the issue had no place in the Republican Party and could not expect to receive its support . " Regardless of the fact that Robert M. LaFollette is running as a Republican and is using the Republican machinery in Wisconsin , " said Mr , Butler . " he is stapding on a platform containing planks that were rejected as against the party interests at , the Republican National Convention at Cleveland last year . In my =Pat-rat the Republican National Committee will not support him . I am of course simply giving my private opinion . I can not look upon a man who opposes the Republican Party in a campaign as a Republican . Certainly party regularity must have something to do with it in a case like this . " Ordinarily , said Senator Butler , the National Committee did not take any part in a primary campaign and was not sharing directly in this one . His comments , however , made it appear that the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. Wilcox , who is running in the primary against " Bob " La Follette , will be the victor . Butler Says Ile Will Run . Senator Butler said he knew that the title of " Coolidge Republican " had been given to Mr. Wilcox and seemed to feel that was reasonable , although he did not formally give his stamp of approval . Then he was asked whether , if Mr. LaFollette won the nomination and his name appeared on the official ballot as the Republican nominee , the party . as a whole and under the Coolidge leadership would deflect its support to another candidate . " That . " replied Senator Butler , " is for - the Senatorial committee and the people of Wisconsin to decide. ? ' Senator Butler was asked about his own candidacy for election as Senator from Massachusetts nest year , reports having been heard that he might remain out of the race and possibly become a member of the President 's Cabinet . " Oh , I expect to run , all right , " he said . " I do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make-soine announcement when the time is ripe . But that Is a long way off . " As to reports that he might enter the Cabinet , Senator Butler said he had read them in the newspapers but did net care to dismiss them . He made it fairly- plain , however , that he expected no such step . Regarding the work of the next Congress . Senator Butler said that he believed a tax bill would be ready for introduction early in the session and that there would be rapid progress in the adoption of a measure satisfactory to the Administration . Asked about the likelihood of tariff revision , the Senator said he did not believe there was much interest in that in Congress and that he knew of no .. e4pventertj among manufacturers to seek changes . In his opinion there will be no tariff changes , although he expressed the belief that there were some rates which should be altered . Senator Butler said he had abandoned his plans to make a Western trip and would not even go to Chicago . There was nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his reports all were that President Coolidge was stronger than ever with the people . The National Committee , he stated . was taking no part in the Mayoralty tight In New York . " I guess these fellows can take pretty good care of themselves , " he commented . On his way to Massachusetts in a few days , however , he will stop for two or three day . in New ' York .                     