@@688968

txt High government officials are agreed financial and business situations were never more sound than today . While it is admitted in official quarters that a few months ago some apprehension existed over the rapidity with which business was launching forward , all such fears have vanished . Irrespective of recent pessimistic utterances by certain " doubting Thomases , " the Administration does not feel the country as a whole is moving toward another inflationary period . In fact , it N officially stated no real inflation exists to-day , nothwithstanding that , individual bank loans have mounted to what is regarded as large proportions . CRISSINGER ON CONDITIONS D. R. Crissinger , Governor of the Federal Reserve Board , says conditions throughout the country are sound and no real inflation prevails . It is emphasized that some months ago business and credit were expanding at a rapid pace , but recently there has been a pronounced slowing-up , due largely to attitude of labor and hesitancy of business interests to borrow above current requirements . It is construed as constructive that business adopts such a sane policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such borrowing policies , and goods are readily turned over , there need not be a repetition of inflationary tendencies that characterized credit and business activities of 19194920 . Labor situation is being carefully scrutinized by the government . Recent wage demands of certain classes are viewed as being wholly out of line . In fact , it is agreed the only part of industry displaying inflation is labor . Sooner or later , it is agreed , labor will realize that'American industry . especially Anstruction activities , can not be throttled by exorbitant wage demands . RIG AL ' SINESS ATTRACTED HERE The feeling in government circles is that credit conditions will remain fairly comfortable throughout greater part of leer. especially the summer months . There may be some slight hardening of rates in late summer or early fall as a result ( of harvest credit demands , but trend of rates will be wholly ' gOveined by general Industrial . requirement . . . . Government officials in close ' touch - with banking and credit conditions do not expect any marked outflow of gold this year . In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said any exports will likely be of small proportions and more than offset by total receipts . From a domestic standpoint , opinion here is the country will enjoy several years of business betterment . The exceptional financial position enjoyed by the United States is hound to result , it is said . in attracting large business to this country .                     