@@695212

txt All pomp and glory will soon have disappeared from militarism if one may judge from today 's display in Paris . All the gay uniforms of France 's past have gone . There is no longer a review of troops at Longchamps of such a kind as to impress the public and foreign Ambassadors with some conception of France 's military might . There is no longer any of the feverishness of preparedness . Today 's review was only an official function . It was not a display . In khaki and horizon blue  --  for there are still large stocks to be used up ? all arms filed past the President of the republic and his Ministers in celebration of the anniversary of the storming of the Bastile , France 's first effort toward political freedom . Such of the public as had nothing else to do than watch this official act cheered heartily for the President and Premier and American Ambassador and such notabilities as they recognized . They cheered the regimental bands and colors and they cheered the scarlet and gold of the Algerian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this somewhat sombre fete . But if any one needs a demonstration that Chauvinism is as dead as the Dodo in France he should attend this one military festival of the year . The military machine is not any less efficient because it has shed so many of its trappings . It is possibly more efficient than it has ever been . What has changed is the public which used to revel in such displays and hink historically of " The Day . " This arany which filed past was businesslike in its equipment . It made no appeal to the imagination , to ideas of glory . And the public which watched it pass felt and demonstrated its feelings toward it exactly as it felt toward and cheered the firemen and police when they in turn filed past . Here and ther when some stout citizen recognized the flag of his old regiment he might raise a special hurrah . But he stopped short , self-conscious under the stares of those around who deprecated such a display of warlike emotion . In just the same way as meaning has largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone from the fourteenth . Neither America nor France feels her liberties any longer in question and these anniversaries of violent acts are only an excuse for a public holiday . Today 's heroes were those who waited all through the torrid heat of the morning for the doors to open for free performances at the Opera , Opera Comique and Comedie Frangaise and thos : who last night and tonight have danced untiringly in the public squares . Every one except these heroes had fled to the country to escape the stuffiness of the city , where the temperature is ninety-two . French in New York Observe the Day . Three hundred French visitors and residents of New York were the guests yesterday morning of Maxime Mongendre , French Consul General , at a reception to celebrate Bastile Day , French national July 14 holiday , which was held at the French consulate , 9 East Fortieth Street . " It is with great pleasure that I compliment you in carrying out our plan , which is to make France loved in America , " said M. Mongendre , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendship of France and America , the Consul General said : " It is with the happiest sentiments that I have the assurance of being your interpreter in expressing your sincere wishes for the prosperity and greatness of the United States in behalf of the friendly nations repre- sented here and of France herself , to whom we again pledge all our faith , confidence and hearts . " An optimistic strain was struck by M. Mongendre in referring to the future of France . her prosperity and her Government under Premier PoIncar ? , who , he said , had stabilized the franc and was rendering an economic and sound administration . J. G. Mancini , President of the French War Veterans of New York , and Dr. N. Barbour , representing the Syrian subjects of France in New York . both praised France and pledged loyalty to her . With the reception hall gaily decorated with large French and American flags and the entire assemblage standing at attention , Mine . Germaine Andres of the Olympia Theatre , Paris , and Roger Ferle of Bordeaux sang the " Marseillaise. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conte . The French anthem was immediately followed by the playing of " The Star-Spangled Banner " and then by " Madelon " and the " Marche Lorraine . " Because of the American prohibition law , lemonade instead of champagne , as in pre-Volstead years , was served to the guests with other refreshments . Those at the reception included Andre Brouzet . French Consul in New York ; Jules Bois , French novelist ; Alexandre Chauvin . President of the Cercle Franco-Americain : Dr. G. B. Zacharie . President of the Society of French Professors in America : Paul Meyer publisher of The Theatre Magazine : Gaston Burlet. head of the Gerdes Lafayette : Dr. Marcel Knecht. managing director of Le Matin : the Rev Theophile Wucher. nastrir of St Vincent de Paul 's Roman Catholic Church . and Pierre de Malglaive . President of the French Chamber of Commerce in New York . Noiseless 14th Saddens Kiddies . PARIS , July 14 ( Q ' ) . ? French kiddies celebrated France 's Independence Day with unusual indifference . They were denied for the first time the joy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These Instruments of youthful selfexpression were theoretically prohibited several years ago , but the police heretofore had overlooked the regulation . French boys who jumped out of bed in the early hours of the morning with unaccustomed energy hastened to the stores where fireworks are sold , but were turned back coldly with the declaration : " No firecrackers this year . Pinwheels , snakes , colored fire , roman candles ? yes . But no real noise makers . " Most of the youngsters laughed with scorn at pinwheels , and after the fashion of American boys exclaimed : " What 's a celebration without firecrackers ? " The authorities tried to make up for the suppression of firecrackers by multiplying public displays of fireworks , but failed to propitiate young France , which rebelliously protested against the " Glorious Fourteenth . " There was plenty of beer to quench thirst of several millions who braved the boiling heat to dance in the boulevards and streets of the cities and villages , and there was plenty of joy among the perspiring dancers , but none for the boys , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  