@@694380

txt President . Coolidge today justified the Government 's ? policy of scrutinizing the flotation of foreign loans in this country by contending that it came within the proper conduct of foreign relations and that its . adoption came within- the powers of the President under the Constitution . This was the Administration 's reply to the attack made yesterday by Senator Glass of Virginia , who charged that the Government 's loan policy was a usurpation ? of authority which might be abused by an unscrupulous official . In the course of his comment , however , the President indicated that he had considered from time to time the abandonment of the policy , but had come to the conclusion that unles some such plan was followed Congress might enact a drastic regulatory law , which in the end might interfere with the making of any such loans . It appeared to the President that it was best to continue under the present system . President Sees No Interference . The State Department , the President holds , determines whether the making of any proposed foreign loan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borrowing country . In acting in this way the President feels that he is within his constitutional rights , since he is entrusted witi  --  ioreign relations , and the flotation of foreign loans is one element of foreign relations . The inquiries undertaken by the State Department , the President holds , are made to determine whether , if a proposed loan is made , it would interfere in any way with our foreign relations , and not to establish the financial soundness of the proposed borrower , or to make suggestions to investors . Borah Would End the Practice . Senator Borah , Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , was unwilling to discuss the Glass attack in detail , but  --  said : . " I do not want to be placed In the attitude of criticising the State Department . It inherited this , practice and had a particular situation to deal with . But I do think it is a practice which should be terminated . " The State Department late today supplemented what had been said earlier by the President and let it be known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department officials also argued ? against the creation of a commission to supervise foreign loans and there are no plans to make such a recommendation to Congress . It was made clear that Secretary Kellogg did not plan to reply to Sen. ator Glass nor to enter into contro- : versy with him . It was said , however , that no impropriety could be seen in a discussion of the policy by members of Congress . And it was contended that if critics of the arrapgement kn.ew all the facts they might hold a different view . Cite Similar System Abroad . Officials pointed out that the department did not " approve " foreign loans , but only stated whether it had objection to a pending issue , and that it did not pass upon , the merits of the loans from the investment stand- point , but only from their effect on the public welfare . The arrangement is understood by the State Department to be similar to practices of Great Britain , France and other countries where private bankers engage heavily in foreign investing . The policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving no thought to its abandonment , while so far as is known here the bankers have very generally abided by its terms . It has operated , according to the State Department , with very few loans being adversely affected and has its chief value in preventing the occasional floating of an issue that would be harmful from the national standpoint . When first announced by the department , it was pointed out that the arrangement was " voluntary " and entered into because " the department believes that , in view of the possible national interests involved , it should hay . the opportunity of saying to the underwriters concerned , should it appear advisable to do so , that there is or is , not objection to any particular issue . " Kellogg 's Definition of Policy . This position , it was pointed out , was defined by Secretary Kellogg in an address before the Council of Foreign Relations in New York on Dec. 14 , 1925 , when he declared the object was " that the Government might state whether it believed certain loans were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , loans to countries not making debt settlements with the United States . or loans for mcinopolistic purposes . " It was stated : that since then notable examples of objections made by the Department to loans were the proposed German potash issue , which it was felt would enable the development of a monopoly abroad that would squeeze the American farmer , and a Brazil coffee valorization loan , that would react in higher coffee prices in this country , thereby affecting adversely every table in the land . The form used in stating that the Department has no objection to a loan is as follows : " I beg to state that , in the light of the information before it , the Department of State offers no objection to this financing . " In every letter on loans is incorporated the following statement : " You , of course , appreciate that as pointed out in the Department 's announcement of March 3 , 1922 ( promulgating the arrangement ) , the Department of State does not pass upon the merits of foreign loans as business propositions nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no reference to the attitude of this Government should be made in any prospectus or otherwise . " No form is followed in letters giving objection to loans , these varying with the cases . Matter of " Moral Responsibility . " While it was again emphasized today that the Government incurs no responsibility as to the loans themselves , it was admitted that in general the Government does have some moral responsibility over the property of its citizens abroad , although how far that responsibility would be exercised in specific cases would depend upon circumstances . The responsibility was phrased by President Coolidge at the dinner of the United Press in New York on April 25 when he said that " our Government has certain rights over and certain duties toward our citizens and their property , wherever they may be located . The person and property of a citizen are a part of the general domain of the ? nation , even when abroad . "                     