@@685138

txt " Burking " was a ghoulish business in human aodies that was devised early in the last century . Professional bonding in Chicago rapidly isf be:oming its twentieth century counterpart . Burke was a Person who made his living by supplying bodies to the dissecting rooms . His pickings being slender he bethought himself of a forehanded idea . The medical school attendants soon noticed that Burke was delivering to them bodies still warm  --  life hardly , departed . He was hanged after being convicted of murder , He was found to have accelerated his trade by making corpses instead of negotiating for them . This is the extent to which the professional bond brokerage business is headed in Chicago . Bonds are not furnished on a showing of the prisoner 's character . The chances of conviction , the violence of the crime , and the degree of probability that the prisoner will fled have nothing to do with the bondsman 's motives in offering surety . Ho exacts a fee . That is the limit of the bondsman 's interest . ' Auld the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a known criminal ? Absurd . WoUld the most crafty bondsman go $100,000 bail if there was the slightest chance of forfeiting his $100,000 property or any part of it ? Again absurd . What then induces certain onus to such eagerness to sign criminal ball bonds ? The answer appears in the criminal court records .. It is because a criminal bail bond is n't worth the paper it is written on . The bondsmen know it . They would n't hazard a nickel if it were n't so . The prisoners seeking freedom know iL They would n't be paying exorbitant fees to the bond sharks if it were n't so . The public knows it . Hundreds of decent citizens would n't be victirnb of recurrent robberies and murders at the hands of free on bail criminals if it were n't so .. When a fugitive from justice  --  like " Sonny " Dunn  --  announces that he proposes to give himself up as soon as he can arrange for bail he is n't looking for sound security . Sound security , capable of being actually confiscated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That fugitive is trying to raise the huge fee which the bond shark must have in hand before he signs the worthless bond . One asks : Why all this farce ? Why not open the jail doors ? It is because the forms of the law must be observed ; and while observing it the crooks , the bondsmen , and the marketable politicians turn it to organization advantage . The bond system is no more than a legal gesture , a ghastly fiction , out of which the bond brokers take an enormous toll . This toll is at the cost of many murders and robberies . A professional bondsman will sign bail for any criminal , regardless ' of his record . He has n't the remotest idea that the criminal will return for iriaL Indeed , he does n't care . He ventures nothing and receives a fat fee for venturing nothing . The criminal forfeits , and behold , the bond shark 's property is found transferred to another . The evidence of " burking " is bold and unmisltakabie . Until only recently the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Criminal court building . The taxilayers , victims of the erimes that make bonding- so profitable , also are the rent payers for the " office apace " appropriated to the use of the sharks in a public building . That the bond sharks hover about the - court building is circumstantial evidence of their interest , which may be called accessory , in robbery and murder . Without crime and criminals they could not prosper . With crime they do prosper . Tho extent of crime in Chicago indicates the degree of that prosperity . Burke , the ghoul , made his own corpses . How far must law lapse before we shall find the bond evil conspiring at crime , before the fact , so that It may , as it does now , participate after the fact ?                     