@@695467

txt The American note replying to the communications of Great Britain . and France - outlining their naval limitation accord was dispatched by the State Department today and is to be delivered to the respective Foreign Offices before the end of the week . There was official reiteration that American naval policy has not been changed since the Geneva tripartite conference of last year , and it is understood the notes bases the attitude of the United States to the AngloFrench understanding on that position , but does not go into detail or contain any counter-propositions to the stand taken by Great Britain and France . No collateral issues such as the informal suggestions in Europe that the United States might confer with Great Britain and France in relation to their accord are dealt with ; nor are plans of the United States for participation in future deliberations of the Preparatory Commission on Armament Limitation of the League : of Nations discussed at length , as they are not directly at issue in the exchange of communications . ' There is confidence in official - circles that no new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is felt that as a result of the developments since last July , the prospect for immediate progress in naval limitation is not as bright as it was then . In fact it will occasion no surprise here if the . Preparatory Corn ; mission does not meet to take up the naval question actively for some time . Whatever the outcome of the Presidential election here in November , however , no change in basic American naval policy is anticipated , as , it was pointed out today , that policy is the result of steady development over years and stands on factors which probably would not be changed by a political election . , British Denial of Many Reports . Wireless to THE NEW Foxy Tams . LONDON , Sept. ** reports emanating from Rome that Britain and France had extended their understandings to include- disposition of the two air forces were denied by an authoritative British official today . He reiterated the statement of Lord Cushendun at Geneva that Britain had no secret commitments with France . The only tie Britain and France have beyond well-known treaties and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval limitation is a closer spirit of friendly , cooperation between the two Foreign Offices . Inasmuch as pre-war history showed that the cause of peace in Europe suffered whenever Britain and France were at odds , the official pointed out that friends of peace I ought to view the rapprochement of the British and French diplomats with pleasure . It was denied that there was any understanding with France whereby the French might abandon economic and financial advances toward Russia , who is still fighting England through the use of agitators and spies in Asia . ? Britain 's Role in Balkans . It was denied also that Britain was Supporting the French policy of a Bulgarian-Serbian entente . What Britain , together with . France , had been doing , it was said , was to warn Bulgaria to suppress armed border raids , which were stirring up trouble . This is a measure which Britain takes periodically as border skirmishes break out . Official circles here are obviously irritated by the campaign in the British press charging the Foreign Office with harking back to the methods of secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are registered with the League . of Nations , for the whole World to see . They point out , however , that even the most open covenants require a certain amount of preparation and recall that lack of such preliminary soundings brought about failure ' of the Geneva arms parley . It is reiterated most emphatically that Britain has no general understanding with France . Specific questions are dealt with in a ' specific way when . they arise . i Silence Irritates British Trade . I By* EDWIN L. JAMES . I Special Cable to Tits NEW Toss Toms . LONDON , Sept , ** is quite apparent that a very large part of English public opinion will continue to insist on governniental  --  explanation of just what . sort ' Of an arrangement has been made between London and ; Maris . ? is unlikely that Prime Min- later Baldwin will be able to withstand this pressure king , and certainly if no official exposition is given the country by the time Parliament meets there will be a bitter contest on the subject . One may make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sort ? of half official but nevertheless , binding arrangements which existed : between England and France before the war as the basis of the . Entente Cordiale . Both ; the Paris and London Governments have denied diplomatically ? that the two Governments have agreed on a general foreign policy , and they have affirmed that the naval agreement is their only agreement . Yet it is currently known that there is an understanding about land armament , and moreover it is asking a great deal of public credulity to expect it to accept that the common team work of the French awl British at Geneva and elsewhere recently represents a simple series of fortuitous accidents . American Quarters Not Uneasy . As for the naval understanding itself , it is not viewed with alarm in . American quarters in London . It is not viewed with alarm because it is figured that no foreign agreement can bind America on cruiser construction if it is not accepted by Washington . Therefore , it may be supposed that the advices going from London to Washington are of a mollifying rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England condemn the naval accord . Not that they criticize the good efforts to further the British case on cruisers , but they regard the naval understanding with France as not a good effort . It is argued that the result of the effort sneaks for itself , for instead of getting America nearer to . the British ' position it has had the contrary effect ; The London Times will say tomorrow morning : " In the naval compromise certainly the Government have teen at fault . Their motives may be ' - defended but not their tactics . Their real mistake lay not in thinking too little of the League but in think ng too narrowly in terms of the League Preparatory Commission on Disarmament and not sufficiently of . the state of American public opinion that the deadlock on the Preparatory Commission was the occasion for conversations which led to the compromise . " The aim was to facilitate the work of the Disarmament Commission , but the whole mode of procedure was much too casual and incautious . " However , the object of the naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chief naval powers and so to make it possible for the commission to go on with its work . If that basis is not accepted and if no alternative is offered , the Preparatory Commission will have to look to the United States for further light on its difficult problem . " Opposition Press Denunciations . The Daily News will call for publication of all the facts now . " Clearly , " it says , " America has made ' up her mind as to the meaning and effect of this precious compromise in the interest of disarmament . " She believes , first , that is a British device encouraged by France at a price which enables the French to assume the military dictatorship of Europe to put America in a. hole by forcing her to accept a convenient British way of limitation . " She believes that France and Britain have come to the conclusion that a strategic alliance between themselves is more important than joint cooperation with America . " She believes finally in Representative Britten 's cutting phrase that this agreement is the first public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which rocked the world in 1914 and almost wiped Europe off the face of the globe . " This is not the American view only . It is the view of civilized opinion in all parts of the world . This is not the moment for arid recrimination . The need is to diminish as far as possible the almost irreparable injury , already . done thaIcause . of disarmament , . , to the - proepeet ' of Amer ' lc= cooperation intha task of peace , to but ; imMature Mendable with the American ' People and , to . the Kellogg I Treaty itself . " The agreement has set Europe by the ears . Germany is uneasy and suspicious . Italy is raving about a mysterious subsidiary accord which is to enable France to concentrate her air fleet on the " Italian border . Moscow is flinging accusations broadcast . Yet nota . Nord of the text has been officially published . " Why does not Mr. ? Baldwin on Britain 's behalf muster sufficient courage to take the world into his confidence , trace the . whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . publish conclusions explicit and implied and confess the error ? " ? The Daily Herald . attacks : the agreement savagely , saying : - ? . " Not since the days before the war , when the entente cordiale was doing its deadly work , have the relations between the foreign Ministries of London : and : Paris been . so intimate . The results of that intimacy are to be seen everywhere . There is unity on disarmament , there ? is : unity ? on . Soviet Russia , unity on Germair and always this unity is employe to block the path to peace . " And the League is being used by France and Britain not as a place for honest discussion and honest striving after world friendship but as a place where decisions are made in secret and foisted one : other . nations . Nothing more dangerous can be conceived . " ,                     