@@692321

txt The following colloquy is taken from the Congressional Record : Mr. Moss . Mr. President , last Friday when the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations was ill and unable to come to the Senate , the Senator from Wisconsin issued me an ultimatum in these , words : " Vote or talk . " Mr. LENROOT . That is correct , Mr. President . Here we have the explanation of the filibuster at present going on in the Senate . The majority in favor of the World Court resolution are determined to press it to a vote . They have left off debating themselves . If any is to bo done , it must be by the other aide . Only by holding the floor and talking against time can the minority prevent an actual roll-call on the resolution . Of course , in the strict sense of the word , debate was long since exhausted . No Senator has anything new to say . The old straw is threshed over again before empty seats . It might be thoughtt that the majority would make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it Is under the form adopted by the Senate  --  In order to bring the discussion to an end on a day certain . But Senator LENROOT , the parliamentary manager for the resolution , Is doubtful whether he could get ' the necessary two-thirds vote in favor of closure . He preferred first to resort to the plan of tiring out the opposition Senators by compelling them to speak from noon till midnight , day after day . Unfortunately , the Lenroot alternative has no terrors for a group of Senators bent on filibustering . They can relieve each other . Under the rules of the Senate they are not compelled to speak to the question . They are permitted to read , or get read for them , while they rest , long documents relating to any subject on earth . When one filibustering Senator shows signs of weariness , after having spoken for five or six hours , a colleague is observed with a pile of manuscript on his desk a foot high , ready to take up the wondrous tale . To condemn a United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unusual punishment . The real peine forte et dare is inflicted upon those who have to listen to him . Happily , these comprise only two or three dozing Senators , the official stenographers and clerks of the Senate , together with a few forlorn and despairing individuals in the gallery ... The Senate filibusters are not merely sparring for time . While the majority are waiting to see them break . they are waiting to see the majority break . The truth is that the support of the ' World Court resolution has been , on the part of too many Senators , only half-hearted . That is one reason why they will not consent to vote for closure , though such a refusal makes them really just as responsible for the deadlock as are those resorting to the filibuster . There are ominous signs of even Administration Senators quitting the fight in behalf of the Administration . Senator WATsox of Indiana has publicly announced that lie thinks the World Court question had best go over till December . The President is left in a cruel dilemma . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decision , he may make impossible the enactment ? of the Tax bill before March 15 . This would explain the re , port that his advice is that , in case the filibuster can not be broken by tonight . it will be advisable to give the Tax bill the right of way and let the World Court take its chances later . If this policy is followed , the filibuster will succeed in its immediate purpose . A Senator would be unworthy of the name who would not undertake to " talk " from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof .                     