@@694197

txt Circumstances are shaping for a radical change of policy on the part of the Federal Oil Conservation Board toward the question of new petroleum legislation at the next session of Congress . There is now a strong possibility that the oil board may recommend to the Seventieth Congress the enactment of a measure to provide for unit pool operation in the oil fields under Federal supervision . So far , the oil board , while looking with favor upon the idea of unit pool operation as a conservation method , has contended that the initiative for any new legislation which may- be needed should come from the petroleum industry itself . It has regarded itself as more of a fact finding body than anything else . But the prospects of oil legislation being introduced look good . It is reported that legal minds in the petroleum industry are studying the matter from the standpoint of drafting measures . Several members of Congress , including Senators Borah , Norris and La Follette are reported to have oil billsto introduce . It would seem that there might be considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FAVORS OIL BOARD On the oiher hand President Coolidge has been concerned that the oil board continue as an important Federal agency . If Congress enacts new legislation without reference to the board there would no longer be any reason for its existence . It may be said that these factors , arguing for the Federal Oil Conservation Board taking the lead in the move for new legislation , are being considered in high official quarters . The way lies open through the government 's supervision of public and Indian oil lands . Legislation enabling the Interior Department to operate the public and Indian oil lands by the unit pool method would be the first step in a logical sequence resulting in Federal supervision of unit pool operation all over the country . Belief is growing in official quarters that only through unit pool operation can the petroleum resources of the country adequately be conserved . The experiment being carried on in the Seminole field is regarded as pointing in the right direction , but it is felt that much stronger machinery is required than can be obtained through the voluntary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be considered . NATION A DEFENSE AND CONSERVATION The avenue of approach to legislation providing for Federal regulation of unit pool operation  --  should the oil board decide to take the lead  --  would be through the double doors of national defense and conservation . It is now being argued that since the Federal government owes a duty to protect the country in time of emergency it owes a duty to proCIde for the conservation of national resources , such as oil , without which the country would be unable to defend itself in time of war . From this standpoint the government interest in stabilizing oil production through the regulation of the output of the petroleum fields would not be designed as a government control or price fixing scheme . The theory is that production adjusted to consumption would not only prevent waste both to the nation and the industry but would have a stabilizing effect upon prices as well . Something in the way of an official pronouncement on the subject of oil legislation is expected soot . The summer is passing and it takes time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the Federal Oil Conservation Board is to take the lead it will have to get out in front quickly , and the present indications are that it is preparing to move .                     