@@696601

txt Retorting upon Democrats and others who attack the pending tariff bill , its defenders declare that there is no real popular excitement about it .. If that is so , it shows by itself how differently Americans have come to think about high protection . Previous tariff bills have provoked feverish anxiety and widespread agitation . Manufacturers were persuaded that their business would go to ruin if they did not get a certain tariff rate on their products . Workers in protected industries were induced to believe that their very livelihood depended upon what Congress might do , so that they held meetings and forwarded petitions in the alleged interest of the laboring classes . Little or nothing of all that has been seen this year . If the people have in general remained lethargic , it is a good proof that they have ceased to believe the old protectionist dogma . They do not today consider the tariff a matter of life or death for the United States . The very method of handling the measure in Congress has tended to intensify popular indifference to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go on for weeks behind closed doors of the Senate Finance Committee . In addition . there has been a series of events . connected with wire-pulling and logrolling and the use of secret influence in connection with tariff rates . that have filled many with a sort of disgust for the whole business . There used to be a phrase after the Civil War to the effect that it was necessary to " make treason odious . " Well , the tariff-makers this year have fairly well succeeded in making the protective tariff odious in the eyes of the American people . This is one reason why they can not be got to rally with enthusiasm to the support of the bill in Congress . They do not like what they know of it . They fear that hidden Farts of it arc worse even than has been charged . But on top of this , they do not believe that the bill is going to pass in anything like its present form . It may not pass in any form . Even If some mangled remains of it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not be until after the regular session has begun . Before that time there will be nearly three months of talk about the bill in the Senate , which again will be a powerful influence in making the country weary of the entire affair . Moreover , it has not escaped public ? notice that President HOOVER does not bear himself like a man altogether enchanted with the proposed new tariff . One reason given for his making an end of trips to his Virginia camp , and setting down in . Washington for hard work , is that he wants* to get the tariff muddle cleared up in a sensible way as soon as possible . The general hope is that he will have a just perception of the changed place which tariff legislation- has come to occupy in this country , so that ' he will bend his efforts to making the new bill less odious because more severely limited .                     