@@695993

txt Stocks advanced aggressively yesterday in an atmosphere that presented a striking contrast to the gloom prevailing in speculative quarters over credit situation earlier in the week . With the reports of higher bank rates Boston and London refuted by overnight developments , the whole market opened higher , and steadily ticked up strength as the session Progressed Whereas on Monday and Tuesday rumors In trading circles had it that bankers were viewing the money situation with great concern . the Street was assured yesterday on equally secret authority that the Federal Reserve officials planned no further restrictive measures . Undoubtedly , it was the better performance of the market itself which influenced this change in the character of the stories afloat Urgent short covering was started by impressive demand for the principal trading stocks , and the forward movement gained great breadth and vigor by early afternoon . United States Steel rose to new high ground on the curren , advance while Bethlehem reached its best levels since the war , and other independents advanced sharply in response to the huge production at profitable prices now proceeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulated by reports from manufacturing centers that production for March continues to gain with - zros , ponts that the current month will set a record in excess of 500,000 units . Following heavy production in both January and February , the March record will bring the first quarter 's total considerably above 3,250,000 vehicles . Heavy retail buying season begins within 30 days . While some of the first quarter 's output has gone into stocks in anticipation of the peak demand , registrations for the early part of the year indicate that buying is well ahead of last year . Factories report that dealers are buying heavily in all parts of the country and look for record spring business Foreign markets continue to absorb an increasing number of cars and leading companies are aggressively developing this outlet as indicated by extensive plans of Ford Motor Co. abroad , and General Motors acquisition of the largest German manufacturer . Common stocks of the major rubber cornPa.ales showed pronounced strength in the early afternoon , reflecting the probability of an early announcement of an advance in tire- prices With crude rubber selling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and with the recent sharp advance in cotton futures , an increase in the price of tires is fully justified . Goodyear Tire . , Rubber Co. is earning at a record rate under the present price schedule . and any increase in prices of finished goods will naturally expand earnings still further . Strength in U. S. Rubber reflects not only a probable tire price advance , but numerous operating economies which the du Pont management is effecting at the present time . With some $18,584,000 credited to New York Central 's other income account in 1929 , through the Michigan 's Central 's 100% extra cash dividend , the Brooks Earning Indicator points out that Central 's other income alone will be sufficient to cover all fixed charges with a balance ' of some $7,000,000 . This mearPS that results from transportation will be directly applicable to the common shares . Weekly statement of the Bank of England showed the institution to have again strengthened its gold position . Bullion reserves now total ? 152,068,000. compared with ? 151,825,000 a week ago , reflecting the acquisition of South African @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a slight decline . standing at 50.5%. against 51.6% last week . However , the position in this respect is far stronger than a year ago when this item was 38 " , : - . In view of the recent nervousness in Wall Street over the possibility of a further increase in the Bank of England rate . the stronger position with regard to gold was interpreted optimistically . It was felt that the London authorities would undertake an additional increase in the rate only with the greatest reluctance . British trade has already felt the deterring influence exercised by higher money rates . Commerce with the outside world during February showed substantial losses from the previous month , and the corresponding period last year . Naturally , another increase in the Bank of England rate would have a correspondingly depressing effect , and it is believed that the Federal Reserve authorities are anxious to avoid embarrassing London through the establishment of higher rediscount levels in this country .                     