@@689051

txt Although it is highly probable that the administration at Washington does not contemplate some of the measures for the international enforcement of prohibition which are credited to it by irresponsible correspondents , a clearer exposition of policy from the State Department seems needed . If it is wrong for foreign vessels in our ports to have liquor under seal , or for use of their crews as required by the laws of their own countries , an extension of the three-mile limit for national territorial control at sea can not possibly make it right . Indeed , the inference is that both conceptions are wrong . This proposal to , stretch national sovereignty nine miles further out to sea , in order to fit it to the impossibilities of-the Volstead law , is by no means so simple as it sounds . We recognized that fact , ourselves in our own legislation long before the recent Supreme Court decision , by exempting ships in the Panama Canal . The distance between the coast of France and that of England . in the Straits of Hover is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles , therefore , would give either France or England , or both , power of visit , search and confiscation on American ships passing through the Straits of Dover . It would not only make the Baltic a closed sea , subject to the will of Denmark and Sweden . It would permit Great Britain and Spain to exercise the powers our prohibitionists claim over every vessel entering the Mediterranean Sea . Perhaps a certain type of American is never so obstinate as when he knows he is wrong . He will not submit to being told that he is wrong by any foreign power . He has seen foisted upon the Constitution of the United States a sumptuary measure utterly out of place in any such document . But to make this worse , he has passed the Volstead law , full of shrieking impossibilities , and instead of amending it into reasonable conformity with the  --  Constitution and the possibility of enforcement he is allowing the Andersons , Wheelers and Bryans to develop it Into a cause of international difference with incalculable consequences . So far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law , and nothing but an amendment of the Volstead Act will provide a way out . Certainly an extension of territorial jurisdiction at sea from three miles to twelve will automatically create a dozen new and dangerous problems for one it affects to settle . It can hardly be supposed that these considerations have not occurred to the , temperate minds of President Harding and Secretary Hughes . Has the hysteria of the war carried on so far that editorial writers of nowedwaratLint both aides of the question are unable to lay those simple facts before a bewildered public ? " Striking'seamstresses rout policemen with hatpins , " putting a point , as it were , to their argument .                     