@@693917

txt The Yugoslav Government has severed diplomatic relations with Albania . and from one quarter the opinion is forthcoming that Europe stands on the brink of a Balkan crisis graver than the one of 1914 . Inasmuch as the forecast emanates from a recently evicted Albanian Government . it may be heavily discounted . Short of war . it may be questioned whether a rupture of diplomatic relations is not an excellent thing where diplomatic relations have been so unhappy as they have ) been for some time between Belgrade and Albania . At least , there is the late precedent involving two much more important nations than the Serbs and the Albanians . Having suspended diplomatic relations and denounced a trade agreement with Russia . the British are now suggesting to the Russians that it is a good time to get together and do a tittle trade . It is for the Powers acting in their separate capacity or through the League of Nations to make it plain to the parties directly involved that the Albanian squabble will not be permitted to endanger the peace of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Continent 's nerves . Some time ago . when Yugoslavia and Italy were flinging conspiracies and mobilizations at each other . London and Paris intervened . Belgrade went so far on the path to conciliation as to invite an outside investigation of her alleged military preparations . Perhaps one explanation of the latest " crisis " is that Yugoslav amour propre had to be satisfied by a ges- ture . Bas ; s of the quarrel is last year 's Treaty of Tirana between Italy and AHMED ZOGU , head of the Albanian Government , which Bel ; grade describes as tantamount to the establishment of an Italian proitecorate over Albania . What made the pain at Belgrade keener is that ARMED ZoGo is a former protege who overthrew the Government of Bishop Nou , with Yugoslav moral assistance , at the very least . The essence of the problem is that Albania is a creation of the Powers , that Yugoslavia exists by reason of the allied victory in the World War , and that Europe is therefore entitled legally and morally , in self-defense and for the welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no incendiary sparks fly about in the Balkans . The Continent 's powder barrels are not what they were in 1914 , but in view of the price then paid no fire department will be content to take even the smallest chance .                     