@@688974

txt The plans of the Treasury . Department to prepare regulations to conform with the Supreme Court decision which held that vessels of foreign registry could not transport beverage liquor for passengers or crews within the American three-mile limit met with further complications today . Five foreign nations  --  namely . Great Britain . France , Italy , Spain and Holland  --  it was stated , had made formal protest to the State Department IP an endeavor to safeguard what they believed to be the rights of their shipowners . To add to the mix-up , there appeared evidences of dissensidfi amtng the Government officials over a program which had been proposed in an effort to meet some of the objections raised by the foreign nations . The latter complication , of no small importance , was the result a announcements that officials of the Treasury Department were in favor of regulations which would permit foreign shipowners to place wine rations for the crews under the control of the ship 's physician . who would dole out the rations to the crews within American territorial waters . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand that ships flying their flags shall carry a specified ration of wines and liquors for the crews . Today it developed that Prohibition Commissioner R. A. Haynes is not in accord with any plan which would designate as medicine liquor the wine - rations carried for the crews by foreign vessels . Such a method of getting around international complications would not , in the opinion of Mr. Haynes , be a real compliance with the Supreme Court decision . That the Treasury Department was considering the promulgation of regulations which would place rations of wines and liquor for the crews under the control of the ship 's physician became known cln Wednesday following a conference of officials at the department . Would Exclude All Liquor . Commissioner Haynes was not present at that conference , but - was represented by A. J. Britt , counsel for the prohibition unit . Government officials are reticent about discussing the points at issue in the controversy , but It is Bald that Mr. Britt did not agree to the proposal and that the regulations as proposed by the prohibition unit would exclude even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not permit its distribution to the crews by the ship 's doctor . Others at the conference at which ways and means to meet the demands of the foreign nations were discussed were Secretary Mellon . Commissioner Blair of the Internal Revenue Bureau , Assistant Secretary Moss In charge of customs and Frank D. Lord , counsel for some of the foreign shipping interests . Announcement that the Government is considering regulations which would transfer ship 's stores to the medicine chest has caused much talk here . The question is being raised by prohibitionists and anti-prohNtionists whether this would not plainPY be an act on the part of the Government to evade the Law , as interpreted by the Supreme Court , in order to avoid international complications . No other solution of the embarrassing situation , which officials admit faces them , has been offered by the critics except an amendment of the Volstead law . Can not Evade Law , Says Wheeler . Wayne B. Wheeler , general counsel for the Anti-Saloon Lesave . Joined the forces of the critics today : ; ; " The law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that you ca n't tranefer , beverage liquor to medicinal liquor . I am sure no department of the Government would attempt to put over such a- plan or could feel that it would meet- with the approval of the people . I do n't believe any department has seriously considered such a proposal to evade the law . " Publication of the regulations , which , however , it had been understood would contain just such a provision was held up today , the announcement being made that they would be made public and distributed to the foreign Governments and ship owners as soon as possible . The right of the United States to enforce its own laws within its territorial waters is not questioned in a note which has been presented to the State Departtnent by the British Government . deal. = trig with the Supreme Court decision , but attention is called In the communication to the historical practice of nations and to , the International comity which has prevailed in regard to the " internal economy " which should apply to ships touching at a foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument made by Great Britain in the note , it is stated , is that such ships should be governed in what takes place on board them by the laws of their country . unless the peace and tranquillity or safety of the country visited is threatened . While the authority of the United States is not disputed in regard to regulating the enforcement of the prohibition act . it is pointed out by the British that such authority as is implied in the Supreme Court decision Is usually exercised only for the maintenance of peace . Great Britain was , the second nation to bring this matter . to the attention of this Government through a written communication . Spain having previously done so , it was made known today . In addition , three countries have discussed the question verbally through their diploma-tic representatives here with the State Department , the French and Italian Ambassadors and the Minister of the : Netheriands having talked the mattes over with Secretary Hughes . All of these representations . it was stated , were in accord with the views presented in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are called for by the Supreme Court decision would be contrary to international customs , which have prevailed in the assertion of municipal jurisdiction over a foreign ship in a friendly port ; and . further , that it was establishing a dangerous precedent to go beyond what is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the regulation of international economy on board ships when within the territorial waters of another country . The British note cites the Wildenhus decision rendered in 1887 by the Supreme Court of the United States , in which the question at issue was as to whether the Belgian Consul or the municipal authorities had the right to interfere in the case of a Belgian sailor named Fljens , who was stabbed to death by Joseph Wildenhus. another Belgian sailor . aboard the Noor nand at Jersey City in October . 1886 . In rendering its opinion on that case the Supreme Court said in-partt- ? - ? Each- nation has grantee. ' -o theDoubt was expressed here today as to whether Congress ih enacting the Volstead law ever intended that it should apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American port ; or to liquor which was not intended for sale or distribution in the United ' States . The Supreme Court ruled , however , that such tranaportation was illegal . ' As to sale of liquor aboard foreign vessels within the territorial waters of the United States , it was stated here today that no foreign . Government probably would question the right of the United States to prevent this . Such sale , it was said , would clearly constittite.a violation of the laws of the United States which could be punished without question by the municipal authorities : as to liquor merely " touching " at an American port , with no intention or effort to bring it ashore , the opinion was expressed that interference with . such . a cargo might be considered as an effort to regulate the internal affairs of , the ship , which properly should be governed by the laws of the nation whose flag the ship was flying . ON other ( under the convention between the withintx countries ) iAnat Hown s ) d sou cihn i @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order on board a merchant vessel , but has reserved to itself the right to interfere if the disorder on board is of a nature to disturb the public tranquillity . Further , the decision says : " The principle which governs the whole matter is this : Disorders which disturb only the peace of the ship or those on board are to be dealt with exclusively by the sovereignty of the home of the ship , but those who disturb the public peace mey be Suppressed , and if need be the offenders punisheu by the proper authorities of the local jurisdiction . " As far as the State Department is concerned , in its dealings with foreign nations on this subject , and the Treasury Department in the regulations which it issues on the prohibition enforcement , the Supreme Court decision is the law of the land , and unless Congress changes the law so as to permit the State and Treasury Departments to act otherwise , it was indicated , there is nothing they can do in excepting foreign vessels from strict enforcement . Question Intention of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            