@@694112

txt For the first time in many n ' year newspaper readers in this summer of 1527 have rend of ? wind ati factor in trans-oceanic travel . The airplane , which has not yet conquered Barmy , has given us those items or delayed starts and perils . Such MA 'S was commonplace to our ancestors , who depended upon the sailing ship  --  one of the most beautiful and efficient things ever wrought by the hand of man , despite its dependence upon the wind . Thanks to the Old Ironsides campaign a picture of a square rigged ship has entered probably a majority of all the homes in Chicago this year . School children should bo taught a good deal about the sailing ship  --  it made our nation . There are many who hold that It was probably the most far reaching invention of all those which have altered the face of the modern world . What of it today ? There are yet 2,261,000 tons of sailing ships in world trade . The world 's maximum sail tonnage was not reached until 1180 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sail against 5,450,000 steam . When the Chicago world 's fair NV El held , when the Columbian caravels came to show what the sailing ship In the primiI live could do and the Viking ship was brought over , demonstrating at once ! the power of Norse manhood and the limitations of all the ancient craft , which could not tack against the wind , the sailing ship tonnage of the world ytt topped the steam tonnage . It was In the eighties when ships began to be built of steel that steam tonnage began to Inc:masa at a rate of 5,000,000 tons per decade , but the decline of sail tonnage did not become so ? precipitous until after 1910 . The sailing ship map not be through , oven yet . Its cheapness , independence o4 fuel and greater space for freight give it ? advantages which may hold some , classes of ( raffle for a long time to come . ! Strangely enough the Diesel engine which for a time threatened the existence of steam propulsion upon the sea , may save sail power on blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with small Diesel engines and propellers for use in dead calm or against head winds . A Pacific coast marine authority i cites a case of an Iron hulled full rigged ship which ran from Scotland for a Chilean port . Dad luck with calm and storm In the horso latitudes and off the Horn prolonged her voyage 14 months beyond the usual time . With a small Diesel and a bit of cheap oil she could have made the trip in a year 's less time and yet made 95 per cent of the voyage under sail . The ' fact that the Diesel engine requires such a small crew and no little attention makes its use as an auxiliary of sail more practical than the old efforts to combine steam and sail power .                     