@@690900

txt At ti o'clock this morning in the little town of Empalme , near Guaymas on the Gulf of California , Charlie Chaplin was married to Lita Gray , his leading lady , by Civil Justice Antonio Miro , according to dispatches received hero from Guaymas . Immediately after the ceremony the newly married couple returned to Guaymas , reaching there at 7 o'clock . The wedding party had breakfast at the hotel Albin and ? fterward went to their suite of rooms which had been reserved in the hotel . Marriage Balked in October . The witnesses at the marriage in Empalme today were the same as those who appeared with the couple there Oct. 14 , when they secured a marriage license but were unable to have the ceremony performed because They were Angel Murrill ? of Guaymas and Francisco Monque of Empalo for the bride , and Francisco Esqueda and Raoul Ramirez for Chaplin . " Most Truly Sweet Girl . " Los Angeles , Ca. , Nov. 25 . ? SpeI cial . ? The friends that know Charlie Chaplin best unbent a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's early morning marriage to Lita Grey in Mexico . Syd . Chaplin , a brother , told how Charlie had informed him last Friday that he was to marry Miss Grey . " Charlie came to me several months ago , " brother Syd declared , " and told me Lita Grey was the most truly sweet girl he ever had met . Miss Grey is both charming and vivacious  --  and can you picture that Charlie in his fits of temperament and despondency , run ? nine ; all through those forty rooms of his Beverly Hills place alone ? Bays He Wanted Privacy . " I counseled him like an elder brother that an early marriage wars desirable . I. wanted Charlie to stay here and get married ; have Mary , Doug , and the bunch out , and have a real wedding ; but Charlie always has shunned publicity . So he told me ho wanted to run down to Mexico , get it over with , have nobody in on this most personal matter of his private Douglas Fairbanks spoke thr self and Mary Pickford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But why run off and get married ? Charlie did n't need to do that . " Polo , Negri , to whom Charlie had been engaged , would n't give her impressions . A studio official represented the reporter in talking to her . Her remark was " Ah ! " and a sniff . Mildred Wishes Them Joy . Mildred Harris , upon whom Charlie is said to have nettled $170,000 on the - hair divorce . wished the newlyweds " her best " and said " they deserved it . " But Mildred added : " Charlie 's son was born to me . " She was speaking wishing fort fatherhood . ' Charlie loves children , even the tiniest tots , " they said . " He can make up with babies . He can sit for two hours and spin the most attractive fairy stories to kiddies. "                     