@@685964

txt Weakness in Argentine exchange Wednesday carried the peso to a new low ? $.7490 for demand , off $.0040 from previous low , recorded Tuesday , last . This represents a loss of Pearls- : 10% from parity . Hankers here generally view the situation in Ark-entine with considerable concern . One prominent banker in close touch with Latin-American affairs said he is receiving reports constantly that conditions are disturbed . Exchange on Buenos Aires has undegone a remarkable change since the Spring . Throughout the war the Argentine peso sold at a premium in New York . This was due principally to the large shipments of wool , hides and skins which were used for war purposes . Argentine 's favorable trade balance mounted rapidly and soon not only did she buy back many of her securities which were floated in Europe , but she also accumulated large balances abroad . At one time she had a credit of about $200,000,000 in Nev : York . Argentine enjoyed an unprecedented era of prosperity until late in the Spring of this year when the prices of wool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clothing and shoe industry caused a marked falling off in demand for wool and leather . Argentine 's exports of these commodities practically ceased . Cost of production had been greater than the price that could he realized after the declim. and as producers were inclined to believe that such a condition would he temporary they withdrew their goods from the market to force higher prices . There has been no material improvement in the leather and wool markets . These commodities comprised two-thirds of Argentine 's exports to the United States . Their falling off resulted in a sudden change from a very favorable trade balance to a considerable balance against her . For August , Argentine 's exports to America were exceeded by her imports to the extent of $100,000 . The financial situation in Argentina was further complicated by the reduction in the price of wheat . Many of the banks had made loans secured by wheat and the sudden drop has placed them in a position similar to that of Japan when the price of silk declined . Many consignments of American goods are being refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional burden caused by the Mse in dollar exchange . Bankers say drafts are being returned daily covering exports , on which payment has been refused . It is estimated that fully 10,000.000 pesos of goods are tied up in the port of Buenos Aires . When an improvement may be expected is largely problematical . Bankers maintain that no changes will take place until there is a better market for wool , hides , skins and wheat . The suggestion to release gold to relieve the exchange situation has met with considerable disapproval in Buenos Aires , as bankers state that Argentine 's gold reserve should not . in any way . he depleted in view of the uncertainty of the European exchanges .                     