@@688632

txt Interstate Commerce Commission 's decision that Southern Pacific 's lease and stock ownership of the Central Pacific is in the public interest and its order that this control be continued , on condition , is regarded as clearing up the piincipal cloud overhanging the Pacific roads . It prevents disruption of the Southern Pacific system and at the same time assures the Union Pacific of every service and facility in the operation of the through line to the coast formed by its connection with the Central Pacific at Ogden , which it could expect if it owned the Central Pacific . The problem which originated 40 years ago when the through southern route via the gulf ports was opened may be regarded as settled or about to be settled in a constructive way to all three Pacific roads . The Southern Pacific will immediately bring the decision to the attention of the district court which is charged with the execution of the Supreme Court's. mandate . A NEW CONTROL It will show that the Supreme Court 's decision , although rendered in 1922 , was based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control existing when the suit was brought in 1914 ; that the Commerce Commission 's decision is based on the Transportation Act of 1920 and authorizes a new control ; that this new control , beinglawful , makes unnecessary the carrying out of provisions of the mandate which required the separatioc of the Southern Pacific and the Central Pacific and their independent operations . Acceptance of this view by the district court , which may reasonably be expected , will leave the present status undisturbed , except that the Southern Pacific must ? operate Central Pacific hereafter in compliance with conditions set down by the Commerce Commission and which have been declared satisfactory by both Southern Pacific and Union Pacific . The commission 's decision authorizing the lease is not- a reversal of any matter litigated or deCided in the suit which resulted in the Supreme Court 's decision made last May and does not esiCn ? neutralize or render without effect the Supreme Court decision . It is a decision based on some considerations , which , as the Commission 's report states , were not material matters for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new status , as the Supreme Court 's decision intended , but by much less drastic means . It is believed that if the decision of the commission brings about a satisfisctory solution , it will be due in large measure to the Supreme Court 's action which put an end to a combination held in violation of the anti-trust law and subjected the Southern Pacific 's use of Central Pacific to orders of the Commerce Commission . Thus , the Supreme Court 's decision gave the commission a free hand to impose and enforce conditions , making the control of the Southern Pacific over Central Pacific much more in the public interest than heretofore : by maintaining its present usefulness and at the same time securing for the Union Pacific and the public interested in the through line from Ogden services and rates equal to those afforded over the Southern Pacific 's own long haul . WHAT IS PROVIDED Roughly , the decision provides ' that the Central Pacific be used by Southern Pacific to its best interests as a north and south carrier and in cooperation with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific has become popularly known as a transcontinental line through Ogden , whereas it really does mainly a local business . The decision mentions that testimony was given to the effect that 755 of all freight traffic and SS% of all passenger traffic on Central Pacific lines have both origin and destination west of El Paso and Ogden . The decision says ' any joint trackage arrangement " would weaken both systems financially and from the standpoint Of service . " All commissioners agreed that continuance of Southern Pacific control over Central Pacific is in the public interest , excepting Commissioner McChord , whose dissent was based on the belief that Central Pacific has riot the capacity to make the lease and that the commission 's order does not supply the wanting corporate capacity . The decision has further benefits for the Union Pacific , as expressed in two paragraphs dealing with rates and solicitation of traffic for the Ogden route . The first of these stipulates that the Southern Pacific shall at the request of Union Pacific provide for the publication and maintenance of rates ' via the Central Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific and Central Pacific lines in California , west of Banning , and in Oregon and Colorado common points east thereof , no higher than apply concurrently between the same points via any other route in which it participates . The second reminds that Southern . Pacific shippers may be urged to ship via the Ogden route and that Southern Pacific agents shall cooperate with those of Union Pacific in pointing out advantages of the Ogden route over the El Paso route .                     