@@689754

txt The Democratic party in Congress today has a rare opportunity to render the country a splendid piece of disinterested service . Consider the situation . The Republicans possess a nominal majority , but their control is ineffective . They can not function without help from a disaffected bloc or from the Democratic minority . The troublesome group is made u9 predominantly almost altogether , of Republicans . The Democrats can , if they choose , come to the rescue , give the country a demonstration of statesmanship by the passage of a measure of surpassing value to every portion et the population , relieve business of its heaviest incubus , release capital for investment in productive industriel , promote the welfare of labor by multiplying the total number of payrolls and lengthening the rosters of names on the payrolls of today . This opportunity challenges the Democrats in Congress through the presentation thereto of the Mellon plan for tax reduction . If the bloc persists in its present attititude it can hold up legislation indefinitely . Tax reduction apparently can not he achieved unless the Democrats vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be good for the members of the bloc themselves thus to be spanked . In this country as a rule heretofore our legislative debates have been between two sides and only two in Congress . We have not witnessed such spectacles as these familiar in Europe where an aggregation of groups or blocs makes conditions uncertain until the actual voting , and where the results of the votes depend upon the combinations and agreements the several blocs make among themselves . . The blocs are the symbols of single interests , they are made up of partisans of single policies and Mimeses . The phenomenon of a formidable bloc is something new in Washington . But it is marked by the narrowness of vision that . considers the needs of one portion of the people and not of the whole people , of a few states and not of all the states , of a section and not of the nation . It stands for class legislation and not for national tion . The Democratic members of Congress may or may not approve all the items in the Mellon program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to debate many of its provisions . Well ' and good . Rut the greatest and most substantial boon within the power of Congress this year to confer upon the country is the passage in , substance of the Mellon measure and it is up to the Democrats , apparently , to make sure that the nation gets that boon . International Nickel Co. declared regular quarterly dividend of $1.50 on the preferred stock , ihiyable February 1 to stock of record January 17.                     