@@688587

txt Police Commissioner Enright issued n order last night , effective at midnight . recalling the policemen who for months have been assigned to duty in taurants , cabarets and dance halls where arrests have been made for violations of the prohibition laws . This ends the practice of policemen in uniform sauntering between tables , tasting the drinks served to guests and tapping t heir hip pockets . It also ends a police policy which has been widely criticised by restaurant men , city officials and ; deem. : generally . It sends about 200 policemen back to regular patrol duty ie the streets and saves the city about 300,000 a year . In return for the removal of the police censors the restaurant and cabaret men yesterday promised Commissioner Enright to " police " their own premises and to report all violations of the law to the nearest station house- They agreed not to violate the law themselves or to permit any violations on their property . They also volunteered to put a new curfew rule into effect . Dancing . entertainment and the serving of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guests will be allowed until 2:30 to finish their meals , pay their checks , put on their wraps and leave . The present custom in many such places is to remain open until dawn . The truce between the police and the restaurant men was reached at a conference in Commissioner Enright 's office at Police Headquaftelq ' yesterday afternoon . About seventy-five proprietors and managers of public places visited Mr. Enright . Popular resorts in the Broadway district were well represented . such as the Palais Royal , the Little Club , the Plantation , the Tent , the Side Show and so on . Greenwich Village . Harlem and Brooklyn centres of night life alio were represented . Spokesmen for the restaurant and cabaret men complained to Commise loner Enright that their legitimate business had been greatly damaged by the presence of policemen- that they were losing money because their patrons did not like to be annoyed by police supervision and that they were willing to prevent liquor violations and close at a reasonable hour if ' the police were withdrawn . The Commissioner read them a lecture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out their proposal . When these promises were made the Commissioner told them their appeal was granted , but that he tcould keep them under surveillance . He Okid that he would send plainclothes *en around from time to time to see whether the restaurant men were living up to their agreement . As they were leaving . he informed them that they were " on probation . " Following the conference . Commissioner Enright sent an order to all police inspectors throughout the city , telling them to withdraw their men from " raided premises ? ' at midnight . The order caused the greatest concern In the Fourth Inspection District . which runs up the west side from Forty-second Street to Spuyten Duyvil , and is commanded by Inspector James S. Bolan . Among the places from which Inspector Bolan called in his men were the Palais Royal , the Little Club . the Plantation. the Tent , the Side Show , Gallagher 's , Healy 's and John 's Restautant. formerly Peter 's . The inspectors were informed of the offer made by the restaurant and cabaret men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule .. and were ordered to keep an eye on the manner In which this offer was carried out . Commissioner Enright 's decision to recall the men on raided premises duty was seen In some quarters last night as largely due to the fight that developed in the Board of Estimate last month over his application for 739 new policemen . This was regarded as the climax of a long public agitation against the Commissioner 's policy . Mr. Enright got his new policemen last month . but not until after he had been criticised by Acting Mayor Murray Hulbert and Controller Craig . Mayor HY la.n later praised the Commissioner and told him to continue the same policy in the next three years that he had pursued in the last five yearsInspector Bolan said that seventy-five patrolmen in his district were affected by the order . When they reported for duty at their precincts last night , they were sent home and told to come back today ' for assignment to new duties . ' They toad been on duty in eleven prominent Broadway cabarets and restau-stnts , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line for promotion ta ; sergeants. and will be assigned to desk duty In station houses , freeing other men for patrol . The new system was observed to be in effect along Broadway early this morning . Police uniforms were absent and patrons of cabarets and resturants seemed to be enjoying themselves with more freedom than formerly . Managers in charge of typical places like the Palais Royal and Gallagher 's said they were well satisfied with the prospect under the new arrangement . They said they understood they were on their honor , so to speak , and that they were not to sell liquor or permit their patrons to drink it . Guests of such places may expect to be warned by the management not to produce their hip flasks under pain of being reported to the police .                     