@@684942

txt The statement of new influenza cases reported in this city , given out yesterday by the Department of Health , showed a material decrease from the preceding twenty-four hours . The Health Commissioner , Dr. Royal S. Copeland , found little encouragement in the E. " . res , however , and predicted that the report tomorrow would show about 3,000 new cases . The reason for the small number reported yesterday , Dr. Copeland explained , was that many doctors do. ? not report on Saturday afternoons and Sundays . There were 1,712 new cases of influerZa. ? reported yesterday against 2,855 on Sunday . The- pneumonia cases reported were 23$ , compared , with 380 on Sunda : Deaths from both causes show an Increase . Eighty-eight deaths from pneumonia were reported yesterday and seventy-five on Sunday . Influenza deaths- reported were forty-three , an increase - of thirteen over the Sunday report ... New cases and deaths from both causes reported in the Boroughs were : chart deleted On Oat. 7 , 1918. which Dr. Copeland has fixed as the day in the calendar of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present visitation , there were 170 deaths from both diseases , compared with 131 deaths yesterday . Dr. Copeland contends that this shows the present epidemic is less virulent than the former . Sanitary Warning . The Health Department sent out . : 0,000 placards yesterday warning against spitting , to be displayed in cars , public buildings , and other places where all may read . In addition , Dr. Copeland sent a letter to the head of every transportation line emphasizing certain violations of law that have been brought to his attention . Complaints come to me that some subway guards are in the habit of spitting on the platforms or into the roadbed of your railway line . Needless to say , this is against the law , and ' while we have the numbers of some of these men , we are going to give every one a chance to do better in the future . Repeated complaints come to this office that smoking or the carrying of lighted cigars or ciga ' rettes is common practice in the subway and surface lines . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially during an epidemic of this sort . Every effort should be made by all your employees to prevent spitting in public places . Dry sweeping is contrary to the Sanitary ? Code and employees should be warned that they are liable to arrest If they indulge in this practice . We are anxious to hav4 the straps and backs of the seats frequently cleansed . Influenza is a hand-conveyed disease , and unless every precaution is taken the transportation lines truly be the means of increasing the prevalence of this scourge . I appreciate the co-operation you are giving in the readjustment of traffic conditions to meet the exigencies of the occasion . I hope you will run trains as long as possible , and that you will run them as frequently as possible , so that crowding will be reduced to the minimum . " ' If every school teacher in the city were taken ill I , would hire entertainers to keep the public schools open , " Dr. Copeland said , in reply to a question whether the schools were to be closed . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minute they are in school their parents know where they are and that they are under supervision . Of the school children , probably 700,000 come from tenement homes . We know what those homes are and how sometimes several persons are crowded into two small rooms . Such children are better off in school . School children are-not allowed to linger in courtyards or halls , but must go direct to class- rooms . There they are inspected by the ' teachers . If a child gives evidence of having a cold or feels ill , that child is separated from the . others and examined by a doctor . " If it is found that the child has influenza , he is sent home , under the care of the Board of Health , and the Board of Health decides whether home conditions are good or whether the child must be sent to a hospital . I do n't care what was done in other cities ; I know - the schools here , are going to be kept open . If we could give the same supervision to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in- , fluenza in a week . " Avoid Wet Feet . Dr. Copeland spoke yesterday on tile need . for isolating patients , washing household utensils , frequent washing of , hands and faces , good ventilation and exercise . Above all else he cautioned against wet feet . " Tomorrow the regulations changing working and play hours go into effect to prevent ' congestion and crowding on the city 's transit lines , " said Dr. Copeland . " We have the right to expect that every individual who loves his fellows wni give cheerful obedience to the order . no. matter what personal inconvenience he may have to put up with . The railway officials have assured ' me that ' they will rearrange their schedules to meet the change and operate longer trains and so adjust traffic that there will be no overcrowding . I am meeting with hearty co-operation everywhere . Today the May or will issue an order making the working time in city offices from 8:30 A .. M. to 4:30 P. M. So much ceiltroversy has arisen over the use of whiskey ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has received so many letters , praising and criticizing him , that he felt called upon yesterday to issue a state : ment giving his stand on whiskey . " So many distorted statements . " he said , " have been , made by newspapers outside the State .. and abroad regarding my attitude toward the use of whiskey in influenza that I consider It necessary to make a formal statement . " All through the epidemic of 1918 and up to the present moment I have never recommended whiskey as a preventive of influenza : Personally , i do not consider it of any value in the prevention and treatment ? of influenza . " There are certain stages of pneumonia where stimulation is necessary and many reputable physicians look upon whiskey or brandy as the best drug for this purpose .. As Health Commissioner ' it - is not my business to advise treatment or to criticize the methods of treatment of any disease ; it is my . business to prevent disease . " I do feel , . however , since reputable practitioners of medicine are asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pneumonia , that whiskey should be made available , and for this reason I have urged drug stores to keep whiskey in stock , exactly as they keep other drugs in stock , and I have asked the Prohibition Commissioner to cut red tape , ? so far as may be possible , and to facilitate the efforts of such physicians as are in the habit of ' depending upon whiskey in the treatment of Reeumonia . " The  --  Nurses ' Emergency Council opened its office in the Department of Health Building , ? 505 Pearl Street , yesterday . Miss Lillian D. Wald , Miss Annie Goodrich , Miss Isabella Evans , Miss Elizabeth Gregg , Miss Jane E. Hitchcock , Miss Jane Pincus and Miss Inde Albaugh are now on permanent duty there . They will co-ordinate and consolidate the various nursing organizations . The shortage of nurses continues , although about 500 telegrams were sent out on Sunday . So far , 100 nurses have volunteered but with all there are about forty cases at present for whom nurses can not be ? obtained. ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railway fare of nurses it would give them instant employment and keep them on the pay roll during waiting as well as working time . ? Quarters have been established for nurses in Willard Parker Hospital end in the nursing centres of the Red Cross . , Already Boston , Binghamton , and Baltimore have sent nurses here . The aid of the moving . picture has been enlisted against influenza . President ? WilliAm A. Brady , of the National Association of the Motion Picture Industry , on Saturday , redesignated the same committee that had charge of the work in the epidemic of 1918 . ? From time to time messages from eminent health authorities will be published by means of the screen , the purpose being to create a spirit of optimism and prevent any tendency toward hysteria . 57 CASES IN THE TOMBS . All Transfers Between Institutions Stopped . Six keepers and fifty-one male prisoners in the Tombs have influenza , but none of the thirty-six women prisoners has yet been attacked . All the cases have developed since last Wednesday , and every day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison wards at Bellevue . All the keepers on duty at the hospital were ill last night and more ? policemen were detailed as guards , Warden John J. Hanley having no available men left for the work . " The influenza undoubtedly was brought into the prison by some late arrivals , " said Warden Hanley last night . " We are taking all precautions , including putting each person into a separate cell . ' The Tombs was practically under quarantine last night , except for the admission of new prisoners . Visitors will be excluded for some days , and attorneys , when they heard of the epidemic there , shunned conferences with their clients for the time . The courts will not compel any prisoner to appear for trial until his condition has been passed upon by a physician . Commissioner of Corrections James A. Hamilton issued an order yesterday forbidding the transfer of prisoners from one institution to another during the epidemic . Thus far no cases have been reported on Blackwell 's Island . Records at Bellevue last night showed that during the week ended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been admitted for treatment . Of these 378 have been assigned to regular wards , while 42 prisoners= from the Tombs have been placed in Wards 27 , 28 and 29 , previously occupied by drug addicts who have been sent to Willard Parker Hospital . WHISKY FOR PATIENTS .. Doctors Tell of Trouble Getting Pre . scriptions Filled . Speaking before the Medical Society of New York County in the Academy of Medicine , 17 West Forty-third Street , last evening Dr. ; L. Mr , Zwisohn told . o ; having difficulty in getting whisky for patients . " We have the influenza epidemic with us and so is nrohibition , " he ? said . " ' ? . tried to get a prescription for whisky filled for a patient of mine . I tried a number of places and it was only after repeated efforts that I was able to get as much as two ounces . For this my patient , who is a poor man , was charged ; 1.50 . I move that we pass a resolution asking the Federal Government to suspend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get whisky for their patients who have influenza . " " Dr. Gustav G. Fisch said that such a resolution was not necessary . " Any physician , and we are all reputable , " he said , " can make out a prescription in triplicate and obtain whisky at almost any drug store . If the Federal ' Government were to suspend the regulation I predict that there would be a million cases of ' influenza ' in New York City tomorrow . They would be lined up in front of every drug store . "                     