@@690104

txt Thomas E. Wilson , president of Wilson &; Co. , Inc- , stated that after the opposition of certain concentrated holdings of his company 's preferred stock had made it necessary to abandon the plan proposed by its directors and bankers for financing the company through the sale of prior preference stock and Class A stock , he had consulted a number of the principal banks holding the company 's paper and was very much gratified with the cooperation he had received from them . He stated that all the banks he had consulted , together holding more than half of the company 's paper , had expressed their willingness to renew the paper held by them for six months and had appointed a committee to secure the adherence of the other banks to the renewal in order that ample time might be afforded to the company to work out new financial plans . The committee consisting of Frank 0 . Wetmore. president First National Bank . Chicago , chairman ; Arthur W. Loasby , president the Equitable Trust Co. of New York ; William C. Potter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Schaffner of A. G. Becker &; Co. : Sherrill Smith . vice president the Chase National Bank ; Eugene ? M. Stevens . vice president Illinois Merchants Trust Co. ; Stevenson E. Ward , president National hank of Commerce in New York , and George Woodruff. president National Bank of the Republic . Chicago . has sent to all the banks holding the company 's paper the following telegram : It x  --  ri:NII ts  --  iin At a conference attended by representatives of banks who were accessible for conference . such banks togethl. : - holding over half of the paper of Wilson &; Co. , Inc. , the company and its hankers explained the company ' . financial position following the failure of the recent plan fn : new financing through the issue of prior preferred stock and Class A stock resulting front the opposition of certain concentrated holdings of preferred stock . It was the unanimous vote of the meeting that it would be in the interest of the company and its creditor. that the banks should extend their paper as it matures until October this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to he free to use its hank balances in the conduct of its hu5iness and that the committee appointed at the meeting should act in an advisory capacity in connection with the company 's financial affairs and after adequate study assist in formulating a plan for strengthening the company 's financial structure . The company has given the committee satisfactory assurances of cooperation . President Thomas F. Wilson gave a favorable report of the company 's business and prospects and stated that it only required an improved financial structure . As the assents already received are conditioned upon the general acceptance of the plan the undersigned committee earnestly hope that you will promptly telegraph your adherence to the proposed extension to the chairman of the committee care of First National Bank , Chicago , Illinois .                     