@@685247

txt Almost without any public attention or notice an important , even , it may be hoped , an epochmaking , law has been put upon the New York statute books . The Walton act gives to arbitration agreements , hitherto clothed only with a moral sanction , a legal sanction . It was the old theory of the common law that contracts for the settlement of disputes by arbitration could not be regarded as binding , could not deprive the courts of their jurisdiction over the matters in dispute . Arbitration must be an immemorial practice . It was a substitute for the blood feud . It represented the sober sense of plain men under the rule of no law but tribal custom . As law developed into a complicated science in the hands of professionals it was not their interest to encourage this easy and inexpensive means of adjusting controversies . Under the specious cloak of protecting a citizen from stripping himself of his right , not unfrequently costly or ruinous , of having his day in court , the masters of the common law did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ litigation . Still , common sense reasserted itself . Associations of merchants and others practiced as far as they could this art of settlingodisputes out of court . The quiddities of the common law were relieved by statute . Arbitration grew more frequent . Some of the American State Constitutions direct that the Legislatures shall establish courts of arbitration . It has been the effort of modern legislation to foster arbitration , and as far as possible to make an award equivalent to the decision . For eleven years the Committee of Arbitration of the Chamber of Commerce , and in particular its Chairman , Mr. C. L. , BERNHEIMER , have striven to make arbitration contracts enforceable at law . Henceforth they will be so enforceable . If one party for an agreement declines to arbitrate , the other party can appeal to the Supreme Court , which , upon proof of the agreement , will order an arbitration according to its terms . In case of disagreement as to the inclusion in the agreement of a matter in dispute , the court will order a trial to find the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down in , the agreement , the Supreme Court will nominate the arbitrator , for a single arbitrator is always to be named unless the , contract provides differently . Thus , henceforth all . contracts to arbitrate , with the slight exceptidn of " controversies arising respecting a " claim to an estate in real property , " in fee or for life , " can be enforced at law . It may be said that , however well this applies to commercial and ordinary agreements , it will be powerless again labor unions or workmen who may refuse to carry out their agreements for arbitration . Will it not be difficult or impossible to collect damages from the labor unions unless they are incorporated ? But it is the attitude of organized labor to this statute that makes it so potentially valuable , animates it with such large and generous hope . The labor organizations have not opposed it . Presumably they accept and support it : The waste and folly of strikes have been brought to their minds afresh , as they have been brought to all our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hundreds of thousands , of dollars have been lost in wages ; who knows how many millions in interruptions to trade ana commerce ? Strikes are often futile and always expensive . Can not a cheaper , a more rational and ' civilized mode of adjusting disputes between employers and- employes gradually be accepted ? In the process of time may not a strike be looked upon by a wiser world with something of the feeling with which it now regards ordeal by battle or by holding burning coals in the hand ? It would be folly to expect too much too quickly . But , if men are- reasonable creatures , ultimately the method of reason , which is , arbitration , must supplant the strike , which is war and waste .                     