@@686613

txt LEAGUE OR COUNCIL . Fear That Small Nations May Lose the Advantages of the League . To the Editor of The New York Times : If recent news from Washington is to be believed , we are about to assist in pushing the world back into a system of international ' relationships based on the uncontrolled dominance of a few great powers. - Surely nothing less than this pan be spelled out of the report that President Harding 's " informal feelers " concerning international disarmament also represent his first steps toward the premised new , " association " of nations , and that the aid association is to take the form of an adaptation and expansion of the Supreme Council of the Allies . Tendencies toward such a course have appeared in the Supreme Council itself , and grave warnings against it have been uttered from time to time by men like Lord Robert Cecil and , others . What these men have feared was that our withdrawal from association with our former allies might give the reactionary forces in Europe an excuse to undermine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States might return with the direct purpose of using the Supreme Council to kill the League was an idea which probably never occurred to them . It is an idea that beoomes the more preposterous the more it is analyzed . Not only does it represent a situation opposed to the desires of an overwhelming majority of all nations , Whether already in the League or still outside , but it represents also a direct reversal of the one tangible statement so far made by the President in regard to a new form of international co-opera tion . In his inaugural address the President declared that " manifestly the highest purpose of the League of Nations was defeated in linking it with the treaty of peace and making it the enforcing agency of the victors of the war . " If this be his chief objection to the League , what is then to be said of the Supreme Council or of an association growing out of it ? The Supreme Council was and remains essentially a war institution . It made the treaties that marked the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervising the enforcement of those treaties . It is by reason of its origin and purpose inevitably one-sided and partisan , designed to sustain the interests of one group of nations against those of another group . It can hardly be disinterested without failing the purpose for which it was created . An association directly sprung from it must necessarily partake of the nature of the parent body to an extent far exceeding the similar predetermination of the League . The issue at stake here is one of vital importance not only to us , but , in even greater degree , to all the smaller nations of the world . Their principal objection to the League at the outset was that it represented to - too great an extent the power of a few great nations . The fear voiced by them from the start was that the League might be made to serve the victorious treaty powers rather than humanity . What caused them to put these fears aside was the possibility , contained in the Covenant , of the League 's development into a really democratic institution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first Assembly meeting last December , where , in spite of all apparent concessions to the emergencies of the moment , the smaller nations proved their ability , within the limits of the League , to check any tendency to dictation evinced by the great powers . This then , is the organization we are asked to discard in favor of one that must necessarily represent a lapse into conditions much worse than those prevailing before the World War , when the very rivalry of two groups of great powers of about equal strength gave the smaller nations a chance , however precarious , to maintain their rights and preserve their independence . Now there is no such balancing of force against force . The rivalry is ended . One group remains in uncontested supremacy . Til , e one chance of the smaller nations is to unite against this group . For assistance in the development of this chance they have looked to us  --  the one , great power in ' the world credited with an appreciable degree of disinterestedness . IS ( ith us joineu to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above , their last hope would be gone  --  and with it would be gone all hope of genuine international co-operation , and of the abolishment of the world 's ancient evils by concerted voluntary action on the part of all nations . It is impossible to believe that - this is what President Harding and Secretary Hughes desire .. RAYMOND B. FOSDICK . New York , June 4 , 1921 . Old Union Square . To the Editor of The New York Times : As a real old New Yorkei . I was most interested in Mr. Harvier 's article on Union Square in Trim Timms of May S and letters of S ' C. A. H. , " relative to the article in today 's issue . Neither writer speaks of Lent 's Circus on East Fourteenth St. ; just off the Square , and the great fire which destroyed it , or the New Haven Railroad freight cars being hauled by horses and mules pp and down the east side of the Square , or ' of the very tall wooden mast guyed with tour steel ropes which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounded by six electric lamps , or rather " incandescent lamps . " ithe first used to illuminate a public street or park . There was Wallack 's Theatre on Broadway , one short block south of the Square , and the Academy of Music , and Irving Hall just east on Fourteenth and Fifteenth Streets , with Steinway Hall Midway on Fourteenth Street . I might bring to memory the Fifth Avenue and Madison Avenue buses which looked so attractive in their manycolored bodies rolling up and down Broadway on the cobblestone pavements of the west side of the square . It took more than " ten minutes " to en ? circle the Square in those good old quiet days . I can vouch for that . I lived there . WALTER B. BROWN . New York , May 13 , 1921.                     