@@687409

txt Various items in the run of news from day to day indicate improving prospects for business throughout the country . Slow though this improvement may be , there is ample evidence that it Is taking place . Evidence of a general trend toward improvement Is well worth citing . In the first place , It seems indisputable that the Position of the farmer , whose deflation and loss of purchasing power has been generally blamed for much of our present depression , is somewhat improved . Bogs , for Instance , have been going up steadily for several months , the gain being as much as 33 per cent . Lambs and calves show a good gain , and cattle some improvement . ' Wheat shows an appreciable gain , and corn a slight improvement . The trade reports a world-wide Improvement in the wheat market . Last Saturday 's report on car loadings , somewhat of an index ' to business activity , shows considerable increase over the figures for the same week In either 1919 or 1921 . Tho federal industrial survey for January is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent in the number of workers employed In sixty-five industrial centers on Jan , 31 over Dec. 31 , 1921 . That is picking up . The steel business , one of the . basic industrials of the country , is optimistic . One leading steel man recently announced plans for a $25,000,000 extension of plant facilities , and all the leading companies report considerably improved inquiry from railroads , which constitute probably the best customers of the steel mills . Incidentally , such Improved Inquiry Indicates an improving condition of the railroads themselves . Preparations for the beginning of extensive public work are progressing and , with the near approach of mild weather , they may be expected to give employment to many thousands and a market for great quantities of rpm material . More than $450,000,000 is now available in the United States for various local public works . That certainly will be a stimulant . The building situation is better , particularly in Chicago , where prospects of a real building bootn are brighter than they have been for years . Employment for thotsands , an improved market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and local demand for all products should result . Even the ' foreign situation , If the rise in exchange rates can be taken as an indication , is more hopeful . To be sure , this rise has not been explained logically by students of exchange , put it exists , and If it continues must improve our foreign markets . Altogether , though we are still laboring under the aloud of business depression , we can now begin to see the silver lining .                     