@@688340

txt Fourteen park attendants , five special deputies from the Department of Street Cleaning , directed by John R. McCarthy , District Superintendent , two fiveton trucks and a huge block and tackle finally succeeded in shoving Hattie. the sick elephant of the Central Park Zoo , into her quarters in the elephant house about nightfall yesterday . Hattie looked greatly relieved when the ordeal was over . This was the second attempt since her illness to put her into the house from an improvised bed in the pen outside . The first attempt , on Monday afternoon , ended in failure after Hattie had been lifted to her feet , dosed with a. quart of liquor and plied with every moral inducement to walk into the house . Before the second and successful effort Dr. Harry Nimphus , the veterinarian in charge of the case , steadied Hattie 's nerves by the application of four quarts of medicine labeled " Bottled in Bond . " Then by means of two cranes with a capacity of 10,000 pounds mounted on the back of trucks Hattie Was lifted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be moved along the straw-covered ground to her quarters . Here she will spend the night supported by a heavy rope wrapped around her body and stretched over a pulley fastened to the rafters of the elephant house . Heaving a sigh of relief , Hattie rolled her blue eyes around and looked pathetically at the crowd of attendants and reporters gathered near . " Maybe she 's hungry , " said someone . One of the attendants broke a loaf of bread into two parts and proffered one to Hattie . She attempted to chew the bread for a few moments , but apparently there was something about it which reminded her of the peanuts which had caused her present ailment . She threw the bread to the corner of the room and wrapped her trunk around one of the supports of the house as if she wanted to play Samson but was too 111 to do it . " Bill " Snyder , retired head keeper and who for 35 years had charge ot Hattie , was not present when his oldtime friend was moved back into her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of improvement and the veterinarian thought that his coming would do the elephant no good and might perhaps agitate her and have the opposite effect . So " Bill " remained on his Dutchess County farm , but he sent an inquiry to Robert Hurton , park keeper and Hattie 's " second best friend . " I guess I 'll have to put Hattie on a health diet for a while , " said Dr. Nimphus . " About four quarts of warm bran mash before she goes to bed tonight and she 'll feel a lot better in the morning . " James Coyle , the head keeper of the Zoo , analyzed nettle 's ailment as a simple case of overfeeding and not one of paralysis as was first thought . He said the trouble in her 1 egs was due to cramps following too much food and too little . exercise .                     