@@690022

txt Regarding reports that Studebaker Corp . intended going on a four-day-a-week basis , President A. R. Erskine said : " Those reports are absolutely false . Studebaker Corp . is on full weekly schedule , operating at capacity in all plants , turning out 635 cars a day , and will continue to do so indefinitely . Stocks of cars in dealers ' hands are not abnormal . Studebaker curtailed operations in last quarter of last year , when many companies operated full , and as a result we are in an enviable position. , The motor marketing situation is not worrying us a bit . A little spring weather and this fuss will disappear . " Front TUE WALL STREET JOURNAL Detroit Bureau DETROIT ? A story published Saturday in New York that " men are being laid off in large numbers " in Detroit motor plants is characterized by officials of the Detroit Employers Association as absolutely without foundation in fact . It was stated in the story referred to " that a large number of men have been laid off " at the Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford to be absolutely false and the head of the Employers Association also says of it : " If Ford Motor Co. were discharging large numibers of men we would be of the very first to know of it . We have been in touch with the employment department of the Ford Co. ever since these rumors began circulating last week and are satisfied that spirit of the stotica is born of a desire to misrepresent the true condition ? T ) n om wry : it*. tirnATIli " Our report for last week showed a gain of 48 men I and this week 's report as near , as can be determined now , will show but little change . We do not expect a fluctuation all told of more than in the total. ? " Ford Motor Co. is employing 40,000 men at the River Rouge plant and 68,000 at Highland Park . One department at the Rouge having run ahead of schedule was closed one day last - week This affected 400 men . Another de . partment is closed today , affecting 200 men . There is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output of the various departments that work in some department is not temporarily held up , " says a Ford official of the company at'the Rouge plant . With regard to the statement " Cadillac has laid off a large number of men and is working four days a week , " President H. H. Rice has the following to say : " That statement is absolutely not true . Every department is working full time and we have 7,200 men on our payrolls at present . Production and shipments have averaged 1f-0 cars a day right along . Absolutely nothing has happeled in our plant other than the regular variations of from 5 to 10 cars a day that happen every week ! in the year . Some departments last week worked overtime . We have the same dealer stock that we had a year ago at this time and are experiencing the same volume of deliveries . " Asked if it were true that curtailment was planned , . Mr. Rice said : " We are prepared rather to increase out- I put . I have just returned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , San Antonio , New Orleans , Birmingham . ' Louisville and Indianapolis and intervening distributing centers and I found not one place where larger deliveries than those of a year ago are nut expected. ? In the story it was stated that " Chevrolet , who employ ' 5,000 men in Detroit , have laid off approximately one-I third of their forces and are working only five . ItYa week . " The facts are that Chevrolet has cut forces in Detroit from 3,400 to 3,200 men . But the statement " There is no doubt that production has been curtailed in practically all of the factories " is perhaps farthest from the truth . F. J. Haynes , president , Dodge Brothers says : " We will run Dodge Brother . through to July 1 at pre-Tent capacity output about 1 ' 00 cars a day . We have not reduced forces . Our deli Brie. were never greater and our stocks of cars in dealers ' hands never less than they are at present . While we do not expect that business will continue at the peak throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned there is not an atom of truth in the reports beim-. circulated . " Dodge Brothers employ about 10 to of the total workmen employed in Detroit automobile plants . Hudson Motor Car Co. has not reduced forces , but on the other hand is planning a larger April schedule than that for March . Packard is today hiring men . While it is true that the volume of spring deliveries has been disappointing to certain producers , it is far from the fact to say that the industry as a whole in Detroit is laying off men in large numbers and curtailing output .                     