@@692735

txt U. S. Steel 's forward business in Mak-ch , 1926 , for the first time on record fell below the country 's production of steel for the month , baing 4,379,935 tons against 4,488,362 tons . In April unfilled tonnage fell still further below production . 3.867.976 tons against 4,123,941 tons . - These figures illustrate forcibly what steel interests have been pointing out for the past two years or more ? that buying in recent years has represented as nearly as possible actual consumption of steel , whereas previously purchasing had in boom times been largely speculative . From as far back as figures are available until about the spring of 1923 , Steel 's unfilled ordert- had practically no relation to production . In periods of ascending prices , or when there seemed any possibility of congestion , steel consumers ordered heavily ahead to p. atect themselves . The result was that Steel 's unfilled toniage .. often reached a figure two to three times as great as was the production of all the country 's mills . Much of this buying was never specified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live . Further , much of the specified tonnage was taken by concerns using steel for the production of various - commodities and piled in theiz .. rds . The result was that not only was a considerable portion of the forward bookings of the mills cancelled when the industrial tide turned , but consumers , finding themselves stocked up , stopped placing orders until their inventories were depleted . These conditions made for what Andrew Carnegie once called the " prince or pauper " record of the steel industry . But since 1923 , largely because of the great improvement of the service of transportation systems , consumers have been buying hand-to-mouth . Concrrns that once carried two to three months ' stocks of steel for re-manufacturing now carry only a few days ' supply . The consequence has been that unfilled orders have shown a steadily declining tendency , sometimes even in times of increasing production of steel . And cancellations , the bugbear of the industry , have practically disappeared . Today we have the usual situation of a steady shrinkage in U. S. Steel 's business , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick deliveries . While there is little question that steel interests would like to see their order books more generously filled , the situation is a good deal safer than it was under the old conditions . When with this is considered the fact that careful investigation by steel makers indicates that consumers are carryineno surplus stocks it would seem that the'likelihood of a severe decline in steel buying is remote . It is also noticeable from the figures of demand and production that steel buying and output in recent years has closely the variations of the seasons . Both have reached their low points in the summer .. ascending to a high in the winter or early spring . If this precedent is followed this year  --  and steel men are convinced it will be  --  steel companies generally will have an excellent year . For the slackening in steel buying has been less decided this year than in either of the last two years to the corresponding dates , and indications are that the low point of sales and production in 1926 will be considerably higher than in either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steel 's monthly unfilled tonnages and monthly production of steel ingots by all plants in the United States since the beginning of 1917 , also the monthly averages for the year :                     