@@690903

txt The Egyptian Chamber of Deputies has addressed a protest to the League of Nations against the British demands bearing on the assassination of Sir Lee Stark . Sirdar of the Egyptian army . This protest was taken under consideration today , and after an hour 's meeting of the department chiefs of the Secretariat , under the chairmanship of Sir Eric Drummond. it was decided not to distribute the Egyptian protest to the members of the League . The decision was based on the constitutional procedure of the Secretariat . which is tot to circulate documents that do not emanate from governments . One precedent cited was the decision not to distribute a communication received from a man who claimed to represent the Fiume Parliament . It is explained by the League officials that when documents come from private associations , such as the Red Cross or parliamentary unions , a list Is usually made of them and each member of the council is given a copy of the list so that he may ask for the original document if lie so desires . Whether this course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be clear as yet . The text indicates that a similar communication has been forwarded : to all the world parliaments . Insists on Independence . " Confronted with the recent aggressions conunitted by the British Government . " the protest says , " the Egyptian Chamber of Deputies proclaims. : " Firstly , us insistence upon the complete independence of Egypt and the Sudan , which constitutes the same country , one and indivisible . " Secondly , that despite the satisfaction given by the Egyptian Government concei fling- the assassination of Sir Lee Stack , the Chamber regrets to note that the ii itizti Government has seen fit to exploit this sad incident for the benefit of its imperialistic aims and to wreak vengeance upon a pacific nation which can only rely upon the justice and right of its cause . " These aggressions , which encroach upon Egyptian independence , violate its Constitution and are a menace to its economic life , have no precedent in history . " For these motives the Egyptian Chamber of Deputies protests against the iniquitous acts , in fact and absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enormity of such imperialistic cupidity . " League officials state that they understand the English Government deems the question involved domestic in character because matters affecting the Sudan were expressly reserved when England declared the independence of Egypt in 1922 . Also it is said in Geneva that England would probably regard as an unfriendly act any intervention by other powers on a matter touching the Sudan . Nevertheless , if the Egyptian dispute finds its way to the Rome session of the Council . early in December , either by pressure of events or because of the direct initiative of some member of the League , it la argued here that the Egyptian affair might eventually reach the World Court of Justice . It is explained that if the Egyptian dispute were taken up by the Council at the Rome meeting England would undoubtedly maintain that the question falls exclusively within domestic jurisdiction . The next logical step would be for the Council to ask the World Court for a juridical opinion whether in fact the questions in conflict are domestic in nature . Might Later Go to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalled here that the protocol for the pacific settlement of international disputes , which England has asked additional time to study , provides that when the World Court rules that a question is domestic in character this decision shall not prevent consideration of the situation by the Council or Assembly of the League , under Article XI . of the covenant . This clause , it will be remembered , was inserted at the request of Japan . It was learned tonight that at the meeting of the departmental heads conSiderable difference of opinion was manifested as to whether the Egyptian document should be communicated to all the members of the League . Some of the bureau chiefs favored formal issuance . Others opposed it . The majority admitted that a communication from a regularly constituted Parliament presented an entirely new problem , but argued that if the Secretariat were obliged to circulate memoFials from organizations other than governments it would find itself hopelessly burdened , and there would be no limit to its tasks , so numerous are the petitions and appeals received from nongovernmental institutions . It was further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal was in the hands of the Governments through the medium of their State Parliaments . It is believed in Geneva that the prom ' inence given to Cairo 's apPeal because of the varying versions of what the document actually contains will only serve in the way of extra publicity to the entire affair , perhaps actually forting It upon the attention of the Council . The text of the Egyptian Parlianient 's telegram to the Secretariat-General of the League , as made public hero officially today . makes no mention whatsoever of the phrase , as given out in the version published in Paris , that Parliament asks the League to Intervene and defend Egypt . The Geneva text merely says that the Egyptian Parliament sends its protest to all the world 's parliaments against the arbitrary action of England .                     