@@696895

txt Members of the council railway terminal committee voted yesterday to study the reasons for the refusal of a number of railroads to transfer their fo ( Antics to the proposer new Illinois Central terminal . Officials of the Illinois Central , the committee decided . will be invited to appear at the next meeting and submit the plans for their new terminal and the rental lb-Tures asked for prospective tenant railroads . The refusal of the Dearborn station group of railroads to accept the 1111-WAS Central 's proposal was the basis Cur the committee 's action . B. H. Lee , President of the Western Indiana , which operates the Dearborn station , in a letter to L. A. Downs , president of the Illinois Central , . reported that the use of the latter 's terminal would cause an unwarranted increase in operating expense . Ready to Consider Plan . IL B. Voorhees , resident vice president of the Baltimore and Ohio railroad and president of the Baltimore and Ohio Chicago Terminal , informed the aldermen that his company , at present using the Grand Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consolidation of the terminals at the southern edge of the loop . The railroad , he said , should be a part proprietor of a new terminal and not merely a tenant without any assurance of permanency in its arrangemeats . " Overhead and operating costs would be increased if we ran into the new Illinois Central terminal , and our interest charge would be approximately $1,000,000 if we moved into a consolidated terminal , " Mr. Vorhees said . To Sock Coliperation First . An effort to obtain the cooperation of the railroads in a terminal plan will be made by the committee before any plea Is made for help to the Illinois commerce commission , according to Ald , Edward J. Hoban 34th , chairMan . " If the railroads refuse to cotiopcrate in a plan developed by themselves , or In the plan which the committee engineer is preparing , then we shall appeal to the Illinois commerce commission , " explained Aid . John A. iNfassen 48th.                     