@@687226

txt President HARDING must speak to Congress in a firmer tone than he chose to adopt in his first annual message , personally delivered , if he would Impel the national legislators to make atonement ? for their recent malfeasances and put the country in a better temper toward them and their party . He speaks to Congress blandly , deferentially , as a counselor and friend . In the present situation of legislative impotence. he will find it necessary to speak as a guide , to extend a strong arm and point the way with a gesture as nea : that of command as would be eeemly from one independent and coordinate department to another . The legislative department has really loste : is independence ; it has forfeited its right to respect . The President dwells upon the advantages of government by a party agency ; he believes that the political party in power should assume responsibility , determine policies , carry them out , show confidence in itself . There is greater security and prompter accomplishment when party lines are firmly held than when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to pursuits or " personal following . " This is an extremely gentle rebuke for the obstructive and totally incompetent agricultural bloc . We wonder that the President could shown so Much patience with a political group whose behavior is so threatening to the Faccess of his Administration . Again , the President is wanting in definiteness when he speaks of the tariff . At first he talks as talked in his last public utterance . We do not seek a selfish aloofness , we can not establish a policy of commercial exclusion and do justice in aiding in the reconstruction of the world . if we would sell , we must buy . Yet he proposes a tariff that might easily become the worst we have ever had  --  worse even than the Fordney project . Mr. leanoixo suggests a tariff with duties adjustable from time to time by a commission , a flexible . elastic , wiggle-. ivoggle tariff under which no merchant or importer could make any safe commitment based on duties and prices a few month:3 in the future . Injustice might arise under fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business would prefer to take its chances under such a tariff than under a schedule of duties variable at the pleasure of a commission and the Chief Executive . It is surprising that the President , although he recognizes the danger that the American valuation plan might make our tariff prohibitive , nevertheless suggests the authorizing of that valuation " under prescribed condi " tions , on any given list of - articles " imported . " We are sure that such a proposal would be at once rejected by the American business community , rave by those who saw in it an opportunity for great profits . As Mr. HARDING says ; " Public opinion favors an " early determination of our tariff pol " icy . " We fear his recommendations would lead to anything but a determination . The President speaks reassuring words to allay the fears of Congress that the administrative branch might &et; improvidently in respect to the foreign debts if it were entrusted with power under the pending bill . There is very little danger of that . The more the subject is considered , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the conclusion that the funding of the debts for long terms , with very mcderate interest and sinking fund payments based upon the estimated capacity of the debtor to pay , must be the plan adopted . Vublie support will be given unani- mously to the President 's declaration fiat it is undesirable that either cor porations or labor organizations should be permitted to inflict actual distress upon . the community in order to enforce their terms . It is perfectly true that in this stage of the evolution of our industrial society , the strike , the lockout and the boycott are as much out of place as war is out of place in our civilization . There will be a later message on the subject of taxation . A message treating only of that subject might well have been delivered to Congress yesterday . The President would have found instant and tremendous approval for a recommendation that Congress , at once , before the holiday recess , undo its wretched work of the extra session , and enact a proper tax measure . The agricultural bloc is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been futile , but it would have been salutary . The President errs , he treats the symptom instead of the disease , when he suggests a constitutional amendment to do away with tax exempt securities . The evil , as he sees it , is that taxpayers invest in these securities , and so escape the levy . The truth is that just and equitable taxation is not evaded . When men in large numbers seek out ways to escape their taxes , it is axiomatic that the fault is with the taxes ; they are taxes such as never ought to be laid . If the surtaxes were reduced to a decent , civilized level , if the futile , senseless passion for punishing the rich could be cudgeled out of the heads of the Grangers and Populists-In Congress , there would be no trouble about the tax exempt securities .                     