@@690821

txt On the somewhat - Indignation dubious theory that Cooled " any peace is a by Apologies , good peace . " congratulations should be divided equitably among Magistrate CORRIGAN , Assemblyman CIIvillzeR and Commissioner ENRIGHT on the ending , out of court and through the inexpensive means of apologies offered and accepted . of the libel suit which the Commissionerbrought against the other two . If the three are satisfied with this termination of a controversy that seemed to have many sporting possibilities , everybody else will have to be content . Just the same , the more or less innocent bystander should be permitted ? should be , that is , if he remembers the exact wording of the message sent by Mr. CuvILLIER to - Mr . CosinGAN , from whom it somehow drifted into publicity ? to wonder just what that message did mean if it did not mean what it said , and how apologies heal the wound to the Commissioner 's feelings . There is no doubt , however , that whatever apologies can do was done by those which now have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wrote in excitement and over-zeal , and that/ the evidence presented before Justice CRAIN proved the charges against Mr. ENRIGHT to be unfounded . Mr. , CoRRIGAN declares that he never believed the charges , anyhow , tried to stop the publication of the telegram and regretted that It reached the public . That was about as much as either of them could do , but Mr. ENRIGHT displays considerable magnanimity when he says . in effect , " Forget it ! " One would not like to think  --  and could n't unless an implacable cynic ? that the already demonstrated improbability of getting a verdict and large damages had anything to do with the Commissioner 's readiness to let the matter drop . Better-hearted folk will rejoice aver the return of peace as between these representatives of three phases of the law . All of them have more important work to do than quarreling with ! each other . With no less than " Governess " two representatives Never of the no longer Would Dot weaker sex about to take their seats in Gubernatorial chairs , there arises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper title to put before their estimable patronymics . The name as well as the office of Governor must be fem ininized . The suggestion already has been made that Mrs. FERGusoN of Texas and Mrs. Ross of Wyoming , as soon as they take office , will become " Governesses . " That word is formed in accord with etymological law and the spirit of our composite language , but already and for several centuries it has been pre-empted by women employed as teachers of children in private families ; and , while all Its connotations are intensely respectable . they are not such as to fit In with the activities and dignities of a State 's Chief Executive . Hence must one suspect that he who advised the new application of the old name was little if any better than a scurril jester . If a little bolderk he might have proposed " Governorine " or " Governorette , " after the analogy of " e.ctorine " or " suffragette . " Like faults would not mar " Gubernatrix. " but it is an ugly and unfamiliar word , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . after all , the ladles will have to be content with " Governor , " and no differentiating affix . And why not ? If they make good Governors it will be not because they are women , but because they have sense , intelligence and character , and if they make bad ones  --  but of course they will not , and to give any thought to that abhorrent contingency would be discourteously premature and worthy only of a woman-hater . As the magnetic Operators , waves sent out from Not Radio , broadcasting stations Were Tested . travel at the rate of 156,000 miles per second , the exact velocity of light , they make terrestrial distances negligible in all ordinary computations . What was proved , therefore , by the tests made Wednesday evening at the radio exhibition in sending ethereal signals around the world , were rather tests of the muscular reactions of the operators who relayed the signals at the several stations where the waves carrying them had approached , not the limit of their power to advance , but the limit of sensitiveness to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those operators could have touched instantly their sending keys when the signals reached their respective stations , the circling of the earth would have been made , not in five or six seconds . but in a fraction of one second . And how about the declaration that one of the signals went west and the other went east ? Does that mean any more than that the operators to the westward from New York " received " and sent on one signal and the operators to the eastward did the same ' for the other ? Something more , perhaps , but not much , for directional radioing is still a fond hope rather than a reality . And ? after all , nobody ever will want to send a message around the world for any practical purpose , as it Simply would be sending It to one 's self or to those who could get it after a much shorter passage through the air . As after every eleoSuch Delays tion , so after , this Need one , the gathering of the returns , for the Investigation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was delayed by the negligence , the incompetence , or worse , in a few districts , of men whose duty it was to count the ballots . For the most . part such delays are unpardonable . In the - desert and mountain States , where towns have small ' or poor means of ' communication , they usually are explicable and therefore excusable , but everywhere else they should be the subject of reprehension and of punishment when really good cause can not be shown . ' In the old wicked days the object of holding back the returns of specially selected districts was well known  --  it ' gave time for needed manipulations to accomplish desired results . Now little or noak of that is done , probably , but the delays still occur . They are a serious evil and every one of them deserves at least investigation as on their face justifying suspicion of wrongdoing I by somebody .                     