@@692432

txt A third reprieve for Gerald Chapman , convicted slayer- of a New Britain policeman , extending his life at least sixty days , will be sought by his chief counsel , Frederick J. Groehl of New York . Mr. Groehl , in snaking this announcement today , said it had been definitely determined to carry the Chapman case to the Supreme Court of the United States . Chapman 's present reprieve expires on March 3 . It was decided at a conference of Chapman 's counsel to apply to the United States Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari , which , if granted , would place the Chapman case before that tribunal for review . S ' . te 's Attorney Hugh M. Alcorn is expected to cooperate with Chapman 's counsel in gaining the consent of the Governor to again postpone the execution of the death sentence pending possible court action . The petition for the writ of certiorari is being prepared , will be given to the printer tomorrow or Wednesday and , according to the defense , will be filed with the Clerk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten days . A copy will be served on Mr. Alcorn at the same time , and he will then have ten days to file his brief opposing the granting of the writ . The Supreme Court will be asked to determine the constitutionality of the removal of Chapman from Atlanta to the State prison at Wethersfielcl , and also the constitutionality of the commutation offered to the prisoner after he had been removed to Wethersfield . TAXICAB KILLS A GIRL . Runs Her Down as She Crosses Street  --  Collision in Brooklyn . Mary Danegan , five years ? old , of 795 Columbus Avenue , was struck and killed by a taxicab last night at West Ninety-eighth Street and Columbus Avenue . The little girl was crossing the avenue when the taxicab , driven by Francis Davaney of 159 We &; Sixtysixth Street , hit her . A car owned and driven by Samuel Marx of 568 Elton Street , Brooklyn , collided with a machine driven by Norman Taroly of 490 St. Paul 's Place , Brooklyn , at the corner of Rockaway and Blake Avenues , Brooklyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sidewalk , where it knocked down three girls and crashed through a plate glass window into the office of Morris Steinberg , . a monument dealer . The occupants of both cars received slight cuts , ? and the girls , Emma Myers of 1,521 Pitkin Avenue , Florence Rose of 1,559 Pitkin Avenue , and Lilly Wachtel of 13 Grafton Street , Brooklyn , were severely bruised . Dr. Shea treated them all and they went to their homes . .                     