@@693673

txt " The old state certainly knows how to greet her baseball heroes , " was Bib Falk 's offering . Falk hails from Austin . " No greeting like this in any other state in the Union , " commented Randy Moore of Naples . And then the blow fell . - A choir broke into song and as the ball players looked back up the lane of folks they had imagined were baseball fans they saw  --  Airnee Semple stepping from the train . She had arrived for a camp meeting in this city . Even a few hours ' rest in their hotel failed to blot out the memory of the morning 's misunderstanding . T h e White Sox were still in the throes of gloom when the game was played and took a 4 to 2 defeat from the Dallas doh , champion of the Texas league last season . Two Dalls Home Huns . Cole , Jacobs and Cox pitched in order and , while they were n't batted with great violence , their mates could n't hit , the offerings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both of whom have seen the insides of major least() baseball camps . Dallas got a run in the first Inning when Gross hit one of Cole 's curves over the left field wall . In the fourth the Sox tied the score on Peck 's double and Ward 's single , and in the fifth both teams scored once . Falk singled , Boone walked , and Sheely singled to bring home the Sox run , while the Steers tallied on a single , two bases on balls and a sacrifice by Elsh . In the seventh and eighth the Steers won the game with single runs in each inning . One of the tallies came front Humgling 's homer over the left field fence . TOMMY WHITE BEATS MANDELL Dallas , Tex. , March 25. ? ( fP ) ? Tommy White of Houston won a newspaper decision aver Sammy Mandell , lightweight champion , in a ten round bout here tonight . The bout was slow and colorless . White , by superior infighting and a willingness to lead throughout , made the champion look ordinary to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left jabs and once or twice cut loose with left hooks that landed flush , but did little damage. , Rangers Blank ackhawks by 4-0 Score New York , March 25 . ? Special. 4-The New York Rangers tonight finished their scheduled National Hockey league as they started it last November . In the opening game last fall they scored a 1 to 0 victory over the Montreal Maroons and tonight , in their last scheduled contest , they shut out the Chicago Blackhawks , 4 to 0 . Three goals in the first period and one in the third settled the issue . The expert goal tending display of Chabot nullified the Hawks ' scoring efforts . Frank Boucher counted two of the Ranger goals besides giving an assist for another . Bill and Bun Cook each scored one . Lineup : Chicago lel . New ' York f Lehman ...... Goal ' , Chabot ? Traub I Defense Trani ) B. Defense Irvin Center Fraser ... L. Wing Hay ... It . Wing Rudolph Increases Lead in Pocket Billiard Match New York , March 25 . ? ( Special. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight won the second block of his title snatch with Harry Oswald and increased his lead over the challenger . The score at the end of the second block in the three block , 950 point match , is H5 for Rudolph as against . 395 for Oswald . Prep Team Breaks Record for 400 Yard Relay Philadelphia , Pa. , March 25 . ? ( R ) ? A new world 's interscholastic record of 3 minutes 57 seconds for tho 900 yard relay was established tonight by the Tome school swimming team of Port Deposit , Maryland , in the pool of the Penn Athletic club . The ( ) id mark was 4:02.                     