@@694875

txt There were many strong spots in the market again yesterday . Radio continued a sensational feature . scoring another sharp advance . but many other stocks were brought forward and moved to higher levels The market has reached the stage where a stock with ability to show outstanding strength attracts a large following from outsiders , and this buying was on a heavy scale yesterday . Most attention was attracted by the strength in United States Steel . The action of this popular leader was responsible for the bulk of confidence among outsiders . - It also caused good buying of some of the independent steels . Continued favorable conditions in the steel industry , which is still considered the business barometer of the country . has been one of the most encouraging features in the industrial picture this year . Several attempts were made by professionals to bring about liquidation , but the smallest recessions encountered confident buying and discouraged any bear attacks that might have been planned . Traders were active in taking profits in General Motors and their selling held this stock down , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through such sales into other stocks which were strong leaders . Sentiment around the Street continues confident . Practically all the advices coming from conservative observers are to the effect purchasing should be confined to stocks which have shown ability to more forward , and liquidation is being advocated in issues which have been lagging . Standard dividend paying stocks are being especially recommended in these quarters , although in some instances clients are being advised to wait for a reaction on the theory technical conditions- would warrant a setback from current levels . Trading Commission houses were large buyers on balance . Public participation in the market is growing steadily , but most of this demand has been in stocks which have shown outstanding strength . Profit taking in liquidation has come in others . Professional operators and floor traders were buyers in early dealings , but switched to the selling side late in the day . Sales exceeded pule/lases . A factor which has encouraged considerable buying of stocks in the past few days has been the ease in money . The normal time of peak demand for credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straining banking resources to any extent . As a result , it is probable powerful interests sensed the favorable character of this development and resumed aggressive bullish activities in their favorite issues . The logical reduction is that when commercial demand again shows seasonal slackening , additional money will come into the market to and employment . That there has been buying of some of the highgrade standard dividend paying issues on this theory is the view held in conservative quarters and such buying is expected to be an important influence during any reactions Outside demand for stocks in odd lots has been increasing steadily . Houses specializing in this business have been important factors in the market as the buy , ing orders received from other firms have caused these houses to be active in accumulating stocks to take care of the demands . Odd lot buying started several weeks ago when the market was reactionary . At that time it represented the accumulation of so-called bargain hunters . Ilecently , however . the outside orders in small lots increased substantially . American Telephone le Telegraph is one stock in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tively . Houses report many who already hold the stock hale been adding to their line . In most instances the stock is paid for outright and taken out of the Street . which gives further strength to the technical position of the issue . Railroad Freight Traffic Rail authorities are confident weekly freight car loadings in March will make a comparatively unfavorable comparison with the same weeks last year . because rail traffic w as stimulated at this time in 1927 by heavy shipments of bituminous coal in anticipation 01 the April 1 strike . Beginning with April . when coal shipments were small a year ago . it is probable freight loadings will make a more favor able show.ng . Some buying has been corning into leading rails on a scale due to the expectation this group will be more favorably regarded at that time . especially if the industrials hesitate in tiller strength . Sponsorship When individual stocks displayed outstanding strength and scored sensational advances in the past few days sponsorship for the movement was credited in widely circulated rumors to interests known to have been main factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , result was when reports were started that these interests / were planning to get active in certain stocks , an outside , following was attracted which aided the upturns. with t , rather heavy " market " buying orders Can Stocks American and Contmentat Can are growing in favor ? in conservative quarters . It is maintained these stocks Ihave not been over-exploited and should sooner or later discount prospects of material improvement in sales and earnings in the current year . Buying or both stocks un reactions for several weeks has been for account of important interests . Vanadium The substantial advance in Vanadium some time ago attracted an extensive short interest , and although sonic : covering has come into the stock In the past few weeks a large short position still exists . During the reaction many weka outsiders liquidated , so that the technical position is now considered stronger than ever by important market interests who have been atnong- the buyers on a scale since the middle of last week . Consolidated Cigar In the face of practically no change in cigar production in recent years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last year gross profits were $8,184,437 , with a balance of $9.75 a share for the common stocks . compared with profit of $6,343 , - 033 and balance of $8.02 a common share in 1926 , and profits of $3.945,937 , and balance of $7.98 in 1925 . Allowing for savings in interest charges on notes re , deemed January 4 , last , and deducting the full annual dividend on the prior preferred issues in October , it is figured about $10 a share would have been show n on the common last year . There has been good scale buying in the stock in anticipation of improved earnings in the current year . L ' . S. Steel S. Steel responded to the increase of 122,000 tons in unfilled orders in February . This stock has been meeting much better buying in the past few days , and as many traders are still holding to a short position as a hedge against long holdings in others the stock is likely to meet good support through covering on any moderate reaction . The Street yesterday was still discussing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came in a month when production and shipments were on a much larger scale than in preceding months and insisted the gain meant more than some of the larger increases reported in the previous months , when output was down . Westinghouse Electric Westinghouse Electric , which has been oneof the latest features , has been attracting a large outside following . The stock has been under accumulation for some time and the effect of this buying , which reduced the floating supply , is now being felt . While net earnings for the fiscal year to end this month are not expected to be much more than $7 a share , it is contended in optimistic circles the stuck has been purchased on its prospects and that inure rapid growth in revenues is likely in the coming years . The company is the second largest manufacturer of machinery and appliances , for generation , transmission and utilization of electricity in this country , and in recent years it has been particularly active in developing international markets , which should bring larger earnings as economic conditions improve abroad . International Nickel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advance came also from Canadian interests who have been prominent in the stock several times in the past . Nickel was one of the popular targets heretofore and around its high levels yesterday there was selling from traders who have taken a short position in the issue several times in the past after a good advance . Colorado Fuel Accumulation is said to have been in progress in Colorado Fuel in the past few weeks . Conditions in the steel industry have continued so favorable that all the socalled independent steels have been meeting better buying . Interests who are optimistic on Colorado Fuel maintain the company 's showing last year indicated a decided change in its position , and with the growth in the far west the company should get a steady increase in demand for various products .                     