@@696495

txt Parents of children now enjoying a vacation  --  from school will be thinking of preparations for studies soon . In another month the youngsters will be back , most of them in the same building , often under the direction of teachers they know . Continuity in their school work is one of its most valuable ? factors : It is hard for parents with established homes to realize that there are many thousands of children , some alone but most of them with their parents , who wander about from one State to another , with no permanent residence and no school home . Seasonal occupations have always drawn families from one locality to another . Fruit and berry picking in one place is followed by truck gardening , hop picking and bean harvesting in others . Ten or fifteen years ago the children were taken out of school before it closed in order to share in the labors of the early harvests . They worked all Summer and late into the Autumn , so that their school year was shorter than it should have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation has changed , and not for the better . Formerly families could not stray far from their Winter homes , nor could they travel great distances between the various regions where temporary work was to be found . Today these families have automobiles . They may not have anything else , and usually do not . But their cheap motor cars transport them from one end of the country to the other , and their taste for travel is gratified at an incredibly small cost . Roads are good almost everywhere , auto camps are numerous and the housing problem is nil . The children 's education is reduced at the same time to little or nothing . Often they do not start to school when it opens in the place where they happen to be working because the local law does not definitely apply to non-residents . If truant officers bring them in , their previous records are not . at hand , and the teachers do not know what to do . They think that their chief duty is to their permanent charges , and - do not feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of small , dirty , undisciplined youngsters . The parents of the resident children protest if the migratory children are permitted to come into contact with their own . Not only their physical condition but their ways of living , their outlook and their racial background make them unwelcome . The migratory families are not anxious to push the children mto school . They need every cent that each member can earn , and as soon as work is over in one place they move on to the next . California , which is faced with the biggest problem in providing educational facilities for the migrant child , has made progress in solving it . The mild climate and the great diversity of crops offer a better opportunity for the traveling family than may be found in any other State . Nearly forty thousand children in California are engaged in seasonal labor . A report by LILLIAN B. Mix of the State Department of Education gives details of how the'new law for migrant schools is working out . When schools are established in the halls of the regular schools of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not good . Excellent work has been done , however , when special buildings , no matter how crude , with special teachers , have been provided in the fields . The California plan is not perfect , but it is a step in the right direction .                     