@@691738

txt Threats of a general strike contained In telegrams sent by the representative of the United Mine Workers In West Virginia to Secretary HOOVER and others are evidence that the soft coal crisis may soon become acute . The basic problem of the industry is to bring supply into some relation to demand . Normal consumption now requires about 500,000,000 tons a year , but the capacity of the mining companies now doing business is at least twice that amount . Reports from every mining region describe business as exceedingly bad . A large proportion of the mines are shut down completely , others operate two or three days a week , and with few exceptions only the " captive " mines , under contract to supply a steady flow to some public utility , are profitably worked . Ownership is diffuse and competition still at the peak . The United States Coal Commission found that 11,622 mines were doing business in 1923 , of which 75 per cent . produced less than 50,000 tons a year . Nor is mine labor In much better shape . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like Kentucky and Terinessee , are almost entirely non-union ; others , like Pennsylvania , are neither one thing nor the other . The Jacksonville agreement , over which the present altercation rages , was a sort of forlorn hope . Leaders on both sides believed that the $7.50 a day scale and the long term it provided  --  from February , 1924 , until February , 1927 ? would automatically cut a large number of the weaker concerns out of the industry for good . That has occurred to some extent : mines are closing down at an unprecedented rate and foreclosure sales record prices that are unusually low . But the principal effect has been to turn the tide of what business there is from union to non-union mines . Several years ago the union collieries produced 70 per cent . of the total output of bituminous ; now they turn out about 30 per cent . In Northern West Virginia union mine production has dropped from 62 per cent , of the total in 1924 to 14 per cent . in June of this year . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year to the non-union West Virginia field amounting to 2,400,000 tons a year from four public utility companies alone . Faced with this debacle . the union operators insist that the Jacksonville agreement be abrogated and that wages revert to the previous scale . Some companies , like the Pittsburgh Coal Company , have closed their union mines with the announcement that they will not . open until wages are cut . Other concerns , like the Consolidation , which were parties to the Jacksonville agreement , are at , tempting ? to continue operations on a lower scale where the miners are willing to work for less  --  and state that the men themselves suggested this solution . President LEwis , on ithe other hand , insists - that the operators stand by their agreement no Imatter what the results . Wage cuts , be claims , will only result in further reductions in the non-union fields . He maintains that the industry is suffering from " maladjustment , " that the present difficulties are incidental to a new adjustment , and that when it Is complete there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry will prosper in the end . His contention would have a certain crude merit were the industry . thoroughly organized . But under conditions as they are it will only result in more business for the non-union mines and more bankruptcy for the rest  --  a process that would be vastly accelerated in the event of an actual strike . Each new move by the parties to soft coal production seems to make their difficulties more intense and public intervention more likely . The industry is plainly destined to follow a turbulent course until some order is brought into the chaos of overproduction.                     