@@693769

txt Discontent with things as they are keeps the world changing , whether or not it makes changes for the better . A dislike of modern comfort has made itself apparent recently . It is not for us to know whether the essayists who turn a contemptuous eye on the conveniences of modern life also turn their backs on them . If they are sincere , they must do so . For they are bitter in their attack on the telephone , the radio , the motor car , women 's clothes ( men 's seem to be uncomfortable enough to escape attack ) , food in cans and cartons , electric light and small apartments . There can be no doubt that they are trying to make us see the danger in ease , and perhaps to win converts to the cause of tin bathtubs , oil lamps , and large , draughty rooms . The outstanding fighters for the good old uncomfortable days are writers who know bow to turn a pen into a weapon . In this , month 's Vanity Fair , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in next month 's Harper 's Mrs. GEROULD complains of overheated rooms . They know bow to express their scorn of all the new contraptions for making life easier , and they make it plain that it is the new devices that they resent . Both use the word comfort in their titles , one preceding it by " modern , " the other by " new . " Mrs. GEROULD assents to the general proposition that the means of comfort have been enormously increased . But " for the comfort of " having heat and light and food with " out our personal labor we have " given up the comforts of space and " solitude . " For every labor-saving device that may be mentioned , she can point to an advantage lost . For every motor that speeds one safely to an engagement , she can point to a bump in the road . For every healthy , scrubbed child , she ' will indicate an adult who has cracked his head on a porcelain tub . If we have gained freedom to live apart , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggregation of relatives to question our comings and goings , we have only flung off the fetters of the clan to become the slaves of legislation . Even worse than that , our lives are standardized by " the enforced publicity of existence , " for any one can get us on the telephone . An inquiring and philosophical attitude is adopted by Mr. HUXLEY . Why is it that we are living suddenly in " padded luxury " ? Soft chairs , I downy beds , central heating , sanitary plumbing and much other apparatus for making life agreeable were possible to people three hundred years ago . In fact , some luxuries surpassing even those of today were known and used by the Romans of two thousand years ago . It was the state of mind of our ancestors that prevented their luxuriating . " Discomfort fitted in with their " principles and prejudices , political , " moral and religious . " Chairs were hard because dignity had to sit up straight . Rooms of the great were enormous and chilly , but they symbolized the grandeur of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressive to inferiors and respectful to superiors , there could be no lolling in deep-cushioned chairs . When the old hierarchies broke up , and deference was no longer necessary in the same degree , sprawling at ease became the fashion . The evil effects of so much comfort are seen by Mr. HUXLEY in much the same light as when viewed by Mrs. GEROULD . " One day , perhaps , the " earth will have been turned into one " vast featherbed , with man 's body " dozing on top of it , and his mind un " derneath , like Desdemona , smoth " ered . " The less pessimistic may think that the man who can devise such ease will be able to use it successfully and adapt himself to it .                     