@@694159

txt While the fate of Sacco and Vanzetti hung in the balance throughout the day here , Boston was calm . Excitement reigned for a few minutes this afternoon when the police repeated yesterday 's action of arresting picketers before the State House , but aside from this there was little reflection of the high feelings that have taxed police powers in New York and in foreign countries . The elaborate measures . taken by the police to avert . a demonstration before the Charlestown State Prison were in working order early in the afternoon , with uniformed officers and plain-clothes men posted at intervals along a line-two blocks from the jail . The precautions had been widely announced , and few persons ventured that way who were not upon business . At Sacco-Vanzetti defense headquarters , a dingy little room up a long flight of stairs in a building in the North End , the great mobilization of protesters that had been advertised failed to materialize to any impressive degree . Several groups of men and women from New York and elsewhere who arrived on the scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the arrests was organized there in a little meeting room . Forty-three men and women and a girl 15 years old were equipped with a number of placards denouncing the course of justice in the Sacco-Vanzetti case and criticizing Governor Fuller and his Advisory Committee . March in Front of State House . They walked in orderly fashion up to Tremont Street , thence up the hill to the State House . Small groups of persons had collected on the streets and on the Common adjacent to the State House grounds , awaiting the decision of the Governor 's Council , which had been expected to decide early in the day whether the condemned men should receive reprieves . Four or five policemen standing at intervals about the State House apparently took no notice when the group of protestants formed in a single file and proceeded to march up and down at a slow pace displaying placards . A crowd collected rap ' idly , however , and there soon appeared on the scene Captain James F. Devitt . He stepped up to the head of the little procession and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . You have seven minutes in which to disperse . Move on . " The little parade continued , drawing an ever-increasing throng , which blocked the sidewalks and halted traffic . The seven minutes passed and seven more . Then two patrol wagons fitll of uniformed policemen rolled up . The police dashed forth ; each man " collaring " as many marchers as he could . Assurances of the picketers that they would make no efforts to escape failed to convince the officers of the law , who dug their hands into the men 's coat collars so as to clinch a square of cloth and held on to the arms of women and girl prisoners with muscular grips . New York Women Arrested . Of the forty-four , thirty-nine were arrested , eleven women , a girl and twenty-seven men . Among the women were Dorothy Parker of New York , writer of humorous verse ; Miss Peggy Tucker , Secretary of the New York Civic Club ; Bessie Kimmelman , Secretary of the Cleveland ( Ohio ) Sacco-Vanzetti Defense Cornmitte , and Rosa Pesotta of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novelist , of New York , was another arrested . He almost escaped by dashing off at top speed when he saw the police ' coming . His headlong ' flight was interrupted by a member of the State police force , whom he bumped into : The collision attracted a city policeman , who nabbed him . There being insufficient , room in the patrol wagons ; a number ; of , the nrisonere were . escorted four blocks to the Joy Street station by police officers , who ' did not relinquish their tight grips the entire way . There they were herded in. before Captain Devitt to be booked and be placed in cells , several to each cell . A crowd of men and children had trailed excitedly along after those who were escorted to the station house afoot . There , another crowd had already assembled . As the police cleared the way to the entrance , there were faint shouts of " Give them six nionths . " Another voice called , " Kill them , " and another , perhaps ironically , shouted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their rescue with money for bail was Ruth Hale , wife of Heywood Broun and President of the Lucy Stone League , who bemoaned the fact that she had missed being arrested . Another with bail money was Seward Collins , new owner of The Bookman . who also said he regretted exceedingly his having arrived too late to be arrested . Nat Kay , a reporter for a radical newspaper , - who arrived late , succeeded in being arrested by staging a " one-man parade . " Complains of Rough Treatment , After a delay of an hour , bail bonds were . made out and one by one the prisoners were released in $25 each . They were charged with " loitering and sauntering " and ordered to appear in the ' municipal court at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning . Some of them were inclined to take . their arrest , lightly . Miss Parker complained that she had been treated roughly by the police . Rubbing the arni by which she had been escorted - the station house , she said : " The big stiffs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells a policeman had brought in a plain clothes man and told them that he was a Federal agent . She quoted the Federal agent as announcing that " any ? aliens in this mob will be deported . " There were very few American citizens in the group , she said . Two of those arrested were among the thirty-nine arrested yesterday and charged with " obstruction , " in addition to sauntering and loitering . Three of those arrested yesterday were found guilty this morning and were held in bail for sentence Friday , at which time thirty other cases are scheduled to come up . The three convicted were Herman Kobbe of Nassau , N. Y. , an architect , and Mrs. Grace Hutchins and William Murdock of Boston . Objection in court this morning of Joseph Bearack , counsel for the picketers , to the charge of obstructing traffic , was credited with the absence of that charge in this afternoon 's arrests . The obstruction charge was added to those of loitering and sauntering yesterday after the prisoners had been booked . ' Taken Casually on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only one of many proposed demonstrations that had materialized late this evening . The Sacco-Vanzetti case was discussed casually on the streets and in stores and offices but no excited arguments were heard The only point in Boston where the outcome of the day 's manoevres by defense counsel for a stay seemed to create any noticeable reaction was In the anteroom of the Executive Offices in the State House , where reporters and lawyers from many points gathered to ' wait hour after hour . The long , carpeted room , with solid mahogany tables and oil paintings adorning the walls , was , in sharp contrast to the Sacco-Vanzetti head ( platters , where . three or'foue sympathizers sat amidst ' a litter of- handbills and posters , and . discussed in Italian the probable- ? Weenie.                     