@@689903

txt Whatever else Attorney General DAUGEIFRTY may know or not know , he knows politics . It was partly as a seasoned politician that he wrote his pungent reply to the private letter of Senator PEPPER . The Pennsylvania Senator , who had gone with Senator LODGE to the White House to urge the President to call upon Mr. DAUGHERTY to resign , was later seized with a gentlemanly compunction . He did not like to have it appear that he had been making charges against a Public official behind his back . Accordingly , he hurried off a friendly note to the Attorney General , saying , in effect , that it was not a question of the justice or injustice of the accusation brought against Mr. DAUGHERTY , but that be had unfortunately got " on the wrong side of an Issue in the mind of the public , " and that for the good of the Republican Party he ought to leave the Cabinet . To this the Attorney General made an overwhelming rejoinder . Was he to be adjudged guilty without a trial ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side " without hearing , without evidence , " simply because the public had been fed on ex parte statements and vague allegations ? This appeal must have come with much force to Senator PEPPER , both as a lawyer and a public man . His only excuse is that he was acting on strong grounds of political expediency . But even on that point the Attorney General did not let him off . The Pennsylvania Senator appeared to think that throwing one child to the wolves would stop their howling . Mr. DAUGHERTY knows better . As a veteran in political intrigue , he assured the comparative novice from Pennsylvania that " my " destruction is but the accomplish " ment of one phase of the program , " which will be immediately followed " by other and more drastic demands " by these same adverSarles . " The fact is that if the management of a Political party takes fright at popular clamor , and begins to yield to it , there Is no telling how far it will have to go or where it can stop . Merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisting that it is folly to call for his resignation simply because he is " under fire . " His withdrawal would simply mean that the volleys would be concentrated upon some other man . The remainder of Attorney General DAvonzaaa 's letter is equally unanwerable . Failing proof of guilt , he ought not to be summoned to an act which would everywhere be accepted as a confession of guilt . Like any other man under charges , he is entitled to face his accusers , to demand that they produce their evidence if they have any , and to meet his enemies in the gate . This is not to say that the Attorney General , or any other member of the Cabinet , has a right to insist upon retaining his office against the wish of the President . It is always understood that the members of the President 's official family have a tenure only at his good pleasure . But none of them should be dismissed under circumstances implying Ignominy , unless ignominy there has been . Mr. DAUGHERTY will be sustained in the opinion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a silent elimination in a way that would reflect upon his reputation and his honor . With a request from the President for his resignation he would undoubtedly comply at once , but there would have to be the clearest understanding of the grounds upon which it was based . The principles laid down in - Mr . DAUGHERTY 'S letter have an application running far beyond his office or his personality . If the Administration , if Congress , ' is to be intimidated in the discharge of its duty by fear of being oh the wrong side , , there is an end of responsible government . One sees at this moment how the thing works in the mutilating of the Mellon Ma-reduction bill . The question which the majority in the House has been asking is not whether the bill is sound and safe , but whether it is not on the wrong side . If a measure both unsound and perilous can be devised in a Way to make it appear more popular than the other , then the argument is held to be convincing that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it Is conceded to be founded largely on ignorance and prejudice ; but if ignorance and prejudice are only discovered to be . very widespread and vocal , then it Is thought to be politically expedient for Congressmen to surrender their own preferences . This is no way to get good legislation . Nor is it a way to win respect for Congress . The timid majority which rushes to get away from what It thinks the wrong side will speedily ' be forgotten . The public men whom the people will be found in the end delighting to honor are those who stand by what they believe to be right and just , and are willing to say with CATO that they even ' prefer the wrong side  --  that is , the temporary losing side  --  if it squares with their innermost convictions and their sense of offlolal duty .                     