@@686142

txt When Judge Miller was running for Governor of New York , against an immensely popular Democratic opponent who had made an impressive if rather cheap record , it was necessary in these columns to point out that he should then have taken an uncompromising position on tax wasting at Albany . Smith had made broad recommendations to a Republican legislature which he knew would not be accepted . Both Tammany and the hardly more reputable upstate Republican machine were committed to extravagance . Governor Miller would probably then have antagonized many Republican politicians , by a specific plea for economy , atic he could not perhaps foresee that the voter at the polls would have vindicated him . This may have looked like sound politics then , although our most successful leaders have known when to discard the machine and trust the people . At least Governor Miller was honest in his attitude , and his first act as Governor shows that he is not merely honest but able . His inaugural message is without exception the best document of its kind which has been handed down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model to every state in the Union . to every city in the Union , and one which the President-elect himself should be glad to study . Our faddists , politicians and taxwastets have given an implication of chicanery , class service and selfishness to the term " businesslike " . But the message is in the best sense businesslike . It does not volunteer the hazy platitudes and generalizations of the Presidential messages of the past eight years . It states specifically what is wrong and what means should he taken to correct the wrong . It does not stop with telling the legislators what they are squandering . It tells them specifically where they arc squandering and how the leak can be stopped . It would be poor praise to call it an " efficiency expert 's " discussion of our state business . It is the discussion , alike broad and accurate , of a business man accustomed to responsibility for other people 's money . Some of Governor Miller 's election supporters took entirely needless exception to the outspoken criticism in these columns which the public interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voter against the criminal extravagance of our state administration . Governor Miller himself would probably not share that resentment , because he must see now how shortsighted among his adviser s the professional politicians were . It is a far cry from . a Governor 's recommendations to he appropriations he actually signs . Governor Miller has plenty of troubles before hint . But if he will keep his vision unclouded ; if he will preserve his courageous definiteness if purpose , he can not only carry his policy but establish a record which will make hint a national figure at the end if his term , particularly if he lets Presidential aspirations care of themselves . That is the way other governors of New York became presidents of the United States .                     