@@692746

txt The traveler daily whisked through the Hudson or East River tubes finds it hard to realize that scarcely a hundred years have passed since people had even heard of tunnels , and that practically the entire development of railroads has taken place during this same period . Rapid and comfortable transportation /iisIecome siicb an essential part of our daily lives that we look upon old-fashioned methods of getting about as being fully as inconceivable as some of the conditions in remote ages which we read about in our histories . In an address before the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia the other day , Mr. SAMUEL REA , until recently President of the Pennsylvania Railroad , told of his conversations as a young man with early giants in his profession of railroading . These have historic as well as , human interest , for he knew personally some of the men who were the leaders during the first half century of American railroad development , and himself has been one of the foremost in the second half century . To his associates in the engineering profession , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency , breadth of view and modesty . . Among those railroad pioneers of whom Mr. REA told are the Wasoxs , father and son , the brothers LATROBE , MONCURE ROBINSON ' and JOHN EDGAR THOmsoN , all of them once names to conjure Vrith . Especially interesting to the modern world is his account of MONCURE ROBINSON 'S advocacy of railroads in place of canals in 1821 when the State of Virginia wished to extend its connections between the Piedmont and the Tidewater regions . His championship of the new method of transport was defeated , but so convinced was he that he was right in predicting the corning decline of canals in rivalry with railways that he refused to participate in the State 's construction work . He ' had the satisfaction of seeing his view fully vindicated , as he did not die until 1891 . Mr. REA recalls that Mr. ROBINSON was among the first to advocate the use of tunnels . When his suggestion came before the Pennsylvania State Canal Commission one of the members inquired what a " tunnel " might be . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horizontally through a hill or mountain . " Incidentally , Mr. REA reminds us that tunneling under the East River and the Hudson was not practical until electrically operated ldeomotives had been sufficiently developed to make possible the hauling of long . trains . The building of the great transcontinental railroads has always appealed to the imagination of stay-at-homes . Courage , vision and technical skill were required in their construction . Compared to them the development of the large Eastern lines has been little spectacular . But ' from an engineering point of view the growth of the railways that feed such a centre as New York has resulted in overcoming technical difficulties even greater than those met with in the transcontinental lines . The transfer of big terminals to the Island of Manhattan , the construction of the Hell Gate Bridge under the impetus of that engineering genius , Mr. GUSTAV LINDENTHAL , and other similar enterprises , have shown that the engineers of the ? second , half of this century of railroading have been worthy successors of the pioneers . Among this number Mr. REA himself holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no mention , but which was recognized by the Franklin Institute in conferring upon him the Franklin Medal on the occasion when he talked of his " engineering reminiscences . "                     