@@685106

txt President Wilson 's charge in his letter to Senator Hitchcock that France is now actuated by a spirit of militarism controlling its Government has been received in Paris with deep resentment . It appears that the President 's criticism will make it more difficult for his opinions to continue to have an important effect upon shaping France 's international policies . French objection.to Mr. Wilson 's criticism is twofold , : First , Paris rewards his reference to a supposedly undesirable change in the French Government as being unwarranted interference by the Chief of one State in the internal affairs of another . Second , and more basic , the French argue that , if it is true that they now appear to be assuming a firmer attitude toward Germany , it is hecaus ? : . they feel , that they must do so to protect France , since the guarantees , of which Mr. Wilson was largely the author , namely , . the League of Nations and the Anglo-American-French military alliance , do not now promise material results . A point in Mr. Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that after declaring that Article X. as it stands is a guarantee against militarism he proceeds to accuse France of militarism . This is construed in Paris as placing the League of ! gallons In what is for Frenchmen the entirely new light of being a potential instrument for the correction of France . The French argue that if It had not been for Mr. Wilson 's influence at the Peace Conference they would not now be forced to face promises not made good , but would have material guarantees , . which they always regarded as preferable to pledges in words . In other words , Mr. Wilson , they hold , should not blame them for wanting to stay on the Rhine until Germany comes to terms , since the substitute guarantees which he offered have not materialized up to this time : From the current of expressions in the French capital today it appears possible that instead of having the effect he sought Mr. Wilson 's warning may be followed by the formation of a French policy with regard to the Rhineland more positive than any maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for many weeks has carefully refrained from joining in the general French criticism of President Wilson and America , will publish tomorrow morning an article by its editor , Stephane Lauzanne , in which he says : " Colonel Harvey wrote in his terrible weekly the other day , ' No , Mr. Wilson has not become insane ; he is just as he always was . ' That is the truth . We find in the letter to Mr. Hitchcock the Mr. Wilson of before the war , who asked ' What are the causes of the ' war ? ' the Wilson who declared that he was too proud to fight . It is the same university professor , meddlesome and ignorant , turning out phrases pretty in words but bad In meaning . It is the same pedagogue who mixing Into the greatest drama in history understood nothing of it and who has learned nothing of it . " His accusation against France is vague and offensive : " Throughout the Paris conference the French militarists sought to gain the ; ascendancy in France , and although defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is he talking about , Marshal Foch and M. Poincare in the past or M. Deschanel and M. Millerand in the present , or the newly elected Chamber ? We do not know of any other powers which govern France. , But . by what right does the chief of a foreign State apply an epithet which ; he seeks ' to make evil to the greatest citizens of an allied country or to a Parliament freely elected ? ? I " When Josephus Daniels s preparing the most formidable naval program , Of history do we accuse . America of Militarism ? When Mr. Wilson 's own sobin-law , the ineffable ' , speaks of appropriating at one blow Bermuda , the Bahamas and Jamaica to liquidate the English debt do we accuse America a imperialism ? " Vehement protests are rising against this intolerable language at the Capitol itself . Mr. Lodge , with his incomparable authority , has well reproved Presidential impertinences . We expect nothing less from the American Senate . And let the American people know well that they still have our profound affection and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a few months more they have at their head a false- theorist and faulty idealist . Three times he has been solemnly repudiated . We are certain that he will be repudiated once more . More than a sick man in a wheelchair is needed to create a cloud in the eternal blue sky above two sister republics . " Sees ' Militarism Only in Germany . The Tenips tonight says : " We regret profoundly that the health of Mr. Wilson prevents him from revisiting Europe . In France he ? would see that reconstruction of the devastated regions absorbs all ' the resources of the nation apd dominates its policies . He Would see , on the other hand , how Germany has received the interallied commissions which control its disarmament and how a campaign is developing to make Marshal Hindenburg President of the commonwealth . " If he ' were before France , which counts on the Treaty of Peace , and before Germany , which is trying to escape it ? before France , which is exhausting herself to repair the ruins of war , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preached  --  the President of the United States would not declare that a ' military party reigns in France , as he says in the public letter he sent to Senator Hitchcock . " However , Mr : Wilson was at Paris last year and he ought to know our country . What memory has he of us ? ' During all the time of the Peace Conference sitting , ' he writes , ' it was evident that the military party was trying to take control in the councils of France . ' - .. - When one reads the farewell message which Mr. Wilson addressed to France , to thank her for her hospitality , one would not truly think that he was then conscious of having been present at such a fight . We can not believe that he would have hidden his thoughts at such a moment . Has not the . evidence of which he spealts reached him rather late ? Where ' did he get it ? . " goes The Temps ? then gods on to say that 1 whatever criticisms were made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in accord with his own principle of open discussion and should not have given him offense . Continuing , the Temps says : We know of but one militarism in Europe . It is that of which Marshal Hindenburg is the symbol and of which Prince Joachim Albrecht of Prussia is one of the most recently discovered ' supports . That militarism ' attacked us in 1014 : we are living still in 1920 , in the midst of the ruins which it accumulated on our soil . " Its fanfares of revenge reach our ears more and more frequently and more and more insolently . If it did not crush our country , if it did not conquer the rest of Europe , if the peoples of the world are free , to whom is the credit due ? To our military leaders it is due . If a new menace arises on the other side of the Rhine , on whom would the world rely to conquer . it ? On our military chiefs it would rely . We will not tolerate any one 's speaking lightly of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which opposed the imperialistic slicing up of Turkey and which advocated asking President Wilson 's advice upon the Turkish proposals . It concludes its article thus : " American opinion feels it has been deceived and it has reacted at once . We are happy to note . the sympathy which th being extended to us , and notably the words spoken in the Senate by Mr. Lodge . Our friends of . the United States may be certain that nothing will ever make us forget the bonds between the two countries nor the sacrifices of the American fighters who died to stop the German offensive near Paris and tp hurl back the invader along the Meuse . " Not only do we remember , but we look ahead . Whoever thinks knows that the United States and France will have in future more powerful reasons than ever to live in close accord . If President Wilson wishes to help to that end he will speak to France in language more comformable to the desires of our country and of his . " . Council Can Only " Advise . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can not permit any reserve to - Article X. He considers ti-Vs article as the sacred arch of the new order of earthly affairs . In this he fools himself . This rampart is only a scrap of paper . Article X. says that in case of aggression the Council shall advise upon how to assure execution of the obligation under . it . But it ' neglects all sanctions . The Council shall ' advise ! ' Good idea ! The Council must begin by agreeing and then formulate its opinion . This done , there is no means of execution . " In spite of the pressing requests of the French delegation the American delegation constantly and with energy opposed the idea that the Council of the League of Nations should be invested with material power to stop aggressions . In case of aggression the Council shall de:iherate ! What a guarantee ! " In reality the famous Lodge reservation changes nothing in Article X. It says that the United States may decide for or against intervention . That is to say , the American delegate to the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is provided . in Article X. Mr. Wilson , then , is wrong to fulminate against the Lodge reservation . In different words frfom his , but more frankly and without a second meaning , the Republican Senate expresses the same idea . " Mr. Wilson has faith in the force of verbal stipulations , above all , in his own words . In his eyes the word ' Wilson:an ' suffices for all . That is his fundamental error . It makes hint unjust toward his compatriots and the associated powers . " To tell the truth he has had no new ideas since that epoch , so far away now , when he proposed his fourteen points . Written at a moment when everything was confused in Europe , these fourteen Points ought to have been adapted to the new situation created by victory . Mr. Wilson ought to have done this himself and proclaimed it publicly . He shut himself up like a mute . He brutally violated first his fourteen points . He worked in darkness and twilight . " He is ' very wrong to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The party in power in France is the party of order which passionately desires to heal the wounds of the country and to protect it against new aggressions . If Mr. Filson had organized a League of Nations which constituted an effective protection against the powers of deceit and of prey , French patriots would never have sought for another combination . If some of us seem to go too far , to fault is Mr. Wilson 's . " WILSON UNJOST , TARDIEU SAYS He Declares That France Is Executing Treaty Tasks Nearly Alone . PARIS , March ** Tardieu , who was a member of France 's delegation in the Peace Conference , said today regarding President Wilson 's letter to Senator Hitchcock that this was the situation : " First ? We asked that part of the League of Nations create an organized armed force as an essential condition of disarmament in the different countries . Our proposition was rejected three different times . " Second  --  The United States promised us their guarantee in case of unprovoked attack , as well by the Treaty of Versailles as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither of those treaties is ratified . Third  --  The Treaty of Versailles imposed upon the allied and associated powers a certain number of common military tasks  --  occupation of the left bank . of the Rhine , Schleswig , Danzig , Memel , Allenstein , Marienwerder , Upper Silesia and Teschen . Except a few thousand Americans on the Rhine , it is French troops which everywhere bear that charge alone , or nearly alone . The treaty was to be executed by several . We are executing it nearly alone . " Fourth  --  the negotiations in Paris had in view participation by all the allied and associated powers in the occupation of mandated territodes . Here , again , the United States dfliappeared , and to protect the populations against massacres in Constantinople , Anatolia , Armenia and Cilicia it was again France that was called upon . " Therefore , I repeat , it is unjust to accuse us of imperialism . No one in France protests against the continual increase of the American Navy . Our army , like the American Navy , is what circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that created those circumstances . It is the debate going on for months in the United States over ratification of the Peace Treaty that created them . Every one knows my respect for President Wilson , but I think that in his last letter to Senator Hitchcock he has been unjust to France . " BRITISH WITHHOLD COMMENT . Silence on Wilson Letter Is Reported to be Inspired . LONDON , March ** British newspapers with one accord avoided editorial comment today on President Wilson 's letter to Senator Hitchcock , although all give it great prominence in their news columns . All of . President Wilson 's previous utterances have been widely commented upon , and the present editorial silence is so striking that rumors have cropped up that it is inspired by inflvential quarters which do not wish editorializing on a delicate subject before there has been ample time to reach a rearconed and . tampered conclusion ,                     