@@689746

txt Senator BORAH 'S argumentative powers were never better displayed than in his speech on the Mellon plan before the Republican Club on Saturday . He at least is aware of the immense wave of approval which swept over the country when President COOLIDGE made economy and the reduction of taxes the cardinal points of his policy . He sees in imagination something like a " crusade " for cutting down governmental expenditures , in which all classes and conditions of American citigens are enlisting with enthusiasm . Senator HIRAM JOHNSON in his speech at Cleveland thought this movement low and unworthy , and spoke of being appalled at such.an exhibition of " cupidity . " Truly dreadful , people desiring to spend their own money instead of giving it to the Government ! But Senator Boa.An has a truer perception of the reason why the notion of saving and of lightening family burdens has carried such an appeal even to the homes of the humblest . He knows the struggle there going on , and is aware of the hope and encOuragement.Which , preniisexof relief - has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to know , and courageous enough to state , that in this Business you ca n't eat yoUr cake and have it too . He boldly affirmed that any public man who said that he was for tax reduction and also for the soldiers ' bonus could not really be , for tax reduction . One thing or the other , not both together . And Senator Boma is. logical enough to press the argument against extravagance and waste all , along the line . It is not simply the bonus that we must ' avoid , but every form of swollen Government expenditure that we must resolutely cut down . He presented figures to show that the total tax bill of the nation , including local , State and Federal taxes , had grown nearly fourfold in the last eight years . This fact , he justly asserted , suggested " the most searching tragedy of American life . " No wonder that the people are ? acclaiming the plan to lift a part of the load that has been bound upon their shoulders . If there is such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dispatches from Washington clearly indicate the waning power and declining hopes of the advocates of the bonus . On the other hand , the Mellon plan is constantly winning new adherents . The President has let it be known that he is for the plan and nothing but , the plan . His assertion that it must be taken entire or not at all has already had the effect of strengthening feeble knees in Congress and of disheartenIng many who had felt confident that they could either emasculate or defeat the Administration bilL Not the least source of strength for the whole movement is the way in which Secretary MELLON himself is able to meet all corners . His letter to Senator COOZENS is a masterly demolition of false conceptions . From the actual Treasury figures the Secretary is able to show how over a period of years the effort to collect taxes from excessive levies has been a demonstrated and increasing failure . His argument on this point is powerful , and the best of it is that every attempt to impeach his conclusions draws from him a withering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flat . Mr. MELLON has evidently not gone into this affair in any haphazard fashion . He knows whereof he affirms . Those who attack him find that he Is formidably armed .                     