@@695193

txt The report of the Municipal Securities Committee of the Investment Bankers ' Association , of which John J. English of the William R. Compton Company is Chairman , published in the current bulletin of the association , strongly urges the use of proper accounting methods in determining earnings and value of municipally owned public utility properties . This applies primarily to such properties as are financed by the issuance of securities payable solely from the revenues derived from such systems . The ' situation regarding drainage and levee district bonds affected by the flood in the Mississippi River Valley is summed up as follows : " The effect of the flood calamity experienced last year in the Mississippi River Valley is being felt by investors in drainage and levee bonds issued by districts in the overflowed section . Numerous defaults have already occurred , and those in close touch with the situation expect many more . " The market for securities of this type has been practically destroyed for the time being , and the owners of the property are not in a position to carry the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their salvation depends upon Government or State aid . " The Mississippi State Legislature , one of the few in session this year , recently passed the Wynn bill , otherwise known as the Rehabilitation act . Briefly , this gives counties in the sections directly affected by the overflow of the Mississippi River the power to issue bonds and to use the proceeds to finance the purchase of interest and principal of the obligations of school , road , drainage and levee districts maturing , , ? within the next three years . The interest on the county bonds is limited to 4% per cent . " The Mississippi Legislature also passed a law making it possible to refund drainage and levee district bonds . Similar relief undoubtedly will be afforded by the Legislatures in other States affected when these bodies again convene . Considerable refinancing of drainage and levee district issues , involving reduction of interest - rates and extension of maturities , will be necessary in order to work out a number of situations now in trouble . " The committee , which scrutinizes all municipal bond circulars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but adds that there is a growing tendency to make financial statements of municipalities more attractive by the deduction of indebtedness , which , in many instances . is open to . question . A subcommittee on bond circulars has been appointed , headed by J. R. Kimball , Vice President of the Guaranty Company .                     