@@692835

txt The Pittsburgh Bond Club will hold its midsummer outing at the Pittsburgh Field Club on Monday , June 2S . Visitors from Baltimore and Cleveland will be entertained . Last year members of the Philadelphia Bond Club were guests . Golf will be the principal form of entertainment during the day : two teams will be formed , the losing team to assume the expense of the prizes . A beef .. iteak barbecue will take place in the evening , to be followed by boxing bouts . A useful publication to investors or dealers in tax exempt securities has been issued by the Bankers Trust Co. under the title " Tax Exempt and Taxable Securities . " It includes tables which compare the net return from tax exempt and taxable securities . These are unusually complete , as the comparison is made not only with securities subject to bdth normal tax and surtax but with securities on which of the normal tax has been paid , and securities which are exempt from normal tax . Each bracket of taxable income is covered . A forceful joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money and lowered commodity levels . Plethora of capital pressing for investment in securities or otherwise is of course the first consideration . Then . there has been a slowly declining trend of commodity prices which in combination make a potent influence in bond values , for with cheaper commodities interest income will give the holder a greater supply of goods for his money . There is also present the factor of a subsidence of building activity and real estate speculation , releasing a substantial volume of funds for employment in investment enterprises . Combination of these various influences has proven sufficiently strong to affect materially the market for investment securities , which have reflected this situation by marked price advances . history has shown that even in periods of money ease maintenance of commodity prices at inflated levels acts as a forceful deterrent to higher prices for bonds . There is at trio present a favorable conjunction of these influences . For months a feature of stock market letters has been the comment that oil shares should be bought . In many bond houges there has been an equally emphatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Latterly , advances in foreign issues have been a feature of the market so that the high yields of last summer have been decidedly shaded without . however , eliminating these securities from the level of attractive returns .                     