@@696289

txt To those unaware of recent trends in the electric light industry some of the utterances of its leaders at Atlantic City might seem rather startling . Here is Judge RANSOM , who recently marshaled the Interborough 's forces in the seven-cent fare case and has for years been a familiar figure in court battles for higher rates , pleading with his associates to lower their charges for electric service to the household consumer . He is followed in the same vein by MATTHEW SLOAN , President of the New York Edison Company , who speaks with exceptional authority on the subject . Both want the industry to supply cheaper current to the householder in order that he may be encouraged to use more electrical appliances and so consume more electrical energy . " Sales Increase or Rate Increase " was the striking title of Mr. SLoAN 's address . His plea for what is technically described as an " inducement rate " is reminiscent of Mr. INSULL 'S exhortation at the convention of 1926 : " Go home , reduce your " rates and then sell enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Some ' figures were published in 1L. : : t week 's Annalist which reveal the condition Mr. SLOAN must have in mind . In spite of the notable expansion , in the industry , electrical output is not keeping pace with installations , and the revenue received for each dollar of investment has been declining . Those whose experience is that of Mr. SLOAN believe that one remedy lies in lower rates , at least for the substantial domestic consumer . There are external as well as internal reasons for the reduction . For some time the industry has been under fire . Advocates of public ownership never tire of pointing to the low household rates in Ontario as compared with the comparatively ? high rates on this side of the border . MORRIS Coma of Philadelphia keeps prodding the industry with his pamphlet , " What Price Electricity for Our Homes ? " No one will deny the existence of a broad differential in this country between the rates charged for power and those charged to the domestic consumer , particularly to the small householder . He pays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill and uses about onethird of the enegry generated . Of : ourse , it costs the utility more to supply the small consumer than it loos to transmit great blocks of ) ower to a big factory . However , hat is not the only reason for the liscrimination . In the case of the ittle fellow the public utility has no : ompetition to fear . Its service to he large industrial consumer is . lways under the shadow of rivals . f rates . are too high , he can use a team plant in his factory . " The small consumers can make no such ' threat ; they must take what rates are given them or go without service . " The householder will always have o pay more for his current because f the added overhead . But if he an be given the benefit of every racticable economy , such a policy vill obviously be one of enlightened elf-interest for the industry .                     