@@684876

txt The London church bells this evening have been pealing in celebration of the conclusion of peace with Germany and the official coming into existence of the League of Nations . The first report that the treaty had been actually ratified in Paris reached London a little after 6 P. M. , But for the bell-ringing , there is no evidence of public interest , and some papers *lye first place in their news column 's ' 0 the labor situation at home . For legal purposes in this country the war will be presumed to continue a little longer , and will be terminated by an Order in Council . People Must Back League , Says Cecil . LONDON , Jan. 10 , ( Associated Press ) . ? Whether the League of Nations is to be the real thing or an imposture depends upon the attitude of the peoples ; and not least the British people , in the opinion of Lord Robert Cecil , who , as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the League of Nations Union , issued the following statement today : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it the League of Nations . We , of the League of Nations , welcome its advent , but we must not think that we have yet achieved our ends . " The League exists , but what is it to be ? Is it to be the real thing or an imposture ? Are we going to make it , an efficient instrument of peace , or is it to become a meaningless addition to the cumberous forms of old-fashioned diplomacy ? " All depends upon the attitude of the peoples , and , not the least , of the British people . Are they going to shcw themselves worthy of this great opportunity or not ? If they are , there is no time to be lost , for there is much to bet done . Schemes for the limitation of armaments must be worked out , terms of the mandates must be settled and mandatories appointed , an international court of Justice must be established . " Beyond these and other duties directly imposed , upon the League by the covenant and treaty ; there are many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . words of Article XI , ' threaten to disturb international peace or the good understanding between nations upon which peace depends . ' " There is the Russian situation , economic chaos in many European , countries and controversies left unsettled by the peace conference , and defects in the Peace Treaty itself and particularly its financial provisions . All these matters are ' within the sphere of action of the league . ' It will be the duty of the League of Nations Union to formulate a policy on these matters and to urge it upon the Governments , but it , would be premature today to lay down that policy in detail . " Certain points , however , such as the early admission of former enemy powers to the League , democratization of assembly and insistence on publitay as the great international antiseptic , have been enthusiastically Indorsed by almost every meeting held on the pecuniary contributions to aid us in destroying these powers . " C orntnent on America 's Abstention . Regret over America 's abstention from participating in the ratification of the treaty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's newspapers . America 's absence , says The Daily Telegraph , " clouds alike the prospect of the present and the future . It weakens profoundly the moral authority of the League of Nations and consequently the sense of security regarding the immr ' late future . Instead of new mach.aery for the world 's future guidance standing ready and complete , waiting only motive power to set it going , the machine is not yet put together . The United States still stands outside . The Allies have waited until they could wait no longer , and must now go forward alone , deeply sensible of the loss they have sustained , but still hoping that sooner or later they will be rejoined by the great republic . " The Daily News says : " A new world order from which America , Or , for that matter , Germany or Russia , or any considerable fraction of mankind , Is excluded is foredoomed to failure . " The newspapers urges that it is advisable to press on with the construction of the League . even In the event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reasonable hope that , once the League is In being , this attitude will ultimately become Impossible . " Referring , like other journals , to political conflicts in America regarding the League and the Versailles Treaty The Daily Chronicle says : " The position Is not very reassuring to Europeans who are living in a world shattered by war . While Americans continue to debate , we may derive some crumbs of comfort from the fact that statesmen like William Jennings Bryan and Gilbert M. Hitchcock , Democratic leader in the United States Senate , have no illusions about the danger of delay for Europe and the effect it has had upon American prestige . "                     