@@691683

txt A growing concentration upon campaigns to enlarge their number of appliance customers is reported by executives of many large public utility concerns . This is but a logical-sequence of the increasingly heavy appropriations made in the last several years for new construction and generating facilities as applied particularly to ' the electric light and power companies . The costs of these augmented plant cabacities have alr'eady been offset largely by the " natural growth " which the public utilities say is a characteristic of their business . They agree that the industry is still far from having sufficient facilities to supply the potential demand , and point out that this demand will not be fully met until the merger and consolidation aims of the several hundred companies are finally achieved . In recent weeks there have been numerous instances of small service companies being bought up by the larger utility interests and the intention announced to discontinue the generating facilities of the small companies acquired because of economies which result from supplying power from central stations located so as to furnish power to the entire territory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it is believed sound. , and municipalities which set out years ago to carry on their own light and power business have shown a desire to withdraw from a field private capital can better serve and at a profit . There have been nearly a score of such " surrenders " on the part of small urban communities in the last six months . The activities of the Public Service Corporation of Northern Illinois . are a case in point . This company on Dec. 1 , 1924 , inaugurated a " more and better business " campaign to enlist the interest and co-operation of all employes of the company in stimulating sales of electrical merchandise . During the first three months the company obtained new business amounting to more than 3115.000 in addition to the regular business for which no time was spent in special campaigning . The district served by the company around Chicago covers more than 5,200 square miles , in which are located 210 communities wherein the company serves a totalof 140,000 electric residential meters . The corporation 's campaign was launched at a meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in charge of balsa Pre -- seated the details of the campaign . Each district was allotted it ( Pieta and lieutenants were sent to address district meetings . A system of bulletins was prepared and posted in , prominent places calling attention to sPeciflo aPpliancesA vest pocket manual , in addition , was drawn up showing pictures , pricbd , cost of operation and other information pertaining to the merchandise sold by thr ' company . Items were arranged in the manual according to the various departments of the home and all necessary information was listed to enable any employe of the company to give a milefactory description and opening sales talk on any appliances carried . ? The %Penns for the employes ' interest in the sale was paid the first and fifteenth of each month . Of the sales ' made from the prospect cards , around 40 per cent were for cash and the majority were of kitchen-lighting - unite , electric irons , electric refrigerators and other large energy-consuming devices . RUBBER HITS NEW HIGHS . Effect of Strong Foreign Market Seen In Rise Here . On the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets were closed , which was carried out further again yesterday in London , the crude rubber market here surged to new high levels on the present movement for spot and future delivery . Only a small amount of business was transacted , dealers said , but the sentimental influence of higher prices was communicated here by a noticeable contraction In offerings , while bidding was keen . Spot improved 3 cents per pound , with gains running from 2 to 8 cents interspersing leading grades : London had a gain of 2d. at 41%d . London 's stock of rubber , according to cable report , showed a reduction of 650 tons in the last week , this putting holdings at approximately 4,477 tons . Quotations for spot and future delivery follow : Aug. - gpot . Sub , . Sept 88 $ 81 80 88 87 81 80 78 78                     