@@690090

txt A sidelight on some widely prevalent mental processes is afforded by a recent bulletin from the La Follette " People 's Legislative Service . " The bulletin also may Indicate the next turn of the investigation industry at Washington . it says : secret aocuments nave plat come to light which show bow huge funds were rafied and spent to secure the passage of the Esch-Cumeriins law in 1920 . This information is of particular interest at the present time becaurc the Gooding resolution , providing for a complete Investigation of railroad propaganda at the present time , is now pend : leg before the senate . " ? - ? - ? ? Those who desire the complete details of this hideous secret plot against the republic should write to the service for copies . Its address is Pendell building , Washington . As the writer reads these documents they appear to Show that the railroads assessed themselves for about $1,000,000 In order to pay for educational advertising In about 2,300 daily newspapers and many weeklies , That Is the secret , The railroads presented in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and whit ; they believed was a proper retirees policy . It cost every American citizen , child , and resident alien about 1 cent leach . At that time and ever since , large RUMP were also being raised to support a campaign fur government ownership of railroads . This came from the wages of railroad employee and was also paid for by the people . The writer believes it was larger than the railroad total , but may be wrong . - But the real Interest in the whole thing seems to lie In what Is revealed an to the mental processes of the writers of the bulletin . The document comes from a quarter which has been identified with " free speech " preaching and doctrine for Eaveral years . But it takes no psychoanalyst to deduce that the writers of the bulletin believe that the railroads ought to be gagged . Some may be surprised at this aP- I parent Inconsistency . But after several years of contact with those to whom " free speech " is a precious formula , the writer came to the conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the fact  --  when it applies to the other fellow , Why is it that , with conspicuous exceptions that make the rule all the more evident , that the sporting instinct is so generally deficient among radicals , reformers and " liberals " ? Any discerning observer knows that such phrases as " a square shooter , " " a game guy , " or " he stands the gaff " are more often applied to " Tories , " members of the " old guard , " or " reactionaries " than to their opponents . Contrast the reactions of men like Foraker and Penrose to the oil acandals of an elder day , to the reactions of senatorial investigators , who have been subjected to retaliatory charges in the present mixup . What Is the subtle connection that seems to exist between the Instinct of fair play and the sense of humor ? Why is it that the military virtues are so often manifestly offensive to the social reformer ? ' The writer can not answer these queries . Perhaps BOMO day we will have the answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tact , however , that all human societies seem to be subject to periodic " changes , ln political . moral , and aesthetic standards . . Some of the post-war manifestation ? ' remind one of a period portrayed in Lenity 's " History , of European Morals , " when the virtues of patriotism and public spirit wont out of fashion and were Indeed considered " pagan . " oven as pacifists label them-today . Northern invaders and Islamic hosts ended that In effective , if drastic , fashion .                     