@@695808

txt Stocks continued their recoveries yesterday , and while profit-taking developed at the higher levels the supply was rather well absorbed . New buying came into the leading stocks which had been featured recently , and after these issues halted their upturns new features were brought forward which acted to keep up the enthusiasm created by the recovery from Tuesday 's reaction . A. favorable influence was decided ease in call money . The rate was reduced to 6 ' 74- late in the afternoon , and while bankers did not expect this low charge to be maintained for any length of time , it was evident the effect . on traders was to bring additional short covering into various issues . Steel common went to a new high record early in the day , then receded slightly and rested . There were similar movements in several other steel shares . The new leaders were practically all in the industrial group and included many of the stocks which had been favorites on several occasions in the past . Sentiment continues as in the past , with conservative observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the confident belief that the market will pass through more technical corrections on which holdings can be replaced again at more reasonable levels . The*optimists continue as confident as at any time in the past . They point out that the ability of the market to rally after sharp reactions is indicative of a strong underlying condition and favor the purchase of the good stocks on all recessions from prevailing prices . Trading Professionals and floor traders were buyers for a time during the forenoon , but turned to the selling side again late in the session and were sellers on balance . Many of these operators were inclined to look for another setback before the end of the week and were taking profits on stocks purchased at the lower levels last Tuesday . Commission houses sold at the start when customers were taking profits at the new advances , but the action of the market attracted the reentry of those who had liquidated at higher levels and also brought new buying . Leading firms purchased on balance . Money Bankers assert that the recent advance in call money to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as so many have stated , but was due primarily to the withdrawal of funds by some of the institutions for some unexplained icason and indicates conclusively the conditions es they exist in the money market at present . They add that the stringency in money has not been i eheved , for the first sign if a change for the better would be seen in time money and other long term indices . Few bankers expect any real ease in call money soon and feel certain that toward the end of the month rates v.111 be considerably higher than they are at present . Control of Funds Market interests say one of the unfavorable features of the situation in money is that it has been definitely demonstrated the banks have control of conditions and can influence rates more easily than in the past when the flood of outside funds took control away from the banking institutions for a time . Technical Conditions Quite a few conservative observers express the view that the rally in the market after Tuesday 's reaction was at the sacrifice of some of the technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insist that the short interest was increased during the recessions , and the sub . sequent recovery has about offset the improvement which had occurred in the internal structure . Shrot Covering Short covering has been urgent at times . Recently there was selling for short account , not only by traders who attempt to pick the top of a rally , but also by outsiders , who , though warned against adopting such a position , nevertheless put out stocks on the theory that the conservatism in many quarters would bring liquidation . pros  - -  taking and lower prices . V. hen a short interest is created among the public , the market inevitably enjoys a good recovery , because the first sign of resistance causes the timid outsiders to close out their commitments . This has been done to some extent and the technical conditions have suffered propotionately . Investment Issues What many view as one of the favorable features of the current market is the amount of buying which has been coming into the investment stocks . Not only has there been a good demand from important interests in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for cash to have been rather extensive This is apparently a continuation of the employment of funds received in interest and dividend payments by investors at the beginning of the year . Outsiders also have been using more discrimination than in some tune in making their buying selectons , because of the advices of various firms , and the natural result has been to bring a better demand into the stocks with merit , while the more speculative specialties have been in liquidation at times . Railroads Railroad shares are only slightly below their high record , judging by the averages . The rails have not fluctuated nearly as widely as the industrials , and it is evident moderate reactions encounter scale buying in this group . This is in line with the recommendations of conservative interests who still believe the carriers will assume a leading position in the market in the not distant future . At the same time they involve a smaller risk than industrials , because they are subject to less violent fluctuations . Baltimore &; Ohio Excellent buying has been coming into Baltimore &-; Ohio and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail list . Outsiders also have been picking up the stock , so that the floating supply is probably smaller than in some time and the technical position much improved . Much of the so-called important buying is said to be based on confidence of a dividend increase in the current year . St. Paul Preferred There has been some profit taking in St. Paul preferred in the past few days , but it has come from outsiders ' who followed the latest period of strength in the issue . The big interests who have taken a long position on the stock have not changed their attitude and are maintaining their holdings . Olis Several attempts to get the oils forward recently have shown that the public is not inclined to follow these stocks yet . This is probably due to the differences of opinion which are heard on these stocks and on the oil industry as a whole . Important market interests , however , consider the announcement of the formation of the oil export organization under the Webb-Pomerene Act as the first important definite step in some time in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry and are inclined to look with greater favor on the leading oil stocks . Pan American Impressive accumulation has been having its effect on Pan American B stock recently , but it is evident most of this buying has come into the market only at such times as rather large offerings have been made . Recently the stock has been attracting quite an outside following . It is possible that the latest demand has been influenced by the strength in Standard Oil of Indiana . Since the latter acquired control of Pan American , the company is in a stronger position and oil authorities maintain that its properties are being handled in a most conservative and efficient manner . Columbia Graphophone The statement often has been heard recently that Columbia Graphophone is selling too high when compared with its earnings . etc . In this connection those who often I have been prominent in the market for the stock point out that if the management had adopted a more lenient attitude toward depreciation and earnings of the company would make a much more favorable showing . They explain that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlook . United States Steel reached a new high recora on a , continuation of the buying wave which developed suddenly on Wednesday . There was considerable short covering in the stock by traders who had put it out as a hedge against long positions in other issues . Most of the demand for Steel has been based on the expectation of ari excellent report for the fourth quarter of last year , to be made public on January 29 , and to the belief that the results for the current three months will show further improvement , because of the high rate of operations and the greater price stability now existing Columbia Gas Columbia Gas has been strong recently because the stock has been in rather persistent demand from interests who are confident announcement will be made in the near future of an absorption of another company operating in the Louisiana natural gas fields . They believe this announcement will be considered a favorable development in the company . Curtiss Recently there has been a tendency in some speculative quarters to look upon Curtiss as having advanced t sharply and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interests who have been prominent marketwise in the stock point out that the management apparently is continuing its aggressive expansion policy , judging from the affiliation with the Caproni Aviation Co. of Italy , one of the largest aviation concerns in Europe . They maintain that the outlook for Curtiss is particularly favorable and continue decidedly optimistic on the stock . ' United Paper Board One of the explanations for the sudden development of activity and strength by United Paper Board recently is the report that the company had obtained a large order from Sheffield Farms for the new type of milk containers to be used . Such a contract probably would lead to others , as many believe milk distributors generally will adopt the paper containers because of the saving in costs which always have been affected by breakage of glass bottles .                     