@@692145

txt The House of Commons tonight approved ratification of the Treaty of Locarno by the overwhelming vote of 375 ' to 13 . This approval came after a debate which began early this afternoon and brought forth some excellent oratory ) from , Foreign Secretary Austen Chamberlain , who introduced the motion for ratification , and the- leaders of th .. Opposition , former Premiers Ramsay and David Lloyd George . The House adjourned at 11:30 o'clock tonight immediately after the vote . When the debate opened the House was well filled . Nearly all the members were present . In the visitors ' gallery , scores of spectators leaned eagerly forward . Lady Astor was in her seat , not far behind the Government bench . Premier Baldwin was present and nearly all the members of the Cabinet in the front row of the diplomats ' gallery . The American Ambassador listened intently beside Baron Moncheur , the Belgian Ambassador . Two rows behind them the Counselor of the German Embassy drank in every word of the speeches . Criticism , but No Real Opposition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit combined with misgivings as to its efficacy when put into practice  --  that in a nutshell was what the treaty met with after Mr. Chamberlain had made his . long-awaited defense and explanation of it . He scored a victory . But like most victories his , too , had its drawbacks . What triumphed was largely his idealism . What tended to mar his victory was the presence in the House of men with an uncomfortable tendency to test idealism in the light of facts . Nevertheless , Mr. Chamberlain 's triumph was unmistakable . The entire session was imbued with " the spirit Of Loearno . " This phrase , which here has definitely come to express the new spirit which the adherents of the treaty believe will bring to Europe durable peace , was constantly heard . The auditors could almost hear the wings of that spirit whirring over the Palace-of Westminster . In fact , the atmosphere in the House of Commons prompted one spectator to make this comment : " Compared with Chamberlain 's conception of the ' spirit of ? Locarno , ' our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ruffianly and turbulent sort of bird . " Ramsay and David Lloyd George were the most prominent among those who sought to douse the spirit of Locarno under a shower of cold facts . They listened intently while Mr. Chamberlain made his speech . It glowed with sincerity in every line . It was framed in a way to cut straight through prej- udices and strike straight to the love of Peace in the breast of every hearer . But ' when Mr. Chamberlain had sat down amid admiring applause the two old war horses of dissent girded themselves for battle . Question of Dominions Balled . Mr. came first . Why , he asked , had the Locarno treaty been consummated without consulting the British Dominions ? Such a foreign policy was " calamitous . " And what about Russia ? And why such emphasis on the Rhine to the exclusion of other potential hotbeds of trouble when " war is far likelier to break out on the Danube than on the Rhine " ? Then came Mr. Lloyd George . He , too , called the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. in criticizing the exclusion of the Dominions and the way the treaty ignored Eastern European perils . " The ' Balkans are an earthquake in the centre of Europe . " he shouted , shaking his shaggy mane in one of his oldtime oratorical outhurats . " The earth 's Crust is thinner there than elsewhere . Remember it was from the Balkans that the tidal wave of blood burst over Europe in 1914 . " In his speech asking the House to approve the treaty . Mr. Chamberlain paid a glowing tribute to the representatives of Germany and France with whom he worked at Locarno . " I had not met the representatives of the German Empire until I met them at that conference , " he said . " I was very soon able to satisfy myself that they came there animated by the same sincere desire for peace and reconciliation that animated the Western nations . I was particularly fortunate in the character of the great Frenchman Who represented his country there . M. Briand is a man of singular courage , great clearness of vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am not saying too much when I say the success of the Locarno conference ova . essentially due to the character of the representatives of Germany and France . " Taking up disarmament , Mr. Chamberlain pointed out that Locarno was not the place and that those assembled . there were not competent alone to produce a scheme of world disarmament , adding : " But not only did we do nothing at Locarno'to make disarmament more difficult , but we did much to make it easier . " Regarding Russia 's entry into the League of Nations , he said her admission must depend especially on the attitude of the Russian Government . Reverting to the treaty . itself , Mr. Chamberlain said he wished specially to emphasize three things : viz , that the treaty was aimed against nobody , that it was a treaty of mutual guarantee and that it conformed strictly to the spirit , of the : British Government and the League of Nations . under whose guardianship . the treaty was placed . Britlib . Liability ' Under the Treaty . On the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? which is interesting all Britons and alarming not a few  --  Mr. Chamberlain said : " There is no case in which we can be called upon to stake military action except in pursuance of the Covenant and action of the League , or where action is taken by one of the parties in breach of its obligations which leads to such immediate danger that you can not wait even the few days that may be necessary for a meeting of the Council . " On the relation of the British dominions to the treaty  --  another very thorny point  --  Mr. Chamberlain said : " It was the desire of his Majesty 's Government to get into conference with the Governments of the dominions and India . That was not found possible . I . do not think it is possible to treat matters of this great consequence covering so wide a field by a dispatch or cable across thousands of miles of ocean . " In the course of his speech Ramsay elicited from Mr. Chamberlain two extremely interesting statements which were received with loud jubilation by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view that Locarno was engineered for the purpose of uniting Western civilization against Russia ? " asked Mr. . " No , it is not , " answered Mr. Chamberlain . - " Was it the idea of Locarno to detach Germany from any cooperation with Russia and get together a group of League of Nations States in order to form a bloc of European nations against Russia ? " Mr. then inquired . " No . Sir . it was not , " replied Mr. Chamberlain . Mr. deplored the fact that Locarno left untouched Eastern European problems . " Nobody in Europe today believes war could arise over the Rhine frontier , " he declared . " The lighting of the match Will take place , if it takes place at all , in Middle and Eastern Europe . The diplomacy and methods of Locarno can not be applied beyond the Rhine frontiers . On the relation of the Dominions to the Locarno compact Mr. expressed his gloomiest forebodings " I think it most deplorable , " he said , " that without consideration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled asa matter of convenience . I can not conceive a more calamitous system of conducting the imperial foreign diplomacy than the method enshrined in the Locarno treaty . " Misgivings of Lloyd George . Like Mr. , Mr. Lloyd George felt most , misgivings about the exclusion of the Dominions from Locarno . After declaring the treaty to be an advance in European international affairs and . throwing bouquets at Mr. Chamberlain , M. Briand and Germany 's representatives for ? their part in drafting it , Mr. Lloyd George proceeded to throw a few bricks . " Mr. Chamberlain has said that what mattered was the spirit of Locarno. " he . said , " but -a disembodied spirit is not very helpful in - an. - emergency . I am very glad the spirit has been incarnated in the form of a treaty . " . Turning to the Dominions , he read aloud extracts from the recent speech - in South Africa by General Smuts , expressing misgivings at the effect the Locarno policy might have on the Dominions and ' containing this significant sentence : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have little in common with such a policy and would begin their own foreign policies on their own account . I am not going to predict- that . the Dominions are going to desert us. but they might not come with the same alacrity if it were over something regarding which they had not been consulted . I heartily approve of the treaty but regret that this one thing should have marred its triumph and introduced a new element of peril to the empire . "                     