@@689732

txt With a distinct I Promise of less friction and a greater measure of co-operation between the Democratic Senate and the Republican Assembly in relation to the outstanding features of Governor Smith 's legislative program , the 1924 Legislature began its labors here- today . Following a Precedent he established last year . Governor Smith appeared in Person before the Legislature and read his annual message at a joint meeting of the Senate and Assembly in the Assembly chamber . Republicans , who are in a majority in the Assembly , joined heartily with their Democratic colleagues of both branches in the friendly demonstration that greeted the Chief Executive when he ascended the rostrum as well as when he left it . The text of the message will be found on pages 10 and 11 . Jusc before the Governor reached that part of his message pertaining to water power his throat became dry . " Water power , " he said huskily , paused , and grasping a glass of water near at hand , drank it . He then resumed with " water power ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours to the recital , Speaker Machold of the Assembly , to whom Republican members in both houses look for leadership , admitted that there were " many good things " in the message and pledged co- " Operation for the enactment of some of the more important reconlrnendations . Ilachold Favors Tax Reduction . Of the proposals advanced by the Governor . those that attracted the widest attention and came in for the most comment provide for a reduction of 25 per cent . in the amount of personal income tax on ircomes of 35,000 or less for 1923. the reduction to become effective in the collection this year , and for the development of water power under joint State and private auspices without utilization of the State 's credit and with the financing carried out along lines similar to those employed by the New York Port Authority . Speaker Machold said that the Republicans would be found as strongly in favor of reducing taxes as was the Governor and expressed his belief that while there might be a difference with regard to details a meeting of minds on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he also had praise for the constructive recommendations made by Governor Smith in regard fo water power development and Indicated as not unlikely concurrence in relation to other measures the Executive has at heart and which the Republicans under Speaker Machold 's leadership fought tooth and nail at last year 's session . On the New York City transit situation and regulation of public utilities generally , the Governor and the Republicans are still widely apart . He recommended that the State take its hands off and permit municipalities , wherever they were willing to do so , to assume all power and responsibility for the maragement of their own ' transit and other utility problems , while the Republicans still appear to stand firmly for State regulation . But even here Speaker Machold appeared in a conciliatory frame of mind and expressed a willingness for conferences and a compromise that would not involve the surrender of what he and his Republican colleagues profess to regard as a fundamental principle of public utility control . Think Smith More Conservative . While , except in the matter of water power development , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular from the stand he took with regard to State policies in his message of a year ago , the Republican leaders seemed to read into its language more of conservatism and less of the " Hearstism " which they resented , denounced and fought with such exceeding bitterness during the 1923 session . It appears certain now that , despite the increased Republican majority in the Assembly , the Republican leaders will not be led into a wanton Picking of any quarrel with the Governor . Democrats look on the promised acquiescence of the Republicans in the Governor 's water power policy as due to the chastening effect of the large majority by which the proposed constitutional amendment that would have opened the Adirondacks to the exploitation of private water power interests was rejected at the polls in the last election . Aside from the proposed income tax reduction and water power development the Governor 's message contained recommendations for the abolition of the Public Service Commission . the Transit Commission and the New York and New Jersey Bridge and Tunnel Commission . Embodied in it also was a renewed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an executive budget and for a four-year term for Governor and other elective State officials . It contained recommendations for the extension of the emergency rent laws and . for constitutional amendments that would permit State and municipalities ' to lend their credit for the constructiun of dwelling houses to relieve the housing stringency . Abolition of the Farms and Markets Council and transfer of the control of the Agricultural Department from the Legislature to the Governor ; prosecution of violations of the Medical Practice act by the Attorney General ; State aid for health work in rural sections ; readjustment of rural school tax districts in the interest of more liberal money provision for rural schools abandonment of Wingdale Prison and transfer of buildings already erected to the State Hospital Commission to relieve congestion at other State hospitals for the insane ; abolition of the moving picture censorship ; provision for popular initiative looking to amendments of the Constitution ; creation of a minimum wage board in the Labor Department ; several measures for liberalization of the State Compensation law In the interest of industrial workers ; child welfare legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment ; creation of a permanent fair price coal commission and a new memorial to Congress in favor of liberalization of the Volstead act to legalize the manufacture of and traffic in light wines and beer under restrictions , were other salient recommendations . Home rule legislation to facilitate the application of the constitutional amendment ratified in the recent election will be an important topic at the present session . The Governor , however , maue only brief reference to this tai his message , pending a report from the special commission appointed to frame general laws to render it effective . Upon receiving this , the Chief Executive will transmit it to the lawmaking body . In the meantime , home rule caused a little flurry at the opening session . If for no other purpose than to save the money that would be spent in printing such measures , the legislative leaders were beating about for some means of stemming the expected flood of city bills . When they adjourned no effective preventative had been found , but there Is hope of agreement on some measure that will meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Odds on Transit . Comment is heard that co-operation between the States of Pennsylvania and New York in joint power development from Pennsylvania coal and , New York water resources were not a remote prospect should the Legislature a't favorably on the Governor 's water power recommendations . A friend who has been in frequent conference with the Chief Executive on the topic explained that his recommendation does not of necessity contemplate exclusive State I development , but is flexible enough to provide for co-operation of private capital , which is said to be awaiting only the enticement of necessary legislation to aid in realizing the project . The Governor specifically pointed out that there was in his recommendation nothing hostile to the ' super-power plan " providing for a pooling of power resources which has been advanced as the only proposal that would effectively meet existing necessities . " I am glad to see that Governor Smith has changed his mind about permitting the credit of the State to be used for private business , " said Speaker Machold . " That is what I have been preaching against all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any likelihood of the Republicans and Democrats getting together on a scheme of water development ? " he was asked . " I think there is every likelihood of conferences being held that may be productive of co-operation , " he replied . " There are lots of good things in the Governor 's message , " the Speaker said . " As far as his recommendations on transit and public utility regulation are concerned . the Republicans are at odds with him on his proposal that the State take its hands off and surrender public service regulation to municipalities . But we are willing to confer and will make an honest effort to get together with him on some plan not involving surrender of the fundamental principles that the State should control in such matters . " The Republicans are in accord with the Governor also on the question of tax reduction . Whether we should accept his recommendation that the reduction be at the rate of 25 per cent . and whether it should be a reduction of the tax on incomes or on real estate is something that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Extension . Speaker Machold said that the Republicans were prepared to agree to an extension of the emergency rent laws for another two years from Feb. 15 . He was not prepared to discuss offhand the proposal for State and municipal - aid to housing projects . As to the regulation of motor vehicle traffic , a subject which received only incidental mention in the Governor 's annual message , but will be dealt with in detail in a special message , Speaker Machold said that , speaking for himself , he was willing to support extension of the licensing of operators to sections of the State outside of New York City , where the requirements apply exclusively now . The Republicans have always fought this proposal vigor , onsly in other years . Speaker Machold Is opposed to having Police Departments take over the issuing of license plates . Senator Clayton R. Lusk of Cortland . Republican leader in the Senate . when asked to comment on the Governor 's message , said : " I do not care to take any position on the Governor 's recommendations until after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be given very careful consideration and will not be met in any partisan spirit . " Senator George R. Fearon , Republican , of Onandago , said : " There is nothing new in the Governor 's message . It Is last year 's message with a new suit of clothes on . It will receive due consideration . " Simon L. Adler , majority leader of the Assembly , declined to make any comment . Democrats Praise Message . Senator Walker , President Pro Tern . of the Senate , said : " In effect the Governor 's message is a reiteration of the mandates from the people for which he became the official spokesman when elected and voiced in last year 's message . The will of the People was further emphasized in last year 's election . His recommendations are just as good now as they were a year ago . It is only to be hoped that the obstinate majority in the Assembly will have made some advance In the last year , and that it will see the light at this session of the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee . said : " The outstanding feature of the Governor 's message is the proposal for reducing the income tax , which will afford relief to tax payers without detrimental effect on the revenues of the State . I agree most heartily with the Governor in his water power proposal and the proposal for the establishment of a New York State power authority . Of course , we all agree with him regarding the necessity of extending the emergency rent laws . " Assemblyman Maurice Bloch , minority leader of the House , said : " Governor Smith always possessed , to a remarkable degree , the faculty of putting his facts so that everybody can understand them . He has steadily gained in the power of clear , vivid expression . In today 's message he was at hts best . He gives us the people 's thought , the common touch , the things to do and the way to do them . His message will remain as one of the greatest State papers of our time . Unless it results in concrete legislation for the general good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people . " State Would Lose In Tax Reduction . Mark Graves , State Tax Commissioner , analyzing the Governor 's Proposal for income tax reduction , said that the estimated laconic tax for last year would be $33,000,000 in round numbers . Half of this amount would go to municipalities of the State , netting them $16,000,000 . The 23 per cent . reduction would come out of the State 's share , so that if the estimated total is correct only $8,230,000 would flow into the State Treasury from this source . The Republicans , in holding that it might be better to give the proposed re , lief to real estate taxpayers figure that this would be a help to farmers and to workmen in up-State communities who own homes but whose income is not big enough to render them subject to the income tax . The only relief the . State could hold out in this direction , however , would be through a cut in the direct tax on realty , which at present ie used to meet sinking fund Charges and to make up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public schools . which will aggregate about $25,000.000 this year . According to tax department statistics ' 900,000 people pay income taxes , while the real estate tax is paid by some 090,000.                     