@@687362

txt Hamilton Holt , executive director of the campaign to raise $1,000,000 for the Woodrow Wilson Voundation , announced yesterday that the first week of the work had netted e , 0,000 in unsolicited subscriptions in this city and Boston . A large part of this sum was sent In during " Wilson Hour , " the first hour of the campaign . Alt the States have been asked to report . their " Wilson Hour " totals as soon as possible , and Mr. Holt expects that the total will represent a large part of the amount desired to establish the Permanent prizes for public service . Schools and churches in all States arc helping in the campaign . Many ministers preached yesterday on the ideals of Mr. Wilson . Haverford College sent in contributions from all members of its Vacuity and from a large part of the students . Other colleges also have sent in the names of a large proportion of professors and students . " The result of the first week of the campaign . has been an amazing revelation , " said Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offering , and it is perfectly astounding to discover the enthusiasm which exists throughout the country for Mr. Wilson personally and for the ideals of which he is the foremost spokesman . This enthusiasm is not confined to political party lines , because we have had contributions from individuals listed as Republicans in astonishing numbers as well as from those knOwn as Democrats . " The interesting fact is that with virtually every contribution sent to the national headquarters there has been a letter which has expressed allegiance to 11r . Wilson 's ideals , as well as many others expressing this and also personal devotion to him . " As yet we have received only unofficial reports from the various State organizations as to the progress of the campaign in the States . The States have their oWn treasurers and depositarlEs and we , will not receive any money from them until their quotas are raised . They will , however , report from time to time , beginning this week . " Beginning with the Wilson Hour Meeting at the Town Hall here last : Monday , there has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices which have been kept open for the receipt of subscriptions . Hundreds of persons have gone out of their way and at times with considera.isl. inconvenience have gone to these offices and personally left their contributions . " One thing that can be said with certainty is that if the financial ability of those interested in Mr. Wilson and the Voundation is as great as their enthusiasm we can be reasonably hopeful of securing the sum we are after . " Mr. Holt announced that offices where ; ubscriptions to the endowment would ie received this week are at 150 Nassau Street , fifth floor : 126 East Fifty-ninth tr e et , and Room 504 , 17 East Forty:econd Street . A luncheon will be given today at the lotel Biltmore by John G. Agar , Chairnan for Westchester and Rockland 7ounties. for town leaders in the Nventy-fifth Congressional District . The peakers will be James W. Gerard . Fudge Martin T. Manton , and Mr. Holt .                     