@@689371

txt Crop insurance is a coming event already beginning to cast its shadow before . In December a congressional committee will resume its inquiry . and later report to Congress . Judging the future by the past , there is a fair prospect that Congress will he favorable to some scheme and enact it into law . The scope of this undertaking makes it probable that this would not be a private but a government enterprise . The disposition of one class of congressmen to commit the government to any scheme whose avowed purpose is to assist agriculture . no matter how fantastic it may be , makes probability almost a certainty . The creation of a new bureau , with an army of political appointees paid out . of taxes , would be the least of the objections to the scheme . If insurance could be made a success it would defeat its own Purpose and make the plight of the farmer far worse than at present . There has been of late a great deal of complaint of the low prices for farm products . Farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overproduction . They are being told now that there is too much wheat in the world . What would have been the result to the farmers if nature had not cut . down the acreage so widely in the past season and prevented a still greater overproduction of wheat ? Let the farmer ask his congressman that question . Guarantee to every farmer that if he plows and seeds he will be paid for a crop , and what will be the result ? The question answers itself . More men will engage in the business , more acres will be seeded and production in favorable years will be unduly increased . In unfavorable years the government would be called upon to make good its guarantee from the public treasury . But the is vernment guarantee would not end there . Crop insurance ? could put it in almost the same position as a state insurance on bank deposits . Some of the states have learned , after trying out Bryan 's nostrum to the sorrow of their taxpayers , that no amount of insurance can make a banker of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farming just ao necessarily as it does in banking . The efficient , energetic farmer can , up to a certain extent , overcome the handicaps of nature . He can produce good crops in a season when the ignorant . inefficient or slothful man on the farm adjoining has nothing but a failure .                     