@@696176

txt George Allen , crime against children , sentenced to 1 to 20 years in the penitentiary by Judge Thomas Taylor . Christ Strook , burglary , sentenced 10 1 Year to ills in the penitentiary ; George Roll , Francis Swenson. robbery , sentenced to 1 to 20 years each in Pontiac reform. ; tor ' ' ' . John Ball , robbery , sentenced to 1 to 20 years In the penitentiary by Judge Charles A. Williams . John Elliott Byrne resigned yesterday as an assistant states attorney . Formerly a U. S. district attorney , he has been co-prosecutor with Assistant State 's Attorney Slusser in the sanitary district investigation . Mr. Byrne permitted a resignation which he placed in the hands of State 's Attorney John A. Swanson some five weeks ngo to take effect yesterday . He drew up the indictments returned by the grand jury last week against Timothy J. Crowe , former president of the sanitary board , against six trustees and eight others , most of them former district officials . Mr. Byrne refused to comment on his resignation last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both Byrne and Slusser have been dissatisfied with the co-Operation they have received in carrying on the investigation . Prosecutor Swanson yesterday said the only friction he was aware of was the bickering between the sanitary district prosecutors and Special Assistant State 's Attorney Edwin J. Raber over the services of a certain group of investigators . Slusser Talks to Swanson . Prosecutor SluRsar Wing to comment on the possibility of his resignation . It is known , however , that he held a long conference with Mr. Swanson yesterday morning and it is reported that he delivered an ultimatum that either Byrne be brought back to the inquiry with a proper staff of clerks and investigators or that he , too , will step out . Inadequate offices was another complaint . " As far as offices are concerned , the sanitary investigating group had quarters down in Michigan avenue until they began presenting evidence to the grand jury , " said Prosecutor Swanson last nicht . Prosecutor Explains Friction . " Certain men were asked for and sometimes it is hard to get the particular men , when somebody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned two or three policetr.en , . who had been working on the sanitary investigation and who were taken away by Prosecutor Raber . Haber took them away for two or tt.ree days to help him in the Eller ease . Frank J. Loesch ordered the tansfer of these men from the one branch of the inquiry to the other , and I had nothing to do with it . " Otto Fasig last night denied reports that he intended to resign as an assistant state 's attorney .                     