@@695947

txt President-elect Hoover has at last found the man he wants for Attorney General . He is William D. Mitchell of Minnesota , the present Solicitor General of the United States . And he is a Democrat . But finding the man and getting his acceptance are different things . " In no circumstances will Mitchell accept , " said friends of the Democratic Solicitor General . They asserted that he had already determined to practice law in New York . " There is nothing to it , " was the answer to inquiries at Mr. Mitchell 's office this afternoon . Nevertheless , there is substantial reason to believe that Mr. Hoover wants Mr. Mitchell to be head of the government 's legal branch . Perhaps he has not yet made a definite offer to Mr. Mitchell . But the " nothing to it " of this afternoon was followed this evening by a refusal to say anything . Donovan 's Status " in the Air . " Colonel William J. Donovan of New York has received an offer of and has declined the office of Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stimson of New York , who is on his way from Manila o Washington to enter Mr. Hoover 's Cabinet as Secretary of State . It was the understanding among Colonel Donovan 's friends late tonight that he had also had the offer of the position of Secretary of War and had declined it . But opinion persists that Colonel Donovan is not definitely out of the running for Secretary of War . He has postponed until tomorrow his prospective departure for Santa Fe to resume his temporary duties as chairman of the commission which le laying the preliminaries for an agreement between California , Arizona and Nevada for allocation of the waters of the Colorado River under the Boulder Canyon Dam project . The expectation is that Mr. Donovan will see the President-elect again tomorrow . On account of the close personal relations that have existed between Mr. Hoover and Colonel Donovan . sonic of those in informed political circles refuse to telievc that Colonel Donovan has been eliminated from consideration for Cabinet honors . Mitchell Qualifies for Office . To return to Solicitor General Mitchell , the understanding is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mitchell is well qualified in every respect to fill the office that has given Mr. Hoover the most trouble to fill . One of the qualifications laid down by Mr. Hoover is that the Attorney General must be a " constitutional dry , " which means that he must believe in the principle of prohibition . It is assumed that Mr. Hoover has satisfied himself that Mr. Mitchell fits that requirement ; otherwise he would not have decided that Mr. Mitchell is the man he wants to head the Department of Justice , to which the prohibition unit is to he transferred from the Treasury Department if Mr. Hoover has his way after he becomes President . Weeks ago the name of Solicitor General Mitchell was brought into the gossip about the Attorney Generalship . It was beginning to be rumored then that Colonel Donovan was not to have this office . When Mr. Mitchell heard that friends of his were urging Mr. Hoover to give the justice portfolio to him he passed the word that he would like them to abandon the effort . But admirers of Mr. Mitchell insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General was . Among them were Justices of the Supreme Court . " Why , " Mr. Hoover was credited with exclaiming to one of them  --  or perhaps it was a group of them ? " he 's a Democrat . " But now the information at hand is that Mr. Mitchell 's Democracy is not to stand in the way of a Cabinet offer to him from the Republican President-elect . It will not be unprecedented for a Republican President to have a Democrat in his Cabinet . Rutherford B. Hayes had one . Theodore Roosevelt appointed two Democrats , Luke E. Wright and Jacob M. Dickinson , both Tennesseeans , to the offine of Secretary of War . One of Mr. Mitchell 's recent predecessors as Solicitor General , Frederick W. Lehmann of St. Louis , who served under the Taft Administration , was a Democrat . Among Mr. Hoover 's visitors today was Justice Harlan F. Stone of the Supreme Court , to whom Mr. Hoover offered the Attorney Generalship , which Mr. Stone declined after eminent jurists and friends of Mr. Hoover had come to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court a stepping stone to political office . Justice Stone served for a short time as Attorney General under President Coolidge . The inference is that Justice Stone 's conversation with Mr. Hoover had to do with the promotion of Solicitor General Mitchell to the Attorney Generalship . The justices of the Supreme Court have been enthusiastic over Mr. Mitchell 's abilities as a lawyer . Donavan an Early Hoover Man . The status of Colonel Donovan as a Cabinet possibility fits into the story of Mr. Mitchell as the prospective Attorney General . Colonel Donovan now holds the title of Assistant to the Attorney 6eneral . He was one of the first members of the Coolidge Administration to espouse the pre-convention Presidential cause of Mr. Hoover . He came out for the Hoover candidacy when there was considerable uncertainty in administration circles as to just what Mr. Coolidge meant by " I do not choose to run for President in 1928 . " When Mr. Hoover was preparing his speech of acceptance at Palo Alto last Summer Colonel Donovan was with him . Colonel Donovan made another trip to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's request . It was taken for granted in political quarters , from the moment Mr. Hoover was elected President , that Colonel Donovan would be his Attorney General . When Mr. Hoover came back to this country from his Latin-American tour Bishop James Cannon and other leaders of dry organizations began to lay before the President-elect objections to having Colonel Donovan as Attorney General . Many of them conceded that he was personally a dry and that he had a fine record in prosecuting violations of the prohibition law when he was attorney for the Western District of New York at Buffalo , but they charged that he did not believe in his heart that prohibition was a good thing for the country . They cited some statements to that effect attributed to Colonel Donovan . They declared that if the prohibition enforcement branch of the Treasury Department was transferred to the Department of Justice , it would never do to have at the latter department some one who did not believe in the efficacy of prohibition . Others made representations to President-elect Hoover about Colonel Donovan . Dry members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against putting him at the head of the Department of Justice . Some asserted that , if he got the Attorney Generalship , the drys in Congress would prevent the transfer of the prohibition unit to that department . " Religious Issue " Apprehended . According to the information of THE Nrw YORK Timms correspondent , other members of Congress , professing to be friends of Colonel Donovan , represented to the Presidentelect that if Colonel Donovan , a Catholic , became Attorney General , every official act of his that appeared to be favorable to a Catholic or detrimental to a Protestant would arouse suspicion that he was actuated by religious prejudice . Ultimately it became known that Colonel Donovan was not to be Attorney General . It was accepted that the Presidentelect intended to offer him the position of Secretary of War , for which he was fitted by reason of his experience in the New York National Guard , with service on the Mexican border in 1916 , and the ability he showed in France during the World War as colonel of the 165th Infantry , best known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decorations and citations from his own and the allied governments , and is one of the comparatively few men holding the Congressional Medal of Honor , awarded to him for extraordinary bravery in action . While President-elect Hoover is maintaining silence concerning his selections for Cabinet posts , this reticence is modified with regard to places in the " Little Cabinet . " which consists of the chief subordinates of Cabinet officers . It was made known today that three members of the present " Little Cabinet " would he retained under the Hoover administration . All three have to do with aeronautical activities of the government . They are F. Trubee Davison , Assistant Secretary of War for Aeronautics ; Warren J. Glover . Second Assistant Postmaster General , who is devoting himself to extending air mail services , and ' William P. MacCracken . Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Aeronautics . Offer to Adams Unconfirmed . There still remains uncertainty as to several places on Mr. Hoover 's Cabinet slate . Doubts are arising in some minds that the Navy portfolio has definitely been offered to Charles Francis Adams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , apparently informed on the subject , is positive that the tender has been made and accepted . Decisions as to the War and Agricultural portfolios seem to hang in the balance , but there is no reliable information that Mr. Hoover has not made up his mind with regard to both posts . Nothing beyond the impression in New England congressional circles that William F. Whiting of Massachusetts , the present Secretary of Commerce , is to retain that position temporarily pending the arrival in Washington of some one Mr. Hoover has selected for it , has appeared concerning that office , in which Mr. Hoover has a deep interest by reason of his having filled it for more than seven years . Uncertainty has arisen also in regard to the Secretaryship of Labor . William N. Doak of West Virginia , a vice president of the Brotherhood of Rai:way Trainmen , was understood to have been picked for that position . Union Labor leaders now indicate that they have information that there may be a switch in spite of the fact that the selection of Mr. Doak was set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suggestion that James J. Davis of Pennsylvania will remain as Secretary of Labor . He and Mr. Hoover entered the Harding Cabinet on the same day . Hoover 's Visitors Daring Day . William R. Castle , Assistant Secretary of State , was another visitor at the Hoover home during the day . While it was said that he called merely to pay his respects , an inference is that he discussed with the President-elect the procedure necessary in designating a Secretary of State ad interim for the period between the retirement of Secretary Kellogg on March 4 or 5 and the arrival here of Colonel Stimson . Colonel Stimson will not be able to reach Washington until late in March . Vice President Dawes had luncheon with Mr. Hoover . He went to the Hoover residence with Mrs. Dawes , but she left after a few minutes to preside at a farewell luncheon given to Mrs. Coolidge . The utmost cordiality prevailed between the President-elect and the Vice President . In the pre-convention campaign , General Dawes supported the Presidential aspirations of former Governor Frank 0 . Lowden of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator Hastings and Senator-elect Townsend of Delaware called on Mr. Hoover to pay their respects . Postmaster General and Mrs. Harry S. New will have luncheon with Mr. and . Mrs. Hoover tomorrow , while among those having appointments to confer with the Presidentelect are Representatives Fish and Taber of New York . Mitchell a Coolidge Appointee . Special to The New York Times . ST . PAUL , Minn. , Feb. 26 . ? William D. Mitchell of this city , Solicitor General of the United States , who is reported from Washington as being sought by President-elect Hoover for Attorney General , was born in Winona , Minn. , fifty-five years ago . He obtained his education in Lawrenceville Academy , Yale University and the University of Minnesota . He was graduated from the Law College of the University of Minnesota in 1896 and began the practice of law in Winona . About thirty years ago he came to St. Paul , and later became a member of the law firm that was headed by Pierce Butler , now associate justice of the Supreme Court . Mr. Mitchell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coolidge as Solicitor General , taking office June 4 , 1925 . Some time ago he announced his resignation , to take effect as soon after March 4 as could be effected .                     