@@685064

txt THE SOVIET PEACE DRIVE . An Attempt to Reach the People Rather Than Open Commerce . To-the Editor of The New York Times : The significance of the Bolshevist " peace drive . " as I see it , is that the tremendous military machine built up by the Bolshevik ' is breaking up from internal weakness and its leaders realize that the blood lust which has characterized their campaign for the last two years has overshot the mark . The Bolshevist leaders realize they are sitting on a volcano and that they are under the suspicion of the world . The Bolshevist army has been able to spread over so large a territory due to the terrorism of its leaders and to the further fact that the loyal Russians were widely separated , with Denikin in the south and Kolchak in Siberia , both unable to communicate freely with each other and with the Government at Archangel . It should be borne in mind that the State Department has not received the " peace offer " dated Moscow , Feb. 24 , and signed by Chicherin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet authorities claim to have transmitted formally to Washington . The fact , as pointed out in a Washington dispatch , that Chicherin is now making a special request that publicity be given to this so-called offer of peace to a country which is not , and has not , been at war with Russia indicates that the Bolshevist Government is more intergsted in reaching the American people through the press for its own ends than in getting any action from our Government . Due to conditions of unrest and the high cost of living throughout the world , there is a movement to reopen trade with Russia . Viewed from a strictly economic angle the United States is not called upon to join this movement , because its own resources make it independent of Russia , and morally it would be impossible to do so . Even if trade were reopened , the demoralization of the Russian transit system is such that it would be impossible for this commerce to have any effect on the cost of living . If Europe could obtain vast supplies from Russia it would ameliorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the supplies obtained would not be sufficient to compensate for the effort expended . Payment for goods sent to the Bolshevist Government would have to be made in stolen gold or Bolshevist credit , which could not be accepted on a business basis , owing to the instability of the Government and the improbability of its currency being stabilized . This is entirely aside from the loss of self-respect which we would sustain in entering into negotiations with criminals whom I regard as unworthy of a place in the councils of the nations . The advance of the Bolshevist armies and the overrunning of regions heretofore under the control of the loyal Russians have greatly increased the problem of caring for the thousands of refugees who are now scattered all . along the fringes of Russia . They have also fled into Japan , China , Rumania and Serbia . These are the better element of the Russian people  --  the school teachers , business and professional men and others of the educated classes who must be depended on to regenerate Russia . In this time of many problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who stood out against Bolshevism and who have been its chief sufferers . MONTGOMERY SCHUYLER . New York , March 8 , 1920.                     