@@696369

txt Arthur Sears Henning 's articles on the Niagara falls power proposals deserve most careful reading throughout the central and southern states , whose economic future is intimately related to the lakes . to-gulf waterway . . A. treaty permitting an additional aiversion UL water at the falls for power purposs has been signed by the United States and Canada . That treaty has been submitted to the senate for ratification , but has not been acted upon . Canadian and New York power interests are hoping that the representatives in the senate of the central states will not oppose ratification . It would be more accurate to say that the power interests appear satisfied that most of the senators from the states which will benefit most directly from the Mississippi waterway wilt continue indifferent to the economic needs of their own section . As soon as the treaty was signed , Mr .. Henning notes , the securities.kof the companies concerned rose $24 , - 000,000 . In the year ending Feb. 19 the increase in.the value of the Mittel ? , Niagara and Eastern Pdiver eomptuly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Niagara falls treaty now itiforce was ratified  --  anada was given 10,000 cubic feet of diversion ; more than the United States to compensate COtiada. for the diversion at Chicago of 10,000 ft et . ' For a number of reasons , among them th . fact that our government did not wish to admit that Canada had any right to ? determine the diversion from Lake Michigan , which lies wholly ; ' Within American territory , the Chicago diverslIn was not specifically mentioned in the treaty . The omission has proved of value to Chicago 's opponents in the lake level litigation . The eastern power . Interests And their bankers have ? taken shrewd advantage of the litigation . They have used it as a smoke screen to hale their ( tart . ObJectives . Behind it they have allied themselves with the Canadians . The fact that the diversion at Chicago is necessary for the success of the lakes-to-gulf waterway , an Improvement of vast concern to the prosperity of the 1 nited , States , has been conveniently forgotten . The alliance of Canadian and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lake cities jealous of Chicago 's growth and prosperity . The arrangement of this alliance was adroit , but it was ' no more adroit than the propaganda which ensued , to the effect that the diversion at Chicago was rapidly depleting the great lakes . Fortunately for the Mississippi valley , nature has put an end to that part of the game . The lakes today are higher than they were when the canal was opened . Nothing that the Supreme court has said or will say can alter that overwhehning fact . It in easy to see why the Niagara power cornwinless want their treaty considered in congress . ahead of any bill authorizing a diversion from Lake Michigan . It is also easy to son why the isetostore of the central valley will sacrifice their moat effective weapon in the fight for fair treat-1 meat If they fan in with this scheme . The mowent bra critical one . Eighty million dollars can is loud and long . Already another smoke screen Led been prepared . The Senate is being urged to act promptly to save Niagara falls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years longer . Mr. Henning quotes engineering authorities that at the present rate of erosion the falls will continue to provide a majestic spectacle for hundreds of years to come . There is plenty of time in which to obtain Canadian and congressional approval of the Chicago diversion as a condition of any additional diversion at Niagara.                     