@@691083

txt With Japan standing shoulder to shoulder with the United States . . and even cabling to Representative Stephen G. Porter , head of the American delegation , an official message thanking him for his friendly efforts for the maintenance of good relations between the two countries , the international opium conference , which will be resumed tomorrow , seems to stand tonight in a somewhat critical position . This is due to the fact that , despite the arrival of Lord Cecil of Cheiwood as the new British plenipotentiary , a sharp divergence of views appears still to exist between the Americans and the British on the Far Eastern phase of the general opium problem . The official message received by Mr. Porter from the Tokio Government was handed to him today by M. Sugimura , head of the Japanese delegation , and follows upon Mr. Porter 's recent initiative in opposing the Britten bill for a conference of the white powers bordering on the Pacific . Fearing that this resolution was directed against Japan , Mr. Porter , who is Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Temple , ranking member of that committee in APr . Porter 's absence , urging a , prompt report by the committee condemning the measure , instead of allowing it to lie without action ' in the files of that body . Japan 's message , which Mr. Porter gave out for publication tonight , reads : " Convey to the Hon. Mr. Porter the expression of the profound appreciation of the Japanese Government for his friendly act in maintaing amicable relations . between Japan and the United States . " M. Sugintura did not wait for this message to busy himself in behalf of the American opium proposals , which tonight are still causing division among the delegates of the various countries . He wrote a long letter to Mr. Porter voicing , with minor reservations , Japan 's approval of the American program and emphasizing that he deemed entirely feasible the American plan to abolish all officially authorized opium smoking in the Far East within a period of ten years . Sends Note to Other Delegations . He followed this up with a note to the leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propositions and support for them . The ledge on which the opium conference may be wrecked is this problem of curbing opium smoking , which the United States delegation wants to put on the agenda of the present conference . An earlier conference , confined to nations having Far Eastern possessions , failed to report any definite system for abolishing opium smoking . Speaking of the situation tonight , Lord Cecil . who shows no sign of fatigue after his hurried American trip , declared that he would never recommend to his Home Government abandonment of the convention drawn up by the first conference . Great Britain , he added , would never sign a convention which she could not live up to , and he thought that the American proposals concerning the checking of opium smoking were tinpossible of fulfillment and there'fore should not find a place in the convention , which the present conference hopes to elaborate . It is said that Great Britain is willing to abolish authorized opium smoking in her Oriental colonies , but insists upon the privilege of doing it when she is convinced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Englishmen are said to feel that the real menace is the unrestricted illicit production of opium in China , with an accompanying smuggling of this opium to other points in the Far East . They affirm that little good could be achieved by the immediate launching of a scheme of governmental prohibition of smoking , because Chinese opium bootleggers thrive everywhere and would render such prohibition ineffective in practice . Hence England favors striking at the illegal production of opium in China . which is alleged to reach J5.000 tons annually , as against a total annual output in India of 1.000 tons . Conference Leaders Meet . With the arrival of M. Daia.clier , the French delegate , the conferences begun yesterday by Mr. Porter and Lord Cecil were carried on more generally . Lord Cecil , Mr. Porter , M. Loudon. the Nethelands plenipotentiary , an .. Dr. Rupe. t Ellie lunched today with the President of the conference . M. Zahle , who. backed by the Council of the League of Nations , is striving to his utmost to have a satisfying accord reached at Geneva . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the conference at 3 o'clock tomorrow afternoon . The session is expected to be Malignrated by an immediate discussion of the I American motion to review- the work of the first opium , conference , which drew up , though : it did not sign , a convention dealing with the Far Eastern situation . Mr. Porter is assured of the support of Japan , China and a number of smaller countries . League officials seemed anxious tonight over the . possibility of a breach , and are striving hard to prevent this . fearing that a sp14t would make the con- , vocation of a new conference extremely hazardous . They expressed the hope that if Mr. Porter is unable to get all he wants on the opium snicking evil he will nevertheless stick the conference so as to get the b , tst possible convention . on the general ' problem of narcotic drugs , which is a matter more closely concerning the United States , leaving to the future and a more favorable moment another attempt to solve the opium smoking problem . Mr. Porter 's position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradual suppression of opium smoking and that therefore , this question legitimately finds a place on the agenda of the present conference and should be settled now . This smoking in the Far ' East frequently takes place in opium dens licensed by Governments , who are said to derive considerable profit from ithe practice .                     