@@688249

txt Any prophet may well feel nervous when his prediction comes off . It will be - assumed that he knows what will happen next , and that is where prophets usually fall down . It may be ' said , therefore . that the study of the price movement of - stocks , based upon a sufficient number of them to eliminate any possibility of manipulation , is not prophecy but deduction from reasoned premises . The principles upon which the stock market barometer is analyzed have been repeatedly set forth here . The stock market today , after a typical secondary reaction , is pointing nearly to the resumption of the major upward movement which developed in August , 1921 . To those not familiar with Dow 's theory of the market movement it may be said that the closest analysis of the fluctuations day by day , year in and year out , over much more than a quarter of a century , shows well-defined primary and secondary movements giving meaning to the third or daily fluctuation of the average prices . A primary bull market has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is checked and steadied by rallies . The present bull market showed , last June , a reaction in both averages , giving each other the necessary confirmation , of from 5 to 6 points . When that reaction was recovered the major bull movement was . resumed . This was again interrupted , strictly according to precedent , by a secondary reaction from the high of September 11 , 1922 , of 5.75 points in the twenty industrials and of 4.39 points in the railroads . So far as the industrials are concerned , more than this decline had been recovered on October 14 . At the time of writing the twenty railroad stocks are a fraction of less than half a point below the last high of September 11 . On all previous experience the railroads would give the strongest possible ' bull point if the average rallied still further to 94 or better , thus confirming the tentative bull point given by the industrials on October . 14 . It is unvarying experience that the two averages must confirm each other . The industrials may even react from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroads advance to 94 the bull point on the market ' will still be valid . There has never been a more consistent market movement among all those analyzed in Mr. Hamilton 's now well-known and authoritative work on " The Stock Market Barometer " which shows how The Wall Street Journal , for twenty years or more , has been able to foretell the-broad stock market movement with astonishing fidelity . There is no empiricism , to say nothing of quackery , about the method . The stock market would be meaningless to the point of chaos if it did not predict , some distance ahead , the course of the country 's business . It is predicting now a consistent improvement lasting well into 1923 , and it need hardly be said that Dow 's theory is the simple but expert method of reading the barometer . Citizens forget that it was the same Hearst interest which held up the west side subway for three needless years .                     