@@696449

txt The Soviet Trade Commissar , M. Mikoyan , who is an associate member of the Communist party 's Politburo and connected with Joseph Stalin by marriage , received a half dozen members of an American business group on Saturday , including George T. Mortimer and Sam A. Lewisohn of New York and the European manager of the Chase National Bank , James Gannon . The discussion was free and informal , lasting nearly two hours . The Trade Commissar made vigorous reply to the suggestion that the Soviet was trying to go too fast with its industrialization program . He was aware , he said , that mistakes had been made and would be made in the future , but the Soviet was confident that its program could be carried out and is determined to do it . The great difficulty , he admitted . was the lack of trained technicians , and ifs this respect American help was already of immense value and would , he honed , increase . At the present time there are some 300 graduates of Russian technical schools studying industrial methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number will progressively increase . . Cites Production Rise . M. Mikoyan declared - that industrial production in Russia was now 25 per cent greater than in pre-war days , but that the extensive importation of the means of production Involved by the five-year economic plan had forced the Soviet to export goods that were in great demand at home owing to the steadily improving standard of living of the Russian population . He-repeated the statement made by M. Stalin two years ago that agricultural production was virtually equal to the pre-war era , but that the former surplus was now absorbed by increased food consumption on the part of the peasants , adding : " Do n't forget , too , that each year our population increases by 2,500,000 to 3 ; 000,000 , a yearly addition equal to the population of Finland . " He admitted that agricultural production had not kept pace with industrial progress , but felt confident that the new State and collective farms would soon redress the balance . The visitors were much impressed with M. Mikoyan 's frankness and sincerity . He concluded : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show you only our front window . I hope , however , that you will go back into the store to see for yourselves what we have done and are trying to do . " 100 Americans in Leningrad . LENINGRAD , July 22 ( 21 " ) . ? The unofficial American delegation of about 100 men and women , business representatives , engineers , lawyers , journalists and educators , arrived here today for a two-day visit . A staff of interpreters and special attendants accompanied the visitors . Never before in Soviet Russia has any foreign mission , not excepting the large British trade delegation which was here recently , received such constant attention from the government authorities . On the train from MoscOW , radio furnished music broadcast from the capital . Fifteen business men in the party have already started preliminary conversations with chiefs of the Soviet trade departments with a view to obtaining concessions , some remaining in Moscow to continue these negotiations . The Russian trade authorities have emphasized that the country 's pressing'need is American capital , machinery  --  and technical experts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reception here , visited the Hermitage and Art Gallery , the grim fortress of St. Peter and St. Paul and the Cathedral of the same name , which contains the tombs of all Romanoff Emperors except the late Czar Nicholas II , who , with his family , was killed at Ekaterinburg . Tonight the Americans will be guests at a banquet by the Soviet Department for Western Trade .                     