@@694364

txt Alienists may be called to determine whether the Rev. J. A. L. Warren of Durand , Ill. , on trial before fifteen of his colleagues in the Rock River conference of the Methodist Episcopal church , was guilty of misconduct with 10 year old Hazel Lamb , or whether the girl is suffering from delusions and is a " psychopathic liar , " as the defense et the. , t. .. 1 : . , b.en ben . " ban.zini . The girl , a graduate of the Durand high school , was formerly a maid in the minister 's home . On Wednesday she took the stand before the trial committee In , the Euclid Avenue church , Oak Park , and told the members that Mr. Warren had been guilty of 25 incidents of misbehavior in 19 days . Charges Misconduct in Parsonage . She declared that the alleged misconduct had taken place in the parsonage of the Methodist church at Durand , while she was employed as a servant there , and that Mrs. Warren , the wife of her pastor , was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alienist stage shortly before midnight last night , after the Rev. Frank D. Sheets , prosecutor , and Dr. John Thompson , chief counsel for the defense , had both closed their cases . As the session of the trial ended just before 12 o'clock , the fifteen ichurchmen sitting in judgment were . reported to have been unable to reach any decision . They said there would be another session of the trial starting at 1:30 p , m. today . Court Seems Troubled . When , on adjournment , the ministers filed out of the Euclid Avenue church they all appeared grave and troubled . ' They had argued for two hours over the question of the guilt or innocence of Mr. Warren , and it was reported that a strong opposition had developed toward exonerating the accused preacher . The demeanor of Dr. Thompson and of Mr. Warren at adjournment also was In marked contrast with what it had been all day long . Even at dinner time last evening they had been light hearted and buoyant . As they came out of the church at the session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alienists , it was Dr. King , G. Beach of the trial committee who in a long speech suggested that Miss Lamb ' be examined by alienists to determine whether she might be suffering front delusions . It was stated that Dr. Beach wanted that done to satisfy the conscience of the trial committee that they would be making no mistake in their decision . The fact that the girl 's testimony was uncorroborated , that she charged that each incident of alleged misconduct took place while Mrs , ' Warren was in the house , that a lawyer who had questioned the girl testified she told a story that sounded like " a story she was told to tell " ? all were said to be under consideration by the members of the trial committee who worn romwtPoi for exoneration.                     