@@689544

txt Two remarks attributed to the First Assistant Secretary of Labor reflect little credit on the efficiency of our immigration service . The first is that it will take a month to check up the ' figures to find out whether the immigrants admitted are in excess of their quotas . The other is that " the European Governments know our linnal " gration laws better than we do . " Granting that there may have been an element of exaggeration , or even of facetiousness , in these two comments , they Indicate a desire to shuffle the blame to other shoulders . There is clearly something wrong when on one day the Secretary of Labor announces that 4,000 immigrants in excess of their quotas have been admitted for humanitarian reasons , and the next day his principal assistant stags that after a check-up . which will probably consume a month , it may be found that these persons are not In excess of their quotas . Nor Is the matter any clearer when the Secretary and his assistant both blame Europe for failure to enforce our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foot up the number of immigrants so far admitted to this country , it shows that the system of accounting must be even worse than had been suspected . Washington is in a position to keep a daily tab on newcomers . Some arrive through Canada , some through New York , some through other ports . Experience has shown the relative proportion of immigrants of different nationalities arriving at the different ports . Were the Department of Labor , acting through the Department of State , to keep the American authorities In ' the different countries constantly Informed as to the unfilled quotas , it would be possible to prevent the departure of persons in excess of the ' quotas , and thus at the same time comply with the law and not subject would-be immigrants to cruel hardships . Certainly a proper system of accounting would make it unnecessary to plead the need of a month in order to check up . While approving the humanitarian motives that prompted the Secretary of Labor to permit the immigrants to land , it is not easy to overlook the blundering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excess of the quotas to Sail . More care in Washington and in the countries of departure would have rendered unnecessary an action which establishes a bad precedent . What , now , is to prevent wholesale violation of the law ? What is to prevent other nationalities from demanding the admission of excess immigrants ? The principal criticism of the quota law has been that it works needless hardship on individuals . In the legislation which is to come before Congress adequate provisions to prevent this are said to be included . Should , by any mischance , the new bills fail to pass , and should the present temporary legislation be carried over for a year or two more , special efforts should be made to introduce into it provisions for preventing persons in excess of the quota from leaving Europe .                     