@@689867

txt Professor Elliot Smith of London University , discussing today the suspension of work at the tomb of Tut-ankh-Amen , said the situation was one of extreme difficulty and unless Howard Carter could continue investigations in his own way there would be risk of the objects which have been brought to light perishing and enormous damage being done to the work as a whole . Professor Smith added : " Many things are in fragile condition and once they are exposed to the air there is serious risk of irreparable injury unless proper measures are taken to save them . It is difficult to exaggerate the importance of a proper examination of the mumniy , because the opportunity never before occurred of examining an undisturbed royal mummy . " Many people are apt to imagine that interest in Tut-ankh-Amen is ' prompted simply by idle curiosity and that the study of the remains has little interest or value beyond the satisfaction of a morbid craving . This is a very mistaken idea . The termination of the age and the distinctive traits of Tut-ankh-Amen , and especially all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of crucial importance in reconstructing a phase of history that ekerted a profound and far-reaching influence upon world civilization . " But the information which will be Provided by an examination of Tutankh-Arnen 's mummy is much more important than the reconstruction of even so important an episode . It affords us an opportunity , in all probability the only chance ever likely to occur , of securing the evidence necessary for an interpretation of the real meaning of mummification , and when it is recalled that the arts and crafts of civilization , its customs and beliefs , were centred in and shaped upon this strange practice , it will become apparent that the secret of the interpretation of the real Ideas and aspirations of the men who created civilization is hidden in the embalmers ' art . This mummy provides the key to these problems . " Probably it is the only example remaining of an undisturbed royal mummy , and as mummification was originally devised to ensure continuation of the Kings ' existence essential features of the practice are found only in the royal mummies . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient grave robbers that most of the information which the student of religious beliefs needs has been destroyed . Some of us who have devoted long years to this study had hoped that at last Tut-ankh-Amen 's mummy would provide us with the much needed light on the days when our civilization was being shaped and it would be a real catastrophe if this hope is to be crushed to the ground by official interference . " Professor Elliot Smith has examined a whole series of royal mummies for the purpose of compiling the official catalog of the Cairo Museum , and he declares there are scores of points upon which at present there is very little expert knowledge . Dr. Flogarth , keeper of the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford , said it would be a thousand pities if Mr. Carter should not be allowed to go through with his work in the tomb . " A great question has yet to be answered . " he added , " the question whether the regalia are on the King 's body or not . That is a point In which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Egyptian King 's body wearing regalian .                     