@@689428

txt Republican politics in Indiana were thrown into a turmoil today as a result of charges and countercharges concerning the Republican State Central Committee meeting here yesterday to consider Governor Mecray 's financial affairs . A declaration by John Moorman of Eno ; Ind. , political adviser to Governor ' 51cCray , that the meeting was ordered by President Coolidge at the instigation of former Governor Goodrich was followed by a denial by Mr. Goodrich , who in turn asserted that charges by prominent men that Mr. McCray had Both men issued statements , Mr. Moorman declaring that . the " nub of the whole effort to remove . Governor McCray from Office is the-fear- of ' Republican leaders that they ' will be held responsible for the depression in the value of farms and farm products , - and they are alarmed over the effects that may follow in the wake of such a notable example as the collapse of the Governor 's fortune . " Mr. Goodrich declared Mr. Moorman 's statement " absolutely false . " He denied discussing Mr. McCray 's affairs with President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their public statements were " trying to throw ' dust in the eyes of the people of this State and create the impression that the meeting of the committee was ' simply an effort on the part of certain machine Politicians to obtain control of the committee . ' " Mr. Moorman also charged that Postmaster General Harry S. New came to Indiana at the slirect request of President Coolidge to look into affairs . I The Postmaster General , ' who was in Mr , Goodrich 's office at the time the former Governor was preparing his statement , also entered a denial . Goodrich Tells of Charges . " Charges have been made by men thoroughly familiar with his affairs and highly responsible in every way that the Governor had been guilty of actions involving the most serious consequences , " Mr. Goodrich declared in a signed statement to The Associated Press . " When these matters came to the ears of the State Committee , responsible as they were to the party , Mr. Walb conceived it to be his duty as Chairman of the State Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them for such action as they might deem proper . " I spent nearly three months in trying to untangle the Governor 's affairs , and finally raised $350,000 to save him and some of his associates from the most serious personal consequences as the result of his own acts , and I deeply resent the efforts of Mr. Moorman or , the Governor , or any one else , to reflect upon the motives and the good faith of the - men responsible for the conduct of the affairs of the party in this State . " Mr. Goodrich also expressed it as his Opinion that " the State Committee and the newspapers and the public generally have been more than generous with Governor McCray in dealing with this entire situation . " Mr. Moorman 's statement was made at the Governor 's office here today . following a consultation with the Executive . Mr. Moorman , who is chairman of the Thirteenth Indiana District Advisory Committee , has been active in the Governor 's behalf since his financial difficulties became public through the Calling of a meeting of his creditors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Committee appointed to take over the Governor 's holdings . " The committee meeting Monday . " said Mr. Moorman , " really was ordered by President Calvin Coolidge on the representation of James P. Gl ; odrich that liffeCray 's failure as a farmer would seriously hamper the prospects of the Republican party among the farmer voters . - . " The President was made fully acquainted with the situation in Indiana a short time ago , when Goodrich , who has been thoroughly familiar with the Governor 's plight , was entertained at luncheon at the White House . It is Patent that Postmaster General New came to Indiana , at the direct request of President Coolidge to look into affairs , and this is borne out by the fact that it was scarcely more than twenty minutes after the Postmaster General 's arrival that the wheels were in motion to call the State Committee to oust Governor McCray . " Mr. New 's journey from Washington to attend the meeting of the committee should prove to the most credulous that the Washington Administration is taking more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The plan unquestionably was to attribute Governor McCray 's failure to his own vicious and unlawful acts , rather than to economic depression . In other words , Governor McCray was to be removed from office , to be branded as a criminal , if possible , ill order to shoNy to the whole country thsitt he was not a. victim of agricultural depression which might be traceable to the Administration in power at Washington . " Mr. Moorman also charged that Clyde A. Walb , Republican State Chairman , had told him that before acceding to a. request by Mr. Moorman for postpone-. meat of the State Committee meeting it would be necessary to . communicate with Mr. New at Washington . Later , without giving him a reply , Mr. Moorman declared , Chairman Walb had said the meeting would not , be postponed . After characterizing the State Committee meeting yesterday . at which it was decided to take no definite action on the Governor 's affairs at present , as " lame and reprehensible , " Mr. Moorman referred to the investigation of the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marion County Grand Jury next Friday , and added that the Executive " is awaiting whatever action any ' court may take courageously and unafraid . " " The Governor properly declined to appear before the Seats Committee , " continued Mr. Moorman , " because It was beneath the dignity of a Governor of Indiana to submic ' his personal misfortunes to a group of politicians who were without proper authority . " He has done all any mortal could to protect his creditors from loss , turning over all his property , his wife even waiving her rights . That is not the act of a crook . More than that . If Governor McCray were the dishonest man some of the fles'hpot hunters would have the people think he is , he would not need to be in the hands of his creditors today . " Postmaster General New , who remained in Indianapolis today , asserted there was not a word of truth in the report that President Coolidge had ordered the meeting . " It Is an utterly reckless and absolutely baseless statement . " declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth in it . So far as I know , the President did not even know there was to be a meeting of the Indiana Republican Committee . I came to Indianapolis solely at the request of the State Committee . " Charles W. Moores , who was appointed special prosecutor to conduct the Marion County Grand Jury 's investigation of Governor McCray 's financial operations , said today he had sent out several subpoenaes for witnesses to appear at the hearing next Friday . He would not disclose the names of the witnesses , explaining that under legal restrictions on Grand Jury procedure it would not be proper to divulge the information .                     