@@687535

txt While the lawmakers were pulling up stakes and hitting the home trail today after their arduous and almost continuous labors during the closing week of the legislative session which ended early this morning , a report became current that in all likelihood an investigation of lobby activities would follow the defeat of nearly all of the so-called " financial " bills on the Lockwood committee 's program . Some of these bills were killed in the Senate Cities Committee and more in the Rules Committee of the Assembly in the closing hours of the session . About the only one that was killed openly on the floor of either house was the trade commission measure , . which was defeated in the Senate . May Tillie tip Katlin Dill Defeat . It was intimated tonight that if the powers of the Lockwood Committee were adequate there might be an investigation also of reports current at the Capitol regarding the influences that brought about the defeat of the Katlin " blue sky " bill in the Senate . Mr. Untermyer took great interest in this bill , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drew amendments which made this measure much stronger . Soon after it appeared in its amended form and the IsTeW York Stock Exchange had filed a protest the measure was recommitted to the Senate Committee on Banks , even though District Attorney Banton lied urged its enactment on the ground that without some law like it he would be greatly hampered in his crusade against bucket shops and other fraudulent concerns trading in securities . tutermyer Accused Lobby . A friend of Mr. ** said today that the lawyer was so angered by the action on these measures that lie was likely to make good his threat , voiced here at one of the public hearings , to summon home of the men - who were digging the grave of the Lockwood committee legislation and let in some light on their doings . When Mr. Untermyer left the Capitol Friday morning he was greatly wrought up over the lac " : of responsiveness on the part of certain legislative leaders and- what he characterized as the " underhand " methods that were being used to kill off measures which he regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addressing legislative committees on one or two occasions he openly and bluntly charged that a powerful lobby was at work try'ling to defeat the bills presented by the committee . That the lobby was here ' was clear to every observer of what was going on at the Capitol while the Lockwood committee measures were being considered . The lobbyists worked with an openness that seemed amazing . Some of them even appeared to have the entry to the rooms of the committees which had the bills in charge , and that they had the cars of many of the members of these committees was equally clear . On his last visit to the Capitol , Mr. Untermyer asserted that he tied spent practically an entire day picking " jokers " out of the bill giving to the State Superintendent of Insurance the power to regulate rate-making boards in the fire and casualty insurance field . Representatives of the casualty and fire insurance companies were notable for their zeal , persuasiveness and influence in their efforts to defeat the Lockwood measures opposed by such inDurancecompanies . Trade Lobbyists Active . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented by these emissaries were intent on killing every measure on the Lockwood Committee program which affected their interests and had any teeth in it . Manufacturing and selling combinations whose methods had been exposed by Mr. Untermyer as creating monopolies in restraint of trace , and some of whose officials pad been prosecuted , were also represented by agents at the Capitol , some of their spokesmen coming from cities outside cf the State . While the lobby maintained by the in . Durance interests was fighting such measures as the Rate-Making bill , the measures restricting the character of securities in which Insurance companies would be permitted to invest in the future and that making it impossible for the State Superintendent of Insurance to extend beyond 1926 the period in Which insurance companies must get rid of their speculative securities , the other lobbyists centred their efforts on the bill creating a Trade Commission to curb monopolistic practices and the measure Which would have forced Judges to im'nose prison sentences on violators of - the Donnelly Anti-Trust act . The list of defeated bills clearly indicates with what success the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ includes the following : ? Bill creating a trade State commission , the enactment of which , according to Mr. Uritermyer , would have enabled the Lockwood committee , to , quit , because it would have taken its place . ? Dill providing compulsory prison sentences for violators of ? the Donnally anti-trust act . ? 13111 giving to Prosecutors the right of appeal against orders dismissing indictments on technical grounds or at any time except in the course of a trial . 13111 requiring Judges , when ordering the dismissal of indictments on their own initiative , to file a written statement setting forth their reason for their actions . Dill preventing the practice of using fake foreclosure proceedings to dispossess tenants refusing to submit to unreasonable rent increases . Bill depriving the State Superintendent of Insurance of power to extend the beyond 1926 the period in which insurance companies must dispose of speculative securities . Bill compelling insurance companies to dispose of such holdings . Bill compelling insurance companies to put 30 per cent . of their investable funds into real estate first mortgages . Bill making a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 of today 's Nnw YORK rrimEs Mr. Untermyer , in reviewing the defeat of what he calls the chief constructive measure of the Lockwood program , attributes the defeat largely to the work of -a lobby at Albany .                     