@@686390

txt In appointing General WOOD President , while retaining Dr. PENNIMAN as Provost , the University of Pennsylvania has embarked upon an interesting experiment . The perils of a two-headed institution are obvious and need not be dwelt upon . The opportunities are almost equally evident and it is a matter of the utmost concern to higher education that they should be realized . In the modern university the administrative function is , in point of fact , twofold . Where once a man of learning sufficed , preferably a clergyman , the tendency for a long time has been to appoint a layman and , in recent decades , a layman with a marked gift in business administration and in finance . An endowment totaling tens of millions has to be husbanded , and , , in consequence of a rapid growth both in numbers of students and in the range of studies taught , there is an insistent demand for more funds . It may be humanly possible but it certainly does not often happen that one and the same man is capable of fostering both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Harvard , Yale , Columbia , Pennsylvania . Even if the choice falls upon a born scholar and intellectual leader , his natural career is thwarted , or brought to an end . General WOOD 'S ability as administrator is beyond question . His work in Cuba has been generally accepted , even in England , as on a level with that of CROMER in Egypt . His manifest ability and integrity may safely be relied upon to relieve the Provost of that commencement function which one college President described as " meeting the deficit by degrees . " Nor will his magnetic personality fail of effect upon the undergraduate body . The only possible question is whether his ' new labors will afford him sufficient scope . A great opportunity certainly lies with the Provost , and it is here that the experiment is of chief interest to the cause of higher education . For the better part of a century the dominant impulse in our universities has been the so-called scientific method , imported from Germany . One result in America has been a multiplying acreage of laboratories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " a deepening wilderness of special reports and doctor 's theses . For one OSLER , our Germanized universities produce a hundred scientists whose words to scorn are scattered and whose mouths are stopped with dust . In their origin our universities were dedicated to the higher manifestations of truth ; today , as always , the people who send their sons to them do so in the hope that they will be touched to a surer dignity of character and all the fine issues of the spirit . It is with this end in view that Princeton has decided to limit strictly the number of undergraduates , proportioning them to the power of the university to impart its best . If the division which the University of Pennsylvania is making between the functions of management and of education proves successful , it may well mark an epoch in the deVelopment of our larger institutions .                     