@@690155

txt President Coolidge issued a proclamation today establishing an embargo against the shipment of arms aril war munitions to Cuba . Secretary Hughes authorized the statement that the action , was taken because the Cuban Government , in view of the revolutionary movement in the province of Santa Clara , had brought " the condition of violence existing in Cuba formally to the attention of the American Government , " and asked that such a proclamation be issuea . " The revolutionary outbreak in Santa Clara Province , " said the announcement , " was also reported to the department by the American Ambassador in Havana , and the department was also advised that certain arms and munitions were being accumulated in various parts of Florida for possible export to Cuba to be used in an insurrection . " The President 's Proclamation . The proclamation , which makes an exception in favor of the exportation of such arms and munitions as are approved by the Government for shipment to the Government of Cuba . was as follows : By the President of the United States of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution of Congress , entitled a " joint resolution to prohibit the exportation of arms and munitions of war from the United ' States to certain countries and for other purposes , " approved Jan. 31 , 1922. provides as follows : " That whenever the President finds that ' in any American country , or in any country In which the United States exercises extraterritorial jurisdiction . conditions of domestic violence exist which are or may be promoted by the use of arms or munitions of war procured from the United States , and makes proclamation thereof , it shall be unlawful to export , except under such limitations and exceptions as the President prescribes , any arms or munitions of war from any place in the United States to such country until otherwise ordered by the President or by Congress . " And whereas it is provided by Section 11 of the said joint resolution that " whoever exports any arms or munitions of war in violation of Section 1 shall on conviction be punished by fine not weeding 10,000 or by imprisonment not exceeding two years , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coolidge , President of the United States of America , acting under and by virtue of the authority conferred in me by the said joint resolution of Congress , do hereby declare and proclaim that I have found , as has been formally represented to this Government by the Goverrimentsof Cuba , that there exist in Cuba such conditions of domestic violence which are or may be promoted by the use of arms or munitions of war procured from the United States as contemplated by the said joint resolution : and I do hereby admonish all citizens of the United States and every person to abstain from every violation of the provisions of the joint resolution above set forth . hereby made applicable to Cuba , and I do hereby warn them that all violations of such provisions will be rigorously prosecuted . And I do hereby enjoin upon all officers of the United States charged with the execution of the laws thereof , the utmost diligence in preventing violations of said joint resolution and this , my proclamation , issued thereunder , and in bringing to trial and punishment any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as an exception and limitation to the fore-6 goingrestrictions , such exportations of arths or munitions of war as are approved by the Government of the United States for shipment to the Government of Cuba , which has been recognized by the Government of the ' United States , and such arms and munitions for industrial or commercial uses as may from time to time be exported with the consent of the Secretary of State . In witness whereof , I have hereunto set my barna and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the City of Washington this second day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-four . and of the independence of the United States of America the one hundred , and forty-eighth . ( Seal . ) CALVIN COOLIDGE . By the President : - CHARLES E. HUGHES , Secretary of State . Cuba to Purchase Arms . The Cuban Government , it is understood through its embassy here , wilt tomorrow request the State Department to authorize the purchase from the War Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Zayas to buy them to the amount of $400,000 for possible use in Guppression of the revolt . The materials desired are rifles . pistols , machine guns , ' possibly light field guns and about a dozen airplanes . No definite information was available here tonight as to the whereabouts of Garcia Velez , leader of the Veterans , and Patriots ' organization which is con-. ducting the uprising against the Cuban GoTerutnent . At the Cuban Embassy . it was stated that contradictory reports had been received , one message stating that Velez was at- some-southern port apparently intending to make his way to Cuba , while another indicated that he was still in New York . The American cruiser Cleveland has arrived at Havana .                     