@@687667

txt Senator McCumber , chairman of the senate finance committee and Chief , sponsor of the tariff bill in the senate , opened the debate in favor ot.his measure with the assertion that while it would : afford protection to American industry it would not increase the cost of living . The processes by which he arrived at such a conclusion are too involved for us . ' We shall not even attempt to follow ' them . But the argument at least has the merit of appearing consistent with the processes by which the bill itself was involved . Unquestionably that is the purpose of the measure . Each detail of its I schedule is designed by its proponents to afford protection for the individual industry involved without having any . reaction upon other businesSes or upon consumers in general . We do not believe that can be accomplished . More concrete arguments must be advanced in ' consideration of the bill . For instance , what will be the effect of the measure upon our commercial relations with Canada ? The Dominion , next to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadians , particularly those of the great agricultural areas in the west , have had a taste M an American protective tariff in the emergency bill . They do not like It . They admit the right of the United States to adopt any tariff measures it sees fit , but they also recognize a growing spirit of bitterness toward this country , developing in their provinces . They regret the blow to reciprocity and improved trade relations with the United States which the tariff on agricultural products has brought . They assert that the now tariff arrangements will do the farmers of Canada more harm than they will do good to the farmers of the United States . Even if we discount such assertions and declare the tariff no worse than a fifty-fifty arrangement in so far as the agricultural advantages and dlsadvatitages are concerned , we can not ignore the.probable results of the sentiment which Is growing up in Canada . The people of ? the Dominion declare thatthe bill ignores the principle that a nation can not buy if it can not sell . They say that United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will suffer more under the permanent bill . They say that if Canada can not sell in the United States oho will develop other markets and buy where she can sell . Unquestionably that is true . American farnairs thus may not have to compete with Canadian farmers In the United States , but they Will have to compete with them in foreign market+ And : American wheat growers have a normal vicess of 26 per cent of their crop which they met sell abroad . Thus the tariff will not eliminate competition . It will merely remove the point of that competition and at the same time will tend to eliminate Canada as a customer for our great production of manufactured goods . It Is such arguments as this rather ' than the gencralities uttered by . Senator McCumber which should be taken up in the senate 's consideration of the bill .                     