@@691403

txt WASHINGTON . April ** charge that the Post Office Department by its interpretation of the new parcel post I rates is adopting a course which may Igo far to undermine that branch of the postal service was made today by the American Farm Bureau Federation through its Washington ' representative , E. B. Reid . The bureau has been , told also that large mail order houses ' ' are planning to remove their catalogues from the mails , and contends that such a development would further react against the parcel post system . In general , the charge made by the bureau is that the main burden in the changes in the postal rates is being laid upon the farming communities , either directly or indirectly . The bureau calls attention to the recent ruling which requires all parcel post shipments of baby chicks to bear a twentyfive cent special handling charge , contending that this has been ordered " without legal basis , " and that it opens up the way for arbitrary increases of ri0 to 100 per cent . In the carrying charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In fact , when taken In conjunction with other recent developments . " said Mr. Reid , " there is reason to fear that the entire parcel post business is being undermined . Shippers of baby chicks are the first group directly hit by this new ruling . But this seems likely to be only a starter . " The new postal rate law says that whenever In addition to the postage as provided there shall be-affixed to any parcel of mail matter of the fourth class Postage of the value of 2P cents with the words ' special handling written or printed upon the wrapper , such parcel shall receive the same expeditious handling , transportation and delivery accorded to mail matter of the first class . " The law makes it plain that this charge is to be optional with the shipper . The Post Office Department says that since special handling is given baby chick shipments all shipments must bear the extra twenty-five-cent charge . Many local shippers do not require that service , and object to this big arbitrary increase in rates . " If extra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means provided by the law , namely , by . application to the Interstate Commerce Commission for increases to cover actual costs . " says Mr. Reid . " While this special charge has as yet been made obligatory only on shipments of baby chicks , yet in effect it is now demanded on all sorts of perishable articles . Formerly such articles as cut flowers , plants , fresh meats , soft fruits , ice cream , &c.,; were sent forward on the first train ; now , unless bearing the special handling stamps , they will be held up a day In most cases , or until full carloads of parcel post can be made up . " Should this charge , principle be extended to include ' fragile ' articles , as is being considered , this would be equivalent to a huge increase in rates on a large percentage of the parcel post business . "                     