@@685217

txt Two large French Army columns , accompanied , by tanks , planes and all the equipment of ? , modern warfare , are marching through Cilicia to the relief of American citizens in Aintab and Urfa . The situation of the Americans is desperate . The latest information received from them is dated April Ei . It was sent by John H. Boyd , Director at Aintab for the American Committee for Relief in the Near East . It was brought through country dominated by Turkish irregulars attached to Mustapha Kemal 's Nationalist Army by a Moslem courier who arrived in Aleppo today . The message reports Aintab Americans are fighting the Turks with their backs to the wall and the need of relief is imperative and immediate . The Turks are attacking the American buildings , where a large number of Armenians have joined the Americans . The American flag flies over the American compounds and the Americans repeatedly have called to the attention of the Turks that America is a neutral in Turkey , but all to no avail . : Dr. Lorina Sheppard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first after the withdrawal of March 31 of a French relief column of 3,000 , which remained in Aintab for three days . After this withdrawal the attitude of theTurks grew hostile . This hostility became open and general on the third and fourth days . At a meeting the Turks announced that if the Armenians would surrender their arms and would fly the Turkish , flag they would be safe . The Armenians refused because they did not trust the Turks . The Turks then seized several hostages , including Dr. Sheppard . She was released , however , when the Armenians seized several Turks . When the Armenians took the Turks a mob collected in the Christian quarter . This was dispersed by Armenians with rifle fire , which caused several casualties among the Turks . This shooting precipitated the general fighting . The Armenians were well armed and confide .. t at first , but they weakened as the Kemal Nationalists brought up reinforcements . The small French garrison on the outskirts of the city took no part in the fighting but gave the Armenians rifles and ammunition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aintaib . The French troops on the way to AMtab total 3,000 . Dr. R. A. Lampert , Director at Alappo for the American Committee for . Relief in the Near East , who received the message from Director Boyd , has wired United States Admiral Bristol at Constantinople for aid . Paul Knabenshue , American Consul General at Beirut , who called on the French General Gouraud for aid , obtained an immediate response in an order dispatching the four French battalions from Killis . The French column moving toward , Urfa has been fighting continuously since leaving its base . The Americans in Urfa are reported short of food and the Armenains are huddled in their homes , while the Turks , Kurds and Arabs , who have been/besieging the city for months , evidently intend to starve out the French Garrison near there .                     