@@689484

txt There seems to be a great deal of doubt as to just what to expect from the new Congress . Certain elements in Congress have radical ideas up their sleeves and the unsettlement in the stock market undoubtedly can be traced in part to the expectation that some of these ideas may eventually come into practice . The agricultural group has been wailing for some time about fixed prices for farm products , and what not . They have all along been complaining about the cost of credit , etc . While it has been stated by well-informed interests that the farmers ' plight is not as bad as the farmers themselves explain it , nevertheless that body is organizing to a point where its influence in affairs is being felt more and more . The government is keenly concerned about the farmers ' agitation on various problems . The stock market on Tuesday undoubtedly reflected the news from Washington to the effect that President Coolidge advocated aid for the farmer in the shape of reduced freight tariffs on export wheat shipments . Even if the farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price of certain farm products fixed by the new Congress will not be abandoned . This is one radical idea that is most sure to come to the front when Congress meets , as is a revival of plans for a soldiers ' bonus . While the stock market remains unsettled , it is not altogether due , according to Wall Street interests , to existing business conditions , but largely to the fear of what the new Congress might saddle upon a prosperous nation . The recently published earnings statement of the American Telephone &; Telegraph Co. explains the continued firmness of the stock selling around 123% , less thsn 2 points from the high of the year . Not only is the company showing record expansion but earnings continue at record figures . It has been thoroughly demonstrated by the company that new capital cants its keep in short order . In the last two years both bulls and bears among the speculative element have had " goes " at telephone stock but have given up in despair and usually losses . It is recognized as an investment stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While there is apparently little interest at the moment in department store stocks , the companies themselves are preparing-for the biggest fall and winter business on record . Already the stores are beginning to enjoy the fall trade and Christmas is expected to be the biggest ever . Most of the great department stoles enjoy 60% of the year 's profits in the fall and winter months . There are numbers of " bear " stops above the market in leading stocks . Execution of these will bring more stops into play . If the bulls are able to push things ahead a bit they are likely to run into a chain of bear stops in some issues which will put the market up without any further bull impetus .                     