@@695793

txt Chevrolet Motor Co. produced approximately 25.000 new six-cylinder cars in December . In January production is expected to exceed 100,000 . And in February . capacity of plants at 6.000 cars a day or 150.000 for the average month should be reached . In about 90 days the organization which had been producing 5,000 four-cylinder cars a day up to October 1 has completely changed its facilities and is moving full speed ahead toward a similar output of six-cylinder units . These figures strikingly sum up the results of one of the most spectacular industrial transformations that has ever been accomplished . Because the change has been worked out with efficient . clock-like precision , tittle has been heard of it outside of motor trade circles . Like the smooth running motor vehicle on the highway . it has attracted little public attention comparable to the distraction caused by the halting , sputtering machine . Nevertheless it has been a gigantic task for the world 's largest producer of motor cars in 1928 suddenly to discontinue manufacture of cars at the rate of 5,000 a day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new parts , and within 90 days reach capacity operations on an entirely new model . Within the past few years several companies have redesigned or remodeled their product , completely revamping their plants and personnel with important changes in physical investment . Such changes are necessary to meet the public demands for better motor transportation . to give a constantly better product at lower cost . When a company 's product is specialized on one line turning out thousands of cars daily , the changeover results in an industrial upheaval . This was apparent in the Ford Motor Co. change when the company closed down in May . 1927 , brought out its new line in December of that year . and has since gradually increased output to around 6,000 cars daily . It took more than 18 months to accomplish this change and return to a normal operating basis . The cost to the Ford organization has never been accurately determined , but it undoubtedly runs into the tens of millions of dollars . Details of Chevrolet Change The Wall Street Journal has learned some of the details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in magnitude with that of the Ford company . In line with its forward-looking policies to keep abreast of the rapidly changing demands of the motoring public , Ceneral Motors more than three years ago began to consider the possibility of producing a six-cylinder car r in the price range of the four-cylinder type . The corporation did not know whether it could be done , and it was not until May , 1928 , that tests had demonstrated its practicability , In May the first test models were shown by Chevrolet in conjunction with Fisher Body , and these divisions started preparations for the job . It meant an entirely new set of machine tools ; patterns and dies had to be developed in the shops and on the drafting boards . The engineering department was charged with getting drawings ready by September 1 . The body drawings also were to be ready at that date . Additional floor space had to be provided at 14 locations , a total of 1,161,000 square feet The amount spent for buildings was nearly 86,500 000 . Chevrolet employs slightly more than 40,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly connected with General Motors employ about 20,000 additional . It was recognized that the vast majority of these men had to be trained to handle the new work and it was important that preliminary practice should be set up in the handling of tools and fixtures . To establish such practice and eliminate unforeseen difficulties which might arise when the product was put into regular production , the company built an experimental motor plant at Saginaw . Mich .. containing 51,250. - 000 of the nea machinery , purely for research , experiment and establishment of production practice This plant started operation on September 1 , last , and continued until November 15 About $800,000 was spent in experimentation and 300 motors were produced Thousands of other sources of supply , including Fisher Body plants and manufacturers of axles , transmissions , sheet metal , etc .. were all scheduled to have their product rioaing into the main stream to meet motor production starting November 15 . All of these plants met their schedules . flint Plant Shut Down In the meantime , the Flint motor plant was shut down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installing new machinery , rebuilding old machines for new work and re-educating thousands of employes to handle their new robs went forward The total spent for machinery and equipment amounted to 517.530,000 and an additional 86.490,000 was spent for tools and fixtures Beginning with November 15 the machinery used in the experimental motor plant was removed to the main production line and the Saginaw plant , having served its purpose as as dismantled . So efficiently had the work been accomplished that in the period from November 15 to December 1 , 12.000 motors were produced , an average of more than 1.000 a day . During December 60.000 motors were produced , an average of more than 2.000 a day . The assembly plants continued operations on the old models until October 25 when the last one closed down to prepare for the new car . The first assembly of the new cars was started on December 11. and in a short time the new cars were flowing regularly to dealers and a generous quota was placed with the export organization for foreign shipment The complete change involved 20 Chevrolet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and scattered in various sections of the country . There are 11 manufacturing plants sod nine assembly plants from coast to coast . When operating at capacity of 6,000 cars a day , this organization will handle 8.000 tons of material a day , including 240 tons of malleable. 1.200 tons of cast iron , SOO tons of forgings , 2,500 tons of sheet metal and many other materials that go to make up the modern automobile . At a Cost of More Than 880.000.000 The cost of changing models exceeded ** Probably never before in the history of American Inca has such a large total been invested by one organization in a similarly short space of time . It was the work of superorgaruzation to provide for its efficient expenditure . timing each operation to coordinate the whole in a smoothflowing stream of quantity production with minimum interruption to the company 's main function of producing as ninny cars as it can sell efficiently and economically . Credit for carrying out the program belongs to Chevrolet Motor organization headed by W. S. Knudsen , president . Let him tell how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of buildings . machinery and money . " said Mr. Knudsen . " All this means nothing . Production is the result of human force , educated into what is required and with the will to produce what is planned in the most efficient way . The man on theproduction line , even when he has reached the age where he connot possibly be as efficient as he was in his prime , retains within him the enthusiasm for the product . From his experience can be drawn many things from which improvement can be developed . " Progress is nothing but enthusiasm . With the bral:e of experience behind it . it is everything . Chevrolet is operated on a unit system . Each unit is operated by a plant manager who is in fun and complete charge . He gets his problems to solve and the schedule he is expected to meet . He may come to headquarters for policy , but fundamentally he does his own job and creates among his own people the enthusiasm for the accomplishment , without which nothing could ever be effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Chevrolet company , doing his best , that enabled us to complete this great task . "                     