@@692990

txt When the American Association for the Advancement of Science , the younger sister of the British Association now holding its , sessions in Oxford , celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of " Darwinism " in Baltimore in January , 1909 , the American geologist T. C. CHAMBERLIN said that the greatness of a man is shown in what he is , in what he does and in what he sets a-doing . No man in modern times , it is , safe to say , has achieved a higher greatness in what he set a-doing than CHARLES DARWIN . He set others a-doing in every realm of the intellectual world . Not one science has failed to respond to the power of his method , though it bad its centre in the biological . The " anthropic pride " of practically the whole civilized world stood out against it at first , but now it Is universally accepted by thinking and doing men . The whole biologic view of creation has been changed , beginning with the profound Darwinian influence , as the casinogenic conception of the universe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vanity of man . Though President OSBORN , in his address before the British Association on the progress made since DARWIN 'S day , states , as he is quoted , that the chief speculations based upon the knowledge of the first half of the nineteenth . century have declined or died , athe fundamental fact of evolution is not disturbed by what has since been discovered . It has , on the other hand , been accentuated and given recognition as a living , unspent force , moving secularly rather than in years  --  and world without end , as " species in the making " at the present time have been independently discovered . The modes among vertebrates are known . At any rate , there is so much known that little remains to be discovered as to the ways in which species and sub-species originate . But with all that , as President OSBORN says , we do not yet know the causes of the origin of these species and sub-species . The scientist is confronted by a problem which may be as insoluble as the origin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solved would but carry us into the presence of the ultimate and infinite ? the burning bush that is not consumed , before which the scientist must take off his shoes . DARWIN succeeded , said one of the great English physicists a our new century , because he had clear visions of the web of life and of the struggle for existence and its winnowing ; because he put " so much grit " Into the verification of those visions and because he brought forward a more plausible theory of the process than had before been suggested But he succeeded beyond all that because he " inaugurated a line of discovery endless in variety and extension . " He regretted that in following science he had not " done more direct good " to his fellow-creatures , but he has done an indirect good that is as immeasurable as the achievements of the thousands of scientists whom he has led out to the verges of the known in every field of human thought and action . President OsBoRN conies back to Oxford ( where less than a , half century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent endowment of a Reader to combat the errors of DarwInism ) from his particular sector of that verge with his paleontological testimony that the species and subspecies , of which an Immensely greater number are known today than in DARWIN 'S time , are " certainly con " tinuous , determinate , and on the " whole adaptive . " This has a very definite meaning for naturalists . For the layman it means that in inorganic as well as organic nature , fortuity is ? absentA The fittest , as ARISTOTLE contended , " originates in law . " And DARWIN introduced by his studies the " new class of evidenpe " by which the law of evolution may be understood .                     