@@689652

txt A MESSAGE WITH A PROGRAM . The President 's message reveals first-class political ability . With it in his hand , Mr. COOLIDGE steps forward as the inevitable leader of his party . For he has given it a policy which it Must take or be beaten . He has laid before the country a program to which there has already been an immense popular response , and which will grow stronger every day until it is adopted . Not for nothing did President COOLIDGE ahut himself up at Washington and grapple with the difficult problems forced upon him . Of the chief of them he has found a solution . He has emerged from his long study with a plan which is at once a great political issue and an inspiring appeal to othe whole nation . The way to be a leader Is to lead . This President COOLIDGE has shown that he is ready and able to do . A Presidential message is necessarily komething of a catch-all , and Mr. CooLIDGE was compelled to touch upon many topics of secondary importance . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution can not be mistaken . He fixes upon one service to the country which he cle-clares to be " paramount . " To him the vital measure is one which he truly asserts that the country desires to " have the right of way over all others , " which he outlines and urges in condensed but cogent language , and which he puts at the forefront of the policy of his Administration . This is the measure first disclosed to the people by the letter of Secretary MetLoN proposing constructive plans of governmental economy and tax reducton . To these plans the President gives " unqualified approval . " phrases which for him are uncommonly vivid and pungent he shows %how the burden of high taxes reaches everywhere and everybody , and calls upon Congress to remove speedily a part of the load of taxation that rests heavily upon labor and agriculture , upon industry and commerce and transportation . Referring to the duty laid upon the lawmakers , he uses the pointed words that " to neglect it , to " postpone it , to obstruct it by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convictions and ha found there a decision which he ha no hesitation in announcing , and b which he will firmly abide whateve may befall . There can be no doubt what the country will think of the Presiders whO has thus taken his courage it both hands and marked out a sours. of legislation which stands before th4 people both as guide and hope . Mr Coot-Ince may not be able to get frog this session of Congress all that hi asks . But he has created an issut which may easily revitalize the Repub lican Party , and which will unquestionably overshadow everything else in the Presidential election next year , The policy indicated by the President is one for which the time cries out . The people bore with the finest patriotisavd the most uncomplaining endur e the heavy taxes laid upon them in order to bring the war to a victorious end . But now they want relief . Business men wish to see some of the fetters laid upon enterprise by high taxation removed . The middle classes afe longing for some measure of escape from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are watching for the dawn of the day when the cost of living may be cut down . Toward the securing of these ends President COOLIDGE ltas come forward with a constructive policy . It is one of the most cheering events in our public life for many years . The bold yet wise lead which Mr. COOLIDGE has given to the country is certain to rally a great multitude to his support .                     