@@693814

txt Two south park policemen who are charged with forcing a group of fifteen youths , many belonging to prominent south side families , into a shelter house In Jackson park , where they were partially unclothed and severely beaten with a heavy strap , have been stripped of their stars , suspended and ordered to trial by the park board . In addition , parents of four of the youths announced last night that they would take out warrants charging the pair with assault and would sue in the civil courts for 850,000 damages . The policemen are Edward McClellend , 1307 West 61st place , and Bernard Ziel , 6801 South Pauline street . Taken Off Golf Course , John M. Earle , 16 of 6715 Paxton avenue ; William Weaver Jr. , 15 , of 6745 Paxton avenue , and Emmett Wheeler , 16 , of 6834 Paxton avenue , were among those who charge that they were beaten . Earle. who won the marble championship of Ohio last year , Is the son of John Earle , an official of li . M. Byllesbyll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. Weaver , superintendent for the Interstate Steel company , and Wheeler is the son of Attorney Guy L. Wheeler . Young Earle declared that he was pitting near the eleventh green on the Jackson park golf course last Saturday afternoon when McClelland drew a pistol and took him prisoner . Then , asserting that he was damaging the green , the policeman took Earle Into a boiler room . " I found about a dozen others already there , " Earle said . " Pretty soon Ziel came in with Weaver and Wheeler . The police took oft our trousers and Ziel picked up a piece of hose . He laid it down , though , when McClelland said it would make big marks . Ile took a strap and beat us all . Weaver still has big welts on him . " Thought It Was Custom . Parents of the three went to Supt. George E. Donoghue of the south park and after hearing thefi ? stories and those of the policemen he ordered the suspensions . Ziel and McClelland explained that they thought it was the custom to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other boys icho were beaten , it Is alleged , were William Quinn , 14 ; Elmer Warner , 11 , of 8004 Coles avenue , and Raymond Robinson , 8125 South Shore drive , son of a city policeman . The Warner boy declared that the two ' icemen took him and a friend into the hold of the old Santa Maria , a replica of Columbus ' flagship , and forced them to fight each other , stripped , until they were exhausted .                     