@@694569

txt Contrary to expectation , and de-1 parting from what he apparently had originally in mind , President Coomusc decided yesterday , in his address to the Republican National Committee , to make an end of whatever ambiguity had been attached I to his famous statement of Aug. 2 , ' " I do not choose . " That had already become a classic , a familiar quota- ' tion . Hosea Biglow would have relished it . Those saturated in the Yankee dialect would have scorned to put a gloss on words which , they would have maintained , speak for themselves . But a doubt persisted in many mighty Republican minds . and the President finally felt it necessary to remove it . So he bluntly told the Republican Committeemen that his statement of A. 2 " stands . " He spoke of it as a " decision , " which , he quietly added , " will be respected . " Then he proceeded to point out the duty of the party to select " another candidate , " since the President now regards himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compact little utterance of Aug. 2 . Doubtless there will still be a few ! Republican politicians inclined to be- ' neve that the President may yet be induced or forced to accept another ' nomination . But of them it is certain that the President will say , in the phrase of CROMWELL , " Let not my soul enter into their counsels . " They can not work for him even in secret with his consent . They will have to twist his latest words out 1 of all their natural meaning , and will have to make him out the most ! tortuous and unscrupulous of pubhe men , if they further allege that he is seeking to bring about a situation in which the National Convention will turn to him in desperation . Moreover , what self-respecting Re-publican can endure the implication that his party has no fit or winning candidate except Mr. COOLIDGE ? The President himself would be the first to resent that He told the commit-tee that there are distinguished men available . Their friends will now be encouraged to press forward their ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliterated the . last vestige of uncertainty about his own position . Necessarily , the whole party outlook will at once take on ' a new aspect . The President has not only clarified the situation in his own party , but has given a great impetus to the Presidential campaign . This will move forward on the conviction that Mr. COOLIDGE , of ' his own will , and for his own reasons , has taken himself entirely out of it . Naturally , the President 's sensational announcement at the end of his address to the National Commit- ! teemen put the rest of what he said into eclipse . Yet his general re- ' marks deserve consideration in their place . His prepared speech was very much what a homily to a college of political augurs is expected to be . Much of it is puicly formal . He spreads the butter pretty thick over Chairman BUTLER , but that statesman needs all the plaster he can get for the wounds Massachusetts gave him last year . He Celebrates the value and virtue of political committees . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard that such commit-tees " disseminate information . " After doing the agreeable to " the 4 ' groundwork organization without " which popular government almost 4 ' fails of success , " Mr. COOLIDGE delivered a sort of sub-message . We single out only one statement : " Just " at present agriculture as a whole " is better circumstanced than some " sections of industry . " This is not a " belt " at the Corn Belt , but a regret for the diminished boot and shoe and textile crops in New England . Woven in is the good old Republican platform gospel . Seldom has the tariff that fell from heaven , only to grow as high , been hymned more affectingly.                     