@@694700

txt Backed by Governor Smith , Democratic leaders in the Legislature today threw down the gage of battle to the Republicans over the proposal to amend the Constitution and double the term of the Governor from two to four years by introducing a resolution with a specific provision that the elections shall not be held in Presidential years . Despite the fact that the Republican chiefs or the Legislature have decided not to pass the four-year term proposal , Senator Bernard Downing and Assemblyman Maurice Bloch , . the Democratic leaders who sponsored the Governor 's measure , let it be known that they will fight to the last ditch . In his annual message Governor Smith said he felt the defeat of the Republican four-year term proposal at last Fall 's election by nearly 700. - 000 votes could not be taken as an indication that the people of the State were opposed to doubling the Governor 's term , but rather that they were against having elections held in Presidential years . The Legislature , he believed , was morally bound to resubmit the proposal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election shall not be held in a Presidential year . Deny Vote Was Final . In deciding to kill the four-year term proposal this year , the Republican legislative leaders have taken the position that the vote at the last election clearly indicated the people were opposed to an extension of the Governor 's term , no matter when the election is held . Disputing this position of the Republicans , a joint statement issued by Senator Downing and Assemblyman Bloch declared . " The mandate of the people was unmistakable . They voted not against the principle of the four-year term , because that principle was not in issue , nor was it disputed by either party . What they did vote against was the principle of confusing State and national elections . That was the , issue that both parties discussed , And it was upon that point that the people made their decision . " Sponsors of the Governor 's proposal declared that necessity and fair play dictate that the amendment again should be submitted to the people by the Republican Legislature , but in a different form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted against the form and not against the plan , " said the Downing-Bloch statement . " They voted against unfairness and injustice , and not against the proper and necessary extension of the term of Governor . Much as the Democratic Party sought to defeat the Republican plan , and as greatly as it succeeded in so doing , never once did it oppose the principle of the four-year term . To that principle it subscribes heartily . " If the Republican Party was sincere last Fall when it was energetically endorsing the principle of the four-year term , only to have the form it cherished knocked down by popular vote , it should be willing to bow to the will If the people and join with us in our plan to submit it in a new form that will be acceptable to the people of the.State . That would only be political justice ; it would only be party honesty ; it would only be fairness . ' Seek Highways Amendment . Formal announcement was made today by the New York State Automobile Association and the Empire State Automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced in the 4gglalatuxo prmolg to oftuend Constitution by providing that all money raised by taxes on motor vehicles . as well as all motor vehicle fines and penalties , be spent on highways and bridges . If this change were made in the Constitution , representatives of these two organizations said , they would have no objection to a tax on gasoline . The power to grant clemency , commutations and reprieves would be taken from the Governor and lodged in the Court of Appeals , under a proposed amendment to the Constitution introduced by Assemblyman Charles W. Posthauer , Democrat , of Queens . Assemblyman Posthauer said he believed something should be done to take this responsibility from the shoulders of the Governor . It is known that Governor Smith is opposed , however , to any move which would strip the Governor of the power of exercising clemency . A tenement house would be defined as a home of four or more families . instead of three , as at present , under a bill introduced by Assemblyman Jerome G. Ambro , Democrat , of Kings , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Buffalo , which will expire June 1 , would be extended until June 1 , 1929 , under a bill sponsored by Assemblyman Abraham Grenthal , Republican , of New York . Several other measures of similar nature have been introduced at the present session . Fourth of ' July would lose much of its present attraction for the boys and girls of this State if a bill introduced by Senator Evans should become a law . Under the measure it would be a misdemeanor to sell fireworks or pistols to any person under 21 years of age , and it would be a misdemeanor if boys and girls were found with these ithing4 pgasessYmi.                     