@@686037

txt The bitter-end Senators at Washington were a trifle hasty in asserting that the withdrawal of the Argentine delegates from the meeting of the Assembly at Geneva- ' meant that the League of Nations was disrupted and destroyed . little : calm study ' of the news over Sunday would have put the event in a truer , light .. It is one thing for the delegates from Argentina to quit Geneva in offended pride . It is quite another thing for the Argentine Government to give up its membership in the League . That can be done only by the method prescribed in the Covenant : It ' state , at the end of Article I. : " Any member , . of the " League may , after ? two , years ' no " tice of intention ' to do So , - withdraw " from the League . " Argentina formally and officially entered the League . Till she follows the lawful way of- ' getting out , in the League she must remain . This does not mean , of course , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If ? Setior PUETRREDON , ehooses to take his toys in a huff and go away to Paris , there is nothing in the Covenant to prevent him . His conduct , however , isefairly Open to scrutiny . What prompted his rash and open challenge to , the League ? - What ' motives led him to take a position which was at once seen to isolate Argentina from all the other nations represented at Geneva , and which speedily became ' a subject of suspicion and then of ridicule ? The answer lies partly in the quality of the head of the Argentine delegation . Senor PUEYRREDON is a young man . He says " never "  --  a word which , Mr. BALF01.7.12 has , remarked , only the very young use in politics . The eloquent Argentine is also fully aware of his own importance ; he is high-strung , sensitive , ambitious . To his bold self-sufficiency it seemed natural and easy to summon ? the League to do his will , on pain of being deprived of his society . When the older heads took ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was . contrary to the procedure laid down in the Covenant , he resented the idea that a man such as he could ' be bound by " technicalities . " Evidently . a hard . man to do business with , this Sefier-Pusverisrios . He seemed to expett that other na- tions would join him in his pettish departure ; but they were content to leave him alone in his glory . Taking up his specific proposals , the one to make the Assembly supreme over the Council , and to enable it to decide everything by a majority vote , would obviously hake the effect , if not the intent , of wrecking the League . Not without reason did the  --  Covenant make a careful distribution of power between the Council and the Assembly . There was a tacit drawing upon the experience of the United States in framing ' a constitution . under which rich and populeus States-could work with those having less wealth arid population . The plan of the Argentine delegation to have the entire Council elected by the Assembly  --  instead of only four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require not only an alteration of the . basic law of the . League , but a disregard of those . compromises and safegUards which , alone made the League possible . Still more objectionable was the amendment offered by Sefior PUEYRREDON making all self-governing States " automatically " members of the League . No one doubted where this looked . It was to Germany . Her application for membership in the League had not been pressed at Geneva . ' The reasons . were plain . She could not yet qualify under the existing eligibility clause , which stipulates " sincere intention to observe its international obligations . " The German attitude toward the Versailles Treaty is not in accord with that provision . Moreover , Germany knew that she , could not command the twothirds vote of . the Assembly necessary to election under the Covenant as it stands . Hence it is entirely clear in whose interest the Argentine scheme wasput forward . It necessarily revives unpleasant memories of German machinations at Buenos Aires during the war , and of the way in which President IRIGOTEN resisted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses of the Argentine Congress , that their country be arrayed alongside the United States in the war against Germany . Fortunately , it does not seem necessary to pursue this quest of suspected motives . All the indications now are that the Argentine plan either to dictate to the League or to break it up has been a complete failure . The League has not lost its composure and is going on steadily with its work . And all that Argentina has done is to place herself in an isolation not at all splendid .                     