@@693030

txt Glastonbury , long famous for its Christmas-blossoming thorn , is famous of late for its " literature , " for which there is a considerable American demand . Glastonbury has come into the High Court of Justice . Miss GERALDINE DOROTHY CUMMINS , professional medium , got an injunction to restrain Mr. FREDERICK BLIGH BOND , architect and author of " The Gate of Remembrance , " from producing or reproducing a Glastonburian automatically written and therefore " highly original literary work , " called " The Chronicle lof Cleophas . " The automatic writing began on May 24 . The psychic dictator did n't spare his typewriter . He talked 2,000 words an hour . It seems he was the scribe of CLEOPECAS . That gentleman , whether Greek or Hebrew , did n't give his name to the chronicle till . June 14 . We are inclined to think that he must have been a Hebrew , because Mr. 1 ... a ) has described Miss CUMMINS . ; using , unconsciously , a primitive and unknown Hebrew name of Lisbon . Mr. Justice EVE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said to Mr. BOND : Had you known CLEOPHAS at school he would have translated Euripides for you . I only wish I could have known CLEOPHAS then . CLEOPHAS was no part of the res gestae . The scribe , whose oationality seems to be unknown at the present , was at the other end of the wire . The psychic typist 's method of taking down the words of her rapid-fire scribe was thus recounted by her counsel : She covered her eyes with her left hank took a pencil in her right hand , and began to write on a sheet of foolscap . Another sheet was supplied - when that was full . During that time she was only partially conscious , and what was written she only partially remembered afterward . The production caused great exhaustion , There is no doubt , however , that what was written was the work of the plaintiff , and the result of an operation of the brain which directed the hand . According to her , Mr. BOND 's part in the , proceedings was of the slightest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he was more help than hindrance . He took each batch of script away , and seems to have prepared it for publication . How " The Chronicle of Cleophas " came to be written in , " archaic English " was n't explained . Mr. BOND said that " the " peculiarity of the scripts is that the " message is conveyed without words , " and the words and the framework of " the message are formed in the brain " of the medium . The language of the " script was not the language of the " communicating intelligence . It is " the idea which is conveyed . " If this did n't account for the , " archaic English , " , it ruled out of court the scribe and CLEOPHAS , if he had any claim to the scribe 's earnings in office hours . Mr. Justice EVE had been regrettably facetious . When he heard that the plaintiff was an automatic writer , he asked if she would like to take his place . In his decision he said that the authors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lady . As he had no jurisdiction over the former , he was compelled to decide , according to the Copyright act of 1911 , that Miss CummiNii was the sole owner of the copyright . That act protects the language , not the idea : and Mr. BOND had admitted that the communicating intelligence conveys the idea and not the language . This leaves us in the dark as to how the conveyed idea got clothed in " archaic English , " ' such , it is said , as is used by Mr. BOND 'S cowled guide among the ruins of the Abbey of Glastonbury .                     