@@685403

txt In the year 1209 a wise Pope , realizing that Francis of Assisi , lay brother and potential revolutionist , had developed an energy which might get out of hand , granted that great Saint a Rule for his new order . If he had not been a wise Pope he might easily have driven this new leader into schism . Plenty of the bishops of that age , resenting a , poacher on their spiritual preserves , Would have done so . Indeed unwise Popes have done something not unlike it , both before and since . But Innocent III was a statesman as well as a Pope . : NOT TO PO IT Contrast this with the way the established Church of England drove from its pale the enormous spiritual energy which John Wesley developed in the eighteenth century . He was not a mere layman , like St. Francis , but an ordained and beneficed priest in the Anglican Church . But the new wine was too strong for those old bottles . Wesley was driven into schism ; and the useful force that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to swell the ranks of Nonconformity , at a time when repudiation of the doctrines of the Established Church involved important political disabilities . There is yet another instance , that of General Booth and the Salvation Army , in the latter part of the nineteenth century . If there had been statesmen on the t nglish bench of bishops ; if the Archbishop of Canterbury had possessed one-half the vision of Pope Innocent III , William Booth would have been not only ordained , but consecrated a bishop and given a free hand . Ile was not more evangelical than St. Francis of Assisi . He had divined a , new force in religion and morals ; he had brought to his inspiration , with true greatness , an executive ability amounting to genius . The national Church which should have enlisted him is. in spite of the Thirty-nine Articles and the Athanasian Creed , broad enough to include anyone who believes in the divinity of Christ . O  --  IL WASTE MORAL EN vac T What an unbusinesslike lost motion ! The moral force did - not go - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its service might have been if it had been wisely co-ordinated , like that of St. Francis of Assisi . Is there no such lost energy in this country ? The misdirected in. telIectual force which is now exploited by the I. IV. ? W. and the Bolshevist is only misplaced energy . It is Mental unrest which demands ' some sort " of teaching : - " If those who knoW and can teach the well-tried and proven principles of economics , so that the workman may apply thorn to himself , neglect their duty , how can we wonder that a menacing nonconformity of ideas is raised up to threaten our institutions ? A HOPI:PEI . I:NAMPO : It is not as if we had no prelent-day examples of how such energy may be saved from going to waste and worse . Organization is part of the instinct of the healthy boy . Misdirected , it takes the form of " gangs " . These organizations , lacking wise leading , develop for mischief . But we have seen that they need not become lawless and may be ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not ' a good purpose , capable of development . Future ages will speak with wonder and admiration of the way this ' gang spirit has been utilized to the best purpose in the organization of the Boy Scouts , at first in England under General Baden-Powell and subsequently sin this and other countries . . IN TUE venom ; PLACE A great chemist once told us that dirt was only matter in the wrong place . Putting it in the right place is the i secret of the Rockefeller and Armour millions . The pack- ? ers , it has been said , utilize everything about a hog except the squeal , if they even fail to use that . The Standard Oil millions were made out of the by-products of petroleum , and even gasoline was a by-product , and a most refractory one . The by-product of coal converted into coke was almost an unmitigated nuisance . But our aniline dyes are but a few of the innumerable by-products of coal tar , which now has even a pharmacopmia all its own . And we have hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many heat units of coal are wasted through the smokestacks of the most modern ocean liner ? The assay office smelts its soot for gold , and there is little auriferous ore in the world that yields anything like so high a percentage to the ton . And think of the unprospected gold mines in our factory chimneys and furnaces ! TEAcRING THE WBRKErt These sermons are intended to be stimulating rather than dogmatic . They have been written by men of widely divergent religious belief , and even by men who would not give the spiritual side of their thinking a conventional religious label . But it is a poor sermon indeed which is not constructive , although there have been divines in the past who have overdeveloped the subject of damnation . There is little use in telling a man to be good if you stop there . You must not only show him his eternal advantage , but also show him that , so far as he is concerned , eternity begins here and now . What have we done in the way of teaching the worker how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not go to church , and when he does the preachers , if they are wise ; will avoid economic and social questions upon which they themselves arc the merest laymen , and uninstructed laymen at that . Does anybody doubt , other than the emotionalists , whose jaded intellects crave such stimulus , that the preachers who turn their churches into forums do not even succeed in making safe ventholes for Bolshevism ? What better investment could he have ? Somebody will teach them if he does not , ' and , moreover , teach them what is not so . Has he anybody to thank but himself ? The soil is there , . only waiting for cultivation . Is it to i become fruitful with good seed , which costs money , or is it to be left for the Enemy , sowing tares ? OUR IMPLACABLE PROBLEM 3 Here is our implacable problem , hastily stated , it is true , but showing , it is to be hoped , the vast moral energy running as utterly to waste as our neglected water power . We knoW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the world will force us to find a way of utilizing all of them , in spite of the obstructions of politics . We are on the threshold of great discoveries in radio activity . We are talking of harnessing the tides and directing the wasted heat of the sun itself . Our material progress , our application of natural laws , in the past two centuries has been so astounding that we do not perceive its moral reaction . And yet it utterly extinguished , . in civilized society , the most widely held superstition , not only accepted by our courts up to the end of the seventeenth century , but the basis of faith among savage tribes all over the world  --  the belief in witchcraft . DIRECTINC OUR MORAL ' FORCES Surely the machine has not become more than the man ? Ile must still be paramount , unless , gaining the whole world , we are to lose our own souls . The teaching in our schools ( and we are to remember that many of our workers do not get even that ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no colleges to spiritualize that teaching for them . But the employers of labor can combat successfully the renaissance of witchcraft . They can organize the teaching of their workers . Some of them have done it , with admirable results , but the failures are advertised and the successes pass unnoticed . We are utilizing today natural forces strong enough to wipe us out of existence . What is our civilization worth if we can not organize the moral forces as well ? An ex-lumberjack from Oregon , Sherman Rogers , who spoke in New York not long ago , told an Industrial Relations Association in Chicago some Plain if unpalatable truths , allowing for almost necessary exaggeration . He said : " Between the Pacific and the Atlantic are fully 40,000 earnest , hard-working agitators spreading revolutionary doctrines . The I. W. W. is just as sincere ? as the missionary who goes out to Africa ; he believes what he preaches , and no discomfort or sacrifice is too great for him . Bait the employer has done nothing toward educating the worker . The unrest is caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the passivity of the employer . " No doubt he is woefully astray in his estimate of the percentage of sincerity . But he is right when he says this is nil the real teaching , other than what they may or may not be able to get from books and newspapers , most workers receive . It might do the worker good to read what is written here , even if it provoked him to disagreement . A great end would he attained if he were only stimulated to do his own thinking . AN UNDE% 1,11. oPEH IoACULTV Thinking is the faculty in man which is the least developed , the one which ? usthe cultivated , to exist . He does not need to be taught the use of his live senses . lie might conceivably exist without four of them if he were left the sense of touch . But he must be trained to think , as any student of childhood knows . How could the socialistic Rand School flourish where other teaching agencies decay if it did not fill a long-felt want ? Whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which does incalculably more harm than good ? A LINE OF LEAST IIESISTAN There is no intention here to preach that doctrine of profit sharing which conveniently ignores the sharing of losses . As a matter of practical business there seems no good reason , however , why a business with five partners could not develop into one with five thousand . But before such a development could be made possible it . would be necessary to take the new partners into the confidence of the firm . All the best employers recognize today that their relations with the workers they employ have in the past been shortsighted and selfish ; that they ' themselves have been unsocial , in that they demanded the letter of the law in their own protection where they did not conceive the spirit of the law in their relations with those they employed . AN IN VESTMENT , rtuRou ( iii TEACHING Every employer knows how much valuable time of expert workmen is sacrificed to teaching the novice his trade . You can see it for yourself in that domestic service which some humorist has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employer organize this absolutely necessary teaching exactly as lie organizes every department of his business ? To him the imparting of such knowledge seems to be an afterthought . Sonic of us are beginning to suspect that it should he the first consideration . No doubt anyone who talks like this is roundly condemned , by the reactionary , as a " theorist " . There need be no hesitation in accepting that question-begging designation . There never was a first-class workman yet , from Michael Angelo to the boy who shines your shoes , who did not have a sound theory to guide his practice .                     