@@688069

txt Mediators at New York rail strike conference Announce that there is a some chance of reaching a settlement today . Senators Calder of New York and Lenroot of Wisconsin , incensed at failure of mediation in rail and anthracite strikes , demand government operation of mines and railroads . Senator Walsh Mass. introduces resolution to take over coal mines . COAL SITUATION . Illinois Mine Workers ' leaders at Springfield denounced boost In price of coal there and elsewhere in state as plain profiteering . Broadening of powers of interstate commerce commission to use priorities and embargoes as means of controlling coal prices provided in bill introduced by Senator Cummins Iowa . LOCAL . Swindling of State Representative Piacek of $25,000 was balked by Ald. Cermak , who caused arrest of noted alleged " con " man . Gale and rain sweep city , breaking heat wave ; three in canoe battle for their lives . Mager and three others indicted by federal grand jury on charges of liquor graft . Husband , fearing divorce , shoots wife and then kills himself . Alleging that her husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home and babies , " Mrs. Thelma Orr Meyer , former Follies beauty , brought suit for divorce from Max W. Meyer , business man . Further indictments were forecast as the grand jury took up investigation of realty transactions of the board . Broker Nast , in court , says he overplayed market 100 per-cent in brokerage crash with loss of $1,320,450 . Wide open Aurora , as one of the main attractions for many Central States fair visitors , lost its charm when U. S. prohibition enforcement officers raided clubs and " soft drink " parlors , arresting nine . Seventeen alleged radical leaders were held for trial under Michigan syndicalism law in bonds of $10,000 each when arraigned at St. Joseph . FOREIGN . Berlin police fight eighteen communist demonstrations against food cost as mark crashes to 2,000 to $1 . Tom . Hales , who led ambush which killed Michael Collins , Irish leader , throws down arms and offers to join nationals . While three Irish societies planned for elaborate memorial services Monday for Michael Collins , slain Irish leader , Mme. Rosaleen de Claremont at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his . successor . Lloyd George to receive ex  --  Gov . Cox today . Democratic leader says George Washington 's advise on entangling alliances is out of date . American ministers leading battle for prohibition in Sweden tell TRIBUNE their analysis of situation . DOMESTIC . Secretary of State Hughes sails for Brazil to return visit made in 1876 by Emperor Dom Pedro to the Philadelphia exposition . Unusual harmony prevails in the Republican party in New York state , no opposition to regular candidates tria.ni ? Testing itself . WASHINGTON . ' Secretary of Treasury Mellon declares British $4,000,000,000 war debt to United States bears no relation to debts of other governments or issues arising over reparations payments . Expulsion of Volstead from chairmanship of judiciary committee on ground that Anil  --  Saloon league had helped his campaign was proposed in resolution by Representative Tinkham Mass. , but house kills it . SPORTING . Mike Brady . Detroit professional , leads field of qualifiers for western open golf tournament with 141 for thirty-six holes , and Is favorite for the title ; with Jock Hutchison , Chicago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Davis cup pair , eliminated in national doubles by Frenchman Borotia and Veteran Niles . Alexander pitches Cubs to 4-1 win over Brooklyn ; Sox lose tight game to Washington , 1-0 . Burman boxes Andersob at Aurora tonight with prospect of title match against Joe Lynch if victor . EDITORIALS . Our Foreign Loans and  --  Ciur Foreign I Trade ; A Lesson in the Coal Strike ; Morals and the Community . . MARKETS . Failure to settle railway labor strike disappoints , but does not change Wall street attitude , stock gains being as numerous as declineJ , with rails moving higher . Grain prices fluctuate rapidly . Corn again being market leader , . While wheat falls lower ; wheat cloied.7,410 114c lower ; corn We lower to 54c higher ' , oats at 14c higher and rye at lower unchanged .                     