@@692253

txt Towers there have been since the time of the Babylonian zikkurats and the " topless " ones of Ilium . Skybuilt mansions there have been ' in the visions of prophets and in the ecstasies of poets . But the real skyscraper belongs to this generation . The genesis of the present type , with its skeleton of steel , " dates hardly forty years back . " The Tower Building , at 50 Broadway , is , according to Mr. STOKES 'S " Iconography of Manhattan Island , " the earliest example of this sort of construction , and it was built in 1888-1889 . But the marked development of the skyscraper did not occur till the first years of this century : the Flatiron Building was built in 1902 ; the Singer Building , 1900-1 190S ; the Metedpolitan Life . Building in 1909 ; the Woolworth , 1910-1913 ; the new Equitable in 1915 . For all the earlier centuries of human existence men had managed to live and pursue happiness in homes and shops and offices close to the ground . Only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spires to the skies . The skyscrapers are now such familiar objects in our landscape , and are so easily practicable from an en-gineering and architectural point of view , and so convenient that , as Mr. FREDERIC A. DELANO says in an article appearing In the January number of The American City Magazine , the larger proportion of %the population gives little thought to the farreaching effects of the conditions which they have brought with them . Till the skyscrapers came those who gave attention to city planning had to consider only two dimensions . Now the problem is three-dimensional . Every building is the cube root of man'seconomic and social gregariousness , the steel beam and the swiftly moving elevator . Even in the smaller cities where there is ample room to expand there is this three-dimensional aspiration . It is noticeable , says Mr. DELANO , that every American city and town+that aspires to metropolitan importance wants to have at least one skyscraper as an evidence of modernity and " a go-ahead spirit . " American cities have incidentally done more than to stand horizontal blocks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have tall , isolated buildings in the midst of great spaces ? cities of wondrous beauty in which every one would have light and air . But when , as is the case , a block of buildings is virtually made vertical , the whole remaining space is filled in either by companion skyscrapers or other buildings which are put under an economic compulsion to grow in height . The result is an Architectural hodge-podge , the loss of most of , he advantages that an isolated skyscraper might bring to its occupants and a congestion of population which old facilities of ingress and egress can not care for . After summing up the arguments for and against the skyscraper  --  on the one hand the intensive use of property , the convenience , the magnificent views , the maximum of air and light for the tenants and tale imposing appearance of the city to all who look on it ; and on the other hand the congestion , and the burden thrown upon the community of taking care of the consequences  --  Mr. DELANO , who is Chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Civic Association , reaches this conclusion : The average height cubage or population capacity of buildings must , be limited to the feasible capacity of the arterial street system , and if exceptions are to be made permitting very high buildings in certain areas , a tax must be put on added height commensurate with the added burden borne in the community . ' This last is a , novel anagestion , but It comes from one speaking with authority and will perhaps serve the purpose which this student of city planning has in mind  --  causing us to " atop , look and listen " before it is too late .                     