@@693682

txt Why should ships traversing the ra ? barna canal from Pacific to the Atlantic have heavier drafts than ships going from the Atlantic to the Pacific ? The answer to that in a recent study tu the Panama Canal Record , emphasize : again the tremendous advantages the seaboard strips of America derive frorr the canal . Cargoes from Pacific to At ? lantle are composed of heavy raw meter:ale , Iron ore , nitrates , wheat , mineral oil . ete. ? raw stuffs for the manufacturtrig Industries of the eastern seaboard or food for theL- workers . The cargoes going the other way consist of finished goods very largely  --  either not so heavy Intrinsically or Incapable of being so closely packed into a ship 's cargo space . It is notable that the vast majority of ships using the canal draw less than 25 fret , the depth proposed for the first lake. , to sea channel . Yet ships carrying iron ore from Chile to eastern seaboard Weel plants , drawing 33 and one-half feet , make the canal trip with perfect ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east to west for 1924 , iffa , and 1926 , respectively , was 21.3 , 20.8 , and 20.8 feet . The average for the earns years In the other direction was 34.6 , 24.6 , and 24.6 . These figures do nct indicate . a general trend toward Ihlps of lighter draft . The high average for 1924 wan caused by the enormous tanker trafic that year caused by the great California outburst of oil In the Los Angeles fields . Except for that tanker traffic , the general trend of freight movement via the canal is steadily upward , as western rail-toads know ? I100,000,000 worth in a single year , according to a recent study by Franklin Snow . As Uncle Earn Is now such a great transportation magnate on the Isthmus , the question becomes germane as to ' whether he should use advanced corporate methods in carrying on that business . The modern corporation , when it can , finances extensions out of earnings ? it sometimes plies up a surplus with a long look ahead toward improvements or replacements . At the present rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in Nicaragua , or a vast increase in the facilities of the present canal , possibly its conversion into a sea level ditch like Suez , without locks , is inevitable . This job may indeed be necessary within 20 years . Why should not the toll rates of the canal be so adjusted , not only as to pay Interest on the present investment as any well managed corporate enterprise would do , but also to provide a surplus which with accruing Interest would finance the new construction , which increasing trade makes inevitable sooner or later ? The fact that such charges would not only be sound and advanced financing , but also a matter of equity to midwestern Industries and transcontinental railroads , ought to make their adoption even more desirable .                     