@@687189

txt The serious character of the Army 's work and the strenuousness of the daily scrimmages indicate a strong feeling on the part of Army coaches and followers alike that the battle with the Navy in New York on Saturday is coming just a bit too soon for the proper development of the West Point eleven . The first team has shown some improvement during the past week under the heavy driving , but another week 's time would be most gratifying in the Army camp in order to bring the team up to the apex of development . However , the situation is being remedied as much as possible by the intensive workouts each day . This afternoon the team 's offensive received a thorough trial . The drill extended for a longer period than yesterday 's , and while the clash with the scrubs was of the bone-crushing variety there were no injuries among the varsity men , indicating the excellent physical condition of the squad . French at fullback , with AleLaren at left half and Wood at right halfback , made up the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This combination worked very smoothly against the scrubs . ? No score was made , due to the fact that more than once various plays to be used against the Navy were unsatisfactory in small details of execution and were repeated . A second set of backs . consisting of Lawrence , Warren and Smythe , with Johnson at quarterback. was also used during the drill . Just which set of backs Charley- Daly will start against the middies is problematical . The varsity 's line was made up today as it has been all season and as it probably will start against the Navy . Captain Greene was at centre ; Breidster and Garbisch , guards ; Davidson and Mulligan , tackles ; Don Storck and White , ends . With the exception of Garbisch this set of forwards faced the Navy a year ago . There was another long kicking drill today , with Smythe featuring in the punting , and a lengthy session in developing a forward pass defense . It is thought here that the Navy , with its experienced and adept personnel , will use a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the middies ' drill since the Penn State game has been devoted to this feature . Notre Dame 's success with passes against the cadets proved that this feature of the Army 's development must be stressed . Tomorrow the coaches will finish the heavy work , as it is unlikely that anything other than the lightest practices will be the program on Thanksgiving Day , when it is planned to hold morning and afternoon rehearsals .                     