@@691159

txt The inauguration of President Coolidge is to be such a simple affair that the arrangements for the ceremonial will call for the expenditure of only a few thousand dollars . Abandonment of plans for an elaborate display is due to President Coolidge . William T. Galliher . Chairman of the Inaugural Committee on Arrangements , in announcing the change of plan , stated that most of the $60,000 subscribed by citizens of Washington to cover the expenses of an impressive inaugural would be returned to the subscribers . With the exception of the Harding ceremony of four years ago , the Coolidge inaugural will be one of the simplest of modern days , recalling in a way the modest manner in which Thomas Jefferson walked to the Capitol from his private quarters , strode into the rotunda , took the oath of President and then went to the White House , practically unattended and observed by only a small number of citizens . Announcement was made that the unofficial part of the inaugural would be limited to the construction of a few stands near the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with as little expense as possible . The local committee stated that in view of the attitude taken by the President the custom of shooting off fireworks on the ellipse south of the White House would be dispensed with , and that all in all the coming March 4 would be one of the quietest holidays celebrated in the capital in many a day . To Set Example of Economy . Motives of economy prompted the President to veto the rather ambitious local arrangements made for the observance of Inauguration Day . He was determined to save money for tile Federal Government and to set an example of retrenchment for the States , nearly all of which in the past have expended comparatively large sums in sending representations to the Federal inauguration. lip to a certain point the Coolidge inaugural will follow precedent . Following the administration of the oath as Vice President to Charles G. Dawes a function held in the Senate Chamber  --  the ceremonies will occur on the east front of the Capitol , where the President will subscribe to the oath and deliver his inaugural address . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a military escort It is here that the Coolidge inaugural will diverge from the course laid down for most of its predecessors . Instead of the all-day parade , which usually began a few minutes after the noon hour and sometimes continued until long after sundown , the procession on this occasion will consist only of military detachments on duty in and near Washington and small scattering contingents from several States , headed by the Governors and their staffs . The local committee decided that the number of men in the parade would not justify building reviewing stands all along the avenue , as was done in former years . It was apparent that the inauguration would not attract a large crowd in view of the restrictions imposed by the President . and accordingly it was decided to limit expenditures for the event to the smallest possible figure . The only social affair of consequence that will be held incident to - the inaugural ceremonies will be a charity bail . but neither the President nor Mrs. Coolidge will attend . Acceptances of invitations to attend use ball have been received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to broadcast President Coolidge 's inaugural address . The radio companies have united in handling this affair , and purpose to hook up every broadcasting station in the country with Washington during the hour that the inaugural ceremony is in progress . It is estimated that at least 23,000.000 persons will listen in. comprising the largest air audience in radio history . The President 's speech is expected to be heard in Canada and Mexico . far out to sea . and possibly at points across the ocean . Of the forty-eight State Administrations invited to take part in the inaugural parade only twelve have accepted . Nineteen have declined with regrets , while sixteen have failed so far to acknowledge the invitations . The States that have signified a purpose to send small delegations , headed by their Governors , are : Maryland , VirOnia , Connecticut . Delaware , Kentuc , Maine , New Hampshire . Massachusetts , New Jersey . Pennsylvania , Rhode Island and Vermont . The nineteen States that have sent word they will not be represented are South Carolina , Wisconsin Alabama , West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indiana , Idaho , Missouri , Nevada . Minnesota . Kansas . Arkansas , South Dakota , Arizona . Ohio . California and Utah . New York Not to Parade . For more than fifty years prior to 1921 New York always had been represented in inaugural parades by big delegations . appearing for the State officially as well as for its various civic and political organizations . Governor Smith recently notified the local committee that he would not attend the inauguration , and gave no intimation that he would send any one to represent him . A letter has just been sent to the New York Governor urging him to detail officers of his staff to take part In the parade . The plans for State participation in the inaugural limit each contingent to a body of not to exceed 100 men . Few of the States will fill the quotas allotted to them . The largest so far recorded will come from Pennsylvania , made up of eighty men , headed by Governor Pinchot . Governor Ritchie of Maryland will be accompanied by twenty-five officers . Governor Trinkle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that " Ma " Ferguson of Texas plans to attend . A White House spokesman made it plain today that President Coolidge was unalterably opposed to an elaborate inaugural ceremony . The President was represented as holding that large ex , penditures for such a ceremony were not in harmony with the Administration program of economy . ' The White House spokesman said leaders in Congress had told President Coolidge that the Harding inaugural was elaborate enough , and that the example of simplicity and economy then set should be followed by his successors . It was suggested that while this year 's inaugural would not attract the multi ' tudes who have journeyed here in the past , the invisible audience listening in on the radio would mount into the millions . The spokesman said the President could not see his way clear to approve a parade and other features beyond the scope indicated . President Coolidge has not yet prepared his inaugural address . A White 1 House official said today that an ex 1 amination of the records disclosed that President Cleveland 's second inaugural ' speech was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that President Coolidge 's address would be short . This official said the President was inclined to brevity in his messages and I speeches , and if he put off writing the address until a few days before its de ' livery it was certain to be one of the shortest in history .                     