@@685295

txt In a review of the general financial Situation , made public yesterday , the . Federal Reserve agent here says that in spite of the substantial increase In rates for both short and long credit which followed the January increase in Federal Reserve Bank rates no general improvement in either price or credit expansion has since been effected . " When we realize that in another few weeks Southern harvests will begin and that in another four months we shall be in the Autumn period , when trade and crop moving demand an increased volume of credit , " continued the review , " it is important that both bankers and business men should carefully study the situation at once , calmly but frankly , to see what can and should be done to prepare for these demands and to effect , meantime , ' not only a prevention of further credit and price inflation but a measureable reduction of both . " The Reserve agent says that the usual January and February credit liquidation did not occur this year , and points to the steadily falling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to substantiate his point . He adds that no substantial reductions were made in commodity prices or the volume of bank loans , notwithstanding that both the Government debt and the volume of Government securities carried by the banks were materially reduced . Demand Keeps Up . The review notes that there is no improvement , generally speaking , in the supply of goods measured by the demand . Compared with pre-war stand : ards , it says , the production of most goods has not increased materially , and that the desire and the ability to congoods have increased greatly . The forsume gobds have increased greatly ' The foreign demand , too , continues at a high rate . Summing up the demands for goods , the reports say : foreign consumers press upon our productive capabity at a time when it is at a relatively low point , due to a transportation service , by land and water , which strikes and physical depreciation have reduced far below its normal efficiency ; to an almost complete cessation of immigration , our net gain since July , 1914 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3,500,000 . " It is evident that the Federal Reserve banks and each one of the 30,000 banks of the country hn.ve a special duty and responsibility tlward present conditions that they can not neglect . This duty is a stricter control of credit . " The bankers carry on their work With substantial uniformity in every city and ' town , touching every business activity . Relying on the resources of the Federal Reserve banks , they patriotically undertook the immense credit expansion which war financing required . In so doing they set in motion forces which are still continuing to aggravate the lack of balance between supply and demand and which must now be brought Under control . Says - Bankers Have Duty . " The existence of the Federal Reserve System does not relieve a single banker from his individual responsibility to do his share in checking further expansion by exercising a stricter control of the credit he creates ; for , except in its limited open market purchases of bankers ' acceptances , the Federal Reserve System does not act directly en the volume of credit , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primary responsibility rests . " Clearly , the present is not an appropriate time to extend business merely for the sake of increased volume or profits . This applies not only to producers and distributers. but to bankers as well , for the present opportunities to take on new borrowing accounts and to reloan borrowed money at a profit are tempting to many . Nor is it a time for public or private improvements not absolutely necessary for health and efficiency . With a shortage of goods and labor , the necessity of conserving both is as great as it was during the war , and requires an even higher degree of selfrestraint on the part of bankers ; producers , distributors and consumers , since Governmental control no longer exists . Accordingly , the more clearly the banker keeps in mind the conservation of labor and goods for necessary purposes as the object of his control the more clear will be his course in exercising such control . "                     