@@693103

txt Conservative hopes in Canada fell by the wayside today . At midnight tonight the indications are that the Conservative Government of Arthur Meighen was defeated in today 's Dominion election and that W. L. Mackenzie King will again form a Government . Premier Meighen himself and five of his Ministers had been reported defeated at midnight , while the Liberal leader was was victorious in Prince Alberta , Alberta . The news is from Eastern and Central Canada only , and it will be some time before the Far Western returns are received here owing to the difference in time . In the three Maritime Provinces and in Quebec and Ontario the Conservatives have lost seventeen seats and gained two . Hence the net loss of fifteen means that the Conservative Party is reduced from 116 members to 101 at most . Conservatives have only faint hopes as to the West . They can not hope to make up the fifteen seats in the Prairie Provinces , though . they still hope to gain several seats there . All the effort spent in the Province of Quebec @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The four Conservative seats sin this province are still held by the Conservatives , but that is all . Quebec Leader Is Defeated . . Hon. E. Patenaude , Minister Of Justice , went down to defeat again in Jacques Cartier , all the efforts he made and the strenuous campaign failing , to prevail against the terrific campaign that was waged against him , though the majority is cut down to 1,300 . Mr. Patenaude is the chief lieutenant of Mr. Meighen in Quebec . With him fell Andre Fauteux , Minister of Justice , who was defeated in Begot County , and also Dr. Paquet , who fell in Bonaventure County against Charles Marcil , a former Speaker of the House of Commons . Sir George Perley , former High Commissioner of Canada in London , held his seat of Argenteuil County . R. S. White was an easy victor in Mount Royal . C. H. Cahan in St. LawreneeSt . George and Leslie G. Bell in St. Antoinette were also successful . Mr. Bell was thelonly one in danger . Montreal , therefore , has three Conservative seats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Province is not otherwise represented in the Conservative Party . Late reports show that in two seats , namely , Levis , which is across the river from the City of Quebec , and in Wright , which is near Ottawa , the Conservative candidates are leading , but hopes that these leads will be maintained are few . Meighen Loses Heavily in Ontario . The Conservatives won a seat in Nova Scotia , which gives them eleven seats out of fourteen , but in New Brunswick they lost three seats , holding , therefore , only seven seats of the eleven . New Brunswick had one Liberal in the last Parliament . Ontario went " bad " for the Conservative cause . It had been hoped that the Conservative strength would be increased there . In the last Parliament they held seventy of the , eightytwo seats . The two Ottawa seats went to the Liberal Party . The majority of the voters there are civil servants . One of the factors which contributed to the Conservative disaster in the capital was a speech made by G. B. Nicholson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morality of Government employes . Mr. Nicholson was defeated in his own riding , and it is also significant that A ; J. Doucet of Kent , N. B. , suffered the same fate . Mr. Doucet is the man who attacked . the personal morality of prominent Liberals by reference to what he termed to be a " joy ride " on a Government costal vessel named the Ji/argAtret.                     