@@692373

txt M. Jourdain did not , after all , score heavily against the grammarians when he discovered that he had been speaking prose all his life without knowing it . He thereby admitted that the scholars , when they said " prose , " were dealing with a very real thing like the common speech of common , folk . Sociology does not suffer when it reveals that " consciousness of kind " refers to such simple things as school districts , grocery stores and barber shops . It brings science down to the common facts of life . The University of Missouri 's College of Agriculture has published a monograph on " Rural Population Groups " which is none the less interesting because it deals with homely phenomena . The authors have taken rural Boone County , in the central part of the State , have subdivided it into fifty-nine " neighborhoods " and fifteen larger " communities , " and have enumerated the factors that work for consciousness of kind within the groups . The result is good reading for the public and a check upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the clouds . What makes a " neighborhood " group in Boone County , Missouri ? Of the fiftynine group names , it appears that no less than thirty are personal names . A doughty pioneer , a successfully accumulative landowner , the father of a numerous clan , imposes his own name on the geography , with the result that " we , " the group , live in Angel or Dinwiddie or Butler-Simms or Flynn-Zion . Eleven groups identify themselves with a natural feature . " We " are the Lick Fork group or the Red Rock group or the Pig Bottom neighborhood . Ten groups derive their names from a school or church centre , Far West , Union , Bethel , New Providence , Salem . When we come to the larger , secondary group the individual name is still more prominent . Centralia , Woodlandville and Columbia are apparently the only non-personal names out of fifteen . Working for " primary group consciousness " after the original totem cement of the group name itself are familiar things : the school district , the church , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County one for every sixtysix families ; the blacksmith shop , the farmers ' organizations , the newspaper . With the passing of pioneer conditions has gone one of the most powerful of integrating forces , the exchange of work . Two generations ago Boone County was rife with log rollings , barn warmings , corn huskings , apple-butter stirrings and threshings . Today only the hog killings survive . The University of Missouri 's questionnaire has caught one citizen who reports , " Whenever I hear of a hog killing , I whet my knife and am off . " For the primary group the summary is as follows : a small geographical area extending rarely more than a mile and a half from the centre , and a high degree of intimacy ? " each member of the group knows every other member intimately . " txcept , of course , as the novelists are proving , that the more closely we are grouped the less we really know each other . With the larger group appear new bonds of unity : the trading centre for broader needs than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the consolidated high school ; the fraternal order . It would appear that Americans turn to the regalia of the Ultimately Supreme Exalted Grand Monarch less for love of show than out of a desire for human fellowship . In the community centre are also the bank , the grain elevator , the mill , the doctor . The blacksmith survives but seems doomed . But the barber shop still flourishes , despite hundreds of millions of safety-razor blades . We respect a sociologist who is not above making the point that the appeal of the barber shop " is stronger for the young man than it is for his father . " Youth finds in the reclining chair what old age seeks around the cracker barrel .                     