@@686588

txt Mr. HARDING 'S modification of Mr. WILSON 'S executive order of March 31 , 1917 , placing under the civil service rules first , second and third class Postmasters , is approved and disapproved by the National Civil Service Reform League to the same extent and on the same grounds as THE TIMES disapproved and approved it immediately after its issue . The disapproval is confined solely to the requirement that , after the examinations have been rated and the results certified by the Civil Service Commission to the Postmaster General , he " shall " submit to the President the name of " one of the highest three qualified " eligibles for appointment . " This is an unjust interference with the prin-1 ciple of merit . The examinations are practical . They are fair tests of the administrative ability of the candidate . The man who passes the best examination , who is at the head of the eligible list , has presumably given the most convincing proof that he is best fitted for the job ; that he has had the best business drill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taking the first name has been successful in practice and has removed the intruding hand of politics from appointments to a great - extent . Still , Mr. HARDING and Mr. HAYS were subjected to a great pressure from the spoilsmen to withdraw all the 13,000 1Presidential Postmasters from the competitive system . They deserve praise for resisting that pressure . It is to be hoped that the concession made to old partisan prejudices will not be permanent and will work less evil than is feared . The league fears that selection from the first three on the eligible list will be construed by Democrats and by Republicans not busy in politics as a notice that only Republicans with the orthodox " pull " will be appointed ; and that consequently the former class wo n't think it worth while to take the examination . That fear is yet to be justified . It would ' be a , sagacious course for Mr. HAYS to follow the recommendation of the league and as a rule submit to the President the first name on the eligible list . The merit system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic , but it saves members of Congress and Federal officials from an immense amount of annoyance , and is best in the end , even from a partisan point of ? view . There can be no " soreheads " when merit drives out " influence " and favoritism . All these Postmasterships ought to be put in the classified service . At present the Civil Service Commission is but the Post Office Department 's agent in selecting a nominee , who has to be confirmed by the Senate . Mr. HARDING is in favor of the necessary legislation to bring These places within the competitive classified service . The league will urge such legislation upon this Congress . Its passage would be a good thing for the country , for the President and the Postmaster General , and for members of Congress . Probably it will be a long time , however , before the last see their own as well as the public interest in this matter .                     