@@693809

txt More than 172,000 people are in the northeastern and middle parishes of Louisiana which are definitely listed as in danger of inundation by the flood waters of the Mississippi now surging do ? n the valley , the crest of which is believed tonight to be off Vicksburg . This estimate was made this after ? noon by former Governor James M. Parker , director of flood relief for the State of Louisiana . Mr. Parker had just wired warnings to the people of Mark'svnle and Bunkie , in the parish of - Avoyelles , to seek refuge in the highlands , making fourteen towns in , the danger zones warned of possible impending disaster in the last twentyfour hours . Reports to Baton Rouge tonight are of a very grave nature as to conditions in the Vidalia and Delta Point sections , ' Vidalia being opposite Natchez and Delta Point on the Louisiana side a few miles north of Vicksburg . The town of Bardell Richland Parish is reported six feet under water and Rayville , the parish seat , is expected to be submerged before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it develops , would add a great lake to the area now inundated as a result of the crevasses to the south and the rush of waters from the crevasses of the Arkansas River in the southeastern part of Arkansas . ? Parishes Bearing Brunt of Flood . The parishes which are receiving the brunt of the rush from the Mississippi are Avoyelles , Catahoula , Concordia , the northern part of Lasalle , Eastern Rapides , Tensas , Northern St. Landry , and the northern strip of Pointe Coupee . The crisis will come when the waters from the four crevasses in the Vidalia section join up with the flood pouring across the Arkansas-Louisiana border line from the breaks in the Arkansas River levees . It is these Arkansas crevasses which are responsible for the distress in the parish of Morehouse and the two Carrolls , East and West . Just how much of the territory in the threatened parishes is already under water is a question not possible to answer tonight . The best information to , be had , however , indicates that practically all of Concordia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that most of Catahoula is already flooded , and that a situation as grave is fast developing in the parish of Tensas . Lasalle and Rapides parishes are partially under water , and thousands ' of acres in Morehouse parish are expected to be added to the inundated total in the next day or two . Bastrop , the seat of Morehouse , is now caring for more than 1,000 refugees , and more are arriving every hour . Madison parish is also reported as suffering , but as yet the situation there has not assumed serious proportions . The flood waters of the Arkansas are surging across the line at a point northeast of Bastrop and at another a few miles from Kilbourne , the lastnamed place being in West Carroll Parish . Lake Providence , in East Carroll Parish . which is said to be in danger of inundation by the back water from the Vidalia breaks , is the home of Senator Joseph E. Ransddif , senior Senator from Louisiana Senator Ransdell , who is said to be the only real " dirt farmer " in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Providence . At this time , with the crest still days away , the worst point on the river is a threatened break about five miles south of Vidalia , the seat of Concordia Parish . At last reports the levee , at this point was still holding , but " muddy water " was seeping through , and " muddy water , " say the river men , is a seldom-failing indication that a , break is imminent . There . already are four breaks south of Vidalia , and the threatened fifth , if it develops , will be the worst of all of them , as it affects one of the strategic points in the whole line of the main Levee system . The refugees from Concordia , Cate-. houla , Avoyelles and Tensas Parishes are being taken to Natchez and other concentration camps on the highlands along the Mississippi State side of the river . So far no refugees have been brought to Baton Rogue , where arrangements are completed to handle 15,000 homeless in forty-eight hours , 7,500 of them at a moment 's notice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the reception of victims of possible breaks for a distance of fifty miles to the north and the same distance to the south of Baton Rouge . Threat From the Red River . The threat to the parish of St. Landry is from the Red River . Parts of the parish are already under water and the fear is that before many hours have passed a fourth if not a third of the parish will have been flooded , rendering more hundreds of people homeless . The big danger spot In the Red River flood area is at Bayou des Glasses , the water from which may overflow into the parish of St. Martin to a point near St. Martinville , which is famous as the Louisiana setting of Longfellow 's " Evangeline " and the little town where the " Evangeline " oak still stands . The city of Alexandria , the principal town in the Northern Louisiana dauget. zone , is believed safe from inunda ? . tion , but the water may come perilously near the city limits . Hundreds of men are working day and night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supreme assault which is expected to materialize in the next two or three days . At Monroe , the centre of one of the greatest natural gas deposits in America , a day and night battle to defeat the flood is likewise being waged . More than 150 oil and gas wells are reported to have been shut down . It is the Arkansas flood waters surging down the Bayou Macon that threaten Monroe and the surrounding country . A refugee camp on the hills three miles from Monroe is increasing hourly in population and refugees are now detoured to other camps at Epps . Oak Grove , Delhi and Bastrop . The situation tonight is that the Mississippi is rushing south at constantly increasing levels , while the Red River in Louisiana and the Arkansas in Arkansas are racing at record-breaking heights to their confluences with the main stream , engulfing vast areas and rendering hundreds homeless . The homeless population of the flooded districts Mr. Parker was unwilling to estimate tonight , but the total it is certain will run far into the thousands . No estimate is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to homes and other properties in the path of the various flood waters now spreading out over a land as fertile as any in the Mississippi Valley . Mr. Parker said tonight : " We are waging a desperate battle to save the levees , or as much of them as possible , and the lives of our people . We have a splendid organization of State-wide proportions and are ready to answer any call from any part of the areas threatened with disaster . " Our life-saving facilities are excellent . We have more than 200 flatbottomed boats that can go into shallow waters ready for instant service ' in the Baton Rouge zone . Other fleets are operating In the danger areas to the north . The boats are in part manned by the 1,600 cadets of Louisiana State University . These lads have been receiving expert instruction for weeks nast . " The relief and rescue organization is perfectly systematized , one committee being in charge of thousands of automobiles and auto trucks which await the signal , another of the water craft , another of supplies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds , foods , clothing and medicines . " Here in Baton Rouge we are ready to receive from 15,000 to 20,000 refugees in the first forty-eight hours . hope , of course , we will never be called on to care for so many . It is a vast problem and you can appreciate its size when I say there are 172,000 people in the parishes now facing the flood threat . " Damage Committee Called . Governor Simpson issued a call this afternoon for the committee he named some days ago to handle the question of damages in the parishes of Plaquemines and St. Bernard resulting from the dynamiting of the main levee at Poydras in the effort to divert enough water to guarantee the safety of New Orleans . In a telegram to the members of the committee Governor Simpson said : " In calling you together to begin your arduous duties , it may not be amiss to say that the unselfish sacrifice of the people of St. Bernard and Plaquemines Parishes in voluntarily surrendering their homes and their property to insure the safety of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mississippi River should ever be considered one of the most patriotic sacrifices the world has ever beheld . " In dealing with these patriotic people I know you will be fair , honest and conscientious . Your duty toward them should be measured by the duty they have performed toward the people of New Orleans . Let any doubt be resolved in their favor . Patriotism is not a commodity that can be bought and sold . I know you will do your full duty by and between all parties . Man can do no more . " Governor Simpson will not attend the committee meeting , which will be held in the city tomorrow , owing to the serious situation in the parishes to the north . He is remaining in Baton Rouge to be near relief headquarters .                     