@@696162

txt THE CROAT-SERB SITUATION Protest of Minorities Said to Be Proceeding Pacifically. ro the Editor of The New York Votes : According to a special cable from Sofia of April 21 , published in ? your issue of April 22 , Dr. Anton Pavelitch , former leader of the Croatian Federalist party , fleeing from the established dictatorship in Yugoslavia , had arrived in Bulgaria and had been joyfully received by the Macedonian revolutionaries . Dr. Pavelitch and the national committee representing the revolutionaries are said to have issued a joint declaration of their intention to make common cause against the Belgrade Government . As , under the present regime in Yugoslavia , it is impossible to use legal methods of asserting Croatian autonomy , Dr. Pavelitchhas agreed with the Macedonian revolutionaries to try the notorious methods of the latter by a renewal of guerrilla warfare along the Bulgarian-Yugoslav frontier . Your informant then says that the Belgrade press , strongly resenting this joint declaration of Pavelitch and the Macedonian revolutionaries , accuses the Bulgarian Government of sympathizing and acting in concert with them , and declares the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be utterly false . What has really happened disproves the interpretation put upon it and the deductions drawn from it by your informant , The Macedonian Tribune of April 25 , a Bulgarian paper published in Indianapolis , has bas made public the declaration which has been cabled to it from Sofia . It reads as follows : " Both parties acknowledge that the impossible regime to which Croatia and Macedonia are subjected enjoins on them equally to coordinate their legal activities for the acquisition of human national rights , political liberty and complete State independence of Croatia and Macedonia . Hence the two parties declare that for the future they will exert and unify their efforts for the attainment of these ideals of the two brotherly peoples . " The declaration is signed by Dr. Pavelitch and Dr. Stanisheff , the chairman of the Committee of the Macedonian Immigrants ' Societies in Bulgaria . These societies are legally constituted bodies for benevolent purposes . They are not revolutionary , but by legal means , as press agitation , public conferences in European cities , memorials and petitions to the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe and secure the rights promised by the peace treaties to the Bulgarian minorities under Serbian and Greek rule . These methods can hardly be called revolutionary . Dr. Stanisheff was at Geneva during the last meeting of the Council of the League of Nations and presented to it a memorandum on conditions in Macedonia . Aside from the fact that the joint declaration has in view only legal methods of action , the implication of a joint Croat-Macedonian guerrilla warfare along the Bulgarian-Yugoslav border is absurd , The Bulgarian frontier touches nowhere Croatia , while the number of Croats living in Bulgaria is insignificant . If , as your informant says , these Croats have dissociated themselves from Dr. Pavelitch 's activities , one fails to see how such a warfare could be carried on with any chance of success . With no possible help from Croats in Croatia or Bulgaria it would be both foolhardy and futile . It is evident from these facts that the accusation brought against the Bulgarian Government of sympathizing with or conniving at any revolutionory schemes against Yugoslavia is unwarranted . S. PANARETOFF . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   