@@694052

txt Australia 's credit position abroad will be appreciably bettered , in the opinion of financial circles here , through applying the program of concerted borrowing debt redemptions , agreed to by the state premiers . Provision for refunding of all outstanding home and foreign loans , to which the states as well as the Commonwealth will contribute , will put a check on their possible excessive exuberance in both borrowing and spending . The net result will be that Australian loans will merit a better rating than they have had in the past . Among the decisions reached by the premiers sire the following : the Commonwealth is to take over all public debts of the states , both domestic and foreign . The Commonwealth . which collects customs and some other taxes for all of the states , is to apply part of the proceeds towards interest payments , the states to contribute the balance . Both are to contribute to sinking funds which are to supply existing debts as well as new borrowings . The Australian Loan Council is to manage the debt and future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 7s 6d per ? 100 a year , of which the Commonwealth will contribute 2s 6d and the ' states Se . On new loans there will be a sinking fund of 10s per ? 100 , half to be provided by the Commonwealth and half by the state concerned . Old debts are to be redeemed within 58 years and new ones within 53 years from the date of raising the loans . Through this new scheme the Commonwealth will be making a ? 823,000 a year larger contribution to the states than through the old . Judging also from recent experience , the states can look for better loan terms , borrowing collectively through the Commonwealth than an their own . J. R. Collins , Commonwealth financial adviser in London , pointed out to Dow , Jones &; Co. specific advantages in the new method over the old . PROVISION FOR REDEMPTION " The sound sinking fund will receive annual contributions from revenue raised by taxation , and the operation of this fund will redeem the whole public debt of the Commonwealth and the states between 50 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the most important thing to do with the public debt is to pay it off . " The sinking fund moneys will in part be used to pay off loans on maturity , but will be applied in most part to repurchasing stocks in the market . Thus investors who desire to realize will benefit by the continual presence in the market of a large buyer . Redemption of debt will begin immediately after its creation . " The whole of the borrowing of Australia will be coordinated . New loans will be timed to take advantage of the most favorable markets and will be put out without competition as between the several Australian governments . In the new conditions it will be possible to use short loans to advantage if markets temporarily harden . " NEW SOUTH WALES IN LINE New South Wales of all states was the one most hostile to the new scheme . This was mainly because its socialist premier , Mr. Lang , had been hostile to concerted financial measures and any control over state 's financial autonomy . Also this state has largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get best terms abroad , and have least need of collective borrowing . N. S. W. is not hostile to sinking funds as such in that it assumed them in both the recent New York and London loans . It now merely assures itself a year of respite from the additional sinking fund burdens . The new scheme makes it possible for states to avoid competing against each other for loans in New York and London . In the past there has frequently been intense competition , which turned all to the advantage of the lender . Even this year there was some conflict between the Commonwealth and New South Wales as to borrowing  --  out . side the Loan Council . The Commonwealth is much better placed to determine the best moment for borrowing , than were the individual states . The new scheme undoubtedly will put restrictions on states ' home and foreign borrowing , but precisely these restrictions will improve Australia 's credit position abroad . Australian states are in the fortunate position now of having no foreign maturities to meet in the next two years . New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most of the states will do moderate borrowing in the next few years abroad as well as at home , to help finance their expansion . Negotiations for the impending Queensland loan now shift from the Commonwealth to the state 's loan council . No final decision has been made whether the financing will be done in New York or London .                     