@@689175

txt After a ten-day recess , the anthracite wage conference will reconvene at the Hotel Ambassador tomorrow with the Prestige of John L. Lewis , President of the United Mine Workers of America , and chief negotiator for the miners , enhanced by two outstanding events in labor circles . The first was the stand taken by Lewis in favor of trade unionism and against communism when lie revoked the charter of District 26 of the United Mine Workers , embracing the Nova Scotian bituminous fields , ended an unauthorized strike admittedly called for political purposes , and proceeded to reorganize the miners of the district on trade union lines . The second was his ironing out of the bitter factional quarrel in District 1 , embracing a majority of the ' anthracite miners . President Lewis said today he was " well pleah3d " with developments in Nova Scotia , and was confident " the situation was being rapidly clarified " in that section . He has been in constant communication by wire with Silby Barrett of Glace Bay , Nova Scotia , designated by Lewre as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given him ? to reorganize the miners and get them back to-work in the mines of the British Empire Steel Corporation , with which . - the United Mine Workers have a wage contract . It was learned . that already a large Percentage of the locals in the district have voted to return , and that referendums are in progress in other locals . Reports to Lewis ' indicated that every local to which the question was submitted voted to recognize the authority . of the International President as against that of the deposed . officers , to return to work . Provisional President Silby Barrett has tied up ' the funds of the former district organization , and . the authorized strike is now . without financial support from recognized union sources ... The striking . miners drew their last pay - two weeks ago . and speedy collapse of the entire is expected . Settlement of : Ile factional row in District 1 will mean that Rinaldo Cappellini , regarded as the . leading agitator among anthracite workers , . will sitas a member of - the miners ' section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aug. - 1 . Despite his- record . however . it is generally understood that CappelIini will uphold Lewis in the present negotiations . The fact that William J. Brennan , former President of District 1 , whose friends opposed seating Cannellini , voluntarily withdrew from the contest , is regarded as supporting the . theory that Cappellini will not De a disturbing factor . Bran nan has long been regarded as one of the strongest and ablest of Lowle 's supporters . Although the joint wage conference le scheduled to resume tomorrow , It Is not regarded as likely that there will be formal discussion on the wage ' question until Tuesday . Important developments are expected during the week as indicating the stand of the operators on the question of complete recognition or the United Mine Workers In the anthracite fields . At present , anthracite operators deal openly and exclusively with the United Mine workers on all matters in the anthracite field , but official recognition , which would carry with it the " check off " System . by which union dues would be collected at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mine Workers , has not been granted . The chief objectIonvoiced private:1K by operators is that the " check off system would strengthen the United Mine Workers campaign fund to be used in non-union fields , particularly in West Virginia . Another major point involved Is wages . The operators have already let the miners know that they regard the present wage as " adequate . " although both sides have shown a clispoliitionto dig deeply into this question In an attemptl to reach an adjustment . In neither camp can there be said to be optimism as to an early settlement of the issue , with little more than five I weeks to Aug. 31 , with the possibility of a strike on that date if a new contract is not negotiated . The situation is admittedly serious so far as the coal consuming public is concerned . Hopeful factors , however , are that neither side has shown a disposition to " rock the boat . " and that both miners and operators would hesitate to precipitate another strike which , it Is generally believed , would mean . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NOW Crash of General Traffic . May Delay Deliveries in Fall and Winter , Officials Say . Railroads are Joining with F. R. Wadleigh ; Federal Fuel Distributor , in urging the public to purchase its Winter - supply of coat at once so the delivery can be made before the crush of Fall business sets in . Railroad men say that in the Fall they will have to exert every effort to handle the general traffic , especially the heavy crop movement , and there will be danger of delay to coal shipments . This , year , they say , the railroads ' themselves are practicing the policy they have urged on the public and are storing their coal for Fall and Winter now . A recent survey of conditionl 's showed that the railroads of the United States had more than 10.000,000 tons of bituminous  --  coal stored along their lines , which was 4,000,000 tons in excess Of the coal in storage at the same time last year . Many officials are predicting that ' by September the roads will have enough coal on hand to supply the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1923 . If the private consumer would follow the ' same policy , they say , he would not only relieve the railroads of a large part of the coal movement during the busiest time of the rear , but he would be certain of a supply of coal for Winter . In - his statement urging the public to purchase coal , F. R. Wadleigh says : " The ' American Railway Association points out that , while the carriers are in shape to handle and move all coal with reasonable promptness , provided the movement is distributed throughout the entire year , they are not provided with surplus equipment and - facilities In sufficient quantities to offset in the Fall months failure of consumers to buy coal during the Sunimer months when sufficient transportation is available . "                     