@@686042

txt The newspapers of Buenos Aires are divided in their comment on the withdrawal ' of the Argentine delegation from the Assembly of the League of Nations in Geneva . some of them complaining that the Government had not taken the people into its confidence as to its position before ? the departure of the delegation for Geneva . Others assert that Argentina has put itself in the company of the nations defeated in the war , and in the position of being an advocate for Germany . La Nacion says the position of the Argentine delegation is impossible . " The delegation was sent with a mysterious mission whose object was to dazzle the world , " the newspaper asserts , " declaring itself thereby the champion of the German disaster . It only succeeded , as was logical , in making us participants in this disaster . Thus , like the defeated countries , we remain outside the League . " But while for them this situation is a tragic result , while for the United States it is a complication of the Treaty of Versailles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquering power , while for Russia it is a question of principles diametrically oppose6. for us it constitutes flight . It is worse than collapse . it is ridiculous . " The country remains in an attitude dangerously uncomfortable , responsibility for which the Government can not share with the people because it is the result of secret diplomacy . The time has come to ask in the name of patriotism if the Government is going to prefer its own interests to that of the nation , to its good name before the world . " La Razon withholds judgment until the Government more clearly discloses the attitude it has assumed . The newspaper says that the League of Nations can not be a partial league , wherein lies its defect , and in order to make progress it must be corrected . La Prensa also withholds judgment until the Government defines its attitude , but severely criOcizes the manner in which the Government proceeded in adhering to the League and in withdrawing its delegation . The newspaper declares the Government had not comprehended the League pact and sent the Argentine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a spectator and that Argentina could appear there , not as a member of the League . but merely to help establish it . La Prensa also eriticiz : - s. the Government for not having submitted its adherence to the League to Congress for its approval . The Patria - degli Italians , the organ- of the Italian colony in Argentina , warmly praises what it terms the ideality of Argentina 's 1 attitude . The newspaper says Senor Pueyrredon did logically what he had to do after the Assembly declined to consider Argentina 's amendments . But it compares Senor Pueyrredon 's , efforts to those of Don Quixpte and refers to Paraguay as his Sancho Panza . La Argentina , supporting the Government , asks by what right the nations signatory to the treaty expect all other nations to follow them " with closed mouths " in decisions which they have made unquestionably for their own benefit . Chilean Comment on Withdrawal . SANTIAGO , Chile , Dec. 6 . ? La Nacion , commenting on the retirement of the Argentine delegation from the League Assembly , thinks the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says the papk , " this action may signify rupture of LatinAmerican solidarity . Secondly , it may seriously affect the existence of the League , weakened ? by the obstinate abstention of the United States . Regarding the first , perhaps Senor Pueyrredon acted after exchanging ideas with other delegations from this Continent . " La Nacion asserts that Argentina 's withdrawal will appear as a perturbing element in the concert of world powers , and adds : " Whatever importance may be attributed to the idea of equality of nations , it is impossible to ignore the inequality of interests , influences , wealth and populations . It would be an error to adopt merely a legal stand as an obstacle to a state of things in which the foremost nations of the world see embodied peace and tranquility for all . " It would be another matter if Argentina 's action responds to the tendency of the American policy , signifying consideration of the League as a purely European entity . Such an evolution would merit the most careful attention of our Government . " The Diario Ilustrado @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as other nations remain and so long as there is hope that the League may be Of benefit to the world . " We remain not as a great nation , but as an independent nation , " says the paper . " Let us conform to ' the logic of events and show that when we take the road we follow until it is impassable. "                     