@@696022

txt Renewed discussion of the problem of old-age dependency is based on the steady growth in the number of elderly people . In the 1880 census the number of persons 65 years old and over constituted 3.4 per cent of  --  the total population . In 1920 the ratio was 4.7 per cent , and next year 's count will no doubt show that the trend is still upward . It is not only social workers who view ? these figures with concern . now about the social philosophers of the post-war era who have been accustomed to explain the ills and wrongs of the world in terms of the Wicked Old Men ? They are notoriously the ones who make wars , practice imperialism , suppress free speech , ' display insufficient sympathy with the British Labor party , remain dubious about Russia and in other ways obstruct Progress . The outlook for humanity will be drearier than ever with three wicked old men making mischief where only two tried to do ? their worst half a century ago . In what . sense can the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . old men who are increasing in numbers ? Well , the prospect is not so dark as it seems at first glance . The ratio of old people is going up , but - only at the expense of the very youngest members of the community . Children under 5 were 13.8 per cent of the population in 1880 and 10.9 per cent in 1920 . This is not a loss for Progrees , since with the best ? will in the world we can hardly speak of babies under 5 as soldiers in the onward . march of the free spirit . Even in the next age class , children 5-14 years , comparatively few forwardAhinkers may be sought for ; and this class declined from 24.3 per cent of ? the total population in 1880 to 20.8 per cent in 1920 . Youth of an age to act and make itself felt would comprise the two age classes 15-24 years and 25-44 years , the former the rank and file , the latter the . leaders and thinkers ( though a very considerable ' body of thinking is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no relative decline serious ? enough to cause . anxiety . Assuming that all persons 45 years old and over are Wicked Old Men ( and Women ) , their percentage in fifty years has gone up from 16 to 20.8 of the total population , or just about the same rate of advance as shown by the army of Progress , the 15-44 year classes , who are very nearly 50 per cent of the total population .                     