@@688096

txt Washington observers in Congress and out , judged by opinions expressed today , expect an unfavorable reaction to the bitter declarations made yesterday by Samuel Gompers , President of the American Federation of Labor , in regard to the restraining order issued by the Federal Court in Chicago against those who are interferring with the operation of interstate railway transportation . The view is rather general here that Mr. Gompers will find he made an unpopular move when he announced he had ordered a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Federation Of Labor for next Saturday to consider calling a strike of all union labor throughout tile country as a protest against the course of the Harding Administration in asking for a restraining. order and the action of Judge Wilkerson in granting it temporarily , pending further hearing . It Is too early yet , however , according letiii4Wit : here ; Yor ' the country td show its temper in regard to gr . Clompers 's lmpliej threat that the whole nation was in danger of becoming paralyzed by a natioaat strike of all branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as significant that between 400 and 500 telegrams commending the procedure of President Harding and Attorney General Daugherty in an effort to prevent interferenJe with , transportation were . received at the Department of Justice today . Officials said that one telegram only protested against the course of the Administration , and this came from a labor leader . Very few messages were received at the White House . Inquiry among members of Congress showed , as on yesterday , a prevailing disposition to refrain from comment for Publication concerning the policy of the Government in applying for an Injunction . Senators and Representatives were cautious , but the impression was conveyed that , whatever the effect of the Chicago injunction , public opinion will resent Mr. Goinper 's implication that . union labor might retaliate against the Government by calling on all trade unionists to quit work . One phase of opinion was stressed by a ntimber sufficient to indicate a very general tendency in Washington to believe that the vast majority of the American people , who are confronted with the possibility of freezing this Win ter unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action of the Administration in trying to keep trains moving . They approve the restraining order from a Federal Court . which gives the Government more direct authority to take measures to prevent interference with transportation and to punish those guilty of crimes lik3 those which Attorney General Dough erty cited to Judge Wilkerson when he applied for the restraining order . Gopspers Again Pledges Support . That Mr. Gompers and his associate-A ' in the management of the American Federation of Labor are all for the success of the strike of railway shopmen , which has produced the existing difficulties of the transportation system , was shown today through the following telegram which Gompers sent to Bert M. Jewell , President of the Railway Employes ' Department . of the American Federation of labor : B. M. Jewell , President Railway Employes ' Department , A. F. of L. , 4,750 Broadway . Chicago Ill. : At the meeting of the labor executive representatives July 27. a resolution was adopted conveying to you , and through you to the striking railway shopmen , the pledge of our sympathy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meeting of the same conference this evening it was decided to ratify and emphasize the declaration made July 21 alai pledge anew our sympathy and support and the best wishes for the success of the striking railway shopmen in the attainment of their just cause . SAMUEL GOMPERS , Chairman Conference Labor Legislative Representatives . This telegram is regarded here as much more important and interesting than its terms suggest . While Mr. Campers was not ' one or those mentioned by name in the temporary restraining Order issued by Judge Wilkerson , and tile American Federation of Labor was not specifically made one of the defendants , the sweeping terms of the order may apply to such a message as that sent by Mr. Gompers to Mr. Jewell . The order restrains the named defendants " and , their attorneys , servants , agents , assistants , members , employes , and all persons acting in aid or in conjunction with them , " and it is provided also that all those who agree and arrange with them " are made parties defendant to the bill of complaint . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting ! n aid or in conjunction with them " from doing anything ' that might tend to interfere with transportation . That Mr. Gompers 's pledge of aid tr the strike is a violation of the restraining order is not believed here , but it is pointed out that it places him in the position of being made a party to the proceedings , in the Chicago Federal Court on Sept. 11 , when the application for a permanent injunction will be heard . Harding 's Secret Well Tient . The manner In which the decision of President Harding to have Attorney General Daugherty apply for a Federal injunction was guarded from publicity caused considerable comment in Washington today . Several persons knew of it . All of them kept the secret well . It was said today that few , if any , of those within - the informed circle expected , however , that the Attorney General would move so soon . Mr. Daugherty. left Washington for Chicago , on Thursday morning . It was said at the Department of Justice that the concluding part of his address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers of the railroad gtrike to the republic , was written on the train on his way West . His detailed statement to the court concerning specific cases of interference with the operation of trains was extemporaneous , it was said . Senator linute Nelson of Minnesota , to whom his friends refer as " a brave old Viking , " was not one of those who hesitated to comment on the course of the Government in trying to check interference with the operations of trains . Rising in his place in the Senate today , while Senator Cummins 's coal distribution bill was under consideration , Mr. Nelson declared that striging labor stood with a club to prevent other men from working . The great question that ( - entreated the American people , he said , was that of liberty to work for a living . He attributed what he said was an intpreasion among railroad worle2rs that they controlled the country to the action of the Congress in passing the Adamson Eight-hour law in 1916 . " I never could see much good . " said Senator Nelson . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to deal with emergencies like this . To raise a lot of constitutional objections and then not propose any remedy , but have existing things continue , fs a good deal like Nero fiddling when Rome was burning . Says Rail Labor Thinks It Controls . " Under the Adamson law , under the Administration of President Wilson . railroad labor was utterly demoralized . We yielded to the threat of the railroad unions to hold up the entire transportation system of the country . What has been the result ! These railroad men have been possessed since that time . many of , them , with the idea that they controlled the country and that the Government of the Unitrd States was absolutely impotent . y " No one denies the right of these unions to orgardze to enter into collective bargaining , but the trouble is these unions when they strike  --  as they call it , when they quit work  --  they stand with a club in their hands to prevent other men taking their places and doing the work they left . " 1 hear a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have heard very little about the liberty of labor  --  liberty to work for a living . That is the great question which confronts the American people . " Senator Nelson read a letter from a constituent in Minnesota calling attention to the conduct of strikers against men wishing to work . The correspondent suggested that if , instead of talking about taking over the railroads , the Government would protect the men at work the situation would be met . Another outspoken Senator was Mr. Reed of Pennsylvania , the newest and next to the youngest member in point of years . He is 42 and little more than half the age of Senator Nelson , who is in his eightieth year . He had had considerable experience with matters relating to labor , and was foremost in urging the Pennsylvania Legislature to enact an employers ' liability law . " If Samuel Gompers wants to set the cause of union labor back a quarter of a century , " said Senator Reed in response to a ** " a general strike is the way to do it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of Mr. Gormers and organized labor on the rest o fthe country . As to the outcome of that war we need only to Consider that union labor controls only All Sides Reticent . WASHINGTON , Sept. ** telegram sent by Samuel Gompers to the Railway Employes ' Department after a conference of the legislative representatives at Federation headquarters constituted virtually the only comment on the strike situation to conic from labor union officials here during the ( lay . Road representatives and officials of the Government also were reticent in discussing the Chicago injunction suit . Although for three hours the Senate gave its full attention to coal distribution legislation drafted to meet the strike emergency , there was TVA a mention of the Chicago proceedings in the whole debate , and officials of the executive departments indicated that they preferred to let the Attorney General 's injunction petition speak for itself . It was said at Labor Federation head , quarters that Mr. Gompers 's telegram to Mr. Jewel was all the Federation President cared . to add to his statement of yesterday , in which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision of the rights of organized labor , and declared the unions would stand upon Ihe guarantees of industrial freedom given them under the Constitution . In view of talk of a possible general strike , it was pointed out again that the American Federation had no authority to call for such action , although it was said resolutions and petitions front local unions and others advocating a nation-wide walkout would he laid before the meeting of the Executive Council to be held here next Saturday .                     