@@693485

txt American policy in China was set forth tonight in a statement by Secretary Kellogg which made it plain that the United States does not care to negotiate for relinquishment of extraterritorial rights until China is prepared to provide protection by law and through her courts to American citizens , their rights and property . Existing treaties between China and the United States , Mr. Kellogg emphasized , were ratified by the Senate and can not be abrogated , but must be superseded by " new treaties " negotiated with somebody representing China and subsequently ratfied by the Senate . The American Government stands ready now , as it did in the Chinese customs tariff conference , to continue the negotiations on the whole subject of tariff autonomy and extraterritoriality , or to take up negotiations with China " on behalf of the United States alone , " Mr. Kellogg declared , if any Government , or delegates be found able to speak for China . The only question , he asserted , was with whom the United States " could negotiate . " President Coolidge 's declaration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect the lives of Americans in China , with force if necessary , was reiterated in Mr. Kellogg 's formal statement of policy . Will Defend Life and Property . " The Government of the United States , " Mr. Kellogg said , " expects that the people of China and their leaders will recognize the right of American citizens in China to protection for life and property during the conflict for which they are not responsible . In the event that the Chinese authorities are unable to afford such protection it is of course the fundamental duty of the United States to protect the lives and property of its citizens . " It was with the " possible necessity for this in view " that American naval forces were sent to Chinese waters , he added . The American Government holds no " concessions " in China , Mr. Kellogg pointed out , and wishes to deal with that country with liberal spirit , but insists that there shall be no discrimination against this Government 's nationals in favor of the nationals of other powers . The Kellogg statement has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a reply to the British memorandum of last month urging the powers to adopt a more conciliatory attitude toward China . It is also looked upon as a reply to the movement in Congress through the Porter resolution for independent American action on China for immediate negotiation of new treaties . Copies of the statement were handed to the diplomatic representatives in Washington of all interested powers and its text cabled to Peking for simultaneous publication there . Text of the Statement . Secretary Kellogg 's statement was as follows : At this time , when there is so much discussion of the Chinese situation , I deem it my duty to state clearly the position of the Department of State on the question of tariff autonomy and the relinquishment of extraterritorial rights . The United States has always desired the unity , the indepenC.ence and prosperity of the Chinese nation . It has desired that tariff control and extraterritoriality , provided by our treaties with China , should as early as possible be released . It was with that in view that the United States made the declaration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1903 and also entered into the treaty of Washington of Feb. 6 , 1922 , providing for a tariff conference to be held within three months after the coming into force of the treaty . The United States is now and has been ever since the negotiation of the Washington treaty prepared to enter into negotiations with any Government of China or delegates who can represent or speak for China not only for the putting into force of the surtaxes of the Washington treaty , but entirely releasing tariff control and restoring complete tariff autonomy to China . The United States would expect . however , that it be granted most favored nation treatment and that there should be no discrimination against the United States and ? its eitigene in customs duties or , , taltesa favor of the citizens of other nations or discrimination by grants of special privileges and that the open ioor in China shall be maintained ; and further that China should afford every protection to American citizens , to their property rights . The United States is prepared to put into force the recommendations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty at once and to negotiate the release of extraterritorial rights as soon as China is prepared to provide protection by law and through her courts to American citizens , their rights and property . The willingness of the United States to deal with China in the most liberal spirit will be borne out by a brief history of the events since making the Washington treaty . That treaty was ratified by the last one of the signatory powers on July 7 , 1925 , and the exchange of ratifications took place in Washington on Aug. 6 , 1925 . Before the treaties finally went into effect and on June 24 , 1925 , the Chinese Government addressed identic notes to the signatory powers asking for the revision of existing treaties . On the first of July , 1925 , I sent instructions to our Minister in Peking , which instructions I also communicated to all the other Governments , urging that this should be Made the occasion of evidencing to the Chinese our willingness to consider the question of treaty revision . Ready for Tariff Autonomy . I urged that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference regarding the Chinese customs tariff and stated that the United States believed that this special tariff conference should be requested , after accomplishing the work required by the treaty , to make concrete recommendations neon which a program for granting complete tariff autonomy might be worked out . The delegates of the United States were given full power to negotiate a new treaty recognizing China 's tariff autonomy . At the same time I urged the appointment of the commission to investigate extraterritoriality , with the Understanding that the commission should be authorized to include in its reports recommendations for the gradual relinquishment of the extraterritorial rights . Prior to this the Chinese Government urged the United States to use its influence with the interested powers to hasten the calling of the conference on tariff matters and the appointment of the extraterritorial commission , and for each Government to grant to its representatives the broad power to consider the whole subject of the revision of the treaties and to make recommendations upon the subject of the abolition of extraterritorial rights . This was in harmony with the views of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the United States and each of the other powers having tariff treaties with China evidenced their intention to appoint their delegates to the tariff conference . By a note which has been published , the powers informed China of their willingness to consider and discuss any reasonable proposal that might be made by the Chinese Government on the revision of the treaties on the subject of the tariff and also announced their intention of appointing their representatives to the extraterritorial commission for the purpose of considering the whole subject of extraterritorial rights and authorizing them to make recommendations for the purpose of enabling the Governments concerned to consider what , if any , steps might be taken with a view to the relinquishment of extraterritorial rights . Delegates were promptly appointed and the Chinese tariff conference met on Oct. 26 , 1925 . ' Urged Levying of a Surtax . Shortly after the opening of the conference and on Nov. 3 , 1925 , the American delegation proposed that the conference at once authorize the levying of a surtax of 2/2 per cent . on necessaries , and , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the levying of a surtax of up to 5 per cent , on luxuries as provided for by the Washington Treaty . Our delegates , furthermore , announced that the Government of the United States was prepared to proceed at once with the negotiation of such an agreement or agreements as might be necessary for making effective provisions of the Washington Treaty of Feb. 6 , 1922 . They affirmed the principle of respect - for China 's tariff autonomy and announced that they were prepared forthwith to negotiate a new treaty which would give effect to that principle and which should make provision for the abolition of likin , for the removal of tariff restrictions contained in existing treaties and for the putting into effect of the Chinese national tariff law . On Nov. 19 , 1925 , the Committee on Provisional Measures of the Conference , Chinese delegates participating , unanimously adopted the following resolution : " The delegates of the powers assembled at this conference resolve to adopt the following proposed article relating to tariff autonomy , with a view to incorporating it , together with other matters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be signed at this conference . " The contracting powers other than China hereby recognize China 's right to enjoy tariff autonomy ; agree to remove the tariff restrictions which are contained in existing treaties between themselves , respectively , and China , and consent to the going into effect of the Chinese national tariff law on Jan. 1 , 1929 . " The Government of the Republic of China declares that the Mein shall be abolished simultaneously with the enforcement of the Chinese national tariff law ; and further declares that the abolition of the likin shall be effectively carried out by the first day of the first month of the eighteenth year of the Republic of China . Jan. 1 , 1929.7 " Conditions Block Conference . Continuously from the beginning of the conference our delegates and technical advisers collaborated with the delegates and technical advisers of the other powers , including China , in an effort to carry out this plan , viz. , to put into effect the surtaxes provided for in the Washington treaty and to provide for additional tariff adequate for all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Until about the middle of April , 1926 , there was every prospect for the successful termination of the conference to the satisfaction of the Chinese and the other powers . About that time the Government which represented China at the conference was forced out of power . The delegates of the United States and the other powers , however , remained in China in the hope of continuing the negotiations , and on July 3 , 1926 , made a declaration as follows : " The delegates of the foreign poweres to the Chinese Customs Tariff Conference met at The Netherlands Legation this morning . " They expressed the unanimous and . earnest desire to proceed with the work of the conference at the earliest possible moment when the delegates of the Chinese Government are in a position to resume discussion with the foreign delegates of the problems before the Conference . " The Government of the United States was ready then and is ready now to continue the negotiations on the entire subject of the tariff and extraterritoriality or to take up negotiations on behalf of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall negotiate . Would Negotiate New Treaties . As I have said heretofore , if China can agree upon the appointment of delegates representing the authorities or the people of the country , we are prepared to negotiate such a treaty . However , existing treaties which were ratified by the Senate of the United States can not be abrogated by the President , but must he superseded by new treaties negotiated with somebody representing China and subsequently ratified by the Senate of the United States . The Government of the United States has watched with sympathetic interest the nationalistic awakening of China and welcomes every advance made by the Chinese people toward reorganizing their system of government . During the difficult years since the establishment of the new regime in 1912 the Government of the United States has endeavored in every way to maintain an attitude of the most careful and strict neutrality as among the several factions that have disputed with one another for centre : in China . The Government of the United States expects , however , that the people of China and their leaders will recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life and property during the period of conflict for which they are not responsible . In the event that the Chinese authorities are unable to afford such protection it is of course the fundsmental duty of the United States to protect the lives and property of its citizens . It is with the possible necessity for this in view that American naval forces are now in Chinese waters . This Government wishes to deal with China in a most liberal spirit . It holds no concessions in China and has never manifested any imperialistic attitude toward that country . It desires , however , that its citizens be given equal opportunity with the citizens of the other powers to reside in China and to pursue their legitimate occupations . without special privileges . monopolies or spheres of special interest or influence .                     