@@689848

txt Yesterday 's dispatch from our Moscow correspondent presented in complete and vivid form a picture of economic conditions which call for a supreme effort on the part of the Soviet Government . Last year the State industries registered a loss of anywhere from 2:50,000,000 to 400 , - 000.000 gold rubles , and this in spite of the fact that the price of manufactured goods is so high as to put them out of reach of the peasantry who make up the bulk of the home market . At the same time private industry reaped notable profits . In commerce the spread between Government loss and the gains of private enterprise is still greater . One reason for the huge deficits incurred by the Government as manufacturer and trader is graft . Our correspondent minces no words about this . DZERZH INS KS , Rho as head of the Tcheka ruthlessly stamped out political opposition to the Soviet regime . and who subsequently saved the railroads from collapse by similar methods , has now been made head of the Supreme Economic , Council . As an immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has seen a great light , " got rid of his auto and his lady friends , " and returned to normal office hours . Graft has been practiced on a colossal scale . A large part of the losses charged to the various Government " trusts " has arisen from the fact that they , instead of trading with each other directly , have been paying huge commissions to intermediaries . These middlemen have been the heads of the trusts themselves or in close affiliation with them . Graft is not the only reason , nor even the principal reason , for the industrial break-down . The basic vice lies in the theory of bureaucratic control and management of the economic functions of a great nation . DZERZHINSI : . Y may succeed in extirpating slackness and corruption on the part of the managers . but he can not supply the initiative that drives the economic machine . In his rehabilitation of the railroads he increased the capacity of the existing plant , but he did not add to the railway trackage or the rolling stock . He is delegated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be shaped by a State Planning Board which " plots out the whole " program of State direction of rail ! " roads , waterways , mines , industry . " commerce and finance . " What the Soviet Government . therefore . must now demonstrate is that their efficient operation can be " plotted out " by a set of Government officials for a population of nearly one hundred and fill y millions . There are those wit hin t he Corn ! munist ranks who believe that the thing can be done . They argue that the New Economic Policy , which restored private initiative in part , is responsible for Russia 's present troubles because it exposed Government enterprise to the competition of private business . Give the bureaucratic machine a full and free field . and State industry will yet justify itself . But the wiser heads among the Soviet leaders share no such illusions . They hold that foreign aid is indispensable . likAssiN believes that the State must ' get out of industry and commerce , not excluding foreign trade . It is this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British recognition of the . Soviets . has been received in certain quarters at Moscow . Foreign Minister TCHITCH 5-1:1 : bitterly complains of the conditions and " vexations " attached by Prime Minister MAcooNALD to the formal act of recognition . Russia 's great need is financial assistance from the outside . But the chances are that no such help will come while Great gritain is still debating with the Soviets the question of Russian debts and of Bolshevist propaganda .                     