@@687281

txt The Kenyon bill to relieve unemployment and prevent hard times , favorably reported by the Senate Labor Committee , is prompted by the best motives . The formula is as old as illness , at least as old as medicine . When you are ailing take something for it . When the community or the nation suffers from hard times , which is economic illness , take this Kenyon prescription to the national pharmacy , get it filled , then follow directions : The remedies are in part those recommended by the National Unemployment Conference  --  public works planned long in advance upon which the unemployed may be set to work ; undertakings of all kinds not immediately pressing that can be held in reserve to make jobs when trade slackens , industries slow up and men are laid off . The authors of the bill forget that in the realm of economics , quite as much as in maintaining the health of the body , an ounce of prevention is often worth a pound of cure . If by an act of Congress men and nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economic ills would be prevented . The prolongation of the Present almost world-wide disturbance in national and international finance , disorganization of commerce and the confusion and uncertainty in business generally , is doubtless duo more than to any other one thing to the rejection of theTreaty of Versailles by the United States . It was an act that left the world out of gear , that gave continued free play to evil forces which under the completed organization of the League of Nations would have given way to forces for good . The readjustment of the world , the peace of the world , were matters too big and vital to be treated in that small political way , and the shock had far-reaching consequences . This is an opinion held by many men of great authority in the domain of economics , and it is supported by a multitude of testimonies . Wars and tumults , the turbulence of unruly nations , armament maintained at great cost as though war impended , though the great war was so recently ended ; political intrigues to serve selfish national ends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some of them of great moment ? all these during the past two years have served not only as causes of positive disturbance , but have tended invariably to produce that state of mind known as want of confidence which is the earliest and surest portent and the invariable accompaniment of panicky times . The preventive , at least for most of these evils , was conscientiously prepared at Versailles by the chief men of all nations . Our re- ' jection of the dose deprived it of half of its effect and left a very great part of the world unprotected . We had a panic in 1893 . It had been , carefully prepared for , it might have been prevented . Want of confidence then was the fruit of twenty years of wicked attempts to give the country a dishonest currency . The Silver Purchase act of 1890 was a. culmination of the craze , and hard times followed from which we did not emerge till after the war with Spain . Doubtless it is easier to legislate cures than to enact preventions . The trouble is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be deceived about the merits and consequences of policies that under the test have evil results . It . is certain , too , that remedial measures like the Kenyon bill are only palliatives , not cures . They treat the local symptoms , they leave the deeper causes of constitutional disturbance untouched .                     