@@694267

txt Shipments of farm equipment by J. I. Case Threshing Machine Co. from its Racine factory have , so far t his year , exceeded last year by about 50'i. , and shipments show no immediate signs of slackening . This plant 's principal output consists of threshers , tractors and combines . An important factor in company 's improved showing this year has been an unusual demand for its smaller sized threshers . Although manufacturing schedules on these machines were stepped up substantially last fall in anticipation of increased demand , accumulated stocks at the factory and at some branches did not prove sufficient to fill all orders and the company has found it necessary to draw on surplus stocks in certain branches to fill orders for these threshers , particularly from the Northwest and from Canada . It will probably soon be necessary also , to draw on stocks of certain branches to fill orders for the smaller sized tractors. since the factory stocks of these machines are nearly exhausted . LARGE DEMANDS DIFFICULT TO MEET The length of time required to /mike many items of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force farm equipment manufacturers to keep schedulee well ahead of the times when products will be needed , with the result unexpectedly large demands are difficult to meet at the time they occur . Unusual demand this year for small threshers resulted from ' the experience of grain farmers last harvest time , when floods seriously interrupted the services furnished by the threshing machine rings on which farmers had been largely depending . It became apparent last fall that the territory covered by large threshing machines had become too large for sure and efficient service which would not be interrupted by unforseen events . Many of the more important grain farmers are now buying their own threshers in order to eliminate dependence on threshing machine rings . J. I. Case has been more than ordinarily successful in designing machines striking the fancy of the farmers , and it enjoying a large business in consequence . IMPROVING DIETMODS In addition , the company this year probably manufacture , ' over 800 nine-foot combines besides its regular output of 16-foot combines , and found the demand for the smaller combine so good it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for smaller threshers and combines , salestof the smaller Case tractor have been good and stocks of it are said to be low . Furthermore , the company manufactures among oth r implements at its Dixon plant , a one-way disc plow particularly suited for efficient work with a tractor , which therefore has found a good market among farmers who have mechanized their grain-growing equipment with Case products . Case continues to push its program of improving manufacturing methods with a view to further reduction is costa and widening the margin of profit .                     