@@690255

txt The Immigration bill , with its provision for Japanese exclusion , was signed today by President Coolidge . In a. statement given out soon after he had signed the bill the President explained that he had approved the bill because it had many desirable features and a comprehensive act was necessary at this time , but that lie would have vetoed it if Japanese delusion had stood alone , The President 's Statement . The President 's statement follows : In signing this bill , which In its main features I heartily approve . I regret the impossibility of severing from it the exclusion provision , which in the light of existing law affects especially the Japanese . ? I gladly recognize that the enact ' Merit : OrtlifS provision ' does not imply any change in our sentiment of admiration and cordial friendship for the Japanese people , a sentiment which has had and will continue to have abundant manifestation . The bill rather expresses the determination of the Congress to exercise : . its prerogative in defining by legisla .. 7 ? tion the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It should be noted that the bill exempts from the exclusion Provision Government officials , those Corning to this country as tourists or temporarily for business or pleasure , those in transit , seamen , those already resident here and returning from temporary absences , professors , ministers Of religion , students , and those who enter solely to carry on trade in pursuance of existing treaty provisions . But we have had for many years an understanding with Japan by which the Japanese Government has voluntarily , undertaken to prevent the , emigration of laborers to the United States and in view of this historic relation and of the feeling which inspired it it would have been much better , in my judgment , and more effective in the actual control of immigration , if we had continued to invite that cooperation which Japan was ? ready to give and had thus avoided creating any ground for misapprehension by an unnecessary statutory enactment , " Unnecessary and Deplorable . " . That course would not have derogated from the audiority of the Congr'hss to deal with the question in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground for disagreement as to the result we want , but this method of securing it is unnecessary and deplorable at this time . If , the exclusion provision stood alone , I should disapprove it without hesitation , if sought in this way at this time . But this bill is a comprehensive measure dealing with the whole subject of immigration and setting up the necessary administrative machinery . The present quota act of 1921 will terminate on June 30 next . It is of great importance that a comprehensive measure should take its place ' and that the arrangements for its administration should be provided at once in order to avoid hardship and confusion . I must therefore consider the bildas a whole and the imperative need of the country for legislation of this general character . For this reason the bill is approved . , New Law in Effect July 2 . The new law win go Into effect July 1 , when the temporary immigration law which limited immigration to 3 per cent . of the nationsl here under the 1910 census will expire . The new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excludes Japanese laborers , but lowers the total immigration yearly to the United States from about 370,000 to approximately 160,000 . The quota is based on 2- per cent . of the 1890 census . Senators who led the fight for exclusion today commented favorably on the action of President Coolidge . Senator Lodge , Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , said : " I felt confident that the President would sign the Immigration bill , for I know he sympathizes with the general purposes of the legislation and realizes fully its ' great importance . It is a very great measure , one of the most important if not the most important , that Congress has ever passed . It reaches far into the future . The President by his support of the bill will receive great and deserved credit from one end of the country to the other . It is a most important piece of constructive - legislation . " Senator Hiram W. Johnson of California said : " It is a matter of congratulation and rejoicing that California finally prevails in the long struggle for the protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... losed now , I apprehend neither difficulties nor dangers . " We have done what was clearly our right , without intention of ' offense. and , ' giving no cause for offense. offense can not justly betaken . California 's cherished policy is now the nation 's maturely determined policy . The victory , after so many attempted checks , gives us . great pleasure and increased rejoicing . ' Senator Shortridge of California said : " By approving the Immigration bill . the President has rendertd a great service to our country and to civilization . " We of California . who have urged the exclusion of aliens ineligible to ' citizenshin are profoundly grateful to those from other sections of the country who have assisted us . " While the bill was pending in Congress efforts were made by President Coolidge to influence Congress to postpone the effective date of Japanese exclusion until March , 1925 , so that the same object might be obtained by treaty . The conferees agreed to such postponement , but their report was rejected by the House , which fixed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did the same thing over the protest of the President . In both houses the votes were far in excess of the twothirds that would be necessary for passage over a veto . After the original action by the House Putting exclusion in the bill , Ambassador Hanihara , on April 11 , sent a note to the State Department in which he spoke of " grave consequences " . if the exclusion section became effective . This note greatly aroused the Senate , and some Senators say that the exclusion section might not have been accepted by the Senate if this note had not been written . Subsequent explanations by the Ambassador and Secretary Hughes failed to change the temper of the Legislature .                     