@@684974

txt The Council of Ambassadors , the somewhat less supreme successor to the departed Supreme Council in Paris , has now decided that " resump " tion of trade with Soviet Russia " through the co-operatives is impos " sible " because the Bolshevist Government controls the co-operatives . So some three weeks of sound and fury has brought the Governments of the leading Powers of the world to a realization of what everybody else knew already . We are back at the beginning , with no decision made as to whether we are going to open trade with the Bolshevist Government , thereby , of course , ending the informal state of war with that Government ; no decision as to where we are going to fight Bolshevism , if at all ; and no more help sent to Poland , which is still the outpost of the defensive system of Western Europe . The sole ' ! practical results of the policy which Mr. LLOYD GEORGE gave to the world three weeks ago are the dispa h of the British Mediterranean fleet o the Black Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a point that peace with the Bolsheviks has actually been signed . What the British fleet in the Black Sea may accomplish remains to be seen ; it would be unsafe , to makeAny predictions a this time except that the fleet will not be able to sail on dry land . The Esthonian peace is a different natter . The terms provide for what is virtually an economic union between the Esthonian republic and Bolshevist Russia . LENIN- now has access to the Baltic at Reval , which is very rarely frozen up . This economic union is a natural development ; the anti-Bolshevist Russians , who have stood out so firmly against any recognition of the independence of the border States , - could have trusted to the force of economic pressure ' to bring the Baltic States back into close commercial co-operation with the hinterland . The only question was the degree of political independence to be exercised on the Baltic . The Russian Whites would , so far as can be learned , have allowed very little ; LENIN allows a great deal , on paper , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up his Commissaries in Revel and ? Narva awl Dorpat . Esthonia has made peace , and unless our diplomats handle her carefully her own interests will force her very speedily into the arms of the Bolsheviks . The announcement of the reopening of trade has aroused busines ' men in all the allied countries who hoped to get in while the chance of great profit was ready for every one , and they will not be content to sit back and wait ; they are already hammering at their Governments to make good on the promise . The radical elements in every country that are sympathetic with Bolshevism have been encouraged , and will continue more vigorously than ever their campaign for peace and recognition . All this has happened in the last three weeks while our Governments were finding out that they could not trade with the co-operatives and at the same time make no change in their policy toward the Bolshevist Government . . LENIN in a speech last December counted as one of his victories that " the small bourgeoisie ' and the " intellectuals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Veiled Prophet of Bolshevism is perhaps too hasty in accepting as " intellectuals " all those who call themselves such , with no other visible claim to the possession of intellect ; and most of them were on his side from the beginning . Nor does one see much ' evidence of the Bolshevist sympathies of the " small bourgeoisie , " who would suffer as mu9h as any class from Bolshevism . But he has on his side a great number of business men who can see nothing but their own opportunities to make money , and a powerful radical element which admires Bolshevism at a distance , though it may not he ready to try it at home . These forces are stronger today than they were three weeks ago . What bright idea will be tried next ?                     