@@685396

txt The Republican National Committee voted unanimously today to refuse seats In the National Convention to either of the contesting delegations from the Fifth Missouri Districts , comprising sixteen wards in Kansas City and seven townships . lins action was taaen on the ground that there had been fraud in the se/cction of the delegates . It was stated in the committee that the Republican Party could not afford to uphold such methods as were disclosed in the arguments and briefs of the opposing sides . There were charges of " hog-tied " conventions , colonizing of negrues , use of mustard gas to drive out one faction and fraud in the counting of ballots and in the selection of judges and clerks . David M. Proctor of Kansas City and Thomas J. Hedrick of Buckner were the contestants , and Robert J. Flick of Kansas City and Jesse L. Martin of Independence were the contestees ; neither set of delegates was instructed and there was no charge of money having been used in their selection . It was rather the method by which both factions sought control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Albert L. Reeves represented the FlickMartin group and Isaac B. Kimbrell the other group . The air in the committee room was blue with accusations and charges . The committee voted down a motion of Committeeman S. A. Perkins of Washington to seat Flick and Martin . A roll call was demanded on this and the motion was lost by a vote of 22 t ' , 20 . The next motion , 11. - ) throw both sides out , was adopted with a shout . This is taken to mean that the Fifth District will not 1 ) 1 ) represented at the convention . ' the alternates who are denied seats are Mrs. Charles A. Braley , Mrs. E. E. Elliott , Miss Jennie M. Fisher and Mrs. Albert L. Reeves , all of Kansas City . Unfair Tactics Charged and Denied . The " antis " who bolted the regular convention , charged the use of unfair tactics and mustard gas . This was denied by Reeves , who said there had been many reports of such things ; ' but he could not trace down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his faction was the only true Republican faction in the State and that the fate of the party rested in its hands . He charged that in one precinct in Kansas City more than 1,400 votes were counted , and declared his watchers kept men with tickers who counted a little more than 200 men entering the polling place during the day . In the Fourth District of Missouri there was another contest between factions which selected John S. Boyer and John Albus as one set of delegates and Clarence U. Philley and Lester C. Cottrell as the other . Albus , who was mentioned in the Senate Committee testimony at Washington as one of the delegates who received 2,000 for campaign use , was not present at the hearing . The committee was not disposed to ! I much time to the case and treated I it rather abruptly . The Secretary read 11 the Albus-Boyer brief . Committeeman Charles S. Warren moved that as minutes of the Buchanan County convention , which named Philley and Cottrell , were presented to the committee and there were no minutes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philley and Cottrell and their alternates . This motion was adopted . One of these votes is said to be sure for Wood , the other is doubtful . In the Mississippi contest the victory went to the " Lily White " contestants headed by Colonel M. J. Mulvihill of Vicksburg on the question of seating delegates at large . In the eighth dis , trict contests in that State arguments were heard and the matter was referred to a sub-committee . It is hard to say which Presidential candidate gained in the Mississippi contest . Colonel Mulvihill is said to be a friend of Frank H. Hitchcock , Wood manager , , who was in the committee room all day . Senator Johnson won two delegates in the Minnesota contest . The delegates seated from the Tenth District were L. M. Mlthun , of Buffalo , and Thomas D. Schall , of Minneapolis . The alternatea seated were John G. Pilch of Minneapolis , and Dr. George Mean , of Howard Lake . The contesting delegates were for Wood . The delegation-at-large from Louisiana headed by Emil Mintz , National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are uninstructed , but both Wood and Lowden men claim support of at least part of them . The contestants were led by C. S. Hebert and Victor Loisel . CHICAGO , . Tune 2 ( Associated Press ) . ? The Republican National Committee 's hearing of contests today was enlivened by a visit from Homer S. Cummings , Chairmen of the Democratic National Committee . Mr. Cummings , availing himself of the open sessions , visited the hearing room , where he became the centre of a goodnatured reception which almost drowned out the proceedings . He was photographed with Republican Chairinen Hays and looked over the Coliseum for ideas to take to San Francisco .                     