@@695944

txt The citizens ' committee , appointed . by Federal Judge Wilkerson last . De ? camber to aid in a transportation settlement , presented yesterday a Me ? hminary. statement of ... its proposed remedies.and its opinions . Under present circumstances , the committee vigorously urges that the first prerequisite is legislation enabling the city to get what it needs and wants . ' Probably the best summary of the committee 's objective is contained in the following excerpt from the report : " It Is the purpose of this proposed legIslatiob to empower both the city and the companies to do those things which each and both assert are neeesary to solve . the problem and give Chicago and its environs the best . transportation possible . More than that , it is the desire and intention of the committee , in recommending legislation , to create a situation which will make it inexcusable for the city not to settle the transportation problem . City Can not Delay . " If the proposed legislation Is its healthy and wholesome as the committee believes , a delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embarritsaMent ? of aeveip , justified and unavoidable criticism . Any dilatory tactics by the companies should cause the city to seek other financial interests to assume the obligations of a transportation system worthy of the metropolitan area of Chicago . " Admittedly , this is bluntly worded. but the committee firmly believes that the lack of adequate transit ' facilities causes a large and constantly Indreas. ing loss of money , time , health , and convenience to the dependent public . " But the committee-4=1es Simpson , A. A. Sprague , John A. Carroll , Joseph R. Noel , and Charles M. Thompson ? advocates an up to date transit system not only for Chicago but for all of the surrounding territory within - 30 miles of the city limits . On tills phase of the subject the committee has apparently given much more consideration than any other Chicago transit commission . Oh this phase of the subject the committee presents some new and newsy views . Servo 56.9 Per Cent of Slate , " In the committee 's deliberate opinion , so-called ' local transportation ' is much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its report . " Our ' local transportation ' ? as , the committee views it ? should be available to serve more than one-half of the population of the state . An estimated 4,210,011 of the 7,396,000 residents of the state . at the present time live within tin metropolitan areal according to fedora , census figures . This estimated 56. * Per cent of the state 's population lives within 5.5 per cent of the state 's area , closely adjacent to Chicago . " While only an estimated 3,220,000 now , live within Chicago , the other 990,000 of the 4,210,000 are in reality a. part . of the city . It is their daily trading market , their frequent amusement center , and the baale impulse for their homes . " Thousands now commute to their work back and forth daily . A ' local transportation ' system which leaves them out of the picture presents a distorted view of the situation . Would Mean " Not Welcome . " " Confining the desired and needed improvement and extension of our ? local transportation facilities ! to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our judgment , to hanglag out a sign on each of the city 's . portals : ' Not Welcome . ' " To present more vividly the above idea the committee submitted the fol ? lowing tabulation showing the 1920 census population of the suggested metropolitan area in comparison with the present estimated population and an estimate for 1950 : Aim 1024. 1028 , 1080 . Meats .... 2,701,705 3,220,000 4500,004 Loa County outside ... 351,321 .570,000 1,280,000 Lake Co .... ? 74.2155 100,000 212,044 pit page Co 42,120 00,000 2715,004 Kane Pimp ? 120,000 150.004 Co 1.12,011 101,000 151,000 Totals .. 3,302,811 43210.000 0,5178 , e00 ConUguing the report , the co/unlittoe argues tile significancy and torpor . tame , of these figures as follows : " IC the forecasts can barelle.d upor4 ? - az. epprOximating.future growth , It iv anliarent . that in a little more thar Merits'years hence there will be 3,000,000 people living in the districtl. et Illinois in close proximity to Chi caSe .. Add to this an estimated 497,001 in 1950 just over the eastern bound - ary. line of Chicago in Lake county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other state , has not been Included in the:above tabulation and more urgent reaeoris are found why Chicago should - be hospitable and friendly with Its neighbors . Find No Objections . The committee sees no reason why there should be discrimination against our neighbors in modern transit fedi .. Sties . The committee has sought in vain for a valid objection to a eomprehensive ' local transportation ' system . It has found no commercial , political , social , Industrial , financial , engineering , or operating reason of substantial value why the ' local transportation ' ayttern should not be sufficiently comprehensive to meet the needs , convenience , and comfort of close-in surrounding territory . " Some Low hurdles in the form of legal and constitutional points have been encountered which the attorneys are now endeavoring to surmount , with every reasonable hope of succore . The committee has been unable to avoid the conclusion that the only sound and logical approach to our ? local transportation ' problem lies in a careful consideration of tho present and probable future transit needs of all - neighboring districts . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is upon that premise that the lawyers have been drafting bills for weeks . Such a transit system is the ultimate goal , even if difAcuities prevent the adoption of a concrete plan at present . " Criticize Service Now . After thus expressing its purpose in recommending legislation and telling the area to be covered therewith . the committee summarizes the legal and financial status of the transit agencies now giving local transportation In Chicago . The committee is as vehement In its criticism of service , from the car rider 's viewpoint , as many aldermen frequently are just before election . Some of the more striking paragraphs on this feature fol ? low : " Alt of these passenger carriers are le ; direct competition with each other , on a large scale in certain areas and on a small scale in other districts . In spots they overlap and interfere with each - other as much as they can . riguratively , they are tagging at the coat sleeves of the passenger to get his fare . Routes and lines have been established by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promise to the heaviest traffic . It was an ? aggressive fight for fetes en a keen competitive basis , with little or no regard for public convenience or necessity . Illustrative of these results , in a - certain section of the west side it is difficult for engineer* to indicate a route for a subway where it , logically would have been placed in an original design of a local transportation system , be-eau/se In that particular west side section there is now a Superabundance of transit facilities , as unrelated as they are . Some Sections-Neglected . " On the other hand , there are other areas in the city with inadequate , illadapted or practically no transportation . These spots have been neglected or avoided . They have been left almost helpless . One illustration of these conditions ; It is more convenient , rance  --  comfortable and requires less dine for residents of the " east side " oi-South Chicago to go to Hammond or ? Whiting , Ind. , to shop than to go to Wendt/twit . Pullman. or Roseland , or to the downtown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the city has transportation of varying degrees of efficiency and sufficiency . This haphazard development of transportaUcn , with its attendant undesirable effects , may be chargeable in part to the system by which control and restlotion was exercised exclusively by short term grants . Another substanVal part may be placed upon promoters concerned chiefly with exploiting the public . Still other factors had their influence . With the resultant physical facilities , regardless of who operates them , we are compelled to deal . The present hit-and-miss system  --  hitting doubly in spots and missing altogether in others  --  checks the city 's growth , retards its development and stunts its prosperity . " Want One Direct Head . To obviate these disadvantages the committee would correlate and merge the service of all agencies under one directing head . The advantages of consolidation , from both the viewpoint of the car riders and the investors , are Bet forth as follows : " The present embarrassing situation offers an opportune time to provide for consolidated management and unified operation of all of these transportation agencies . Every thoughtful student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the viewpoint of the rider but also from the viewpoint of the operator and investor . " Competitive transit facilities in one city is a discarded policy extremely offensive to the present day doctrine , almost universally accepted , of regulated monopoly in public utility service . Aside from this general statement of standard theory , the abolition of transit competition in Chicago should result in large cash economies in operation and should save millions of capital investment on lines of un . certain return and should direct them into channels of improved service at probable profit . Saving to . Car Riders . " Consolidated operation would al . low and encourage transfer from surface lines or buses to rapid transit lines and vice versa perhaps for a small transfer - charge . This would permit traveling from one point to another by the most direct and shortest route without , the present payment of two or more fares . The saving in time , from an economic viewpoint , would he enormous , ' and the annual cash saving to car riders would be surprisingly large . " The . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New York subway operation is officially represented to be in the neighborhood of twenty cents a. car mile . The elevated costs . In Chicage are around twenty-five cents end the surface lines about thirty-five cents . With a consolidated operation much traffic would be shunted from the surface to the elevated lines to the advantage of the riders and at an estimated saving in operating casts per car mile of perhaps thirty per cent . These figures are intended to indicate cost relationship rather than recite an accurate financial fact- With increased traffic the operating cost on the elevated should be somewhat reduced . Fewer Cars on Street . " Still more savings to the unified operation would necessarily result from the elimination of many street cars : No reason would exist for competitive cars with the expenses attached , but the riders would.he moved more rapidly and more comfortably than at pfesent . " But under present statutes a consolidated operation is legally impossible . The lawyers find no warrant in existing law to merge a street car company with a railroad . It is not permitted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in transportation is for more rapid facilities . This involves a limited subway through the downtoen area . In discussing this in its relation to the whole transit question , the report says : " If it were now legally possible to merge the surface and elevated lines . such a merger would be of little , if any , value for two reasons : The surface lines have no franchise upon which new capital could be obtained . The elevated could not carry more passengers during the rush hours under present physical limitations . . Extension Not of Value . More extensions , of course ; could be built to the Rapid Transit lines . That would mean more cars to be piled up in the bottle necks entering the loop . That would retard car movements and slow down schedules and give the elevated patrons slower service than at present " If more trains and greater speed are to be obtained on the elevated lines under the present competitive system , added tracks must be provided through the loop . There is no street I on the surface , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track . I The city authorities have clearly indicated they will not permit more ele ? vated structures to be constructed through the downtown district . Denied space either on or above the surface , the only space left is below the surface . That means a limited subway for rapid transit patrons . Every engineering report recommends it . Every I informed alderman sees in a proper subway an enlargement and betterment of transit facilities in every ward . But here again legal authority to construct and finance subways should be clarified and enlarged , according to the lawyers . But Authority Is Lacking . " If the transportation properties were consolidated and added track capacity provided , and if they were pos. sessed of a franchise permitting financing at a reasonable fare , it would - be in direct conflict with sound public policy to permit the operation without adequate public control , supervision and regulation . Preferably that power should be lodged in the community served . That is the policy of home rule advocated by present and past public officials , the newspapers , sundry organizations of a-civic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But to obtain this , It must be repealed again , legal authority is lacking . " In the opinion of the committee " additional power from the general assembly is a prerequisite to securing the , kind , character and amount of transportation which the city and company officials deem most advantageous to the welfare of Chicago and suburbs . " The character of the legislation desired is outlined by the committee as follows : 1 . Amendment tu  --  the cities and villages act granting the city power to issue a license franchise better adapted to modern conditions . 2 . A law permitting unification of existing transit agencies and supple ? mented by other facilities . 3 . Art act creating a local transit commission to control and direct the unified transportation system . 4 . An amendment to the law enlarging the city 's power to finance and construct passenger subways . Bills Already Drafted . Speaking generally about these bills the committee tells of the many conferences and then continues : " As a result of this process , a series of bills has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to incorporate the desires and views of the contending forces . It . Is believed that no power now enjoyed by the city should be curtailed or taken away , and that no added restrictions should be placed upon the municipality , Every new power sought on behalf of the city which can be appropriately utilized to promote the interests of the car riders , safeguard the city , protect the investors , and compel adequate and satisfactory service , from the companies should be granted . No infringement upon those powers will be involved in granting necessary legislative authority to permit the companies to consolidate- " . A summary of the bills may well be presented when they have been completed , although the committee makes some general comments on each under consideration .                     