@@696957

txt When at its last session the Wisconsin senate passed a resolution calling upon the federal goy ' ? raiment to suppress the murders of prohibition and to bring guilty dry agents to justice it recalled ' to this department that ** had employed a somewhat Weiler method In protest against the fugitive slave law . Although there is no analogy between the prohibition and slave resolutions and although ' we by no means indorse the ideas of the earlier memorial , we are reproducing it for the Information of our readers as an interesting episode of American history . The incidents prelimitutry to the protest of 1859 are familiar to students of Wisconsin history . In 1854 a fugitive slave , Joshua Glover , was taken by government authoritie.4 in Racine , Wis. , but he was captured from the officers by opponents of the fugitive slave law in Milwaukee . Sherman M. Booth , the editor of the Wisconsin Free Democrat , was held to trial before the United.States District court on the charge of aiding in the forcible rescue of Glover . Before the , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court for a writ of habeas corpus . The Wisconsin Supreme court discharged Booth on the ground that the feet-lye : slave law was " unconstitutional and void . " Subsequently the United States Supreme court reviewed and reversed the decision of the Wisconsin Supreme court . Whereat the Wisco ? - sin assembly adopted this the matter of the petition of Sherman M. Booth for a Writ of habeas corpus , presented and prosecuted to final judgMent In the Supreme court of this state , and has . without process , or any of the forme recognized by law , assumed the power to reverse that judgment In a matter involving the personal liberty of the citizen , asserted by and adjusted to hint by the regular course of judicial proceedings upon the great writ of ; liberty secured to the people of each state by the constitution of the United States : ? " And , whereas , Iraqi . assumption of power and authority by the Supreme court of the United States , to become the Anal arbiter of the liberty of the citizen , and to override @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereof , is In a direct conflict with that provision of the constitution of the United States which secures to the people the ' benefits of the writ of habeas corpus ; therefore , " Resolved , the senate concurring , That we regard the action of the Supreme court of the United States , in assuming Jurisdiction In the case before mentioned , as an arbitrary act of power , unauthorized by the constitution ; and virtually superseding the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus and prostrating the rights and liberties of the people at the foot of unlimited power . " Resolved , That this assumption of jurisdiction by the federal Judiciary . in the said case , and without process , is an act of undelegated power , and therefore without authority , void , and of no force. , " Resolved . That the government formed by the constitution of the United States was not the exclusive or final Judge of the extent of the powers delegated to itself ; but that , as In all other causes of compact among parties having no common Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , as well of Infraction as of the mode and measure of redress . " Resolved , That the principle and construction contended for by the party which now rules In the councils of the nation , that the general government is the exclusive judge of the extent of the powers delegated to it , stop nothing short of despotisni , since the discretion of those who administer the government , and not the constitution , would be the measure of their powers ; that the several states which formed that instrument , being sovereign and independent , have the unquestionable right to Judge of Its Infraction ; and that a positive defiance of those sovereignties , of all unauthorized acts done or attempted to be done under color of that Instrument , he the rightful remedy . " It will be plain to the reader of today that these resolutions amounted virtually to a secession from the constitutional system of the United States although that was far from the Intention of their fluttrs . The resolutions Illustrate how a passionate Partisanship will confuse the mind , and at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with New England , which was threatening to secede In the earlier days of the republic , and South Carolina , which threatened a little later and later still did secede , we must add to the history of secessionism these Wisconsin protestants of the great slavery crisis . Secession I was not Intended In this Instance but the ideas were in effect a secession or , to put It otherwise , a repudiation of the constitutional system .                     