@@687213

txt WILSON AND GARFIELD . The President Consulted on . the Famous Fuel Decree . To the Editor of The New York Times : In the temporary absence from the United States of Dr. Garfield , formerly United States Fuel Administrator , I wish to call attention to a misstatement made by Mr. Tumulty in Chapter XXXVI. in his account of " Woodrow Wilson as I Know Him , " published in the issue of THE TIMES of Monday , Nov. 28 . In referring to the famous - order of Jan. 17 , 1918 , whereby severe restrictions on manufacture and transportation were made , Mr. Tumulty makes this statement : " I remember how . manfully he met the storm of criticism that was poured upon him that is the yresidentl after the issuance of the famous Garfield fuel order . While as a matter of fact he had not , been consulted regarding it , he courageously took the responsibility for the issuance of the order and stood by Dr. Garfield to the last . " The fact is that Dr. Garfield had consulted President Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement to this effect is found in Dr. Garfield 's final report as United States Fuel Administrator , published in June of this year . I quote from the , last paragraph on page 32 of that report : " Believing , however , that this the is , suance of this order ought not to be done without the full knowledge and approval of the President , and realizing , furthermore , that special exemptions must be made in favor of the army and navy , I called at the War Department on the afternoon of the 18th of January and laid the matter before the Secretary of War . Immediately after leaving his office I called upon the Secretary of the Navy and likewise laid the matter before him . In each case the Secretary appreciated the gravity of the situation , with which of course already in large part familiar , and they as well as I appreciated and commented upon the disturbances of the public mind which the proposed action involved . At 5 o'clock Secretary Baker , Secretary Daniels and I met the President by appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the article referred to quotes his letter on this subject to President Wilson . Tile letter that he received from President Wilson in reply does not refer to Dr. Garfield 's conference with him on the subject nor does it imply that the order was issued without the President 's knowledge . The letter of the President as given by Mr. Turnulty is as follows : " Dear Tumulty : Of course , this is a tremendous matter and has given me the deepest concern , but I really think this direct road is the road out of difficulties which never would have been entirely remedied if we had not taken some such action . We must just bow our heads and let the storm beat . " WOODROW WILSON . " I shall be glad if you can give publicity to this letter . GEORGE EDWIN HOWES . At one time Executive Secretary of the United States Fuel Administration . Williamstown , Mass. , Nov. 30. 1921 . NATIONAL ZONING . Hoover Committee Taking Up the Study of Plans for Growth . To the Editor of The New York Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in THE Timm of Nov. 21 " State and Nation Planning . " Mr. Manning , whose work you are reviewing , is one of the most experienced and thoughtful men in the United States it the line of city planning and general development . During the week of Nov. 14 the American Civic Association held its annual meeting in Chicago , and it came in Close contact with two items of planning which indicate that the topic 4s a very live and essential one . Chicago is vitally interested in zoning , following the example of New York , and the Zoning Commission at the session discussing that subject insisted that unless zoning was definitely worked out in Chicago there would be a loss of a billion dollars of values in the next ten years . A careful and well-thought-out plan for restoring values in certain districts was later submitted to one of the philanthropic foundations of Chicago which has asked to know of something that might benefit that great city . The Chicago plan was fully discussed and its progress noted . While this plan has never had official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been made in Chicago since its presentation that are contrary to its provisions , while some tremendous advances , as . for example , tile creation of Grant Park along the lake front , and the cutting through of Michigan Avenue north , are evidence that Chicago will eventually accomplish the whole . of this tremendous scheme . A significlint relation of the situation is the formation in the Department of Commerce of tile United States of Mr. Hoover 's Advisory Committee on Zoning , including eight men who have given national attention to planning work , of whom I happen to be one . This committee , created barely a month ago , has held two importarit meetings ' and is preparing a digest of the law in the States and cities relating to zoning as a basis for suggestions which will be dent out under Mr. Hoover 's leadership . The possibilities thus presented of promoting human welfare and saving corn. ; community values are very large . It is indicative of the keen interest being shown in such matters that in Chicago at the zoning meetings many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in jeopardy or had been injured through lack of zoning . J. HORACE . President American Civic Association . Harrisburg , Pa. , Nov. 29. 1921 . Cardinal Gibbons on Magna Charta . To the Editor of The New York Times : Recently there appeared a letter suggesthug that Magna Charta day be made a national holiday , and within a very few , days of the publication . of this suggestion there was a vigorous denunciation of this idea by some one connected with the Knights of Columbus . In view of this opposition , it may interest your readers to know what Cardinal Gibbons said about Magna Charts. : " The greatest bulwark of civil liberty Is the famous Magna *Charts .. It is the foundation not only of British but also of American constitutional freedom . Among the blessings contained in this instrument , It establishes trial by jury , and the right of habeas corpus , and provides that there shall be no taxation without representation . " Who were the framers of this memorable charter ? Archbishop Langton of Canterbury and the Catholic Barons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they compelled King John to sign that paper , which was the ' death blow to his arbitrary power and the cornerstone of constitutional government . " " The Faith of Our Fathers , " page 226 , by James Cardinal Gibbons , 70th edition . NEUTRAL . New York , Nov. 10 , 1UZI.                     