@@689249

txt The policies of the Harding Administration , not some of them but all of them , will , in general , be the policies of the Administration of President Coolidge . This was the word that came from the White House today , following the first meeting of President Coolidge with his Cabinet . In the natural course of events , it was said , certain modifications of policy might become necessary , but such modifications were not now in contemplation . Such modifications , it Was emphasized , would be such as might have arisen had President Harding lived to complete his term in the White House . Until ' today certain elements in the Republican Party , in particular those of the irreconcilable group , have been quietly spreading the news that the new President would sidetrack some of the Harding policies , especially the World Court issue , against which they fulminated during the last months of the life of President Harding. - World Court and Reparations . Although the White House spokesman did not mention the World Court his statement was so sweeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no twist or turn could what was said be interpreted as even a suggestion of opposifibir to the World ' - Court program as advocated by the late President . As to the European reparations problem , it was stated th , ... A.the policy of the new Administration was completely outlined by Secretary Hughes at New Haven in December , when speaking as the spokesman of the Harding Administration , Mr. Hughes expressed an earnest hope for the composition of the troubles of Europe , in the course of which he suggested a commission of economic and financial experts to work out a solution of the reparations tangle . In view of the definite statement of Mr. Hughes that reparations and debts to the United States are not interrelated , and in further view of the White House reference to the speech , the general opinion tonight was that the arguments advanced from Paris within the last few days as to the necessity of scaling down the French debt to the United States if there was to be any cessation of the present occupation of the Ruhr , are not likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The statement as to the Government 's attitude toward Europe generally , and the matter of German reparations in particular , was considered significant in view of the existing critical European situation . The Coolidge Administration has no specific proposal to make to the Allies or to Germany at this time , but is ready to do anything within its power short of becoming involved in the situation to aid in dissipating the chaos that now prevails in Europe . firm for Collection of Debts . As to the European debt problem , the policy of the Administration will be to collect , if possible , every cent owed to the United States . Unless some change in the situation impossible now to foresee makes a modification of policy imperative , the Government will continue its efforts to refund all the European debt and to collect the sums due as rapidly as circumstances will permit . While deeply interested in the world situation , the Administration is , however , just now devoting practically all of its time to the domestic problems of the United States . : ft is officially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an extra session of Congress will be necessary , but that in assuming this position he bas not foreclosed the question . The President has been giving much of his time to a study of the agricultural situation . He has received many lat. - ters and telegrams urging that he call Congress in extra session to legislate for the relief of the farmers , but no suggestions looking to the relief of agriculture which would justify calling Congress to Washington in advance of the date fixed by law for its convening , which is the first Monday in December . - At the White House it was said that .. ' resident Coolidge stands ready to do ' anything possible to help th4 farmers . If a legal remedy can be found to meet the situation , that remedy : will be applied . At the Instance of ' the President , Secretary of Agriculture Wallace is now studying every suggestion so far made looking to the solution of the agricultural problem and will shortly submit a complete report to the President Which will deal with the farm situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Immigration is another of the problems the President has tackled in earnest . Whether or not he will ask . Congress to modify the ' existing law , which restricts the number of immigrants to ' 3 per cent . of the . nationality concerned as based , pn ' ' the number of such nationals resident in : the United States in 1910. is a question that can not now be answered . It Is believed . however , that he favors the selective system as advocated by Secretary of Labor Davis . It was said at the White House that the President is firmly of the opinion that aliens who are permitted to enter the United States should be of the calibre who will not only help industry , but who will in respect to character and background be able to do their part in building up the standard of American citizenship . In the opinion of the President , it was added , there was no more important question before the country than that of securing immigrants of the highest possible standards . " Those are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said one of his friends . The signing of an agreement by the American and Mexican Commissioners now in Mexico City considering questions relating to recognition of the Obregon Government was forecast at the White House today . The agreement , it was stated by the White House spokesman , was already in existence and if it had not been signed already it would be in the near future . While no details as to the nature of the agreement were forthcoming , it Is understood that it has to do with the various conclusions reached by the commissioners in their three months ' discussion of various points of difference between the two countries . These conclusions are set forth in the minutes of the conference , together with an:r explanations which the commissioners may have seen fit to advance during the deliberations . It is assumed that these minutes will be transmitted . after signature , to the respective Governments , as constituting what the commissioners have agreed upon as a possible basis of agreement . While the signature of the understanding is not binding on either government . it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence is placed . The three subjects about which the discussions at Mexico City centred were the non-retroactivity of Article 27 , the question of agrarian lands and the question of claims .                     