@@696265

txt AmphIbion planes will carry the air mail from the Municipal field at 63d street and Cicera avenue to the Grant park , lake front within two weeks . Assistant Postmaster General W. Irving Glover yesterday authorized the Curtiss Flying Service of the . middle west to begin the regular shuttle service on June 15 . The operators were granted a temporary contract . A. twin motored plane and a single motored one , both amphibions , will be put into operation as soon as the water ramp is completed at the foot of Eighth street . /dal ' R. W. Schroeder , general manager of the Curtiss service here , stated last night . The planes will taxi onto the shore and transfer the mail bags to trucks for transportation to the federal building . Tests have indicated that , a say- , ing of 21 minutes will be effected through the use of planes instead of mail trucks in carrying the mail from the city field downtown . It will also permit a later closing of the mails . The Curtiss company expects later to carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to add a short taxi hop from the Grant park landing beach to Curtiss field near Glenview . A flight by Russian aviators from Moscow to New York by way of Alaska next August Is being planned by the soviet airway commission , an Associated Press dispatch from Moscow stated yesterday . Announcement of the proposed trip was made by Chairman Unshlicht of the airway commission . The plane , called the " Land of Soviets , " will be manned by Aviators Shestakov , - Bolotov , Sterlingov , and Mechanic Fufaev . The proposed route covers about 12,500 miles . Leaving Moscow , the plane will make its first stop at Novisibirek in the Urals . The next stop , the route following the Trans-Siberian railroad , will be at Khadarovsk on the Amur river , where the landing wheels will be removed . and floats substituted . From Khadarovsk the airmen will fly to Petropa , vlovsk . Next they will stop at Dutch Harbor , whence they will fly to Sitka , Alaska , and then down the coast to Seattle and San Francisco . There they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made yesterday of the formation of the Universal Aeronautical association . Richard Reid , president of the association , stated that it had been incorporated at Springfield , and was organized for the promotion of aeronautics . He said that the organization would stage a number of aircraft shows throughout the country , and would cooperate with the Chicago aeronautical aircraft exhibit , which he said would be held at the Coliseum Sept. 7 to 16 . Parker D. Cramer , arctic flyer , flew to Chicago from Rockford , Ill. , yesterday in his cabin plane . He stated that he may take part in the Gardner trophy races to be held at St. Louis Wednesday and Thursday in connection with the national areonautical meeting .                     