@@686765

txt The interior of the main building of the Western Penitentiary of Pennsylvania , situated on the Ohio River in the Woods Run district , was wrecked , while a dozen smaller buildings connected with the institution were destroyed by fire , and fourteen persons , nine of them convicts , were injured this afternoon , in what is declared to have . been the . greatest prison riot and attempted prison delivery in the history of the United States . The nine convicts injured were shot by city police , county detectives and prison guards , while attempting to fight their way to liberty . Three were so seriously injured that it was declared , their recovery was impossible . The others hurt include three city police officials and a district fire chief , who were injured in the rioting , and a city fireman who was seriously burned while fighting the flames . The buildings destroyed , all within the great wall that surrounds the penitentiary , were as follows : Dining room , a. combination threestory frame and two-story brick . North end destroyed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , large three-story brick , burned . Machine shop , ? ? - tirFei " - : =Story burned . Broom shop , two-story brick , burned . Shoe shop , two-story brick , burned . Chapel , one-story brick , burned . Large storage house , one-story frame , burned . Kitchen , one-story frame , burned . Four smaller one-story frame storage houses . In addition , two lookout towers on the prison wall were burned . 1,000 PrisonerA Battle with Police . Virtually- all of the 1,135 prisoners , except the fifty women prisoners , took part in the rioting , both inside the main building and in the prison yard . The riot lasted more than two hours and it was at least that much longer before the firemen had the flames under control . Flames leaped fifty feet above the high prison wall . While 350 city and county police officials and the full corps of guards battled with the maddened convicts , all the firemen from the North Side battled with the flames to keep them from destroying the main building , where all the convicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yard . As the flames leaped up from the buildings and licked the window frames of the cells in which they were penned , the prisoners shrieked , cursed , prayed , shouted for help , and with frenzied strength tore at the bars . The rioting and fires broke out simUltaneously , and , according to'the prison officials , were part of a plot to empty the great institution of its horde of criminals .. But for the alertness of the guards in refusing to be tricked by a ruse , the plan would have succeeded , it is declared . The first squad of almost 500 prisoners , just after the noon hour , had had their meal served in the dining hall and had , been returned to their cells , and the second squad , numbering about 650. were in the dining room , when two the prisoners started a fight . Dishes , chairs , tables and other missiles were sent whirling through the air . A sudden rush was made for , the guards , who retreated to the prison walls and covered the crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broke out In the weaving shop , the broom shop , shoe shop , chapel and kitchen . A inegro prisoner was seen applying a torch to one of the buildings then to another . A moment later he was felled by a guard . The buildings , dry as tinder , were soon in flames . In an instant the prisoners broke for the open . The rioting con- victs ' went like stampeding cattle , shrieking and cursing as they hurled every sort of object or weapon they could find . While reserve stewards stationed themselves on the walls to prevent escape by that route , other guards hastened from the buildings and formed lines . to prevent the prisoners from rushing the gates . Defy Guards When Ordered to Cells . Practically all the shooting took place in the mainebuilding . In the rioting in the prison yards , the guards used clubbed rifles and threats of volleys to control the frenzied prisoners . It was almost half an hour from the time that the rioting started before the 650 men had been driven inside the building . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been cleared from the yard and had been locked inside the building . Once inside they defied the guards when ordered to their cells , and , taking refuge at top of the cell tiers , rained down bricks , pieces of cement , washstands which they tore from the walls , and even huge pieces of steel from the cells . Tearing loose great lengths of steel from the cell tiers , they pried and battered down cells , brick partitions , and even , broke up the cement flooring which was 18 inches thick , and hurled the pieces all down at the guards and police who were attempting to control them . Practically 40 per cent . of the cells were destroyed before the prisoners were subdued and driven into what cells remained . For several weeks rumors have been rife of trouble in the big " pen . " Prisoners brought from the Eastern Penitentiary , in Philadelphia , both male and female , have been discontented , asserting that they were not getting the privileges in the local institution that they had received in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their food was not satisfactory and that they were not permitted to have cigarettes . The women , it was learned , were indignant " because they were not permitted to have face powder , and rouge , " many declaring that the use of cosmetics was as much a necessary part to their toilet inside the prison as it would be if they were on the outside . Warden 's Aid Blames " Bad " Convicts . Deputy Warden Egan tonight issued the following statement : " Concessions which the prisoners wanted which would not be granted under-any circumstances , discontent and no work are the causes which started the trouble today . " At the present time , 1,135 prisoners , , including fifty females , are confined In the penitentiary . Recently we received fifty prisoners from the Eastern penitentiary , who ' have prison records and who are bad men . " Immediately on arriving at the penitentiary , we noticed that the new prisonlers were becoming discontented and we , tried to straighten out matters- However , the , men continued to find fault with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riot ocleurred in the dining room . " Yesterday we discovered that a plan to start a riot  --  kns formulated , but before the trouble gained headway , the guards promptly quelled it and the men were taken to their respective quarters . . bout 11:55 o'clock this-morning , just as the second section of prisoners had been seated in the dining room and the attendants were about to serve them their lunch , the trouble started . " Dishes , chairs , knives and forks and other articles were hurled by the prison . ers at the guards and at the same time fire started sitnultaneously in a number of buildings a nd , in the kitchen . " As the guards were making an effort to control the , convicts their attention was diverted by the fire . The prisoners stampeded and ran from the dining room into the prison court yard . The guards . surrounded the men and ordered them back to their cells . The prisoners refused to comply with the command and a general riot ensued . .. - Riot Call for Sheriff and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prisoners , bbt the guards worked hard and succeeded in driving the men into the prison and to their cells . Riot calls were sent to the Sheriff 's office and police station . " As the men were being marched to their cells many of them broke ranks and ran to the fifth tier of the block section of the penitentiary and hid on the tops of the cells and alcoves . While there the prisoners loosened bricks , steel bars and beams and chains and hurled them at the guards and police . Many of the missiles struck the men . " Unable to see the prisoners from where the Npolice and guards were . stationed , the latter were compelled to climb to the fifth tier and open fire at the convicts . " A great deal of shooting occurred , and the prisoners , realizing that it would be useless to combat the armed guards and police , began to surrender . " We made every effort to control the situation without killing , and tried in every way possible to quell the disorder with as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some time the convicts have expressed dissatisfaction with the Warden . Indicative of this was an incident of the rioting today . After the convicts had been herded back into their cells and the menace of the flames reaching them had lessened , a chant was started which was taken up and shouted from one end of the pe'nitentiary to the other . " We want a'new Warden , we want a new . Warden , " droned the prisoners in unison , their voices ever growing louder until the words were fairly shouted . The Injured , of Whom Three May , Die . Following is a list of the injured : District Fire Chief Daniel Jones , struck with a piece of iron hurled by one of the prisoners . Patrolman IV . B. Cryster , struck by a brick . Patrolman B. K. Coberley , struck with a brick by a prisoner . Patrolman M. J. Corcoran , struck by a brick thrown by a prisoner . Fireman H. Harley of Engine Company 45 , burned on hands when struck by burning timbers . Edward Emil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' Alexander Johnson , negro , prisoner , shot ; condition serious . - Charles Davide , negro , prisoner , . gunshot wounds in body ; not serious . ' William Harris , negro , prisoner , gunshot wounds in body ; . ? condition serious . George Crawford , white , prisoner , gunshot wounds in shoulder and face ; condition serious . Joseph Tornio , white , prisoner , gunshot wounds in body ? riot serious . David Traynor , white , prisoner , gunshot wounds in face , body and arms : not serious . Carmetio Reno , white , prisoner , gunshot wound in left shoulder . M. C. Campbell , white , prisoner , gunshot wounds in body . Deputy Warden John ' Egan tonight said that Campbell , Harris and Johnson Were wounded seriously and would probably die . "                     