@@695881

txt An unsuccessful attempt upon the life of President Emilio Portes Gil was made early this morning when the train upon which he was traveling was dynamited . The President was not injured and his coach did not leave the tracks , although two other coaches and the engine were derailed and badly damaged . One fireman was killed . The attempt upon the President came within twenty-four hours after the execution of Jog de Leon Toral , who was put to death by a firing squad in Mexico City yesterday for the assassination of General Alvaro Obregon , President-elect of the republic . The Presidential train was dynamited about 7 o'clock this morning . The soldiers of the train escort seized some Indians near the scene of the wreck but President Portes Gil , after questioning them himself , ordered them released . Dispatches from Querataro said that " religious propaganda " and " irreligious emblems " had been found in the wreck region by the soldiers , who were scouring the countryside , and also some clues were uncovered which may reveal the identity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Had Surrendered Governorship . The President was returning from the State of Tamaulipas where he formerly had surrendered his office of Governor to the man who succeeded him when he became provisional President in place of General Obregon . The Presidential special , one of the finest in the world , was within 150 miles of the capital , between the stations of Comonfort and Rinconcillo in the State of Guanajuato , when a terrific blast threw the leading cars from the rails . The dynamite had been placed on the track at a point where it ran over a bridge . The fireman was killed instantly as the engine turned over . The first car was a Pullman containing several members of the official party and the second car was that of the Director General of Railroads . Fortunately no one in these was injured although the cars were severely damaged . Federal Senators Pedro Gonzales and Eleazor Gonzales and Director Alberto Mascarenas of the Bank of Mexico were in one of the coaches blown up . They were somewhat shaken and nervous but were uninjured . Members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 1,400 ) for the family of the dead fireman , whose body was brought to Queretaro . Another of the train crew was injured . Portes Gil Shrugs Shoulders . The President calmly descended from his private car further back in the train and , accompanied by the Secretary of War , walked forward to inspect the damage . President Fortes Gil , when he saw the destruction , merely shrugged his shoulders and said , " The revolution is in luck . " ( The President is a member of the so-called Revolutionary party ) . A scout locomotive which , as always , preceded the Presidential train , had passed over the bridge without incident . Just as the locomotive and the first cars ran upon the bridge structure it was blown to pieces beneath them . The remaining cars of the train remained : upright on the rails . Investigation after the explosion showed that another bomb containing two sticks of dynamite had been fixed to the track , but had not exploded . About fifty yards from the scene was found the remains of an open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tampico , from where the train had come . A bottle of sulphuric acid was also found . The President was accompanied by his wife and baby daughter , and Secretary of War Amaro and Senora Amaro shared the private car . There was a large group of Congressmen on the train as well as newspaper men . General Anselmo Macias , chief of military escort , started immediately with troops seeking the perpetrators of the crime . He issued orders to execute on the spot if the person or persons were caught . First news of the outrage was received in Mexico City from a special correspondent of the Universal , who was accompanying the President . A relief train and more troops to aid in the pursuit were rushed from the nearest large stations , among which was Celaya , where , according to testimony at the trial of Toral , 1 it was once plotted to assassinate President Calles and General Obregon . From San Miguel Allende , where there have been recent bandit and rebel disturbances , troops also were recruited . With the exception of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although the two Pullmans were very badly damaged . The Presidential party reached Queretaro tonight safely on a train which went to their relief . . Only three days ago President Fortes Gil refused to commute the sentence of death imposed on Toral which the highest courts of the land had found to be without legal flaw . Only a short time before Toral killed President-elect Obregon Senor Portes Gil had been appointed Minister of the Interior in the Cabinet of President Calles from the Governorship *of Tamaulipas . After the assassination he was elected provisional President by Congress to serve for about a year . In the meantime a President will be chosen for a regular term by a national election . The President decided to continue on to Mexico City tonight , despite the ordeal of the day . Coolidge Felicitates Fortes Gil . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Feb. 10 . ? President Coolidge sent a personal message tonight to President Portes Gil of Mexico congratulating him on his escape . The message read : His Excellency , Portes Gil , President of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to congratulate you on your fortunate escape in the train accident today . I am sincerely happy to learn that you are safe and well . CALVIN COOLIDGE . Secretary of State Kellogg instructed the American Embassy at Mexico City tonight to convey through the Mexican Minister of Foreign Affairs to the President of Mexico sincere felicitations on the part of the government and people of the United States . Mr. Kellogg further instructed the embassy to state that " this government is happy and grateful that his life had been spared to MAX leo . "                     