@@684897

txt The efforts to bring about a compromise between th'c opposing sections of the Senate for its early ratification of the Peace Treaty seemed to gain headway today . The most notable advance was found in the fact that Senator Kenyon of Iowa , Republican . who has been in favor of strong reservations , joined Senator Owen of Oklahoma , Democrat , in furthering Senator Owen 's plan to have a round-table conference of Republican and Democratic Senators with the object of smoothing the existing differences and agreeing upon reservations that will obtain the support of two-thirds of the Senate membership . The combination between Senators Owen and Kenyon is an outcome of the conference at Senator Owen 's residence on Sunday night in which a score or more of Democratic Senators took part . Mr. Owen and Mr. Kenyon set out today to obtain signatures to a call for Republican and Democratic Senators to join in the round-table conference . They arranged that Mr. Owen should endeavor to get seven other Democratic Senators and Mr. Kenyon should seek to get seven other Republicans to sign the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin this work in earnest . They were busy today explaining their plan to their associates . ' . L'he action of Senator Kenyon in joining Senator Owen is regarded as of speClot importance on account of Mr. Kenyon 's insistence , while the treaty was under consideration by the Senate , on very strong reservations . Recently he participated with Senator Colt , one of the Republican mild reservationists , in conferring with Senators and Kendrick in their preparation of compromise reservations . It was said today that Mr. Kenyon 's accession to the ranks of the compromisers meant a significant break among the strong reservationists . While there is no assurance that the signatures of eight Renublicans can be obtained to the call for a joint conference , it is believed that Mr. Kenyon will be successful and that the conference will be held . Another forward movement toward ratification was made when Senators Owen and Underwood , at the instance of a group of Democratic Senators , went to Senator Lodge , the leader of the Republican forces , to discuss tile prospects of obtaining an agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sticking point in the present aspect gf the treaty situation . They found that Mr. Lodge would not consent to make any modification in his reservation that would in any way abandon the principle enunciated in it ; that there must be no obligation assumed through the covenant of the League of Nations which would oind the United States to use its armed forces in preventing external aggression Against any nation without the prior : consent of Congress . Senators interested in bringing about a : compromise are not discouragd over gr Lodge 's attitude and the endeavor to ' each a compromise on Article X. that vill be acceptable to him will be conInued.                     