@@691588

txt A statement given out today by President Calles answer to the statement of Secretary Kellogg rejects the idea that Mexico is on trial before the world , declaring that If by that is understood that Mexico is on , trial as a defendant the implication a is an insult to Mexico . " If the Government of Mexico , as affirmed , is on trial before the world . such is the ease with the Government of the United States as well as those of all Other countries , " the statement says . The Mexican President sees a " threat to the sovereignty of Mexico " in Secretary Kellogg 's statement . Mexico is conscious of her obligation , and intends to comply with all obligations according to international law , he adds , but will not allow any nation t ? . claim a privileged situation for its nationals , The Mexican Government refuses to give advantages to one country over any other . Under no circumstances Will Mexico Delta foreign interference , the Pratdent ' asserts . Officials decline to comment on the statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the answer in the United States . Text of the Caller Statement . The text of President Calles 's statement , as givenout here in an English translation , reads as follows : Declarations of the State Department have been published in which Mr. Kellogg . answering some questions relating to the visit of Ambassador Sheffield to said department . affirms that some properties of American citizens have been illegally taken in Mexico for which no compensation has been made and in one instance taken by the Mexican Government on account of unreasonable demands of labor . At the same time he refers to the Joint Claims Commissions stating that he is convinced that the Mexican Government wishes to comply with the conventions and indemnify for the properties taken from American citizens ; that he has seen the statements published in the press that another revolutionary movement may be impending in Mexico and-that the Department of State very much hopes this is not true . the attitude of said department being to use its influence and lend its support in behalf of stability and orderly constitutional procedure in Mexico , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support the Government in Mexico only so long as it protects American lives and American rights and complies with its Internal engagements and obligations . He adds that the Government of Mexico is now on trial before the world . It is a duty for my Government to rectify said statements as required by truth and justice . The best proof that Mexico is willing to comply with her international obligations and to protect the life and interests of foreigners lies in the fact that although , according to international law , she watt not bound to . do it , she invited all the nations whose citizens or subjects might have suffered damages through act : executed during the political upheavals that have taken place in the country with a view to conclude with them a convention to establish joint commissions that might consider said damages in order to grant due indemnizatons . Besides that another convention was entered intowith the United States to adjust claims of citizens of both countries against the other and in said convention are included all cases in which properties or rights might have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so long as the aforesaid commissions do not adjust the cases submitted to their decision , it is irrelevant to charge , Mexico dth failure to pretest American ineitoests and violation of her International obligations . The application of the Agrarian laws can not be a subject of complaint because Mexico has issued them in the exercise of her sovereignty , and apart from that the State Department , in behalf of the American citizens , has accepted the forth of indemnization prescribed by Mexican laws . " Threat " Seen in Kellogg Statement . It is to be regretted the contradiction found in Mr. Kdllogg 's statenient. when he declared thta the United States have the greatest interest in the maintenance of order in Mexico And in the stability of her Government and at the same time stated that . he had seen news . of revolutionary movements since this last affirmation ; tends to cast some- Atarm retard-to tile-2conditiOnotouw. try . . And finally the statement that the Government of the United States will continue to support the Government of Mexico only so long as It Protects American interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embodies a threat to the sovereignty of Mexico that she can not overlook and rejects with all energy because she does not accord to any foreign country the right to intervene in ' any form in her domestic affairs nor is she disposed to subordinate her international relations to the exigencies of another country . The statement under reference affirms also that the American Ambassador has succeeded in protecting American as well as foreign interests , and if he has thus succeeded he has no right to charge Mexico with failure to protect said interests , and attention should be called to the fact that said Ambassador does not represent any other forigners but his own fellow citizens , and Mexico could not admit that without her previous authorization the American Ambassador should act in behalf of persons or teterests alien to those of his country . Of the Government of Mexico . as affirmed , is now on trial before the world , such is the case with the Government of the United States as well as those of other countries . But if it is to be understood that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , my Government absolutely rejects with energy such imputation. which in essence would only mean an insult . To conclude , I declare that my Government , conscious of the obligations imposed by international is determined to comply with them , and therefore to extend due protection to the lives and interests of foreigners ; that it only accept and hopes to receive the help and " support of all the other countries based on a sincere and loyal cooperation and according to the invariable practice of international friendship , but in no way it shall admit that a Government of any nation may pretend to create a privileged situation for its nationals in the country , nor shall it either accept any foreign interference contrary to the rights of sovereignty of Mexico .                     