@@692314

txt I have read with interest the interviews given by Mr. Oswald and Lady Cynthia Mosely ; I would like to hear more . I would sit at the feet of Gamaliel and admire his spots . Mr. Mosely says that most of the upper classes in England are halfwitted . Let us thank hith for little  --  he might have said we have none at all ; but luckily Providence has ordained that this couple , born into the inept aristocracy , should attain the high level of the cultured plebeians . Lady Cynthia , as I must call her , not knowing the feminine of " comrade , " says that she has found more real culture on the banks of the Clyde than anywhere else . If this culture is represented by some of the Labor members in Parliament sent by these same Clydesiders , I know a sergeantmajor who should be a university professor . I fear if Mr. Mosely and his wife were invited to a home and sent to dine with the servants , they would feel insulted ; yet to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dining room for the polish of the servants ' hall . They state that they will keep their money for the good of the cause . Very commendable . They point to a rosy future wherein all men will have the same income . No one will be a capitalist . No one need show enterprise , or work harder than others  --  just do enough to escape being spanked and no more . Everything will be merged in a beautiful monotony , and probably in time we shall legislate against names and institute numbers , and abolish sex and let chorus girls become capitalists . Mr. Mosely , should his Utopia materialize , will have accomplished one great thing . He will have removed the fear of death from the world . By the way , how does he propose to overcome the fact that if A , B , C and D are given an equal sum of money , X will have all the money and will be paying A , B , C and D wages ? I take issue with Mr. Mosely on his statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Had he served , as I did for some time . in the ranks he would have known the British soldier and ex-soldier is a born " grouser . " He considers grumbling his privilege . Now any man who , having been throdgh the last war , says he wants another is mad or a liar ; all the same , should occasion arise , the recruiting offices would be filled with the ex-service man , calling himself profant names and explaining to the world what a ? fool he is for being there . Nevertheless , let us give Mr. Oswald and Lady Cynthia Mosely credit for being in earnest , with the recommendation of the comb of common sense for dishevelled ideas . After all , they may be right . We have come to the day of the penurious aristocrat and the wealthy socialist . Perhaps pigs will fly after all .                     