@@689235

txt Fully recognizing his weighty responsibility to the nation . President Coolidge is on his way from Marion to Washington to face and deal with the tremendous problems of government that will confront him . Today he stood with moist eye and Serious mien as the body of his predecessor was placed in the vault in the beautiful cemetery at Marion . Tomorrow morning , early . he will be devoting his attention to business of State . which has been virtually halted in its larger aspects since the night of the late President 's death . Throughout the long Journey to and from Marion the new President continued his intentional self-effacement for the full period of the funeral . Soon after he had left Washington last night he sent word to ne.Wsp-a-p'er ' - ebrresPondents and ' Movie men on his train that there would be neither speeches nor pictures during the trip so far as he had control over the situation . Only once on the journey to Marion did the President emerge from his coach , the private car of high officials of the Baltimore &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowds through which Ms train passed during the daylight run across Ohio . That was at Akron . The Mayor , President of the Chamber of Commerce and other members of a committee ran toward his car during its brief stop this morning some distance from the station platform at Akron . The new President saw them puffing and perspiring- as they ran  --  for it was a hot day  --  and did not have the heart to ignore them by remaining in his closed Pullman . He stepped to the rear platform of his car just long enough to greet them . Neither at Akron . Youngstown , Marion nor the suburbs of Pittsburgh , through which the train was whisked , was there the slightest demonstration beyond the removal of the hats of men in respect to the new President . Cheers were neither volunteered nor encouraged . The new President comported himself with dignity and reserve , and ample evidence was afforded that he appreciated the little niceties of propriety and intended to keep as far as possible in the background of the picture of Ohio 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Till December . While the period of mourning for the late President will continue many weeks in Washington , without official receptions of social character until December . and the . new President will for a stated period wear a mourning band on his arm , his mental and physical energies will now turn away from the last respects for the dead to affairs of Government and the party of which he has become titular leader . It Is not his present intention to move into the White House for several weeks . Arrangements for his installation into the Executive Mansion will depend upon the personal wishes of Mrs. Harding in the matter of her own departure . But from his temporary headquarters at the New Willard Hotel , or wherever else they may be established , the new President will continue to receive callers , confer with Government officials or party leaders , and endeavor to obtain a tighter grip on the affairs a Government . Nothing positive can be stated as to the course the new President will take , what his policies will be nor upon whom he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to President Coolidge since he came to Washington , some of whom accompany him tonight , do not profess to be able to answer these questions . They do not even think Mr. Coolidge himself would yet undertake to furnish such an answer . It has developed from informal conversation of Senators and others returning from this funeral pilgrimage with the new President that the impression had been gathered by many who have talked with him that he does not intend to institute any suddep changes in administrative policy , that he proposes to make close study of problems and situations before making decisions or taking action , that generally speaking. , the Harding policies will be the back-1 bone of his policies , except where ' , change is regarded as warranted by altered conditions or his own independent study of questions , and that he will endeavor to lay foundations for strengthening the position of his party by seeking to have it serve the needs of the nation . To Keep Cabinet for the Present . One thing seems certain ? he will retain the Harding Cabinet for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can , intact , and will endeavor to run the Governmental machine he inherited from his predecessor , making changes in personnel whenever they seem warranted . Attorney General Daugherty , despite the status of his health and the severe sentimental shocks he has sustained in the past six months . is expected to remain at least until . lie cleans up the prosecution of the war frauds cases , if his health permits . From the conversation of most of the Party leaders who went to Marion on the Presidential Special , and who have had conferences with the new President in Washington . it appears they consider he has a mind of his own , is a good listener , has considerable " Yankee horse sense , " as one Senator put it , possesses an active and intelligent mind , but above all the new President appears to impress them as being one of the shrewdest natural politicians that has been in the White House for some time . Men close to the new President reiterate that what he said about standing squarely upon the Harding policies holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's sincerity , some political leaders on the train indicated their belief that this statement is not to be accepted too literally . What they seem to expect is that President Coolidge will carry out those Harding policies which make strong appeal to him , but will ultimately abandon those that do not , but do it quietly . The expectation is that he will concentrate his attention as much as possible on domestic problems which he considers of vital importance to the country , and while not forgetting foreign affairs , which he could not if he would . will seek to emphasize as the weeks pass the domestic aspect of the national ' problem . It is not the expectation that he will " repudiate " those of the Harding policies which he may ultimately not feel like following , but on the other hand will endeavor to " abandon " them . Some of the wiser among the Republican senatorial leaders aboard the Presidential special point out that the late Colonel Theodore Roosevelt made similar announcement about observing policies . President Roosevelt . while ' declaring his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not consider himself bound to meet new situations with the same formulas . To Call Cabinet Meeting Soon . President Coolige will have a Cabinet meeting soon after returning to Washington . He has talked with individual members of the Cabinet since going to Washington , but has had no formal Cabinet meeting , - nor has he met the Cabinet as a " group . " Even when the Cabinet went to the train to meet him at Marion this afternoon and escort him to the Harding funeral there was no attempt to discuss administrative matters . All Cabinet members who went to the Marion station to fneet the President on arrival this afternoon went into his car , but they did not remain in the car as a group , nor was there any semblance of a Cabinet council . Secretaries Hoover . New , Wallace and Denby spent most of the time on the platform , while Secretaries Hughes and Weeks were closeted longer than the others with Mr. and Mrs. Coolidge in his private car . No decision has been reached by President Coolidge regarding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Swampscott. on the Massachusetts north shore , to make that his " Summer White House " during the remainder of the hot season , and also while Mrs. Harding is making her , own arrangements about leaving the White House . One of the first things the President will decide after reaching Washington will be the question of going to Swampscott . He is expected to determine this by Monday , and may even do so before . Present 1ndica.tions , however , are that he will not go there , but remain in - Washington . Swamscott is the home of Frank W. Stearns , the Boston merchant , who is the new President 's closest and most intimate , personal and political adviser . The Stearns home at Swampscott is not large , but there is a beach hotel there with ample accommodations for visitors . Some of Mr. Coolidge 's friends think he ought to go to some place removed like Swampscott from Washington , where he may be able to avoid many of those callers who seek access to his ear on minor matters  --  things of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his predecessors  --  and establish his home for the Summer at some remote point where he may send for those he wishes to see . Others , however , say he may be handicapped by being out of direct touch with the departments at Washington . and others fear he might be . open to criticism if he went away from Washington before giving evidence that he was obtaining a grip on Government affairs . President 's Train Rushing Back .. President Coolidge and party left Marion on the Presidential special train promptly at 6 o'clock tonight over the same Erie and Baltimore S. Ohio route by which he had gone to Marion for President Harding 's burial . After entering the tomb in the cemetery in Marion with Mrs. Coolidge to payhis last tribute to the late President , Mr. Coolidge and those with him went to their train , which was scheduled to leave an hour earlier than the train which was taking the members of Mrs. Harding 's funeral party to Washington . The operating schedule for the Presidential special called for putting the President in Washington at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . The train was scheduled to reach Newcastle , Ohio , at 10:15 o'clock : Laughlin Junction ( Pittsburgh ) at midnight , leaving five minutes later for Connellsville , where the train was due at 1:25 o'clock . After another five minutes stop there to change engines the train was due to errive ' at Cumberland at 4:05 o'clock Saturday morning . leaving five minutes later and reaching Marysburg , W. Va. , at 6 o'clock in the morning and Washington at 8 o'clock . The Presidential special reached Marion at 12:30 standard time this afternoon . It was purposely slowed down so as not to arrive , too soon before the hour set for the funeral . Even then the Presidential party remained an hour and a quarter at the station at Marion before the President , escorted by the Cabinet and accompanied by members of his Party , left the station to go to the Harding residence . Although Henry Ford , Thomas A. Wilson and Harvey Firestone , friends of the late President , who a couple of years ago took him on a camping expedition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went there during the funeral , the President did not see or meet them . Ford , Edon and Firestone were standing near the vault until Carmi Thompson . Senator Willis of Ohio and Representative Davey of Ohio gave up their seats to the trio . General Pershing , who had a seat near the trio , met Henry Ford today and : hook hands with him for the first time . The official list of those who accoms Panted President and Mrs. Coolidge I. Marion follows : Colonel Clarence O. Sherrill , aid to the President ; Chief Justice . Taft , Edward T. Clark , private secretary to the President , anti Mrs. Clark ; Mr. sad 1Tra .. Crank W : Stearns of Boston - Miss Mary Randolph , Secretary to Mrs. , Coolidge : Michael Gallager of land , intimate friend of the late PreSilent ? Major James F. Coupal , President Coolidge 's Physician ; Butler . Republican National Cernmitteeman ? for Massachusetts ; Louis Brush of East Liverpool , Ohio , one of the purchasers of The Marion Star from the late President ; Carmi Thompson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his aid ; Senators Warren , Phipps , Sheppard . Edge , Hale , Ernst , Shipstead . Wadsworth . Spence ) and Cameron ; David S. Barry , Sergean at Arms of the Senate ; Carl A. Loeffler doorkeeper of the Senate ; Adjt . Gen. Walter F. Rhinow cf Minnesota , Maio ! Gens . Coe , Ireland , O'Rya.n , Rickard Muir and Shanks . Rear Admirals ; Eberle . Rodman W11-son . Stitt and Potter : Major Gen. l , ejeune , head of the Marine Corps ; Governors Pinchot of Pennsylvania and Baxter of Maine , 4cting Secretary of Labor E. J. Henning7 ; Sergeant Donaldson . Governor Donaghey of Ohio , Colonel Daly , representing the Governor of Oklahoma ; Mr. McCook , representing the Governor of Connecticut ; Rex B. Goodsell of California , officially representing-the Fraternal Order of Eagles : Chairman John T. Adams of the Republican National Committee . Roy B. Creag-er , who took President Harding to Point Isabel , Texas ; . Representative Martin Davey of Ohio and J. G. Mc . Nary , who was nominated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of confirmation by the Senate .                     