@@688567

txt Diisseldort onight is under a very firm hand . All he caf ? and restaurants were closed at l0 o'clock by order of General Simon . Led arrests are going on all over town . Four well-dressed men in charge of the military police , with drawn revolvers . protected by a squadron of cavalry . have Just passed the hotel going to barracks . Dr. Gtoetzner , Prussian Governor of the district . was arrested this evening . but released after a long conversation with General Simon . The whole town is in a state of nervousness and excitement . Dragoons and squadrons of armored cars are patroling the streets In every direction . During the disturbances at Duesseldorf yesterday nineteen persons were taken In custody by the troops . Acting Burgomaster , Dr. Schmidt , and the Chief of Police , Dr. Oexle , were arrested and imprisoned pending trial on the charge of having contravened French military orders for the proper government of the city . From the list of those arrested yesterday the composition of the crowd is apparent . There are four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest small storekeepers or store assistants . Among them there were no laborers and this agrees well with the appearance of the crowd as it paraded the streets . It was composed almost without exception of well dressed middle class people . There was no rowdy element . Almost all the people taking part in it were engaged in business or official jobs which had closed for the two hour strike . City Officials Condemned . One feature of the evening was that no , or only a few , German police were to be seen on the streets . Like the Post Office and other functionaries , the police had quietly withdrawn during the strike hours and it is because of this that the chief has been arrested today . Both he and the Burgomaster plead complete innocence . ' When interrogated by General Slmond this morning the Burgomaster declared that he could not be held responsible as the strike was instigated by syndicates and functionaries over which he had no control . The Chief of Police had the same excuse . It was against orders he said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but these explanations availed nothing , both men being imprisoned in the local police barracks with special provision that food can be supplied from their homes . On the railroads of the district there is a complete tie-up . At Dusseldorf , Duisburg , Rettowit and other stations the whole personnel has quit work . There are only a few trains running out from Cologne to the outer suburbs of Dusseldorf , and only a few military trains running in the Ruhr basin . Dusseldorf Station is an armed campIt is picketed by several hundred men and the gates are kept closed . At Essen the Station Master returned to work today 4n the hope of getting the tangle straightened out . When he arrived , however , he found the French Military had taken over seven out of eleven telephone lines and that with the best will in the world he could not operate , the . station system . No coal Is being shipped either by rail or water . On the Rhine all traffic Is stopped . From the mines there are no reports reaching French headquarters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cease if the railroad strike continues . The mine owners have promised that wages will be paid at an increased scale whatever happens , and , as the railroad men are employed by the German State , whose orders they are obeying , their wages likewise are assured . Enough Food for a Week . Already in the towns there is a shortage of some commodities , but it is stated that it will be a week more before any food crisis arises . French army supplies are being brought in and distributed by motor truck . and nothing is being bought or requisitioned locally . At all customs stations the German Government order to the functionaries to refuse information is being carried out , and more arrests and expulsions are being made tonight . In the mines the technical staffs also are refusing to give any information to the French engineers . Measures of coercion which were envisaged in their case have notbeen put into execution for the reason that , with the railroad strike preventing output , there is no immediate necessity . Both in coal and revenue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . has yielded not one penny to France . and , though it is yet Wo early to foresee the ultimate result the difficulties which the Germans are putting in the way by passive resistance are suchWtal the outlook is greatly depressing to those charged with the task . The whole Rhineland and Ruhr were effervescing with eeritement last night . Outside my hotel here in Desseldorf a French picket fired over the heads of an immense crowd arid it seemed almost impossible that serious trouble could be avoided , The crowd here was unarmed and for a while it seemed good tempered , but two . or three incidents completely altered its character . Cavalry and infantry patrols three times had charged and the whole city surged with people singing " Deutschland fiber Allee " and " Die Weteht am Rhein . " During the early part of the evening French soldiers and officers were not molested , but the incident in front of the Hotel 33reidenbaeherhof which I saw arose out of the hooting of an officer . He turned on the crowd , which began mobbing his car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged " threateningly . The crowd scattered , but its temper was roused . and it surged once more to the door of the hotel . The officer seizedehis orderly 's revolver as if he intended that if there was any shooting he would do it himself . At that moment a. patrol luckily came around the corner of the street and charged . The crowd immediately scattered while half a dozen shots were fired . over their heads . The French had hoped that by giving light sentences to the coal owners they ould avoid making martyrs of them . The Germans , on the other bane , interpret the sentence as showing that the French were afraid to be severe . Crowds gathered singing their patriotic songs in good temper , but with far more air of success and hope than has been heard since the occupation began . Thousands of young and old men began parading Desseldorf at 5 o'clock , the women and children standing on the sidewalk joined in the songs . They were far from en organized revolt yet . but all such dreams as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republic and winning the allegiance of the people away from Prussia looked like utter foolishness in the face of such e=notion . More clearly than ever it is becoming apparent that victory in this struggle will he to the country which can hold out longest . A German industrialist with whom I talked said that it would be six weeks at least before there was any indication from which it would be possible to gauge the outcome . The rest of Germany had ample coal supplies for that time and could purchase in England for almost the whole - of this year . " We will have to pay dollars , " he said , " but we have plenty of dollars and in the meanwhile we can still undersell other countries and so keep our accumulations of foreign currencies rePierasbed . It will be the Ruhr which will suffer most and it will be for the French to see to it that it does n't suffer too much . " This somewhat optimistic outlook is universal among German people . They do n't believe that the Government or the industrialists will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain from the Ruhr either by the extraction of coal or by a customs line enough to recompense her for the outlay and to pay reparations . M. Le Trecuer , the French Minister of public works who arrived yesterday is visiting the whole district in an attempt to arrange with the mining missten for some schedule of work and with him came General Weygand and Guillaume , chief mining engineer c1 France . The French are preparing for a long stay and the disposition of the troops in more permanent quarters has been completed . There are in all two army corps in the Ruhr basin . These are made up of the 128th. 40th , 13th , 33rd and 47th Infantry divisions with cavalry detachments posted at various points :                     