@@688810

txt The Michigan jury which voted six for the acquittal and six for the conviction of Wit.taA.m- Z. FOsTER , under the Michigan anti-syndicalism laws , had to be convinced on two points to justify a verdict of " guilty , " as Judge TCrnzrs , who presided with such remarkable impartiality and acuteness , said in a clear and able charge . On a certain day in August , 1922 , was the Communist Party of the United States committed to the violent overthrow of the Government ? Did FOSTER go to the convention of the party at Bridgman on that day with the intent to further a plan for the violent overthrow of the Government ? The mere fact of assembly was not a crime under the statute , neither was the advocacy of the Communist social revolution , the dictation of the proletariat , and t h p. various other theories and policies in the Communist Party documents in evidence . The jury seems to have been a good average country jury ; and the average country jury is much superior to the average city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman member voted for acquittal . Five farmers and a railroad crossing watchman were as steady for conviction throughout . If that is the case , the jury was hopelessly " hung " from the first . It is idle to suppose that the result would have been different if the Judge had not refused the request of both wings of the jury for certain documents in the case . But that is traveling beyond the record , to which we refer only for the purpose of recalling FOSTER 'S answer of " I ca n't say " to the question whether he would bring a revolution about " by armed insurrection and civil war , " if he could n't by ballots . The important thing in the case is not the verdict , but the fact that FOSTER had an absolutely fair trial , and that the man who sought to destroy orderly and intelligent American trade unionism by , " boring in " has been exhibited to the country as the mere futile accomplice or leader of the feeble rump that seeks , as he admitted in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government of the " United States with the dictatorship " of the proletariat , " By the Anieri can Federation of Labor and all other associations of American working-met that pursue the aims of labor uncle the Constitution and the laws , he ha : long been thoroughly understood anc despised . The New York Call , organ of the orthodox Socialists , pays thi : tender tribute to him and his friends : In the history of the , organized labor struggle of this country there has never appeared a more asinine or inept group than this collection of furtive Communists . It can not stand the withering blight of publicity thrown upon its activities during the past four years . This long trial has made the blight of publicity still more withering . All labor , all sane socialism , is the better for this new exposure of the little squad of disguised Communists skating on the edge of the law .                     