@@689859

txt A complete shake-up in the officer personnel of the Navy 's giant airship , the Shenandoah. preparatory to the flight this Spring to explore the North Polar region , is impending . The transfers will take place within a few days . When the big airship swings loose from her moorings at Lakehurst on the first leg of the long cruise to Alaska and her subsequent flight over the ' uncharted regions of the North , a start scheduled for the first of June , she will have a new commanding officer with a corps of assistants selected from the young officers of the Aviation Service who have had practical experience in navigating lighter-than-air ships . Orders are expected , possibly tomorrow , detaching Commander F. R. McCrary from command of the Shenandoah and the Naval . Air Station at Lakehurst and assigning him to a ' sea command . According to present plan 's his executive officer , Commander J. L. Klein , will also be relieved from duty aboard the Shenandoah but will be given command of the air station , temporarily at least . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' offic.orlAuls tOnt been ? associated withth0 ; 140-41 , ship of the ' air bdt.h : ; 41tqn. and in her prelimina ; is also slated to be relieved and to be assignelib- , new duties , probably to command ti e naval aircraft factory at Philadelphia . ? Lansdowne Expected to Command . While no announcement has been made as to Commander McCrary 's successor and several officers haste been under consideration , it Is generally accepted in aviation circles that Lieutenant Commander Zachary Lansdowne will be the commanding officer of the big airship during her epochal flight over the " top of the world . " In fact , orders probably will be issued within the next day or two , as ' the department is anxious for the new commanding ' officer to assume his duties as soon as possible so that he may be at hand to supervise the repairs , get the crew into shape and arrange for the preliminary flights and tests to be made before the flight starts . In order to . have three full watches during the long cruise . a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command Will be selected from those officers in aviation whohave had practical experience in ' lighterthan-air craft . They will be ordered to Lakehurst in the near future in order to get all of the preliminary intensive training possible between now and the first of June . Captain Anton Heinen , who in a civilian capacity is employed by the Navy as an engineer , is also expected to make the trip when the ship starts on her great adventure . His long experience and technical knowledge of rigid airships is expected to be of invaluable assistance to the commanding officer and he has , already volunteered for the expedition . Enlisted Men Eager to Volunteer . Contrary to published reports from the Lakehurst station , naval officials say that almost without exception the petty officers and enlisted men of the station have responded to the call for volunteers , and among them enthusiasm runs high over the prospects for a successful trip . Selection of Lieut . Commander Lansdowne for this important command is said to have been made solely on his Peculiar fitness and qualifications for it . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has in handlingrigid airships. for to the flight several years ago of the British airship R-34 across the Atlantic and back , he was ordered to England to make the trip ' across-as the official naval observer . While in . England he had extensive training in handling big airships and qualified as a pilot , being granted a license by the British authorities . Official reports from the British rank him as a lighter-than-air man of first ability , and their air officials made very complimentary reports to the Navy De- . Partment . ' Last Spring when it was expected that the Zeppelin under construction in Germany for the navy would make her maiden voyage across the Atlantic in the Fall , Lieut . Commander Lansdowne was selected by the department to go to Germany and make the trip across with the German crew , in preparation for taking command of the airship on her arrival in this coun- , ty . ' When the unexpected delays in the ship 's construction necessitated postponement of the flight until this Spring , he was recalled and has since been on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sought in Change . It is understood that two reasons Prompted nafy officials in their decision to make extensive changes at Lakehurst . The first was a desire to , have officers with practical experience in lighterthan-air navigation in charge of the big airship during the polar flight as one of the vital steps to insure its success . The decision as to who would be in command , for instance , has been under consideration eirer since the flight Was decided upon . The second reason is understood te have been the necessity , of having the heartiest cooperation and an - entire lack of friction among officers and crew , which , from recent events , seemed impossible under existing conditions . For weeks past there have , been rumblings dissatisfaction , . from Lake . hurst indicating a lamentable lack of cooperation among the officers , and press reports have carried frequent stories of incidents and statements that indicated the existence of considerable friction . Much of this came to light and to official attention in the recent investigations of the accident to the Shenandoah when she tore loose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a wild rampage , getting back safely to her hangar only after a. perilous battle with the storm . Expedition Plans Pushed Rapidly . - Plans for the expedition are being pushed as rapidly as possible by the department . Orders issued yesterday by Secretary Denby started the advance guard on its , way to Alaskan waters to make preparations for the advance base there , and orders were also issued to start work on the erection of a mast and the reconstruction of the fuel oil ship Patoka , and work on her sister . ship will be started as soon as possible . ' Congress has been kept fully informed of the development of plans for the expedition being worked out under the authorization given by Executive order and has been supplied with all data as to the estimated cost . Interest there , as well as in the department and among the general public , seems keenly aroused over this , the greatest peacetime adventure - of the navy of modern times , and little Opposition has developed in any quarter . From now on preparations will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can set out on schedule time in order not to endanger its success by a late start that would dangerously shorten the " open season " which weather conditions in the Far North provide . Repairs to the Shenandoah " will be completed by May 1 , according to the latest estimates , wheih will allow a , full month for final tests and training of officers and men . Present Officers Silent . Commander F. R. McCrary , when notified of the impending shake-up of the Shenandoah officer personnel at his ' home in Lakehurst last night , declined to comment on the change . He said that he could not ' discuss it in the absence of official notification . Until he was informed by THE Tnues , he said , he had heard nothing ' about it . Capt . Anton Heinen received his first information of the shake-up- in the sarna way last night . He seemed pleased at the prospect of making thetrip , but declined to make any commeht . Commander E. B. Wyerbacher also re- ' fused to comment on the shake-up without receiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              