@@686849

txt The question of Upper Silesia affects profoundly the economic situation in Central Europe and incidentally the economic situation of the whole world . The region is rich in coal ; according to German prewar statistics about 25% of German coal was produced there . It is clear that , so long as Germany is deprived of the output of the Saar Valley , the loss of the Silesian mines would cripple her industries very seriously . And the loss of the Ruhr mines to France , which might ozeur if Germany is unable to meet the reparations payments , would result in the impossibility of the recovery in any measure of German industry . In short , industrial Germany would cease to exist and the nation would be hopelessly and irretrievably bankrupt . The German industrial population as it is at present would be unable to find employment and would be under the necessity of dispersing itself over the world because there would be na room for it in agriculture and forestry . There would practicably be no mines in which it could be employed . micuir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this kind ; but the consequences of such a punishment might be highly injurious to other nations . The consuming power of central Europe , formerly very great , would be almost extinguished . It might be argued , as it is being argued , that Poland , especially if assisted by French capital , might exploit the mines of Upper Silesia in the same manner as the mines in Southwestern Poland were exploited , chiefly under Bustja.n management , under pre-par conditions . This is possible ; but the Polish state has many problems to solve before such exploitation could be effectively begun . The German people have certainly exhibited a genuine desire to rehabilitate themselves economically by means of hard work and frugality . Their standard of comfort is.itt present extremely low . If the industrial enterprises of Germany are permitted to exist , this standard must rise and as it rises the German people must once again become large consumers alike of the raw material and of the manufactures of the rest of the world . SHOULD ENCOURAGE REHABILITATION The Polish population in pre-was days possessed a relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was not accustomed to extensive consumption . - ' Therefore , from a purely economic point of view , it seems on the whole more advantageous for the manufacturing nations to encourage the rehabilitation of a population previously accustomed to a relatively high standard of comfort than to discourage such rehabilitation . Moreover , it appears to be quite certain that the prosperity of Poland depends upon the prosperity of Germany even more than it depends upon the prosperity of Russia . The prosperity of Russia seems , indeed , to be compromised for a generation at least . The position of France on the Upper Silesian question may be put in this way . . The econamical recovery of Germany may eventually result in the recovery of German political and military prestige . In proportion as these recover , France is in peril of another attack by GermanyTherefore , it is not to the interest of France that Germany should recover . If , however , this argument were pushed to its logical conclusion , not only must Germany be annihilated , but every other power which in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prance must be annihilated also . If such a policy were adopted by other nations , the world would be divided into disconnected and disassociated communities , each living at a low standard of comfort , and international commerce would be impossible . THE VALUE ON MAGNANIMITY A more magnanimous policy is at once more progressive and more likely to secure the peace of the world . It may be quite true that international commerce promotes international rivalries , but it is by no means necessarily true that international commerce produces more international quarrels than would be likely to exist in the absence of commercial contacts . Treaties of peace have invariably been followed by commercial treaties , and this succession is more or less inevitable and natural . , People who live at a low standard of comfort are inevitably a menace to the rest of the world . Not only because , owing to their low scale of living , there is an economic tendency towards the depression of the scale of ing of other peoples , but because a low standard of comfort induces liability to epidemics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humanity in general was periodically affected injuriously by the plagues of the Middle Ages , which - spread widely under conditions which closely resemble the conditions brought about by the Great War . Then , at frequent intervals , there was universal poverty . universal depression , and international commerce did not exist . In brief , the arguments for international commerce , for increase in the general standard of comfort , for the rehabilitation of depressed peoples and for the encouragement of the activities of the energetic races , are on the whole invincible . A contrary policy must tend towards the degeneration of peoples and towards the simplification of life to primitive ' conditions . In this sense civilization is in real danger . The problem is too but when a portion of the case of Silesia . it is a manner as may be . LACK OF PRECISION IN PLEBISCITE The treaty of Versailles provided for a plebiscite being taken of the population in Upper Silesia , which is partly German and partly Polish , the German population being predominantly industrial and urban , and the Polish population predominantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precision in regarding the manner in which the plebiscite was to be taken and this lack of precision has been responsible for much of the trouble which has ensued . The plebiscite was taken by counting heads of voters for German and Polish citizenship , respectively . Result was about six in favor of German citizenship and four in favor of Polish . The French and Polish governments , however , took the stand that the vote ought to have been taken not by individifals but by communities . Had this been done and had the vote of each individual commune ( industrial or agricultural ) been taken , the result would have been contrary . The argument of Germany , which in this matter is supported by Great Britain , is to the effect that the small rural commune can not be allowed the same weight in a vote of this kind as a large industrial commune . Thus the quarrel has stood . The French Government demanded the sending of reinforcements of allied troops into Upper Silesia to carry . out the provisions of the treaty according to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to employ force to coerce the people of Upper Silesia after the vote had been given in a certain direction . Rumors have been current that the Poles were marching a large army into athe region . ? IV GERMAN GOVERNMENT PELL Should Great Britain , out of complaisance to Fratnce , give way at the conference on August 8 , there is a strong probability that the present German government may fall . If it falls , then one of two consequences must follow : Either a monarchial group or a more or less extreme socialist group must asume power . Neither of these groups could possibly acquiesce in the separation of Upper Silesia from Germany any more than could the present government . But either of them might denounce the Treaty of Versailles and repudiate the reparations debt of Germany . The whole question of the peace would again be in the melting pot with new affiliations arising out of the quarrel over Silesia and with , as added complication , uncertainty regarding all the new nationalities erected by , the Treaty . It can not be said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or of America . Interest of the United States in the Silesian qttestion is , therefore , direct and immediate . It is quite essential that the statesmen at Washington should grapple with the problem without delay .                     