@@690468

txt Berlin will try to ' morrow to solve the complicated problem of glorifying at one and the same time both war and peace . She will have on her hands simultaneously a celebration commemorating the tenth anniversary of the opening by the German armies of the . World War and a reception in honor of the man who more than any other alive today is poke upon by many Europeans as the standard bearer of world peace  --  Charles Evans Hughes . Big preparations for both events have been under way for days . Secretary Hughes , who is scheduled to arrive here at 7 o'clock tomorrow morning , will be met at the railway station by prominent German Government dignitaries , including Foreign Minister Stresemann , as well as by the American Ambassadot , Mr , Houghton , with the embassy staff . Extraordinary ' precautions are being taken to insure Mr. Hughes 's safety . Repor-ts of a Communist uprising scheduled for tomorrow , the tenth anniversary of the German march into Belgium , have been altogether too rife to be ignored . A few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uprising was to be started by " an attempt on somebody in Berlin " Precaution being taken by the Berlin authorities indicate that they are bearing this threat in mind and taking no chanced on the day when not only will Secretary Hughes arrive in Berlin , but German notables , including President Ebert and Foreign Minister Stresemann , will turn out to do him honor . Functions Arranged for Hughes . Tomorrow 's festivities include luncheon tendered to Mt ' . Hughes by President Ebert and a dinner by Ambassador Houghton at the American Embassy , at- which prominent German Government officials , likewise members of the Berlin American colony , will be present . On Monday Mr. Hughes has announced his intention of visiting Potsdam and viewing the statue erected there before the World War to Baron von Steuben , the Prussian officer who fought with the Americans against the British in the American Revolution . Following another luncheon on Monday at the American Embassy , Mr. Hughes will leave Berlin on the night expreser for Bremen , where he will embark for America on the steamship , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hughes visit . There is widespread expression of belief that it will rebound to Germany 's benefit . How strongly this is rooted in German minds is shown by the statement in one of the Berlin newspapers today that " tile . Dawes plan might just as well be called the Hughes plan . " since ft is so ci , sely bound uli with all that Hughes represents in the Present-day vvorhi . Mr. Hughes 's apparent reluctance to obtrude his own personaiity ' . is favorably commented upon here ? in some quarters a comparison is made between his and Wilson 's visits to Europa ' . The significanceAf the fact that Mr. Hughes 's Berlin visit coincides with the tenth anniversary of the beginning of the World War also is noted here as a good omen for the future . Soon after Mr. Hughes 's arrival tomorrow morning the celebration commemorating the tenth World War anniversary will begin with a speech by President Ebert in front of the Reichstag Building , honoring the Germane who fell in fighting for the Fatherland . Afterviard there will be a big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany 's war dead . Buildings all over Berlin are to halfmast flags . After the two minutes ' silence , the half-masted flags will be fully raised while the crowds sing the rational hymn . The chances for trouble during the celebration are strong , for there is much division concerning it among Germans of different ways of thinking . The " Velitisch " extremists and nationalists feel a sort of proprietary interest in lt , since their ranks filled with out-andout militarists who suspect the Government 's interest In the celebration is merely lukewarm . Therefore , they may " demonstrate " in an endeavor to lend a real militaristic flavor to the proceedings . This may provoke clashes with the Government parties and their good friends , the Socialists . Moreover , glowering in the background are the Communists who , there is good reason to believe , see in the celebration a fine opportunity for trouble . Secretary Hughes may find that tomorrow will not be celebrated entirely under the guidance of the dove of peace . Berlin pacifists have arranged a counter-demonstration for tomorrow as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will be the decorating of the graves of the two American soldiers who died while priseners in Germany . One of them . DavR3 Dalton , of the 106th Infantry , who lived on Greene Avenue , Brooklyn , died on Armistice Day  --  Nov. 11. 1918 ? in a prison camp near Berlin . The other , John A. Schultz of Somers , Mont. , a member of the 308th Infantry , died six days after the armistice and before arrangements for releasing of war prisoners could be completed . Both are burled in a military cemetery near Hasenheide , just outside Berlin . Tomorrow two big pacifist organizations  --  the German League for Human Rights and the German National Association of Men Wounded in the War ? will march to Hasenheide ant ' . decorate the graves of these two Americans , also the graves of other members of the allied armies who died while prisoners in Germany . Among those to be present at the ceremony will be several members of the Interallied Commission in Germany . The wreath to be placed on the American graves by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Mournful Memory . " The wreath to be placed there by the second organization Is inscribed " Cursed Be They Who Incited 17s to Hate and Madness , Cursect Be He Who Fired the First Shot . Honor to All Comrades In All Armies . Let Us All Work Together for Eternal Peace . "                     