@@685408

txt It is charitable to assume that some of General WOOD 'S managers were thrust upon him . Surely , his experience , sagacity and knowledge of men would n't have selected such zealous but indiscreet lieutenants . Poor Mr. FRANK Hrrcncocx must lament that an excellent hand has been played so clumsily . Here is Senator Mosss , in a fit of nervousness , imagining that he has been despoiled by the Egyptians of the National Committee . Because they have seated thirty Southern Lowden delegates he explodes on his own hook , without consultation with his , principal or any sober head . He lugs in the " steam roller " of 1912 ; talks of " a series of fraudulent contests " " trumped up " ; accuses even the scrupulously fair-minded Mr. Das of having b'en " conveniently absent from the chair " when the deed of darkness was done ; sees the National Committee as partisans of Governor LOWDEN , berates their " highhanded methods , " and without the knowledge or consent of either the Wood or the Johnson forces threatens the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go off at hal cock and do more damage to one ' friends . Apparently Mr. MOSES be Heves that the best way to strengthei a candidate is to go out of the to make enemies for him . If then was anything unjust in the course o the National Committee , the matte : can be brought up in the convention but why bellow so tremendously abou ' thirty delegates ? They are but 1 . handful . General WOOD can win on13 by attracting delegates from other candidates and delegates unpledgec and undecided . Yet his choleric adjutant strikes wildly at the more than a hundred Lowden partisans , at the National Committee and its wide nexus of political and personal connections , friendships , influences . A wise manager would take losses and gains imperturbably . The opponent of today may be the indispensably needed help of tomorrow . As for coalitions  --  and the Senator 's impromptu one has no look of probability  --  it is safer to form them and even carry them out without advertising them in advance and giving the enemy opportunity to break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where a good deal can be read between the lines , General WooD practically disavowed the public admonition emitted by Mr. MOSES . He feels that Chairman HAYS " is absolutely fair In handling the situation . " He is " loath to believe that at this " critical point in the nation 's history " any selfish or personal interest " would be permitted to outweigh " those of the public good . " If this sounds ingenuous or ironical in view of the Republican course in the Senate , it is doubtless sincere . General WooD was perhaps happier in saying that he has " at heart the building up " of a strong , representative and well " organized Republican Party , " whose success " is absolutely dependent upon fairness throughout its organization , " and that " the success of the party " far outweighs the personal success " of any candidate . " The nap was worn off such phrases long ago , but they are part of the orthodox credo of candidates , and in using them General WOOD makes a sort of apology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ebullient Senator may have imagined that he was raising a war cry ' that would be passionately repeated by millions of throats . He has been bitterly disappointed . His independent stroke of genius was a gross blunder which his chief had to disown . Indeed , if there is any " outrage , " any " wrong " to be suffered by any candidate at Chicago , Senator JOHNSON is the protagonist of the people and the voice in the wilderness crying against tyranny ; and nobody else need apply . Remembering Senator MOSES 'S calm and statesmanlike utterances about the League of Nations , one is prepared for his irritations and declamations at Chicago , the centre of so much brotherly love ; and one marvels at the fortune which added such a treasure of discretion and reticence to General WOOD 'S aids.                     