@@692788

txt Crown Prince Gustaf Adolf , second member of the Swedish royal family to visit an American celebration of the anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence , was welcomed formally with Crown Princess Louise today in the room where two of his countrymen shared in the councils which adopted the famous document . A short time later the royal party paid tribute to John Morton , Swedish signer of the document , when they dedicated a building to his memory on the grounds of the Sesquicentennial Exposition . The Prince answered with boyish enthusiasm to the reception in his honor , while the Princess sat shyly in an Independence Hall chair once occupied by the first President of the Continental Congress . The royal couple were welcomed by Mayor Kendrick after a parade from Logan Square , where they were met by the picturesque First City Troop and escorted to Independence Hall . They examined the Liberty Bell , traced with the , fingers the wound in its side and signed their names in the book which contains the autographs of prominent visitors . Guests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since their arrival last night at the Chestnut Hill home of E. T. Stotesbury , arrived at Logan Square at 9:40 o'clock , the Prince in the first car , with Mr. Stotesbury , and the Princess in another automobile , with Mrs. Stotesbury . The First City Troop , drawn at attention along the parkway , saluted the royal visitors , and the automobile procession fell into line behind the troopers . The procession from Logan Square passed through long lines of cheering onlookers their welcome to the royal visitors being so enthusiastic that the Prince arose again and again to lift his hat and bow acknowledgment . In the cars behind were Dr. Henry Goddard . President of the AmericanScandinavian Foundation , and M. A. Hogeland , Swedish Consul in Pennsylvania . The marshal was John Fredcrick Lewis , President of the Pennsylvania Academy for the Fine Arts . The party arrived at the Liberty shrine at 9:55 o'clock , the royal couple being greeted on the old hall 's steps by Mayor and Mrs. Kendrick , who chatted with them while cameras clicked . The royal couple then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Impressed . They stood , closely attentive , before the Liberty Bell , the Prince leaning over to study closely the inscriptions and walking about the bell to view it from all angles . " It is very impressive , " he said . " It is all very impressive . Independence Hall is beautiful . Architecturally , . i. think it is fine . " With deep interest he questioned his escort on the history of the hall and the Liberty Bell . Sits In Washington 's Chair . For a long moment all in the party paused while Princess Louise sat , silent , in George Washington 's chair , her bearing regal and impressive . Then she rose and . the party moved on . As they left the hall the battery of cameras which trails them opened up again . The Prince stood smiling and the Princess hesitant . " Do n't you want to have another picture taken ? " she was asked . Obligingly she stopped for the cameramen , but the click of the shutters seemed to make her nervous , though the Prince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the path of the cameramen . In ' welcoming the royal visitors to Independence Hall , the Mayor stood on the platform used by the first President of the First Congress . He spoke of the visit at the . Centennial fifty years ago of Prince Bernadotte , known popularly as Prince Oscar , who was here then with the Swedish fleet . J He told the sacrifices of John Morton and John Hanson in the Colonies ' struggle for liberty , recalling , too , that Governor Printz , a Swede , was one of the first Governors of Pennsylvania . The Mayor emphasized the significance of next Sunday in Swedish relations with America . June 6 , he said , will be the three hundredth anniversary of the signing by ' King Gustaf Adolf of the charter of the South Company , which founded colonies in America . Mayor Welcomes Them . The Mayor said in part : " I am delighted , indeed , as Mayor of the great city of Philadelphia to welcome here today your Royal Highness , the Crown Prince of Sweden , and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace-loving country . " I know of no place more fitting in the great City of Brotherly Love in which to greet such distinguished visitors than in this historic edifice  --  Independence Hall . " The Swedes have played a very prominent part , not only in the history of this nation , but in the history of the Western Hemisphere , from early in the sixteenth century . " Before I go any further , however , I. wish to recall that fifty years ago your distinguished uncle , Prince Bernadotte , then known as ' Prince Oscar , ' visited the Centennial Exposition in. this city . A courtesy visit was made by the Swedish fleet and Prince Oscar  --  one of the young navy officers ? was our guest at that time . " I am delighted , indeed , that on this occasion your Royal Highness , the Crown Prince of Sweden , and your charming wife are our guests and will Visit the Sesquicentennial grounds today and participate in the cornerstone laying of the John Morton Memorial Building . " John Morton was one of the signers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patriotism and his achievement as one of the founders has been an inspiration during the last century and a half to all liberty loving people . John Morton and John Hanson were distinguished Swedish-Americans , and both were active and self-sacrificing during the struggle for liberty . A portrait of John Hanson is on view in this old State House . Praises Swedish Citizens . " The Swedish-Americans are among our best eitizens. ? They are homeloving , peace-loving and have contributed much to the success of this great country , and as the heir to the throne of the country from which they come , I wish to extend a hearty official wel come and wish you godspeed , success . health and happiness for you  --  and yours and your glorious country for all time to come . " I extend to you a gladsome welcome . " The Crown Prince , in his address at Independence Square , said : " I wish to take this opportunity to I extend to you and the City of Philadelphia , on behalf of myself and the Princess ; the appreciation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here . " We are happy to h in this city of world-wide renown . You rightly refer ' to the part my countrymen have played in the events that took place in this building and in the formation of this great ' Commonwealth of Pennsylvania : . I believe that they will continue to do this in the future and also not to forget their own country . " It gives me great ' pletsure to visit for the . first time ' this ' . cradle of liberty . .1 am - told that ? in:this-Mora the founders Cif this country , signed the Declaration of Independence , a document of which we have heard much in My land . " Prince to See Edison Plant . Crown . Prince Gustaf Adolf and Crown Princess Louise of Sweden will visit Thomas A .. Edison 's laboratory in West Orange , N. J. , this noon , on their way back from Philadelphia to New York . Mr. Edison will take them through the plant . All work will be at a standstill during their visit . In the afternoon they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park . Tomorrow noon the Prince will hold a press reception at the Hotel Plaza . At 1 . o'clock he will be the guest of honor at a luncheon to be given by Dr. Henry Goddard Leach , editor of the Forum , to publishers , editors and publicists . At the same time . the Crown Princess will he entertained at a luncheon party at Mrs. Leach 's home , 170 East . Sixty-fourth Street .                     