@@694952

txt Commissioner of Accounts Higgins said yesterday that , - in compliance with a written request from Mayor Walker , he would begin early next week " an investigation into the methods and practices of all City Marshals . " He will announce the date of the first public hearing on Monday , he added . This inquiry is an outgrowth of the " loan shark " investigation before Chief City Magistrate , in the course of which witnesses have accused three City Marshals of charging extortionate fees . A further branching out of the Federal and State activities against the " loan sharks " was indicated yesterday by United States Attorney Tuttle when he announced that he had invited State Senator Caleb H. Baumes , Chairman of the New York State Crime Commission ; Magistrate . Leon Henderson of the Russell Sage Foundation , and heads of the Merchants ' Association and of welfare organizations to a luncheon conference with him next Thursday . Senator Baumes is coming here to attend the next " loan sharl ; " hearing before Magistrate . This fact alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon consider recommending new laws to cover more fully the activities of " loan sharks . " Mr. Higgins 's public investigation will include all the seventy-one City Marshals . The Chief City Marshal having announced that he would cooperate in the " loan shark " investigations and that his Marshals would do likewise , Mr. Higgins expects no trouble in getting the Marshals to come to his office for investigation . He has , however , the power to subpoena any one he needs in his inquiry . He said yesterday : " The Marshals of all five boroughs will be called upon to explain in detail their work , whether or not they have been the subject of complaints . It is the desire of Mayor Walker , as I understand it , to acquaint the people of the city with everything that goes on among the City Marshals . I shall conduct the investigation exhaustively with this in mind and then make my recommendations to the Mayor . " Magistrate issued yesterday six warrants for four persons accused in the " loan shark " inquiry before him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lubin Discount Corporation . The concerns are ordered to appear in West Side Court . Says Study Is Needed . Mr. Tuttle , in announcing that he had invited Senator Baumes and others to a luncheon conference next Thursday , said : " The investigation into the practices of certain money-lending concerns already has demonstrated that , aside from such preventive results as the pending inquiries and prosecutions may have , there is urgent need for a study of the situation with a view to securing constructive and permanent results , to be arrived at possibly with the aid and encouragement of legislation , or possibly through the cooperative action of public spirited organization and individuals . The presence of Senator Baumes in town next week seems to present an exceptional opportunity for canvassing the possibility of such constructive results . " In addition to the luncheon guests named , Mr. Tuttle has invited also State Attorney General Albert Ottinger ; his assistant , Mr. Raphael ; Lucius R. Eastman , President , and S. C. Mead , Secretary , of the Merchants ' Association , and representatives of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before United States Commissioner Garrett W. Cotter will be resumed Monday and Magistrate 's hearings will start again next Wednesday .                     