@@696595

txt Continued large tank steamer shipments of gasoline from California and , to a lesser degree , from Venezuela. , to the Atlantic Coast market , indicate there is a likelihood of an extension of the downward price revision in tank wagon and filling station prices during the early part of September . Price adjustment covering the Greater New York City area was announced late last week , bringing tank wagon down to 14 cents a gallon and retail to 16 cents , a cut of three cents . This was forced by a wholesale market in New York harbor of 9 cents a gallon . the former tank wagon price of 17 cents allowing too great a ' spread ' and facilitating general price cutting below established prices . Adjustments of prices in northern New Jersey and other nearby points served through New York harbor wholesale market are expected to occur in the next week or so . Tank wagon market is 14 cents in this general area , it usually being a few cents below New York City due to less handling costs , and retail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change would follow that in New York City and furnish further recognition of the lov. - cring price tendency of the wholesale tank car gasoline market in New York harbor . Published price of tank car market is nine cents a gallon rather generally in the harbor but there are reports of gasoline moving in wholesale lots around Si cents . The big eastern refiners are watching the midcontuaent crude market for a possible price reduction . This development was forestalled during the summer , despite general expectation of such a step . Much depends on whether the new California gas law and voluntary cooperation being discussed by Oklahoma operators result in an early and substantial cut in the output of ? ude oil . Much hope is held for the California yield being reduced substantially shortly ; at this occurs , it probably would bring about a slowing down in California refinery operations and . - hence. the big intercoastal shipments from the Pacific of gasoline . A reduction in Oklahoma yield , likewise , probably would cut refinery runs and gasoline manufacture of that area . East a Dumping Ground A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lift the pressure of excess gasoline , particularly with the big consuming season approaching its conclusion .. The eastern states , a big consuming area and readily accessible for cheap water transportation , have been in the nature of " dumping grounds " for excess gasoline from California , Texas and South America . This undermines the wholesale market . The east coast has a huge refining capacity of its own , as well as facilities for moving crude to its plants , built up over the years to supply its adjacent and foreign markets . With price realization on gasoline , the principal product , declining . it is only natural these big buyers of crude again are thinking of getting their raw material , crude oil , . at cheaper prices . As result of a meeting in Tulsa on Tuesday of operators in the Oklahoma City pool , the Oklahoma Corporation Commission will be petitioned immediately for an order directing a 30-day complete shutdown of all completed producing wells and the stopping of drilling wells for the same period when such wells reach casing level above producing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order promulgated . some opposition may develop from the association or midcontinent royalty owners , who threaten Lu protest iu the commission against shutting in of producing wells . Pine line facilities out of the pool can about handle present production but would be far below potential yield of the pool when a number of wells now drilling are finished .                     