@@685190

txt Gen. Wood 's answer to tho dec.sion of the " Afichlgan voters in the presidential preference primary wile to ask the Republicans of Illinois to rally to him in order to keep the radicals , the " elements of disorder , " from gaining control of the . Republican party . He dkl not name Senator Johnson , but that was his meaning . He is con ? vinced that all the saner , sounder elements of the party must stand together against Johnson . Ile is going cast after the Illinois trip , entering Massifebusetts and New Jersey with this idea ip the forefront of his appeal , Advocates " Old Sound Linos . " He spoke today to a largo ' Crowd at Alton . Ile had the sews of Johnson 's victory in Michigan , but made no direct allusion to it . He made this appeal : " The Republican party is coming back into power and-we want to take held of the problems which are coming after the war on the old sound lines of that party . We do n't want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . We want all Americans , whether newcomers or old timers , to get behind the Republican party and do all they can for good government , for law and order , to give labor a square deal , and stand for the rights of property . No Room for Them . In addressing his Cairo audience tonight Gen. Wood amplified his appeal for a united front against the radicalism which seeks to control the Repub. lican party . He said in part : " There never has been room 1n the Republican party fon those who advocate the ababdthunent of the great principles which have made , our country what It is today . . . . Today we have evidence that some of these unAmerican elements are seeking to gain a foothold in the ranks of the Republican party . They are attempting to do so by employing what the loyal American workman knows as ' boring from within ' tactics . We must see to it that those who seek to spread false doctrines , doctrines which call for the overthrow of American institutions , do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as a party , that we put the stamp of disapproval upon any man who seeks political advance ? ment through an appeal to those elements which opposed our entering the war , or to those radical and dangdrous elements who strive to overthrow our government , that we put the stamp of disapproval upon the man or tan who strive to gain political preference by advocating unsound mid dangerous policies , or by promising things which are inconsistent with sound admit/Istroth-al , due respect for the law , and the rights of others . Talks of " Disloyal " Candidate . " In other words , the man or men who appeal to the forces of disorder , to that great discontented mass who need wise leadership for political ad ? vancement by these means , ip not only dangerous but le disloyal to the best Interests of the nation and society . This type of man , pretending to be a good citizen , Is more dangerous than the open enemy , because he is more specious , more cunning , and is in a better position to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called progressive and conservative elements of the Republican party must be fused into one homogeneous whole . There must be nothing of overconfidence . All good citizens , of whatever party , must go to the polls on election day and vote for candidates whose Americanism and loyalty to our Institutions can not be questioned . " Knows 11 ho Kept Him Out of War . " Who kept us out of war ? " " I ca n't answer that question , " Gen. ? Wood said , " but I know who kept me out of war . "                     