@@695715

txt Important in Great Britain is the announcement of the formation of no fewer than ten new amalgamations or combines . The spirit of amalgamation is in the air in Great Britain . British firms are being compelled either to unite or to prevent price-cutting by pools and agreements . An the word that has come into common use to describe this tendency is rationalization . There is a wide difference of opinion in Great Britain as to the exact meaning of rationalization . Originally it meant nothing more than amalgamation in order to prevent competition . But it is now coming to mean industrial efficiency and control of markets . British manufacturers do not like the phrase " scientific management . " They have never adopted it . They are using the word rationalization instead , but it is coming to mean the same thing . Striking Examples Two automobile manufacturers , Humble and Hillman , have merged into one company and have decided to swing into the ration.li.tion movement Six fertilizer companies have amalgamated under the chairmanship of Sir Harry well-known in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large amalgamations . Two more companies recently have merged , Slaters and Bodega . Two iron and steel companies , Bolckow , Vaughan &; Co. and Dorman Long &; Co. , are planning an amalgamation . The two companies have a capital of 570,000.000 The general belief is that if this merger 12 successful . other iron and steel companies will come in , and Great Britain will have for the first time an iron and steel company that will be large enough to compete successfully with the great companies of America . Fourteen cotton-spinning companies in Lancashire have organized a combine , with a capital cf $125,000,000 . It will be known as the Spinners Combine , Ltd . This company probably will be the nucleus of a still greater amalgamation of cotton spinners These spinners are in what ls called the " American section " of the cotton trade . They use American cotton . They have been hard hit by competition with spinners in India , and are being forced , much against their will , to cooperate . Large Electrical Combine Four electrical companies have joined forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was a purchase rather than an amalgamation , as the Metropolitan-Vickers has acquired control of the other companies . There is now , for the first time , a large electrical company in Britain. ? one that can be compared- with the German and American companies . The capital of the four companies is $77. - 500,000 . No name , as yet . has been chosen for the new combine . But control will be in the hands of the MetropolitanVickers Co , of which Sir Philip Nash is chairman . Eleven coal companies have organized a merger , with $37,500,000 capital These companies are in South Wales , where there has been severe competition among small companies . There is much poverty and distress , at the moment , among the coal miners of South Wales , as thousands of them are unemployed . These systems overlap in ten English cities , and the new plan will enable them to work together and reduce expenaea. itationalizatioa . Means Seduced Costs An address was delivered in London recently by Dr. Alberto Pirelli. the Italian tire manufacturer who has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject was rationalization . " Experience has shown , " he said , " that unemployment , the dreaded ghost of raUonalizaffon , does not follow it , except as a temporary phase during readjustment More people are eventually employed because rationalization ' means reduced costs and therefore a greater spread of purchasing . " Stanley Baldwin also gave an address an rationalization . " Britain is now trying to become the most compotent and efficient of all industrial nations , but the path is hard , " he said . It is unquestionably true that much progress has been made during the past two years . Several American manufacturers , now in London , have been surprised to see the Mass production methods in some of the English factories . The forward movement has now been made possible by the abolition of state interference , by the collapse of the trade unions and by the extension of the policy of protection . More and more the attention of the British people is being concentrated upon the problem of industrial development As the Manchester Commerce says , " The pace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Car Merger Unique There is even a merger on foot of the London bus and street car companies . The scheme has been approved by the London County Council . This will be a most unique merger , as the buses are run by a private company and the street cars are run by the County Council . The bus system is efficient and pays fair dividends , while the street car system has been losing money heavily for years . Eventually , it is believed , the street car system will be quietly handed over to private management . Two of the four railway systems of Great Britain are now drawing up a plan of cooperation , to enable them to compete more successfully with the growing road traffic .                     