@@687232

txt An Immediate credit inventory of the condition of every textile cutter-up and jobber in the country is proposed by A. D. Whiteside , President of the National Credit Office , in a letter addressed to all textile interests . The present situation , by reason of the large number of failures . is described as very critical , and all sellers of woolens , silks and cottons are to be called upon to submit the names of all new accounts opened since July 1 , together with those who are past due in their payments . The organization of which Mr. WhiteSide is head will act as a central clearing house , and promises to make known the results of the entire canvass in two weeks ' time . No charge will be made for the service , which is to be performed in the interests of the textile industry . ' ' We are compelled to advise you immediately of the extremely serious credit condition that now exists In the cuttingup and jobbing trades of the textile industry . " says the letter . " For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 150 failures in these lines , which Is by far the largest number that has wer become insolvent in any one month . " While the opinion prevails that in N  --  ovember the failures reached their peak in number , there is no positive assurance to this effect and , should this proportion hold for the year . there would be 1.800 failures out of a total number of 36,887 cutters and jobbers in the United States . On this basis of 1,800 failures a year , the rate of insolvency would be 4.88 per cent. , which exceeds the previous high record of 1.85 per cent . by a sufficient margin to make continued trading on normal credit terms unprofitably hazardous . These figures further , disclose the fact that , as the average liability for each failure during November was 45,000 , a duration of this percentage would cause a gross monetary loss to the 1,650 distributers to the cutter-up and jobber of $81,000 , - 000 for the next twelve months . " We are convinced that credit conditions have reached a critical phase in your industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual seller , but an economical crisis so alarming that every distributer to these industries should put aside any consideration of personal Inconvenience , as we feel forced to do , and take an immediate credit inventory of tho condition of every cutter-up and jobber in the United States . This credit inventory must be taken at once , and the undertaking is so great that it can only he accomplished through a clearing centre on textile credits . As this office ? now repres ? . nts 1,179 of the 1,650 distributers to these trades . with an organization of 132 persons trained in textile credits , we have definitely decided to offer our entire facilities to act for your industry as the clearing centre in carrying out this work . " It is further explained that the information to be obtained from the distributers will furnish the names of those who are purposely overbuying and those who should obtain no further credit . A greater benefit , however , will be in knowing those who are entitled to full credit consideration . Mr. Whiteside explained that many concerns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rumors that are entirely unfounded . By clearing the air of these false reports , he said , the entire business would be benefited . " The concerns proved entirely solvent will not be hurt by rumors constantly started in this trade , " he said , " and those who deserve to be helped will not be preyed upon and thrown ? into the bankruptcy courts by unscrupulous attorneys. '                     