@@688708

txt ORMOND BEACH , Fla. , March O. ? . President and Mrs. Harding embarked on the houseboat Pioneer this afternoon for a two weeks ' cruise on the inland waterways of the East Coast between here and Miami . Their special train arrived here this noon and stopped within a few hundred yards of the dock . Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. , their hosts on the houseboat cruise , met them at the train and they motored through a lane of cheering Winter visitors to the Pioneer , a three-decked houseboat and one of the most luxurious craft of its kind in Southern waters . Mr. Harding lost no time in changing to golfing costume , and after luncheon on the Pioneer he played eighteen holes with Mr. and two other members of the houseboat party Brig . Gen. Charles G. Dawes , former Director of the Budget Bureau , and Chairman Lasker of the united States Shipping Board . Brig . Gen. C. E. Sawyer , the Hardings ' physician , and George B. Christian Sr. , Secretary to the President , remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The P.e.eldentlal foursome arrived on the Ormond course a few minutes after John D. Rockefeller completed his daily five holes and returned to his home . Although the scores of the foursome remain a charitable secret , it was noticed that a sandy fairgreen and smoothrolled greens gave little encouragement for par holes , and General Dawes , whose peppery phrases as Director of the Budget are memorable in Washington . had a few picturesque remarks to make about the mental hazard of playing with a President and top ping drive in front of a gallery and motion picture , photographers . After the match Mr. Harding and the three other golfers returned to the , . Pioneer , which cast of/ from the dock and sailed seven miles down the Halifax River and anchored off Daytona for the night . It is expected that the house-* boat will continue on tomorrow morning to New Smyrna , and a round of golf will be played over one of the courses in the neighborhood . Plans are indefinite , however , for the President and his wife find more enjoyment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tied down to a fixed schedule . Attorney General Daugherty , Who adcompanied the President to Florida , did not board the Pioneer as first planned , but continued on the train to Miami , where he is looking forward to a week of quiet and recuperation from the long railroad trip from Washington . to take which he left a sick bed where he has been confined since last January . Before the Harding special train arrived at Ormond Mr. Daugherty left his stateroom and walked to the rear of the train to say good-bye to Mr. and Aire . Harding . He was in high spirits , although still weak from his Illness , but , it will be several weeks before the Attorney General has recuperated sufficiently to think of returning to his desk at the Department of Justice . Anotber Cabinet member , Secretary Weeks , left the Harding special train at St. Augustine with Mrs. Weeks , where he will spend a few days before proceeding on an inspection tour of the military posts of the country . A large crowd of Winter residents of i @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old friends of the Hardings who have spent several Winters at this resort . Former Senator Chauncey Thepew. who spends a few months every year at St. Augustine , climbed to the rear platform of the President 's private car , to greet Mr. and Mrs. Harding . General Dawes joined the party at this stop . Former Senator and Mrs. J. S. Frelinghuysen of New Jersey and Senator Hale of Maine and Judge John partort Paine . Secretary of the Interior in the Wilson Administration , who accompanied the Hardings from Washington , left tonight for St. Augustine to boars the Frelinghuysen houseboat. and ultimately are expected to join the houseboat in Miami waters . Secretary of Labor Davis left with Attorney General Daugherty for Miami .                     