@@688301

txt THE MINIMUM WAGE . Working Women Who Favor Protective Legislation In Their Behalf . To the Editor of The New York Times : In an editorial in yesterday 's Tiefesi commenting on labor and protective legislation appears a statement attacking the minimum wage on the ground that it is economically unsound , and a further statement that working women object to protection as " injurious interference . " If a minimum wage is economically unsound , then Great Britain , New Zealand , Australia , France , Argentina , Norway , all of the Canadian Provinces bordering on the United States with the exception of New Brunswick , as well as twelve of our States and the District of Columbia , lire committed to an unsound economic principle , for in these countries , Provinces and States minimum wages in one or more industries are established by law . Furthermore , in all of these political divisions , with the exception of Norway , the Canadian Provinces and the American States , minimum wages are fixed for both men and women . ? ? ? The conclusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minimum becomes the maximum , that it Is a handicap to industry , that it increases prices , that employers and employes oppose it . Your second position is equally Untenable . With no noteworthy exception women 's organizations have gone on record in favor of protective legislation . Furthermore , the organizations which servo as the mouthpiece of working women  --  local unions , State Federations of Labor , the American Federation of Labor , the National Women 's Trade Union League  --  are all strongly back of the movement for increased protection for women . The few individuals who circulate statements similar to those expressed by your writer are not themselves women in need of protection and in no way represent the feeling of in. dustrial workers . Your editor goes on to say that if Mr. Smith becomes Governor he will do " nothing but ' Insist ' and ' fight ' in vain against a Republican Legislature . " If the views of Republican candidates in New York City may he taken as an index of the general opinion on this subject , then there need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met with real opposition in the Legislature . From a questionnaire sent out to all candidates by the New York City League of Women Voters , It is found that , of the Republican candidates for the Assembly from New York City who answered the questionnaire , twenty-seven were in favor of a minimum wage and only one definitely opposed . Of the Republican candidates for the Senate , eleven were unqualifiedly In favor and one opposed . Thus , the contention that a Republican Legislature would fight Mr. Smith on this Inmo is decidedly open to question . CLARA MORTENSON BEYER , Executive Secretary , Consumers ' League of New York . New York , Oct. 21. 1922 . W. IN THE NEAR EAST . His Justification of the Turk as Not Being as Black as He 's Painted . To the Editor of The New York Times : As I have been away on a voyage , I did not see your issue of Sept. 30 or I should have replied immediately to your interesting comment upon my article in The Tribune . Since it is now a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief note . It is only too true of most of us , I Imagine , that when we turn to politics our achievements , as you say , are not always happy . 1 hasten to assure you I am not " turning to politics . " I happened to have Come first-hand Information about the Near East and used It In a moderate and , I trust , honorable way . My protest was mainly against the irresponsible character of Levantine sources of news . I also wished to draw attention to the fact that the Turk suffers from his lack of knowledge of Western methods of news distribution . while the Greek utilizes those methods with disconcerting facility . As for the state of affairs at Smyrna , 1 can only refer you to G. Ward Price , a responsible and experienced war correspondent , who was there when the Turks arrived . He was also in Saloniki with our allies , the Hellenic army of Venizelos . I do not wish to prove that the Turks are " incapable of committielg atroci- , ties . " No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oughte to know now . We also know that the Levantine journalist and poll- : ticlan , when he finds himself in possession of tile English language , uses It with absolute disregard of actual fact . A murder is " a massacre , " a mob is invariably " Christian refugees , " a drunken Turkish soldier is " the Turkish army , " and so on . I am not blaming the Levantine . I ant blaming the publicists and editors who accept his fantastic tarradiddies without careful examination . WILLIAM MeFEE . Nutley , N. J. , Oct. 31 , 1922 . Non-Partisan Judiciary . To the Editor of The New York Times : Will you kindly explain Just what is meant by the term non-partisan with respect to the Judiciary and where any such condition obtains ? Are you in favor of a Constitutional provision for tho Supreme Court requiring an equal number of Judges from both parties throughout the State , or are you only for the non-partisan proposition in Manhattan and the Bronx ? Do you know of any non-partisan agitation outside of the territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a resident of this city for over fifty years , and who would like very much to he enlightened on Tug Taiss 's policy as to the selection of Justices of the Supreme Court . R. K. THOMAS . Brooklyn , Oct. 10 , 11122 . The Eliot Church . To the Editor of The New York Times : You were right in your statement In your biographical notice of the late Dr. Lyman Abbott that his father founded tho " Eliot Church " In Roxbury , Mass . This church , only recently , I believe , merged with a neighborish parish , was a Congregational church of long and honorable history . What John Eliot , the " Apostle to the Indians , " founded was the beautiful old " First Church , " located in Eliot Square , and which has belonged for many yearn to the Unitarian denomination . But this church has never been known  --  at least in recent decades  --  as the " Eliot Church . " P. C. TODD . St. Andrew 's Rectory , South Orange , N. J. , Oct. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The New York Times ; Why do so many persons read Time TimaS ? Well , it prints the news at liberal length , and then . overt ' so often a man reading Tim TIMES discovers a story like " Churns of Al Smith Recall Old Times , " a story written with understanding and sympathy and humor . The writer should be congratulated . lie helps to make Tun ' MIES what it is . E. L. SPARKS . Manhattan Beach , N. Y. , Oct. 30 , WU.                     