@@691605

txt A clear idea of the work being done by the British and French Governments toward the establishment of a more stable political status in Europe is given by the publication tonight of the German proposal for a Rhine compact made last February to the French Government and the French reply on behalf of the Allies , which was delivered in Berlin the day before yesterday , with the notes exchanged between Paris and London on the subject . Ir . the exchanges between Paris and London , in which frank explanations were made and understandings reached , the British Government declined to guarantee any frontier other than that of the Rhineland : or arbitration treaties entered into among the European powers generally , but added that in principle England was ready to use her influence to oblige the signatories of such of these treaties as she approved to ob'serve their promise to resort to arbitration . France , on the other hand , expressed readiness to arbitrate all issues with Germany except the provisions of the Versailles Treaty . She reserved the right to use armed force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czechoslovakia The Gcrman proposa.s and French ans:ver afire. - closely with the forecasts ' Which have teen given in THE NEW Toni ( TIMESBerlin proposed treaty arrangements based on a Rhine compact entered into by Germany , England , France and it and completed by arbitration treaties and treaty pledges against war , all to ' Saxe the form of commitments by tlncontracting powers toward the Government of the United States as trustee . In answer the French accept the general idea of a Rhine compact and of an agreement to arbitrate all issues between Germany and France on certain conditions , among which are the entry of Germany into the League of Nations . ari understanding that none of the treaty rights now held by the contracting parties are affected , that Belgium be included and that Germany make arbitration treaties with her other neighbors . The German suggestion to make Washington trustee was dropped in the French note . Points Left Open Considered . While the texts or both notes leave many points open . the correspondence between Paris and London shows that they have been considered . Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Book issued by the British show the full meaning of the proposed arrangements . One notable , point the British make plain , that they are not willing to agree to general arbitration of all issues which may arise between England and other signatories , so this has led to the plan for separate arbitration treaties , France being ready to arbitrate all issues with Germany , except the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles . On this point of treaty enforcement the British Foreign Office note of May 19 made plain , and the French later agreed , that there must not be isolated action , but rather that machinery must be set up for deciding differences and whether they justified sanctions . Mr. Chamberlain recommended that the League Council be called on for this task . On May 22 31 . Briand replied that what the French meant was that they should not in the proposed treaties give up any rights they held under the Treaty of Versailles . He stated that France was willing to arbitrate any issue except a clear violation of a treaty obligation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accord with the provisions of the treaty violated . M. Briand stated that the reason for not including the names of Poland and Czechoslovakia in the note to Berlin was to aid the Reich statesmen in dealing with their public opinion , but that , nevertheless , the French intended to take the position that any attack on Poland would mean a treaty violation calling for sanctions . As M. Briand put it : " If . for example . Germany were to violate the arbitration treaty with Poland . Great Britain could not automatically be drawn in to a greater extent than she was involved in the first place by the guarantee which she has given in the arbitration treaty , and in the second place . by her capacity as a member of the League of Nations . In return France could not be deemed to violate the Rhineland compact if she should be called upon to help Poland . " Briand in several notes recognizes Mr. Chamberlain 's stand that Britain will do no advance military guaranteeing of any line except the Rhine line , and in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placing the whole guarantee compacts and agreements under the auspices of the League of Nations , It is not our object to create for other members of the League of Nations the same obligations - as for signatories of the agree ? ments . Our intention is merely to place the agreements to be come to under the high moral authority of the League or Nations in order to enable the League , in case of need , to establish the legitimacy of action undertaken in accordance with the terms of these agreements , and in conforming such action with the Covenant and the very principles on which . the Covenant rests . " Britain 's Position Reiterated . Replying to M. Briand on May 28 , Mr. Chamberlain repeats that England does not wish to assume any definite obligations with the exception of the Rhine And , while Britain views with favor the establishment of arbitration treaties among the European powers generally , she is not prepared to guarantee them , saying : " In view of the position of the British Empire , with its world-wide responsibilities , his Majesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such treaties from a different point of view than those powers whose interests lie largely or exclusively in Europe . " Yet Mr. Chamberlain aates in principle that England is ready to use her general influence to oblige the signatories of such Continental treaties to observe their promise to resort to arbitration if it is unuderstood that she is not committed to use force but is left to use her own methods . ' In other words , while England is ready to promise to use force to guarantee the Rhine , she is not ready to promise to use force to guarantee other frontiers , although recognizing the right of France to do so and remaining sympathetic to the general working of the proposed system . On June 4 INL Briand replied , recognizing the validity of the British position and accepting it , saying : " We fully understand that the refusal of the British Government to bind themselves definitely in advance except as concerns the Rhineland means only that the British Government , without disinteresting themselves in what might happen at other points , merely reserve full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French Government considers that their anxiety to maintain general peace and the liberty of all nations in Europe as well as the exigencies of their own national defence preclude them from limi+ing their preoccupations to solicitude : or their own security alone . Their view is that any attempt to modify by force the state of affairs created by treaties would constitute a menace to peace to which France could not remain indifferent . " That is why in their draft reply to the German proposals they consider ' it essential to preserve their liberty to go to the assistance of States to which they deem it necessary to grant their guarantee without it being possible under the proyisions of the proposed Rhineland pact to block their way and thus be turned against them . " Under date of June 8 at Geneva . Mr. Chamberlain replied to M. Briand accepting the French point of view and saying notably : " It would clearly be inequitable that the proposed Rhineland pact should in any circumstances operate in favor of any signatory power which subsequently broke the treaty obligations into which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessarily be so drafted that on one hand they give the fullest possible security to all the powers concerned so long as they abide by their treaty undertakings and that on the other hand they can not be invoked by a guilty power to protect it from the consequences of a wilful breach of treaty obligations . "                     