@@690141

txt As a pool for , revolutionary drainage Russia seems to have had about enough . The soviet gov-i ! rnment will bar all immigrants , ostensibly as a ? eprisal against the new American exclusion bill . the real reason is probably Tear of alien agitation within her boundaries . riven Russia can have oo many revolutions and revolutionists , and the Russians are beginning to find it out . The decree , says a Moscow paper , - " is directed ? specially against emigrants from America who come to Russia expecting to be ' rewarded with responsible posts for unnoticeable revolutionary acilvities ' in America . Let these alleged revolutionists remain in - . Aanerica and create responsible , posts for themselves . " Russian officials evidently have guessed that to escape one 's country Is not the noblest form of revolt . Revolutionary emigrAhs , working in a foreign land are moved less by a desire to reform their own country than by al destructive ' unrest in the presence of all stable ' institutions . But the prospects for a rush to Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance to agitate in comfortable America are usuallYr preferable even to the Joys of revolution in Russia . With Ilaywood and other personally selected emigrants already there , with our congressional apostles safely home , we need not worry about getting our emigrants into Russia . None wants to go . Russia 's reprisal shows that Ilse new American law has a satisfactory set of teeth . That is what most Americans want it to have . MONEY TO SAVE LIVES IN WAR . Not the least of war 's horrors is the untrained ' officer , and in this respect American wars have been peculiarly horrible . Nevertheless , America has gone blithely on renewing after each war her trust in the good disposition of the universe and always finding in the next war that her trust saves none of her thousands of young men dead through incompetent leadership . No enemy has invented a weapon so deadly as our green officers , To train one-third of our " reserve officers , in summer training camps will require 63,916,009 . This is recommended by the senate military affairs committee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either is the house recommendation of ** If our reserve officers are to be trained to any degree of efficiency this latter figure must be increased . The senate recommendation is the only safe Minimum . To the young men who offer themselves for peace time training in the officers ' reserve America owes at least this degree of military education . To the young men who will offer their lives as soldiers in the next war America owes , even more , this Protection of adequateleadershlp.                     