@@691307

txt If the American league club owners accept a suggestion to be offered short , ly by B. B. Johnson , chief of the circuit , the campaign to revive sand lot baseball among the kids of the nation will have another powerful ally . To date the National Baseball fed , eration , the National Amateur Athletic federation and the sporting goods manufacturers have expressed intentions to take a hand , and check the decline that was noted last year through the falling off In sales of baseball paraphernalia made especially for the youngsters . I Neither federation , however , has as ? yet adopted a definite scheme to cornbat the inroads of golf , neglect , radio , etc. , but if the American league , or the National for that matter , chooses t to get into the campaign , it is possible that the various units might toss Itheir ideas in a hat and draw out a plan that would make greater progress in one season than could be made in five years by the campaigners working separately . Big League Coaches . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gourley , secretary and guiding genius of the Basebeg federation , which has Its headquarters in Cleveland . Gourley has asked the American league to participate in an elaborate scheme that would conclude with selected team of boys playing games in big league parks . Gourley 's idea is to stage such games as curtain raisers to the regular championship battles and to have the real stars of the diamond present to give the kids pointers . Gourley already , has exnressed a willingness to handle all the preliminaries . That would involve the en-1 listing of boys ' teams and the scheduling of numerous games to shave down the Held for . the grand finale In each city . The Baseball federation is well organized in some of the large cities ' and in other communities there are either municipal organizations or boys ' league , so Gourley 's scheme could be worked out very easily if one or both of the majors could be in ? duced to cooperate . Griffith 0 . IL on Maj. John L. Griffith , who is eager to lend the support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical . In addition to GourleY 's proposal he would intAnlity , sines between kid teams that maid survive an elimination procie . Griffith 's organization , through its wide membership , also is In a position to work with business men or ' amateur bodies in the small towns and it is in the latter where real pioneering is needed , because the average town has entirely overlooked the neoesioty of maintaining public dia .. monds for the kids . Johnson , the American league head , is interested in the move because If the youngsters continue to turn away from baseball as a recreation the effect will be an eventual lowering of the standard of major league ball . In an investigation made in some of the cities holding franchises in the league it was found that the sand lot game had suffered for the want of organization , also from the phenomenal growth of golf .                     