@@692904

txt Packard Motor Car Co. ' s extra distribution to shareholders calls attention to other developments of a similar nature which are being considered , officially and unofficially , by various motor companies The Packard distribution of an extra 50 cents a share , after stockholders bad received their full $2 regular dividend for the current fiscal year , as well as the 15% stock dividend and an increase in the rate on the full amount of stock by 20% , is looked upon as the forerunner of some announcements by other companies which will be made in the course of the next six months or a year . The motor industry has apparently reached the stage where stockholders are in line for larger returns on their investment , and signs are not lacking that the industry , which as a whole has been a fairly conservative dividead payer in the past , is now in position to treat more liberally with stockholders . The conservatism of the past has been due to the fact that practically all the leading companies have expanded entirely from earnings . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is some question whether this method of providing for expansion has brought the proper public attention to the industry 's financial position and earning power . Its the first place ; only on rare occasions has the industry applied to the investment community for funds , and then usually when the companies concerned were up against it and bankers and investors were asked to come to the rescue . In addition . the public , which generally gauges the value of a stock by the amount of dividends paid , has had little reason to become enthusiastic over the average motor stock because a large proportion of the earnings were being reinvested rather than paid out in dividends . As companies deal more liberally with shareholders , the effect on the prices for the s ' . ares will be interesting to watch and even in conservative quarters is expected to be a stabilizing influence which in the long run will cause stock prices of motor shares to compare more favorably in yield and relation to earning power with other wellestablished issues in Cal : Street . Some indication that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motor stocks than ever before is to be had from the fact that in the current up:Acing in prices , the market has placed a greater valuation on good-will than ever before , and practically all- the motor stocks are selling well above their book values , a condition which was not generally true as recently as two or three years ago . Some developments of a financial nature which should serve to attract further rttention to this group are pending . General Motors ' large dividend payments have alrex cly attracted wide attention . Another extra cash dividend and a stock dividend are looked for on this issue before the end of the year . Hudson which has already declared a stock dividend this year and increased the cash return to shareholders is understood to be planning further stock dividends to capitalize plant expansion during the past year or so . Earnings of Hupp Motors and Nash Motors indicate a larger return to shareholders this year . The next step on Pierce-Arrow preferred , which was established on a regular dividend basis this year for . he first time since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the $40 a share in accumulated back c vidends . A feasible plan would be to liquidate these arrears in common stock which would place the common in line for dividends as earnings warranted . WillysOverland has cleared up the last of its obligations prior to the common stock and placed that stock in line for dividends . and the company 's improved earnings and financial position makes such action a possibility within the next year . While these developments are all contingent on trade results during the rc st of the year , executives in the industry are expecting nothing more than a normal recession in sales and earnings due to the seasonal nature of the industry which in the past has usually developed its largest business during the first six months of the year .                     