@@692855

txt Since the adoption of the Federal Budget , the President 's Budget Speech has come to be a fixture in American public finance . It deserves in some respects to rank with the similar speech of the British Chancellor of the Exchequer . Such likeness as exists between the two is pleasing to those who hold that even under our system we find methods more or less equivalent to those of parliamentary government . It is true that the President has not the power of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say what taxes are to be levied . When the Chancellor says : " You be taxed , " you are taxed ; just as when an English Judge says : " You be hanged , " you are hanged . The President can speak only of the taxation that ought to be , but not necessarily will be . Still , his review of the income and outgo of the Government , together with his discussion of plans and probabilities , makes his Budget Speech a valuable record . It may be dry reading , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attentive reader of President Coor.mcs 's Budget Speech is Its spirit . This is one of ingrained economy and thrift , of satisfaction blended with caution . No New England business man or householder of an elder day could have studied his accounts with more careful scrutiny or more prudent reckoning . It is as if Mr. COOLIDGE before composing his Budget Speech had read over the sayings of Poor Richard and had dipped again into the severe practicalities of the New England Primer . Though the country Is at present flourishing like a green bay tree , the President warns it that reckless extravagance may cause withering and rotting . He is as far as possible from even hinting that we have much goods laid up for many years , and that we may take our ease , eat , drink and be merry . To the President 's mind a time of abundant resources Is the very one to talk of saving , of paying off debts , of providing for the future when revenues may shrink . As a watchful administrator of the National finances , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark side of the picture may soon come into view . He warns against too confident optimism . Oversanguine prophecies regarding the years to come may " court disaster , " if they prove to he fallacious . But , says the President . as if with a cautious smile , " we face no such disaster if we err on the other side . " Better is it to underestimate the national income than to count upon much more than will reach the Treasury . rri line with this refusal to undertake confident commitments for the future , is the President 's warning that further tax reductions ought not now to be thought of . It has not been determined exactly what the present taxes will yield . On the basis of the best estimates that can now be made.there will be a surplus for the fiscal year ending in June , 1928 , of only .520.000,000 . But such a Sum , says Mr. COOLIDGE , is " negligible e and may easily be converted into a " deficit , " It is the force of such conEiderations as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the country that the outlook for further Cutting down of taxes is " hot encouraging . " But this simply redoubles his insistence upon economy and retrenchment. - In announcing that this year 's Treasury surplus may be expected to reach *.390,000,009 , the President points out that ' in the Treasury receipts there was a very large item of $350,000,000 of back taxes , accruing prior to 1920 . But those unsettled accounts are being rapidly cleared- up . It will be unsafe to count upon more than $100,000,000 a year from that source . If it had not yielded so much this year there would have been only a small surplus , and the Treasury would have had to borrow money on June 15 , instead of paying off short-term loans . In what he has to say on these points the President shows himself to be not only a thrifty Yankee but a prudent financier . Some of the figures which he adduces to show the immense cutting down of Federal expenses since the war will scarcely bear the interpretation which he puts upon them . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased their borrowings come with too much grace from the head of the National Government , which for several years prevented them from borrowing at all . As Governor SMrrH has more than once said , the States have had to catch up with some necessary expenditures which during the war they were forbidden by the Washington Administration to undertake . Yet , on the whole , the President 's Budget Speech calls for little criticism . He uttered words wholesome for the people to hear precisely at a time like this . He desires to keep the national house in order . To him it would be just as foolish to take reckless financial chances in public life as in private affairs . And there cap be no doubt that it is an excellent thing for the nation to have a President who has tried and intends to hold the purse strings tight .                     