@@685883

txt While no visible progress was made today toward finding a solution for problems opened up by the miners ' strike , there were current ? late this evening various reports which seem I to indicate the possibility of considerable modification of the Government 's attitude . The Government , it is stated in one quarter closely in touch with Downing Street , will have in the Commons tomorrow an opportunity of making a conciliatory statement , and will take it . The interpretation put upon this statement is that Sir Robert Horne will outline the Government 's position and that Premier Lloyd George , after the labor members have spoken , will make suggestions which will fundamentally alter the whole situation . These suggestions may be either that the datum line proposals be submitted to the miners afresh after an amendment , In order to be voted upon , not by the hatlehal ballot , but district . by . distriet , or that the miners ' two shillings claim should he conceded . at once- conditionally upon the achievement of the datum line of production within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawn . These reports have created nothing less than consternation in quarters where it Is held that any compromise by the Government would be throwing a sop to Cerberus . On one hand the Premier 's inclination to propose a fresh vote by the minors ' is ascribed to the Impression created upon him by reports from various mining centres that the men did not realize that by voting against the datum - line proposals they were going to be led into a strike , and on the ? other . Lloyd George is said to have been influenced by the campaign In the Northcliffe press , which has advocated giving the miners their 2 shillings advance at once , subject to withdrawal if the output of coal does not come up to requirements of the datum line . It has been argued that Northcliffe 's idea means a complete abandonment of the position hitherto taken by the Government and it has been suggested that the proposal was only put forward by the Daily Mail so that in case there should be no settlement , the ' Northcliffe papers would have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the continuance and extension of the strike would entail upon the country . Chronicle Reports Compromise . But The Daily Chronicle also , which is considered Lloyd George 's special organ , will say tomorrow morning that the Government is prepared to give ' ? friendly consideration . to a proposal , if put forward on behalf of the miners , that an advance of ' two shillings per shift should be given subject to reconsideration in two or three months in the light of returns on the output . " How far this would be an abandonment of the position hitherto taken up by the Government is calculated to be a matter , of heated ' controversy . ' Sir Robert Horne and Premier Lloyd George have so far made the point that increases to the miners have not been followed by a proportionate increase of output ; that , in fact , the contrary has been the ease , and that promises in that respect made by the miners ' leaders have been so belied by results that no agreement in this respect was to be relied upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighborhood of Downing Street may have been conducted to bring about a change in the Government 's view - of ? the situation and emphasized the necessity of settling the strike , the continuance of which must nteezarily entail a large extension of unemployment , with its consequent possibilities of disturbance , ' In some quarters . this conciliatory move is. described in the phrase that " Lloyd George has got the wind up . " Deny Troops Hava Been ordered Out . Various reports having ' been current as to the employment of troops , it is officially stated . that the Government has no intention of calling for military aid in connection with the coal situation .. save in case of emergency to aid the civil authority in maintaining order , protecting life . or property , or - in keeping open certain services vital to the life of the community . No troops have been moved into the strike areas . If there were any danger of the coal Mines being wrecked or flooded , then it Would be the duty of the civil authority to invoke the aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of the mines in Yorkshire in a former industrial struggle , but no such emergency has arisen , it is asserted . It would be the duty of the Government . if an emergency arose , to see that the distribution of essential food supplies or of coal is carried out , ' but it is believed that such ? an emergency will not arise in an aggravated degree . ? As to movements of troops ? there have been none , except that the Irish and Coldstream Guards have been moved from Aldershot to London , just as some of the Highlanders have been moved from Fort George to Stirling as precautionary measures in case the civil authorities could not cope with disturbances . That survival of other days , the Lord Mayor 's show , will this coming ninth of November be shorn of much of its glory , owing to the strike . There will be an official procession , but it was today decided to do away with the pageant . which this year had been planned to represent the makers of London . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the Jockey Club reserves its decision regarding the Autumn meeting , which is due at Newmarket , the classic horseracing headquarters , next week . Weather Cold and Bread Dearer . The first day of actual stoppage of work by the miners has seen a great increase of unemployment throughout the country . Reports come from most industrial districts of the closing down of works , and at seaports many thousands of men are idle . To millions this black Monday was marked by an increase in the price of the four pound loaf of bread from One shilling to one and four pence . In popular restaurants and teashops an extra half penny was charged for a roll and only one slice of bread and butter was given for one penny . A keen wind , with an appreciable drop in temperature , heralded the aperoach of Winter and gave rise to many ominous presages of what will happen if the strike should be prolonged . Today 's possible developments were expected to turn upon a joint meeting of the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party . This meeting , however , produced nothing of consequence . The three executives sidetracked the strike problem at 6:30 P. M. , when they adjourned for a night session . The night session also apparently came to the conculsion that it could do nothing in regard to the miners , and devoted itself to a discussion of the Irish situation . An executive meeting of the Transport Workers ' Federation was also held today . The proceedings were private , but afterward Harry Gossling , President of the Federation and one of the mediators in the recent railway strike , said it was too early yet to talk about intervention . " Whatever move may be made will have to be carefully and cautiously considered , " he said , adding that more harm than good would result from hasty action . Now that the strike - had started nothing would be more disastrous or tend to render futile any peace effort than for somebody to jump in without being invited , or before the whole situation had been calmly surveyed , and those vitally and immediately concerned had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no great keenness on the part of the transport men to strike in sympathy . It was pointed out that the entry of forces represented by all the different sections of labor , while they ? might be of great service if peace was desired , had corresponding dangers if it was not desired or not achieved . There is undoubtedly among many labor leaders a disposition to think that the- miners . or at all events the Government and the miners jointly , have blundered into a strike from which they ought to be extricated . This , if it continues to be a dominant feeling . is good , but there is also a feeling , fairly widespread among organized trades , that however much the miners may have blundered they can not afford to see them beaten and ruined in this struggle . Under these circumstances it is felt that tomorrow 's debate in Parliament may be crucial . If the struggle is embittered by an intransigeant attitude on either side , the unions , which at present are desirous of standing aside , may threaten action on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onlyhave the effect of making it doubly necessary for the Government not to re- I cede from the position it has ? taken . Ellis Sterling Exchange . LONDON , Oct. 18 ( Associated Press ) ? One effect of the coal strike upon financial London has been the weakening of pounds sterling , which has dropped to $3.44 on buying orders to cover actual and Prospective coal shipments from the United States to Europe . The effect has already been seen on Continental exchanbes , all of which moved against Great Britain late last week , and which were again slightly weaker today . Inquiries in exchange circles as to the possible effect of the strike on American exchange brought the reply that its future movement was problematical , de- ? pending ? largely on the duration of the strike . It was said that if it lasted any length of . time and coal was ordered from the United States as well as cotton and other essentials , the . effect on the pound might possibly be worse , bringing it below its previous low record . but if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondingly small depreciation . The shutting off of shipments of coal from England to nearby countries and the possible stoppage of export , it was pointed out , naturally would adversely affect those countries ' exchange on London and would only be slightly . alleviated by the reduction of imports into England .                     