@@695863

txt In keeping with an Idea placed in vogue during his first year in office , 1I E. S. Barnard . President of the American league , is going to talk shop With MS umpires today . There are twelve of them on the staff and as they live in precincts scattered from Nattick , Mass. , to San Francisco , Cal. , the expense of gathering them In one bean is not Inconsiderable . The real purpose of this discussion Is to reach a satisfactory understanding on certain points in the rules . Urn . Ores have been known to slip up on little matters , but it is the belief of Barnard , umpire of the umpires , that gatherings such as planned for today are sure preventives against mistakes during the summer when the cash customer is present to voice his solution of how erring arbiters should be disposed of . Connolly Will Ite Here . In connection with the convention of arbiters it is important to mention that Technical Tommy Connolly . gate tzom Nattick , Mass. , will be available for consultation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that gallant little band of guessers that . surrounded Ban Johnson when the American league swelled out its chest twenty-nine years ago and declared itself a major organisation . Having been in service for so long a period , Connolly feels himself entitled to decide whether or not be is to umpire behind the plate . Ho did n't do this last season , and when be arrived yesterday prepared to dazzle the Young bloods with techhlcal decisions that arise only once every half dozen years , he informed Barnard that he would continue to remain away from the region behind the plate the coming campaign . Connolly 's sole regret in lite 0 that he never has been able to devise a rule whereby all umpires would know that a pitched halt that did n't cross the plate was n't a strike , and that a runner is safe at first it he beats the throw . The American American league staff is going Ito be the same the coming season as it was in 1928 with one exception . 1 George Moriarty is back in place of Barry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managed the Detroit club . The complete layout follows : Tommy Connolly , William Dinneen , George Hildebrand , Clarence Flowers Owens , Richard Nallin , George N'toriarty , Emmett Ormsby , William . Roy Van Graflen . William Bull Guthrie , W. M. Camp , bell , and Harry Geisel . This staff is at least diversified as to front names . Three of these fellows are going to sharpen their guessing instincts ' by making spring tours . ' This practice of permitting umpires to churn with one team all spring has been frowned on by President John ' Heydier of the National league , and while the system may have its drawbacks , It Is an established fact that at least half the , arbiters in the National have never displayed signs of having had too much Practice .                     