@@695546

txt and tests to determine the most elective infantry weapons foe use in combating tanks or other armored vehicles have been ordered by the war department , and prelimi ? nary reports are expected to be delivered to the secretary of war within the next few weeks . The purpcses or the stucues are two fold . One object is to determine whether present infantry weapons . such as machine guns and the 37 m11-limeter gun , can be developed into effective anti-tank weapons . The second purpose is to ascertain whether it will be necessary for the ordnance department to develop a heavier Infantry weapon in order to give that branch adequate protection against highly motorized and armored strikin ? forces . War department officials ordered the tests after exhibitions given by the ordnance ( 1 , - partment of the latest devdoped light tanks and armored cars h : -d disclosed the enormous strides rn  --  de In the development of armored wnicls since the war . Tests conducted at Fort Leonard Wood , Aid. , and at Aberdeen proving ground raised serious doubts as to whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would he effective against the speedy armored , highly maneuverable weapons befit since the armistice . Want These Questions Settled . Some of the questions which the Investigation officers were asked to answer were : Has the present 37 millimeter gun striking power and flexibility of transverse sufficient to counteract the armor protection and increased speed of the modern tank and other proiected armored machines ? dent to contend with the probable increase of armored land machines ? Is one gun to a battalion of in ( entry enough to insure protection from land machines on a battalion front ? Should there be a change in the mounting or means of transportation of this weapon ? What are the -characteristics of a gun that will be better adapted to anti-tank defense than any of the weapons with which the infantry is now armed ? Tests were also ordered to determine the armbr piercing power of infantry weapons and to determine the probability of ' hitting tanks that are moving at varying speeds over zig-zig courses and at various ranges . millimeter gun a three pounder for use against tanks . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the 60 caliber machine gun can send projectiles through tank armor , tests thus far have shown that they must be altered . The 37 milliineter gun , it was said , needs a wider and more rapid traverse so that rapid moving vehicles can be kept in the field of fire . It is believed It will bo necessary to develop a mobilo mount for the .60 caliber machine gun before it can be used effectively as an anti-tank gun . ' New Light Tanks Are Speedy . ? Recent tests of the new light tanks have been pronounced strikingly successful by ordnance officers and officers assigned this last summer to the experimental motorized forces . Three of the light tanks recently made what is called a world 's record for tank speed and endurance . These tanks , accompanied by cargo carriers mounted on tank chassis and army trucks , completed a 144 mile march at an average speed of ten miles an hour . Four minutes ' time out was taken to repair one tank duting marching time . All other delays were caused by inability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the new light seven ton tanks .                     