@@688569

txt Criticism of the foreign policy of the national Administration , with specific condemnation of the withdrawal of American troops from the Rhine , was expressed last night by Frank .0 . Lowden , former Governor of Illinois and a ' leading candidate for the Republican Inomination for President in 1920 , in a speech at the dinner of the Council on Foreign Relations at Sherry 's . East Forty-ninth Street and Park Avenue . Ex-Governor Lowden condemned the policy of isolation , declared the United States had not had isolation during the last generation - and asserted ? that the price this country would have to pay to get it back would be the sacrifice of 30 per cent . of its wheat fields , 20 per cent .. of its corn fields , CIO per cent . of its cotton fields , the closing of part of its mines and a general revolution of commerce and industry . He declared he did not see why it should be the American policy to hold aloof from European affairs and asserted that the United States had not done its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world are pur , suing shadows , " he said . " Since the armistice was signed they have indulged in all kinds of illusions . " Iteparattons Too Much for Germany ' . He said the trouble in France was that that country had been balancin ; its budget by including the German , reparations .. , which it was humanly impossible for Germany to pay . He said that the high taxes here- had impeded business and that it was obvious that Germany could never set up the taXation to produce the enormous revenue . He added that there was a false impression that Germany was at work and feeling prosperity , but that what had happened in that country was but the result which always follows an inflated currency . Governor Lowden , who returned recently from Europe , said he found the people there had generally gone to work and had regained their sanity more quickly than the statesmen . The people of Europe , he said , had implicit confidence in the integrity of the United States and its people and deep respect for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how long will that moral influence remain in view of our present attitude toward Europe , " he said . He condemned the withdrawal of the American troops from the Rhineland and told how the order threw the allied High Commissioners Into almost a panic . . " The Belgian Commissioner appealed to me , " he said . " He said that anything might happen if the American troops were recalled . He urged that 1,500 men be left , or , if that were impossible , fifty men  --  enough for a guard for our flag . That flag withdrawn , the Belgian Commissioner said , the people will believe that America has lost faith in us and given ' us up . " " No Right to Maul Down Flag . " He added that Berlin was equally insistent , and said : " We did n't have any right to haul down the flag there . " Referring to the isolation of America , Governor Lowden said that the word might be sweet to Many Americans but the fact was that America had not had isolation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , " he continued , " we will seek an effective foreign policy . " Since we are involved in the world 's affairs , are we going to do something to avoid a war , or are we going to wait until we are engaged in another great war ? " If we are willing to pay the price , maybe we can get back our isolation . But let me tell you the price . It would be the reversion of 30 per cent . of our wheat fields and 20 per cent . of our corn fields back to the native prairie land ; 50 per cent . of the cotton fields of the South would go back to the original forest ; . we would close up a lot of copper mines : and we would have to completely revolutionize our industry and commerce if we would regain that isolation which we long ago lost . Are we willing to pay the price ? " Governor Lowden said he sympathized with France in her attempt to enforce the Payment of the German reparations by the invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any good . He recalled that at the Versailles Peace Conference France demanded the land to the Rhine on the ground that upon it depended her safety from future aggression from the Central Powers . " The United States denied this and . I believe , rightly denied it . " Governor Lowden added . " It offered instead the guarantee of the League of Nations . France said , ' all right . ' We refused to ratify the treaty and every consideration to France in the peace treaty failed . " Sees Nothing for France . " While I can understand it , l can not see what France is going to get out of the invasion of the Ruhr . I think it is a mistake because it is n't profitable to occupy by military force somebody else 's country . It is n't good business . You can make more out of voluntary than out of enforced labor . The great war has proven also that war is unprofitable , even for the conquerin4* nations . " Governor Lowden said he thought if the statesmen of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more in the question of reparations , much difficulty would have been avoided . He asserted that the United States was Interested in the question . " Were n't we interested in whether the German Republic should endure or the military party come back ? " he said . " I do n't think that we really have done quite our full part size the armistice was signed to heal up the wounds of the greatest of all wars . I do n't know why we should say that it is the American policy to hold absolutely aloof . " He then cited specific instances during the last twenty years where the United States had participated in world affairs . He cited the policy of the open door in China , the Algeciras conference , where war between Germany and France was averted in great part through the suggestions of an American President , and in which the United States had representatives . " If that principle of the open door , equal opportunity to all nations , even those in out-of-the-way and backward places , should be adopted , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The chancelleries of the world are more concerned in getting oil concessions than in the peace of the world . Some new formula must be worked out of the possession of the raw materials of the work ) . " International Exchange Agency . Establishment of an international cooperative exchange agency , in which all nations would be associated , was suggested by United States Senator Smith IV . Brookhart of Iowa as a method of solving world political and social difficulties . Senator Brookhart said that such a program would receive the approval of three great " blocs " in the United States . the farmers , the laborers and the war veterans . " These three great blocs have all reached one conclusion , " Senator Brookhart declared , " and that is that our policy of international statesmanship is a complete failure . They believe the present statesmanship is guided solely by economic power and greed . and they oppose a League of Nations or cancellation of war debts . " Senator Brookhart said he would propose legislation providing that all interstate and foreign commerce be transacted under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocated the repeal of all anti-trust laws as soon as this was effected . Asserting- that the farmer received only 35 per cent , of the price charged the consumer for his products . Senator Brookhart said this difference between the price received by the producer and paid by the consumer would be cut down enormously by co-operative methods . He said the farmers and laborers of the United ? States , constituting approxi- ' mately 75 per cent . of the total population , were rapidly reaching accord in economic thought and favored the establishment of a co-operative plan between producers ' and consumers . He cited the success of such co-operation in England and said that the movement had already proved a success here , although as yet on a limited scale . Sees No Immediate Belief , " But you may say that co-operation is of slow growth and there would be no immediate relief ip adopting it as an international system , " Senator Brook hart continued . " Well , there is no immediate relief in sight under any system that has been proposed . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight its way against the organized competitive s- 1 tern and even unfavorable Governrhent action . In Denmark , as soon as it con-1 trolled the Government , its growth became much more rapid than any other business . If it could have the support instead of the opposition of the leaders of business in our country its growth and soundness would be immeasurable . I want to make to this council a. specific proposition . I say to you it is within your power to lead this movement to a speedy and world-wide success . " George W. Wickersham presided . Nearly two hundred persons were present , many of whom participated in the discussion which followed the speeches , but Which , under the rules of the council , were not quotable fN publication ,                     