@@690500

txt Comment on the speech of acceptance by John W. Davis will of course be influenced by the political bias of the newspaper which criticises it . No Democratic newspaper would say that it was a weak production , even if the editor wished it were stronger . No Republican paper would admit the presence of light and leading in that utterance even if there were any notable exhibition of either . It is an eminently gentlemanly speech , setting forth a conventionalized democracy which would be easy enough to read about if it had the remotest bearing on the principles , prejudices or plain politics of the Democratic party . Mr. Davis considers that Mr. Coolidge should have compelled Congress to come to heel , making out a poor case against the constitutional balance of power intended to make Congress really representative . He is firm on the question of tariff for revenue only , but he would find , as Wilson found , and Cleveland disgustedly found , that his own party would leave him in the lurch in the choice between principles and pie . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the usual unsuccess . His utterances about foreign affairs are curiously vague , and perhaps for a good reason . That reason is , of course , that his own party has reversed Woodrow Wilson in its platform and adjourned the League of Nations issue indefinitely . Mr. Davis is a constitutional lawyer and knows that " joining the League " through an unconstitutional popular referendum , only following an impossible agreement between the President and the Senate , means the abandonment of the League of Nations project . But perhaps the reason why he was so conveniently vague was that Charles G. Dawes , the Republican candidate for Vice President , has already achieved more to bring about a world settlement than Woodrow Wilson and all the tagrag and bobtail he took with him to Versailles . Could Mr. Davis keep Congress from throwing its eternal monkey wrench into the machinery of business ? When your commuters ' express suddenly stops between stations the locomotive emits an indignant howl and three savage hoots . In railroad signaling this means , omitting profanity , " You are holding me up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , anyway ? " The signalman , nevertheless , goes about his business , which is the public safety . But from the beginning of March to the adjournment of Congress the arrested business of the country was signaling to a legislature controlled by a combination of Democrats and Progressives which was not attending to its business , the public safety . Mr. Davis wants another , Congress like that , with a sterilized President to say I " me , too . " It is the amiable-weakness about the Davis utterance ' which emerges after the total effect has been weighed. : He will not reassure the business of the country with his address , because what he promises there is exactly what , he can not possibly perform with any alignment of parties in Congress . Society remolded to suit our economic idealists sounds dull enough to make death a matter of indifference .                     