@@690795

txt Probably the best evidence that publicity of tax payments will do business little ' tarn ) , and that some business men are unduly excited about it . Is to be found in the already evident fact that the revelations are disappointing to those who wanted them so badly . Already we hear from that quarter demands for investigation of " dodging . " That means that the lists do not furnish the " horrible examples " of bloat. ed plutocracy expected . It is an old story . Those who procured the law directing a physical valuation of railroads expected to prove all sorts of watering . But report after report has shown big railroads under capitalized . The bitterest attacks on physical valuation come now from former advocates , who would sub . sfitue the " prudent investment " base for what they formerly urged . It was the enemies of the public utilities , not their friends , who established the first public service commissions . Now the utilities are practically unanimous in their support of the commissions . The commissions , by making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronic utility baiter . Any investigation of tax dodging will have the same effect . It will demonstrate that " dodging " consists largely of investments in the tax exempt securities , that business has generally opposed and radical politicians have favored . It will also show that other " dodging " consists In the division of estates  --  something that the radicals have always professed to favor . It is doubtful if that division is altogether harmful . Certainly nothing worse for human society than primogeniture was ever devised . It has always tended to keep mediocrity at the top . Darwin compared it to the folly of a farmer who used his eldest bull to father his flocks . Greater publicity as to many phases 3f American business is practically Inevitable , whether desirable or not .. Already we exeell other nations in our ' statistics of production . Reactionaries , calling themselves " progressives , " cry out against the statistical activities of trade associations , but they are bound to increase . Even now the f ; deral trade commission , under a senate resolution , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts , forms and distribution of each . The commission 's report an tax exempt securities was a valuable document . Business men should in ? - slat that th7 forthcoming report on wealth and income be equally sound , and that the commission make public , in advance of its report , its methods of ascertainment In that survey , so that it may be known whether it is approaching the task In the scientific spirit of the private agencies that have made similar reports . The ' commission owes to the taxpayers full publicity as to its methods of work . The strategy of assuring future PresPerity would suggest to American business men that-instead of seeking an end of congressional investigations , the next session of congress be urged to do some more probing . Some of the recent " Isvestigations " need investigation badly . The " special privileges " of some of the self nominated foes of " special privilege " should be given the air . Some of the agencies of profitable agitation that have been masquerading under high sounding titles should be opened up for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     