@@693255

txt French , astronomers are greatly perturbed a by the announcement of startling changes on the planet Mars . Important modifications have appeared in the formation of the continents  --  and an exceptionally brilliant light of vast extent was observed for three days and disappeared . Why the Parisian savants should be so greatly put out is rather a puzzle . Whatever has occurred in Mars , 40,000,000 miles away , would obviously be a local issue . Reorganization . To the leader or leaders of the Republican Party in New York State , once it has been established who he or they is or are , may be submitted two suggestions for dealing with a situation which is admittedly parlous . The first remedy is plainly a comprehensive system of Republicanowned motor vehicles for mobilizing the registered rural voter on election day . The theory that the private automobile has disposed of rain and snow as a handicap on the up-State Republican vote is not confirmed by the facts . In the late unpleasantness there were registered in New York City 1,337,000 voters , and of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polls . Up-State there were regisaered 2,280,000 voters , and of these there appeared on election day 1,575,000 , or less than 70 per cent . If up-State had done its duty , the presumption is fair that Mr. Mills would have come down to the Bronx with a 300,000 plurality instead of 225,000 . It would n't have done an awful lot of good , but it would have been something . The other remedy would be , of course , to try to pick up a few Republican votes in New York City . Sales Resistance . Things have reached a point where international college teams up at Yale conduct debates on " Resolved , That this house regrets the prominent part played by advertising in modern life . " In other houses regret is being expressed over the energy and money devoted to stimulating public consumption of new tooth pastes that are no , better than the old pastes or sanitary plumbing in quantities all out of proportion to the weekly " pay-check . In the single instance , probably most of us can think of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general principle it is much harder to subscribe to the protest against the artificial stimulation of consumer appetite by the seductive copyman . To cry out against excessive stimulation is to deny the basic principle of life in the year 1926 . Competition . At bottom the protest against advertising is trade rivalry . Overstimulation by the tooth paste and radio Salesmen is resented by salesmen engaged in stimulating us in the direction of new social systems or a new ethics or a new literature and art . Everywhere outside of the commercial field we are urged to ... live dangerously , to experiment boldly , to try everything . The complete life , so runs the new school of stimulation , consists in developing one 's contacts to the utmost , to tingle to everything that is new . Try Trotsky 's New Six-Cylinder Self-Gearing Social Revolution . Try Joyce 's New Patent Polyphonic Prose . Try the - New Family ? It 's Different . Try the New Art  --  Direct from the Cubist to the Consumer . Probably you will buy a lot of . stuff that you can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something that 's worth while . In any case , you will get your money 's worth in an improved state of health induced by exercising your curiosity . It is a good argument , but it should hold for autam3biles as for autonomous morals , for tacial pastes as for Pointillism . First you create new wants . Then it will be time for the customer to decide whether he wants those wants . Between Tuesday- and Wednesday evening Governor Smith received 8,000 telegrams and letters , and the present column is bold enough to assert that it can guess the gist of at least 5,000 of them . The Real Figures . An erroneous impression has spread , possibly encouraged by the tabulations in the newspapers , that the wet and dry referendum in New York State produced an ahtiVolstead majority of about 1,200,000 . In a purely material sense these figures are correct . Morally the anti-Volstead majority ought to be regarded as somewhere between two and three times 1,200,000 , or say , roughly , 3,000,000 . That is because the wet vote was really a protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come into force by a majority of two over one in Congress and by three over one in the State Legislatures regarded as The wisdom of the Fathers recognized that there are two kinds of laws , those which the minority dislikes moderately and those which the minority resents violently . The Fathers therefore provided that a moderately disliked law can be imposed by an ordinary majority on an ordinary minority , but that a violently resented , piece of legislation known as a. constitutional amendment must have an exceptionally high majority over an exceptionally low minority . The bitterer the medicine the higher must be the authority of the doctors , or the more impressive the number of doctors . If , then , it requires approximately three voters to compel one voter to drink the one-half of 1 per cent . which he detests , it must be held that morally the converse is true . One voter 's refusal to drink one-. half of 1 per cent . is really equal to three times as many ordinary refusals on ordinary propositions . When Experts Disagree . Two prescriptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same transatlantic liner . -A Hungarian.portrait painter confided to the ship news reporters that woman is at the height of her charm between the ages of 28 and 35 , by which time she will have experienced something of the sorrow in life without which there is no beauty . On the other hand , M. Jacques Worth of the well-known Parisian firm declared that the new shades for the Winter will be white and crimson red . Incidentally it should be called to the attention of the news editors that the portrait painter in question has come over here " to wander about quietly " in search of the ideal type of American womanhood , and that any intrusion by the interviewers and the camera men will therefore be strongly resented . With 50,000 election districts missing out of 50.000 election districts , William Hohenzollern announces that the German people want him back , .                     