@@685770

txt Finland and Sweden have agreed to accept the intervention of the League of Nations for the settlement of the dispute between them as to the possession of the Aland Islands , lying at the mouth of the Gulf of Bothnia , between the two countries . A commission will be appointed by the Executive Council of the League to investigate the question and reach an early decision . The acceptance of the Council as arbitrator is regarded by the members of the Council as a long step toward the recognition of the League by the nations of the world as a medium for the prevention of future wars . The decision of Finland and Sweden to accept the intervention of the League was taken at today 's meeting of the Council , which was attended by F.jalmar Eranting , the Swedish Premier , and M. Enckell , the Finnish Foreign Minister . The Council adopted the report of the Committee of international jurists which had been appointed to determine if the League had jurisdiction in the case . The committee determined that under Articles III . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to act . ( Article III . deals with the functions of the Assembly of the League of Nations and provides that it may deal at its meetings with any matter " within the sphere of action of the League or affecting the peace of the world . " Article XI . is that in which it is declared that it is " the friendly right of each member of the League to bring to the attention of the Council any circumstances whatever affecting international relations which threatens to disturb international peace  --  or the good understanding between nations upon which peace depends , " and also that any war or threat of war is a matter of concern to the whole League , and that it " shall take any action that may be deemed wise and effectual to safeguard the peace of nations . " ) The action of the two nations places in the hands of the League an international dispute which at one time it was thought might lead to war , and the members of the Council do not disguise their satisfaction over the decision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of support and confidence the League has yet received . A commission of three has been selected to furnish the League in the , shortest possible time a report which will enable it to frame either a final or a provisional settlement . In a resolution which was unanimously adopted ' the Council expressed the hope " that the forthcoming settlement of the question of the Aland Islands will be the basis of the maintenance of peace in that part of the world . " Premier Branting and Foreign Minis- ' ter Enekell both expressed their approval of the course of the Council and said they felt confident that a solution acceptable to Finland and Sweden would soon be reached by that body . Discussion of the boundary dispute between Poland and Lithuania , which has led to sporadic hostilities between those nations , was continued today by the Council of the League of Nations in session here . The Council will take up the question again Sunday morning , having failed to reach any decision in the matter today . Although the council heard M. Woldemar , the Lithuanian Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier , it le understood that it has not yet determined whether the League has jurisdiction , because Lithuania is not a member of the League . TOKIO , Sept. ** Gonsuke Hayashi and Viscount ICikujiro Ishii , Japanese Ambassadors to England and France , have been designated as Japanese delegates to the League of Nations conference at Geneva . Baron Tanetaro Megato , formerly Financial Commissioner to the United States , will be chief delegate . Sweden 's claims to ownership of the Aland Islands date back more than a century . They belonged to her up to 1809 , when they were taken by Russia and attached to the Province of Finland . Separated from Russia as a consequence of the war and the Russian revolution . Finland now asserts that she is entitled to the continued ownership of the group . Sweden is betting up her previous ownership , together with the large preponderance of Swedish population in the islands , as reasons why they should now revert to her . In the Spring of 1018 , when warfare between the White Guards and the Bolaheviki broke out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned Us make use of the islands In connecttion with their operations in Finland , Sweden sent troops to occupy them . The Aland archipelago compr:ses some eighty inhabited islands , with a population of about 25,000 , a large proportion of which are Swedes . The largest of the group is Aland Island , whih contains nearly one-half the populaticon . The dispute over the ownership of the islands has caused considerable bitterness between the Finns and Swedes , end at one time an open break in relations was feared . Sweden has been insistent Won the taking of a plebiscite to decide the ownership of the islands , and before today 's definite action by the League of Nations the Aland question has been before the= WW1 et:nubile in one form or                     