@@689921

txt ' While the immigration authorities at Ellis Island said yesterday that recent court decisions had written such sweeping exemptions into the quota law that the door had been opened to thousands of aliens , the steamship Conte Verdi arrived from Italy with 2,089 steerage passengers , the largest number of this class carried by a single vessel in years . The Italian quota was exhausted on Dec. 7 , but the Majority of the Conte Verdi 's passengers will claim exemption under the Markarian decision . Word of this and other decisions has spread rapidly among the foreigners here , according to Assistant Commissioner H. R. Landis , In charge of the legal division at Ellis Island , and the island is in the midst of a rush of aliens , The only relief in sight , Mr. Landis said , was the possibility that the United States Supreme Court would reverse the decisit.n in the Gottlieb case , on Which all the following decisions depend , but the case will not be argued until next week at the earliest and no decision is expected within thirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertising widely the opportunity for aliens here to bring over their wives and children and thousands have rushed to take advantage of the situation . Predicts Heavier Influx . In the last two weeks the Italian liners Duilio and Conte Rosso have brought in more than 2,000 Italians . Most of them were admitted as exempt under the Markarian decision . Yesterday the Conte ' Verdi brought 2,000 more . On Saturday the Colombo is due with almost 1,900 immigrants . And this was only the beginning , Mr. Landis predicted , because the aliens now on their way arc almost all " Markarian shipments " ; when word of the Nadal decision of Feb. 8 , the most far reaching of the series of decisions , was spread abroad , the real rush would commence . Gottlieb was a Jewish rabbi who was exempt as a minister . lie claimed exemption for his wife too . The Court held that she was entitled to enter , because exemptions regarding the Asiatic barred zone in the Immigration act of 1917 speecifically mentioned that wives and minor children of persons exempt should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be an addition to , not a substitute for , the act of 1917 . A. decision on the Government 's appeal in the United States Supreme Court is expected soon . The Gottlieb decision opened the way for numerous others , because the exemptions mentioned in the Asiatic barred zone ruling are far more liberal than those in the rather strict quota law . Last Spring an Armenian , called Markarian , was admitted to this country and then sailed abroad where he was married . Upon his return he demanded exemption for his bride , citing the Gottlieb case . He won his case . As soon as the Italian quota was exhausted word of the Markarian decision quickly passed around . Steamship conn- Denies advertised sallings for " visits " abroad , so that a husband might return after a " visit " and claim exemption for himself and his family . Inquiry at local steamship. offices disclosed that the lines are fully aware of the risk they run while a Supreme Court decision which would halt the practice at once is imminent . One more conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men sailing to Italy . Thousands of Italians either have sailed for a " visit , " returning on the first possible boat , or ' are planning to do so at once . Cites Nadal Ruling . " The Gottlieb and Markarian decisions were bad enough , " said one immigration official yesterday . " but we might as well tear up the quota law now that the Nadal decision is added to these . " Under the Nadal decision , handed down by Judge Martin T. Manton on Feb. 8 , a. man may simply send for his wife and childreen . If he is not married he can be wedded by proxy . A Spaniard , Jose Vicente Anzar Nadal , was admitted to this country An May , 1920 . He was a longshoreman , formerly living at 770 Washington Street . In October , 1922 , he married by proxy Elovia Gisbert Lledo , a pretty Spanish girl , who arrived in Boston on the Majestic last August . She was ordered deported as in excess of the Spanish quota but was saved by a writ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writ was argued before Judge Manton of the Court of Appeals , sitting as a Circuit Judge . According to . Nadal 's testimony , he married by proxy because the was afraid that if he left the country he might be barred by the quota on returning . Judge Manton declared that I " under the immigration laws the applicant can not be considered the legal wife of the relator " and dismissed the writ . Before the appeal was heard , the whole case was reargued before Judge Manton , who then reversed his first decision upon the discovery that a proxy marriage is recognized as legal in Spain . He then ordered the wife admitted under the same reasoning as applied in the Markarian case . In the meantime , Ellis Island officials said yesterday , Nadal , according to his own testimony , was discovered to have entered the country under a fraudulent name and passport and was deported on Dec. 7 , leaving his wife here . Immigration officials pointed out that the step from the Markarian to the Nadal decision Is a long one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which - have been appealed to since the Gottlieb case set the precedent , do not exempt a. longshoreman along with doctors , missionaries . Government officials , &c.; Mr. Landis predicted that word of the Nadal case would spread all over the country in a few days and " swarms of women and children will start for this port at once . " " We will not recognize this decision as law , of course , " he added . " We intend to fight this case to the bitter end . I We will detain every , immigrant who enters under this ruling while the case is on appeal . " He admitted , however , that writs of habeas corpus are all that will be necessary to prevent deportation pending final disposition of the case . ' It was learned on ? unquestioned authority that one Congressman has in mind the introduction of a bill which would put an immediate check to the ' passing on of exemption from husband to wife and children . Commissioner Henry H. Curran left for Washington yesterday with complete data of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before ' the Senate Committee on Immigration . It was said by those who were in a posi- ' tion to know that he would point out to the Senators the necessity of framing a bill which would offer no possibility of loopholes , so that the quota and other , restrictions intended to be included would remain in the law .                     