@@687899

txt Hight children , ranging in age from 11 to 16 years , were blown to pleCes today by the explosion of a seventy-five millimeter shell on the back porch of house in Dimmick street , occupied by Edward C. Workman and William L. Salisbury . Those killed were : Morris Sallesbury , 16 . Frances Wiley , 13 . Vivian Jones , 12 . Olin Drown , 11 . Anson Workman , 13 . Edna Workman , 14 . Sarah Borden , 13 . Donald Horton , 12 . The shell was a dud fired in range practice by the 106th heavy artillery of Buffalo last summer . Workmen found the shell ' on the Pine Plants reservation last year and kept It as a souvenir . Authorities Seek Shells . Three doorsi away a similarly loaded 160 millimeter shell in held as a souvenir by C. j . Solar , who found it on the Pune Plains reservation Sunday . Police and firemen have started a search of the city for other souvenir shells . They have already found six which have been thrown in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back yord of the ' Workman-Salisbury home . The shell is believed to have been struck by one of the chil. dren With a croquet mallet . It had been used as a prop to keep the door open . The body of one of the children was found in the dftris of the concrete porch-open which the shell lay , and he may have hit it with a mallet . Practically all of the clothing was blown off the bodies of the children . Fragments of It lodged in trees and housetops In the vicinity . The bodies were horribly mutilated . Physician Finds Daughter . One of the first physicians on the scene was Dr. F. W. Jones . Lifting a covering which had been placed over one of the forms ; he recognized the body of his 12 year old daughter , Vivian , by means of an adhesive dreising he had placed on a cut on her leg barely , a half hour before . He had not known his daughter was in the group .. children were t places near Mending in their croquet game . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the balls used in the game were blown to bits and the wickets were torn from the ground . Scene of Desolation . The Workman house is of concrete and the concussion had reduced the entire rear of the house . jo powder . Capt . G. H. Schumacher , construction quartermaster at NiadistIn bar . racks , a shell expert , declared the hot wea6her , expanding the T. N. T. of the charge , would make the shell especially susceptible to : explosion from a jar , but a jar would be needed to explode it . Presence of the concrete wall of the house behind . the shell , Capt . Schumacher said , threw the force of the explosion forward and directly against the eight children ; almost as if they had been standing directly In the path of the gun .                     