@@691873

txt Senator MOSES made a remark in Chicago last week which strikes close not only to the postoffice dilemma but to many another vexing problem of govern-. meat . He said that everybody was in favor of having the salaries of the postal employes increased , but that nobody was willing to pay for them . It will be remembered that President COOLIDGE insisted upon Congress finding the money before it raised the wages . Congress thought it had done so by adopting certain new postal rates , but in the event it appears that a gross miscalculation was made . To date there is a substantial deficit . This may be lessened or wiped out in time , though it has been clearly shown that some of the new postal taxes are inequitable as well as unproductive . These will be , in the opinion of Senator MOSES , repealed or modified by Congress next Winter . But the standing difficulty in the Postoffice Department , as well as in other branches of the Government service , remains very much as it was stated by the Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ push up public expenditures ; everywhere also there is unwillingness to submit to the taxation necessary if they are to lie met . The question used to be asked triumphantly , " Who will pay the bills of socialism ? " The wonder today is who will pay the bills of Governments which profess to be resisting socialism , yet which expand their activities in so many new directions , and increase the numbers of officials so steadily , that new sources of revenue have constantly to be sought to cover the swelling outlay . It is this rising tide of public expense which sweeps away the budgets of Finance Ministers . By great labor and ingenious planning , the British Chancellor of the Exchequer thought he had found ways to remit some 850,000,000 to the taxpayers . But along came the coal crisis and its temporary settlement in the form of a Government subsidy to the tune of 8 ' 60,000,000 , or possibly more , and away flew the Chancellor 's nice reckoning into the waste-basket . For these ventures or accidents in public finance there is always somebody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunately , the problem of enabling the Treasury to make both ends meet does not seem insoluble . We have found methods of enforcing economies and cutting down expenses . We have also discdvered methods of raising revenue which ' yield results far beyond any that a Secretary of the Treasury before 1913 would have thought within the range of possibility . Even though taxes . have been reduced , and may be brought still lower next Winter by Congress , they produce with apparent ease great sums of money . Yet it is always necessary to pursue the payment back to its final source . The somebody who has to pay is often , perhaps usually , the person who is scarcely : aware that he is paying anything at all . Taxes have a way of being shifted until they reach a point inhere they can not be further transferred . That point of equilibrium is situated very near the ultimate consumer  --  the great mass of middle-class citizens and the working population who do not see exactly how they are taxed ; but are painfully conscious that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew it , is greater than that of any other class ' in a Government , whether local or national , that both preaches and practices economy and saving .                     