@@692223

txt The resolution adopted by the House of Representatives directs the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce to " investigate " alleged pricefixing of certain articles imported largely into the United States . But plainly the chief thing aimed at is crude rubber . That was the grievance rnninly dwelt upon in the debate . The fact which nettles Congressmen is that this country , which produces no rubber of its own to speak of , yet is by far the largest consumer of rubber , is having to pay exorbitant prices for it . But what information the House committee can lay its hands upon that is not already available it would be hard to say . The subject has been more than once exhaustively reported upon by the Department of Commerce , Only last week Secretary HOOVER in a letter to Senator CAPPER summarized the evidence which had been assembled by his agents . In brief , it showed that the production of rubber had been restricted by about 45,000 tons , with the result of pushing up the price enormously ; and that if our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American demand will be for some 900,000,000 pounds , for which we would have to pay something like 600,000,000 more than the bill would come to if what was called three years ago the " fair " price had been maintained . The trouble dates back to the Stevenson Restriction act passed by the British Parliament in 1922 . Its ostensible object was to regulate production so that it should be steady , so that too rapid exploitation might be avoided end the price of crude rubber kept stable . But it is alleged that the real intent was to force prices to an artificial level . Inasmuch as Great Britain controls 70 per cent . of the world 's total supply of rubber , and as the United States consumes 70 per cent . of all that is produced , it Is evident that we are the chief victims of the British monopoly , if a monopoly exists . All the ' looking into rubber which the House committee may do will not add appreciably to the knowledge of the situation already furnished by the Department of Commerce . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question which the House committee is really expected to look into and to answer . It is , in fact , directed to recommend " remedial " But what remedy can it propose ? There has been talk of reprisals . Secretary HOOVER disclaims any idea that he favors them . We have tariff troubles enough on our hands already without adding to them . Nor is it easy to conceive our going to the British Government with a straight face to protest against a measure of legislation that is purely domestic so far as the British Empire is concerned . With the avowed aim of the Stevenson act restricting the production of rubber , it is impossible for any outside nation to quarrel . On its face it is strictly a British affair . If the consequences are unpleasant for American manufacturers , their only real remedy Is to seek and develop now sources of supply of rubber . An article in the January number of Foreign Affairs has to do with " The Search for Rubber . " It particularly refers to prospects in South America . That was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the systematic planting and growing of rubber trees in India , Ceylon and the Malay States , for the past thirty or forty years , has resulted in such a development as to create a severe competition for Brazilian exports of rubber . They fell one-half between 1912 and 19 . But it is believed that talentifia culture in the Amazon Basin , as also in certain areas of Bolivia , Peru , Ecuador and Colombia , would quickly mean , if an adequate supply of labor could be assured , a large Increase in the world 's supply of rubber . But at the best we should have to wait four or five years before any considerable amount a this would be available . Meanwhile we shall have to do all that can be done in the way of economies of material , reclaiming of waste . and so on . Great Britain can hardly be called upon to surrender out of hand the advantages which her far-sighted statesmen and empire-builders have been long preparing for her . All we have to do ? all the House committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England were to ask us to cut down the price of the cotton or oil or copper or wheat which she is compelled to buy of us . It is certain that if we had a monopoly of rubber , Congress would defy any foreign Government to touch it with so much as its little finger . It is well enough for the House to investigate rubber , but we ca n't do anything to alter the hard facts which , for the time being , run so heavily against our consumers of rubber                     