@@688332

txt " Debts of money are debts of honor , " said Premier Mussolini to the American correspondents today . " We wish to pay our ( hlts . " We hope that it will be possible for us to do so , but if the United Statss only knew conditions here she would not press for immediate payment . Italy is in the position of a man who is suddenly asked for a million dollars . If he must pay up at once he must confess his inability to meet the demand , but if plenty of time be given he may be able to meet it in full . " Signor Mussolini met the correspondents standing in the centre of his small office . He greeted each with a handshake , his usually frowning face relaxing into a fascinating smile . The Premier spoke excellent French as he scanned the correspondents In turn with his coal-black eyes . Throughout the interview he showed extraordinary patience , answering many questions with the greatest forbearance . For Higher Immigrant Quota . Speaking of relations with the ' United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be most cordial , especially in the economic field . " I believe the two countries can work together to their mutual profit , " he said . " Italy can supply man power and America can supply capital -- all excellent combination . " An immediate object of my policy will ' be to obtain a raising of the immigration quota for Italians . The United States must open its doors . If Italy could send 100,000 well-organized workmen to America yearly . it would be a great thing for America and for civilization . I would be happy , very happy , if I could obtain a raising of the quota . " Continuing , the Premier said that the Fascist ! had often been accused of being a reactionary organization . " But that is absurd , " he added . " If it were true . 1 would not have ordered the reopening of the Chamber . I would have proclaimed a dictatorship , which I could have done easily . To refer to the Fascismo as reactionary is idiotic . Only Communists and Bolsheviks call it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly disarming . They are not doing It by my orders but are doing it voluntarily because they know I wish it . The country will soon have returned to absolutely normal conditions . " Mussolini refused to say much about the Near East question , limiting himself to the statement that the Allies should show a united front and that the Russians ought to be admitted to the conference . " After the Genoa Conference , aftcr the Russians had lunched with the ' King aboard our battleship , " he said , " it would he insane to exclude them from Lausanne . It would only irritate them . " On being asked for his opinion on woman 's suffrage and prohibition , Signor Mussolini said he was opposed to the first on principle . " Women have better things to do and think about than policites , " he remarked . " They will probably eventually receive the vote in Italy , but I am sure when they have obtained the vote they will not know what to do with it . " As for prohibition . he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because temperance strengthens a nation , but he would obtain it by persuasion rather than legist9tIon . " I do n't want a dry country , but a slightly most one , " he said . On being asked how he managed to build up such a powerful organization as the Fascismo Mussolini replied : " By appealing to the better nature of the youth of Italy . When one speaks to the young it is useless to speak to them about money or self interest . They only listen to the voice of ideals , of higher things , of poetry . On these lines was the Fascismo built up . " Now Electoral Law Radical . A radical change in the method of allotting seats in the Chamber of Deputies is promised for in the amendment to the electoral law which Premier Mussolini will place before Parliament shortly after It reconyenes next week . The amendment stipulates that the party whose list receives the largest number of votes in any electoral district shall have three-fifths of the seats allotted in the Chamber to that district , the remaining two-fifths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel certain that they will lead the lists in a great majority of the electoral districts they expect to come to the new Chamber with 300 mats out of 525 , which would glvo them a working majority enabling them to govern without support , even against the solid opposition of all the other parties . Heretofore the seats have been divided pro rata according to the number of votes received by the various parties . For Instance , in a district represented in the Chamber by twenty Deputies , should the Fameieti , Socieliete and Popular Party poll 45,000 , MAO and 20,000 votes respectively , Hint , seats would he given to tint Teacloth seven to the Socialists . and Sour to the Popular Party , Under the amended law the ram . deli would receive twelve peaty . the Socialists five and the Popular Party                     