@@692695

txt Although the-scienOnly Their tists have been talkEffects ing for twenty years Are Known . about " vitamins , " no investigator ever has isolated any of those substances . Their existence is merely an assumption 11 from the effects which have been no ticed when diets have contained Or lacked certain foods . Experiments with animals have resulted , however , in definite conclusions to the effect that there are five kinds of vitamins . They are named after the first letters of the alphabet , and concerning three of them a good deal of fairly definite information has been secured . This is given in a report just issued by the Federal Department of Agricul tare ; it lists 150 foods according to their values as sources of Vitamins A , B and C. Data regarding Vitamins D and E are still scanty . Spinach , that respectable but unexciting herb , has the - unequaled merit of supplying all three vitamins In con siderable quantities , so that anybody eating enough of it need seek no further . Other things rich in Vitamin A , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yolk , whole milk , butter , cream , cod and other fish liver oils , and the livers themselves of both fish and animals . Vitamin B , the anti-neurotic one , is in tomatoes , peas , asparagus , okra and whole-grain cereals . The anti-scorbutic Vitamin D is derived from the citrus fruits , tomatoes , cabbage and turnips . It is the vitamin most easily destroyed by heat , and therefore it is well to eat raw the vegetables containing it . To be sure of getting enough vitamins the diet should be well supplied with citrus fruits , cabbage , the greenleaf vegetables , whole milk , butter and cream . Those , it will be noticed , have been , for ages and everywhere , humanity 's commonest foods , the race not having waited for the scientists to tell them ' what was good for it . Still , now that it has been told , it can more intelligently balance its rations . Fortunately the vitamins are not expensive nor hard to get . Something decidSuperiority edly new was the Seen and awarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superior craftsmanship " to fifteen men who have been working on the Goodyear warehouse on Eleventh Avenue . The men were of various classes , ranging from hodcarriers to electricians , and care was taken to announce that they were rewarded rather for the fine quality of their work than for the large amount of it done . In other words , they had not won the favor of their employers by " speeding . " They accepted the certificates with evident pleasure , and their companions on the job seemingly felt no resentment at the implication that they were somehow inferior to the chosen fifteen . The effect on the winners , as to morale and future employment and compensation , it would be interesting to know . There may or may not be in union circles a disposition to explain this novel function as merely an attempt by employers of labor to create standards in a measure different from those set by the unions . The latter are charged with discouraging workers from showing superior skill and efficiency and from endeavoring thereby to rise above the common level . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole , - rather than for individuals . These accusations are denied by the union leaders , but the denials have not been accepted . generally , as convincing . It hardly can be contended that unionism has promoted rivalry in either the amount or the quality of the work performed . A report just made Canadians to the Canadian ParMay liament by the MonNot Like It . treal Publicity Association ' advocates the imposition of a tax of 10 cents per pound on foreign publicstions  --  meaning , in effect , on those from the United States . The dispatches do not make quite clear whether the tax is proposed as a means of raising revenue oz for the protection of Canadian magazines from the competition of ours , but the latter purpose seemed to be chiefly in mind , for the report dwells a ' length on the need of encouraging the development of Canadian magazines and periodicals . It was , therefore , a confession that without such an advantage over their American rivals Canadian publishers could not retain their share of patronage , even from Canadian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better than ours , or even as good as our few best , it would not call for help of this sort . And 10 cents a pound is not going to do much toward the exclusion of American magazines from Canada , especially as those magazines , or most of them , already charge their Canadian subscribers that amount or more above the price in this country . And how about the general reading public of Canada ? Will It like to pay still more for the magazines it wants , merely for the benefit of a few Cana-1 dian publishers and writers New York is to Catching Up have voting niaWith chines in all its electhe Times . tion districts at last ! The full quota will not be supplied at once , for it takes some time to make 3,000 of these complicated devices , but by the November of 1928 the city will do its balloting as simply , easily and quickly as have for many years many more progressive towns and villages in other parts of our dear country , That is always the way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habit is to let other places do all the experimenting with new methods . It had horse cars and tlien cable cars long after both had disappeared elsewhere , and Boston 's subway cars had central doors years before our engineers admitted the possibility of having such doors here .                     