@@695579

txt FAULTY ECONOMICS . Both Hoover and Smith Tariff Views Are Found Wanting . To the Editor of The New York Vines : In his New York speech Mr. Hoover encouraged his friends by a display of thinking evidently based upon his own convictions when he charged his opponent with State socialism , or State interference with business , but he exposed himself to attack thereby when he was silent concerning the most obvious exhibition of State socialism by his own party in supporting a protective tariff . By creating a system of industry dependent on national legislation every protected beneficiary can be appealed to on the ground that a change in the tariff would affect his prosperity ; and to carry elections he will always contribute liberally to prevent lower tariffs , whether consumers lose or not . Consequently , protection constitutes the worst possible example of interference by the State in industry , especially as it is not substantiated by economic reasoning . If State socialism is injurious , then the main policy of the Republican Party has been obviously indicted by Mr. Hoover . Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the point . He only insisted that if he was guilty of State socialism , so were many Republican leaders whose proposals had been accepted . He was estopped from answering on the merits of the question because he had himself gone over to more or less protection in order not to scare business men who were dependent on the tariff . Thus Governor Smith 's economics are in this respect no more satisfactory than Mr. Hoover 's . When it is assumed as a matter of course that protection is essential to prosperity , one wonders how long our people are to be fed on sophistical economics as if they were children . Of what use are our universities and our educational system , if - such policies are allowed to go unchallenged ? Are we to accept the principle that we are the more prosperous the more heavily we are taxed ? Are we more prosperous the more we have to pay for our woolen clothing and blankets , our chinaware , our women 's dress goods ? Shall we accept the principle that a race-horse runs the faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elementary lessons of economics show that prosperity follows upon the extension of production at lower costs ( through inventions and machinery ) by which more workers can be employed at higher wages . Every improvement that turns out more or a better product per unit of labor and capital employed , and lowers the cost to the consumer , adds to our prosperity . Lower prices allow money wages to buy more . Then how can it be repeated with a solemn face that taking away a large part of this production to enable the less efficient industry to hold its own and imposing enormous import taxes on the articles consumed by the mass of the people is necessary to prosperity ? In actual fact we are prosperous in spite of the heavy burden of taxation imposed on us by duties on imports . That is due mainly to our genius for industrial management and to our phenomenal resources , and not to taxation . In this country protectionism has gone mad , although a moderate measure of it might be helpful Moreover , why should untrue statements be made about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if we were all silly ? Blatant orators tell of the unemployment due to the Democratic tariff . In truth , the panic of 1893 was due to the Sherman Silver bill passed by a bargain between the silverites and protectionists , and the unemployment followed that cause , which preceded the passage of the tariff act . Then it is said that unemployment and disaster followed the Underwood tariff of Oct. 3 , 1913 , under the Wilson Administration . During the first eight months of the act the rate on dutiable goods was 36 per cent . ( or only about 4 per cent . less than in the previous year under the PayneAldrich act ) . Then came the World War , which made all comparisons impossible . In both of these cases partisans are guilty of the fallacy of post hoc propter hoc ; if two things happen at nearly the same time , one is the cause of the other . If a thousand automobiles pass me while standing on the corner of a New York street , it can not be said they passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hoover seems to believe , according to his speech of acceptance , that the prosperity he proposes will bring about the abolition of poverty in perhaps fifty years . This sounds like the receipt of a quack doctor . It is only gush , to give it the most charitable interpretation . Finally , one is surprised to note that Mr. Hoover takes for granted the superiority of canals in furnishing cheap transportation and is willing to support the expenditure of vast sums in building waterways , such as the St. Lawrence scheme . In face of the repeated demonstration that the modern railway , with its heavier rails , its more powerful engines , its longer freight trains and innumerable economies , can outdo water transportation even when subsidized by the State , it seems rather strange to find this support for building canals . Railways do not feel the competition of the Mississippi River nor has the Erie Canal , on which hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent by the State of New York , eaten into the traffic of the New York Central . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect to have Mr. Hoover , if elected , show any trained economic judgment . Perhaps Mr. Leffingwell 's estimate given to President Wilson was generally true . Nevertheless , Mr. Hoover 's character , moral cleanliness and skill in aiding the hungry in Europe should still win our votes . If protectionism is the issue , Governor Smith has not justified our support . He has deserted the former policy of his party in order to win votes . The general attitude of business and the market for securities shows that protectionism is not the issue in the election , whichever candidate is chosen . If we must have protection , we would have been better off with the calm , wise , common sense of President Coolidge and the charm and graciousness of Mrs. Coolidge . J. LAURENCE LAUGHLIN . Washington , D. C. , Oct. 27 , 1928 ,                     