@@690773

txt News of a curious Denunciation and somewhat Added to amusing newspaper Advertisement . episode , but one not without its serious Implications , comes this week from Lancaster , Pa . The New Era of that city had to decide whether it would accept a page advertisement from the local representatives of the Ku Klux Klan . After careful consideration , it took the advertirement and printed it . But in the same issue of The New Era there appeared an editorial article in big type , well leaded and covering half a page , that utterly repudiated all sympathy with the Klan , declared empty all its claims to speak for real Americanism or good citizenship , and took up one by one its pretensions to respect and energetically and eloquently charged it with being a destructive and sinister influence . Admitting that some of the professions of purpose made by the Klan are commendable in themselves , being merely those of decent people of all kinds , The New Era declared with perfect accuracy that even in seeking to promote these ends the Klan followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " betterment of the relationship between our fellow-men " was in impudent contradiction with all it ever had done at any time . " How . " The New Era asks , " does the record of the Klan bear out that claim ? " and it goes on to say : Can any one deny that the attempt to revivify the Klan has done more than anything in half a century to relight the old fires of religious bigotry and suspicion , to breed disrespeot for legally constituted authorities and the belief that the law may be taken Into private hands with Impunity ? Can any one deny that in certain sections It has precipitated a virtual state of civil war , and In many others driven a wedge between grcups in the community that had been cooperating and should continue to Cooperate for the common welfare ? Can any one deny that it has added new bitterness In political affairs , incensed hopeful " and worthy immigrants who had looked to America as the land of equal opportunity , and roused rapidly declining racial an-tagonisms ? Only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Era 's . Done characterization of the Has KuKluxKlan and what it ' has done and is doing  --  the characterization er , rs on the side of understatement . It could have been Much stronger and still have been iv zoll within the bounds of truth . In many and many an American town , big and little , lines of bitter division today are drawn between men and women who not long ago were living in harmony , with small if any attention given to their racial and religious differences . The several groups neither hated nor feared one another , and their disagreements were settled in court when they were " justiciable " and pretty well ignored when they were not . All . this the Klan has changed to a degree varying with its strength and ability in the different sections of the country . Invariably its influence has been bad . and not least bad when the particular things it attempted to do were in themselves innocent or praiseworthy , for a good cause ceases to be such when it is promoted by evil : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other ages , imposes anew the old disabilities of blood and creed which the founders of ' the American Republic repudiated and abolished , and tries to re-establish a theocracy much like the one in the Massachusetts Bay Colony that would be the ' darkest stain on the American record except for the fact that it should be judged by the standards of that day . not of this . Though The Lancaster New Era took Klan money to the extent of $172.87 for its page advertisement , it considered the dollars so deeply tainted that they could be made endurable only by devoting them to charity . So it turned the whole sum over to the Community Service Association of the town . It was accepted by the association with a promise to use it in " constructive charitable.work . " Full details of the They Wasted seizure by the Gera Fine mans of a French Opportunity . balloon which , while participating in an international race , made a forced descent near Emden , are not yet available , but from the facts as known the affair seams to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time when the Germans have a chance to recover in some part the goodwill of their neighbors , and especially of France , they exercise to no imaginable purpose ' and with no imaginable need a Petty technica. right with the inevitable consequence of giving force to the . contentions of . implacable enemies that amicable relations with them are impossible . On the very day of the seizure of this balloon , the-ER-3 , though still German property , had flown across France . Permission to do so had been asked and courteously granted . and apparently none had , been asked or granted far the French , balloon to go the other way . if that is so , it makes , a difference of a sort , but it is a poor difference , particularly as the " invasion " of Germany by the , French balloon presumably was unintended and involuntary . The Germans bad a chance to be                     