@@690259

txt Aldermen yesterday Ignored invitations of the school board to attend it series of lectures on the organization , operation and purpose of the junior high schools which are being given at the Lane High school . Although members of the council committee on schools who are investigating the Junior high were asked to be present , none attended as far as could ? be learned . Mayor Dever will not order members of the board of education or Superintendent of Schools William to appear before the council schools , fire and civil service committee to explain the new junior high school plan , ho told members of the committee yesterday . The lecture yesterday dealt with the Principles underlying the reorgsnizatiort of the curriculum with special . reference to the new English program . Prof. R. L. Lyman , department of English of the University of Chicago , was the speaker . Guidance the Mm . Guidance in education and %oration rather than direction should he the aim of the junior high school currie. alum , according to Prof. Lyman . The school should act as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are fitted to do . he said . In mapping out the curriculum lot the junior ? high school studen t the recommendations and convictions of several sources should be considered , the professor declared . They are the pupil , the parents , home room teacher , hand work teach . er , guidance work teacher , and the school counselors . The pupil should voice his selections . The parents furnish information and make recom. mendations on blanks furnished . Then 2ortle the opinions of the home room , hand work , and guidance work teachers . The home room teachers , if fea n'illiam. ndrow was called " the wise Solomon of Wall street town , " 210 Parents in n tare tin g al . the Blaine wheel last night passed a resolution asking the heard to delay its establishment of Junior high schools until the projected system has been thoroughly investigated . Firemen Sink Launch Afire at the Soo Sault Ste Marie , Mich. , May ( Special . ? The coast guard launch Advance was sunk this evening by the fire department after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department used all its chemicals and turned several streams of water into the craft . As the flames still gained headway , the firemen smashed holes in the hull and the launch went down . A coast guard was painfully burned in the explosion .                     