@@696700

txt The report from Tokio on Japan 's foreign trade for the first half of the current year is a new indication of the growing interdependence of the nations . The United States takes more than two-fifths of Japan 's exports and furnishes about a third of her imports . While the part which the United States plays in the trade of Canada , Mexico and some ? of the Latin-American States is as great or even greater , a special characteristic of our trade with Japan is one of extraordinary importance to both countries . Japan 's largest single industry is now the production of silk and the United States takes about 90 per cent of her total silk exports . This has created a trade relation which is as delicate as was the interdependence of the English cotton industry and the Southern cotton planters for more than a hundred years . True , the silk manufacturing industry in this country does not account for so large a proportion of America 's industrial output as the textile industries did in the industrial life of England . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependent on the silk market in the United States than were the American cotton growers on the English cotton market . So true is this that the development of artificial silk substitutes has been v.-atched with concern by the Japanese . In fact , there is no material reduction in Japan 's trade with the United States . That country is also fortunate in being able to develop her markets in China despite the unsettled conditions there due to the protracted internal disorders . This trade has been more subject to political influences than has Japan 's trade with other nations owing to the success which has met the occasional effort 's of the Chinese to boycott Japanese goods . Luckily , there is no prospect of political incidents ever affecting Japan 's trade with the United States . The enormous quantity of silk imported from Japan , together with the large imports of rubber from the Dutch East Indies and Singapore , accounts for the fact that the Far East now contributes to the imports of the United States possibly more than Europe or South America . This is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago as 1926 pointed out in its annual survey of world conditions that trade is passing from the Atlantic to the Pacific . lts analysis showed that the nations which border the Pacific have been trafficking more with each other , and relatively less with Europe , than before the war . Much of this trade is in highly specialized articles . But this does not alter the fact that the world is witnessing in the Far East and Australasia , as well as in the United States , a steady development of trade relations which is working unobtrusively but effectively to bind these nations together so closely that temporary quarrels will be but as momentary gusts of wind to ruffle the otherwise tranquil waters of the Pacific .                     