@@684893

txt Frank A . Munsey has bought The New Work Herald . With it he acquires the Other newspaper properties of the late James Gordon Bennett , the New York Evening Telegram and The Paris Herald . This announcement of the sale appears ' this morning in The Herald : " The New . York Herald has passed Into the hands of Frank A. Munsey , staho has purchased all of the publishing interests of the late James Gordon Benpett , consisting of The New York Herald , The Evening Telegram and the Paris edition of The New York Herald . " Mr. Munsey will tell you in due time Of his plans for these newspapers . " ( Signed ) " RODMAN WANAMAKER , " GUARANTY TRUST CO. , I " Executors of estate of James Gordon Bennett . " To this Mr. Munsey , interviewed last night at the Ritz-Carlton by a reporter for Tin ; TIMES , added : " The deal was not concluded until S o'cicck this evening . Negotiations have been going on for several weeks . At present I am not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to study it there will be no announcement as to my plans . Such an announcement may be expected later . " Price Not Disclosed . The purchaser refused to disclose the price at which he had acquired the newspapers , nor would he give any hint as to his intentions regarding them . He refused to give any intimation as to whether he intended to discontinue publication of any or to merge any with his two present New York newspapers , The Sun and The Evening Sun . In this connection it was recalled that as soon as he acquired The Sun in July , 3916 , he merged with it The New York press which he had bought in September , 1912 , thereby getting for The Sun an Associated Press franchise which hitherto it had lacked . There was much curiosity in newspaper circles , , following last night 's announcement , whether he ! would follow a similar course with The Evening Telegram , merging it with The Evening Sun in order to supply that newspaper with the Associated Press Service which it still lacks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculation ran next to his purposes with regard to The Herald . ' Would he continue to publish it in competition with his other morning newspaper in this city , or would The Herald go out of existence after appearing for . eighty-five years ? If he did discontinue publication , it was suggested , he Might make the Paris Herald a Paris Fun in the event that he did not wish to abolish that , too . Mr. Bennett , when he died , May 14. 1918 , left a will in which he directed that the income from The Herald and The Evening Telegram be used to establish a homerfor aged newspaper men , to be known , in memory of his father , as " The James Gordon Bennett MeModal Home for New York Journalists . " Did Not Forbid Sale . The executors of the estate were requested to continue publication of the papers so long as they could do so advantageously , but , while the testator requested that they should not be sold , he did not positively forbid the sale . The home was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were Rodman Wanamaker , Robert W. Candler , Thomas T. Sherman , J. D. Jerrold Xelley and Josiah K. Ohl . Ohl , Candler and Kelley were . directors of the New York Herald Company . There has been no further announcement regarding the home project , and , so far as could be learned last night , it has not progressed beyond the stage of incorporation . The inference drawn from the terms of the will , however , is that the purchase price of the newspapers now will be applied to the actual establishment of the home in a suitable building . The taking over of The Herald properties marks Mr. Munsey 's Tifth newspaper venture in this city . Some years ago he bought The New York Daily News , but abandoned it after several months ' futile efforts to make it a success . and it soon went out of existence . A number of years before that he had bought The New York Star , the name of which he changed to The Continent . He soon sold it to Colonel John A. Cockerill , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New York American . In addition to the purchase of The New York Press in 1912 . Mr. Munselt several years ago acquired The Baltimore News , and for a number of years was the proprietor of The Washington Times , which he sold in June , 1917 , to Arthur Brisbane . Mr. Munsey was born in Mercer , Me. , is 1854 and after being educated in Awe public schools started business In k country store . Later he became manager of a. telegraph office in Augusta . He came to New York in 1882 and embarked in the publishing busi- ness with the Golden Argosy , a juvenile weekly , which afterward became the adult weekly , the Argosy. - At present he is the owner of a. number of successful magazines , including the Argosy. the Railroad Man 's Magazine , Munsey 's and the All-Story ' Weekly . In the twenty-fifth anniversary number of the Argosy he told his own story of the business romance involved in its launching without backing and in the vicissitudes which beset it before it became a success . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insatiable ambition , " whose " soul cried out for an opportunity to carve out " a bigger life . The publisher is a Republican in politics and for many years was a stalwart backer of Theodore Roosevelt . Announced by The Herald . Commenting editorially upon its purchase by Mr. Munsey , The Herald this morning says : " Announcement is made by the executors of the estate of the late James Gordon Bennett , Mr. Rodman 1Vanamaker and the Guaranty Trust Company , that Mr. Frank A. Munsey , owner of The New York Sun , The Baltimore News , and the periodical bearing his name , has purchased all of the Bennett newspapers  --  The New York Herald , The Evening Telegram . and the European edition of The Herald , published in Paris . " The transfer of these properties represents probably the most important newspaper deal in history . " Mr. Munsey , in due time , will make known his plans and purposes with regard to the newly acquired newspapers . Readers of the Herald will have confidence that this newspaper , under its new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalism which has characterized it from the day of its foundation by the elder Bennett . " Mr. Munsey and the late James Gordon Bennett were close friends and were always in sympathy in their ideas with regard to the function and duties of a newspaper . The sale of the newspapers to Mr. Munsey is in accord with the spirit of Mr. Bennett 's will ; his chief desire as therein expressed is that The Herald be continued and developed to be an enduring monument to its great founder . " Like Mr. Bennett , Mr. Munsey is a believer in and exponent of one-man direction , and , like Mr. Bennett , Mr. Munsey has no other interest save his publishing interests  --  and that means his chief concern always is the Interest of the public . In the ownership of The Sun and his other newspapers and magazine properties he has no partners ; he has none in the ownership of The Herald . Of chief interest to its readers is the assurance that under its new ownership The Herald will continue the policies which have always marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as in the past , it will be found always standing firmly for an undiluted Americanism and battling valiantly for the best interests of the American people . " History of The Morale ! . The New York Herald made its apLearance in the streets of New York on the morning of Mny 0 . 1835 . It was a lotir:P ge : sheet , Was:Written ' in full ? on the head of a barrel , it was said  --  by its founder , James Gordon Bennett , Sr. , and sold for one cent . The circulation of The Herald , from the start , fluctuated almost as much as its editorial policies with respect to politics and persons , and its last published circulation report showed that it hail slightly more than 100,000 readers in its eighty-fifth year . From its establishment until 1872 The Herald was directed and edited by the elder Bennett and , upon his death , it passed to James Gordon Bennett , Jr. , who held absolute sway over the newspaper 's destinies until May 14 , 1018 , when he died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his publication . The knack of the elder Bennett for delivering sensational news got The Herald talked about , and in those days that spelled popularity and , what was of more immediate interest , swelling circulation . In the first month Mr. Bennett began innovations  --  the creative idea which , coupled with the policy of ' the " news at any cost , " was later to bring The Herald to the front for a time in influence and popularity . He got the idea that folks were interested in the doings of Wall Street and promptly began a daily article on monay . That was a success and the newspaper was soon booming along in good shape . With Mr. Bennett as the impulse the newspaper broadened out . It quickly became apparent that one of Mr. Bennett 's principles in the management of The Herald was to get the paper talked about , and not the least interesting of its " features " were his own descriptions of the personal encounters that resulted from some of his caustic lampoons . When the newspaper was five years old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1809 , three years before The Herald passed to his son . Mr. Bennett established The Evening Telegram  --  designed to be white , but becoming pinkish in its first issue through an accident , was retained in that hue . There was a time when Mr. Bennett , Jr. , threatened to discontinue The Telegram on the ground that it was unprofitable . When ? the second Mr. Bennett assumed direction of The Herald , he put new energy into it . One of his first acts was to fit out the Jeannette expedition into the Arctic , and then to send Henry M. Stanley to find Dr. Livingston , then lost in Central Africa . Both ventures were minutely reported In The Herald Parts Edition Established . When Mr. Bennett decided to make his home in Paris he established in the French city a Paris edition of his New York paper . The first number appeared in 1887 . He also started a London edition , but this was short lived . With the going abroad of Mr. Bennett there began a new way of newspaper production  --  by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " was kept informed of every move made , of every news development , and he also kept the office advised of what ho wanted done . By a lavish use of the cable ho ran The Herald 3,000 miles away just as though he were at his desk in his Now York office . After years of production downtown The Herald in 1804 moved to its present quarters at the triangle of Broadway , Sixth Avenue , and Thirty-fifth Street , About this period Mr , Bennett changed the policy of his newspaper from personal to impersonal , He abandoned the tactics of his father for personal attack and sensationalism and gave instructions that everything should be subordinated to the business of newsgetting . This policy was maintained up to his death and continued by the trustees into whose hands he intrusted the newspaper .                     