@@695813

txt Colonel Robert W. Stewart , chairman of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana , arrived in New York yesterday morning from Chicago to find his fight with John D. Rockefeller Jr . entering its most strenuous phase . He was met here with the information that the Rockefeller interests had mobilized all of their influence to prevent his re-election as a director and chairman of the Standard of Indiana . Colonel Stewart radiated confidence upon his arrival , but he was plainly disturbed by the announcement that John D. Rockefeller Sr. was supporting his son in the contest . have three short statements which I would like to make , " he said to interviewers . " I read in THE NEW YORK TIMES this morning that John D. Sr. is opposed to me . I do n't be , lieve it . I wo n't believe it until I see the positive proof . For twentyfive years I have been associated with the elder Mr. Rockefeller and have given him loyal support . He has never intimated to me that he was dissatisfied with my conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not until he should intimate such a thing to me directly would I believe it . " Thinks Sutherland Erred . Colonel Stewart then commented on the fact that the Alien Property Custodian , Howard Sutherland , had turned over to the Rockefeller committee proxies for about 12,000 shares of Standard of Indiana stock . " I do n't believe he has investigated this situation , " the Colonel said . " I believe he is making a mistake and that if he would go out where we are and investigate the whole situation he would revoke these proxies . " His third comment which he wished to emphasize was that he sincerely hoped John D. Rockefeller Jr . was having a pleasant trip abroad . This last was taken as an ironical reference to Mr. Rockefeller 's absence from the country while the fight for proxies was going on . Colonel Stewart said his visit here at this time had no connection with the battle for proxies . He came here , he ' said , on business connected with the company , but last night he admitted that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the contest with Mr. Rockefeller . " Do n't misunderstand me , " he said . " So many people have insisted upon talking to me . But my trip here had nothing to do with that . " He denied that stock was being bought for him on the New York Curb Market . " I am not going to indulge in any band-wagon campaign talk , " he continued . " I realize that a man may give a proxy today and revoke it tomorrow . As I see the situation , either side may win . " He added that the directors of his company and its organization were behind him and that he was getting encouraging support in the territory in which the Standard of Indiana does business . Nettled By Query on Testimony . Colonel Stewart was nettled by a question as to whether he considered that his testimony before the Senate committee investigating the oil scandals had been " straightforward . " After a flash of anger , he replied in the affirmative with some heat . It was Colonel Stewart 's attitude before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resignation as chairman of the Standard of Indiana , interviewers recalled . Colonel Stewart found himself projected into the controversy with Mr. Rockefeller as soon as he arrived . Many persons called on him at the Biltmore and later in the day saw him in the financial district . His remarks to newspapermen brought a prompt reaction from the Rockefeller camp . A representative of the Rockefellers who frequently speaks for them invited newspapermen to his office and submitted himself to questioning . He declared it was inconceivable that the elder Mr. Rockefeller would disagree with his son and expressed the utmost confidence that they were as one in the quarrel with Colonel Stewart . At the same time , he said , he did not believe that Mr. Rockefeller Sr. would go so far as to take personal charge of the fight . Plan Systematic Canvass . It was learned at the Standard Oil Building , 26 Broadway , that the Rockefeller interests are overlooking no opportunity in their campaign for proxies to be voted at the annual meeting of stockholders on March 7 . They know where almost every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be made . Persons familiar with the stock list of the Standard of Indiana said . yesterday they believed more than 50 per cent of the stock was owned by a few estates and families . These include the Pratt , Harkness . Brewster , Whitney , Jennings families and others . There is no assurance , it was said , that the holdings of all of these families and estates will be voted in opposition to Colonel Stewart , but the Rockefeller interests are counting upon their support in the contest . Representatives of the Rockefeller interests emphasized yesterday that they had not collected anything near a majority of the Standard of Indiana stock . About 15,000 proxies have been received in response to Mr. Rockefeller 's request and they are still coming in at a satisfactory rate , it was said . These proxies , it was pointed out , are subject to cancellation . Word from San Francisco that At P. Giannini , head of the Giannini banking enterprises , would throw all of his support to the Rockefeller group encouraged the associates of Mr. Rockefeller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to receive replies to the management committee 's request for proxies . He had no idea , he said , what the response would be . He said he was rushing with his work in the hope that he would be . able to return to Chicago today . He had conferences here yesterday with business associates and others who are supporting him in the contest . It was understood that the principal executives in the PanAmerican Petroleum &; Transport Company , which is controlled by the Standard of Indiana , are supporting Colonel Stewart , although there has been no formal statement . Ivy Lee , who acts as public relations counsel for the Rockefellers , made public yesterday the following correspondence between a stockholder of the Standard of Indiana and Thomas M. Debevoise , one of Mr. Rockefeller 's associates : Letter Received by Mr. Rockefeller . I am in receipt of your circular letter under date of Jan. 2 , requesting proxy for the stockholders ' meeting of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana . I have been asked by several other stockholders who seem to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the company , as to whether they should do so or not . I have no facts upon which to base an opinion excepting newspaper reports , and would like to know confidentially whether you have any information or whether it is your opinion that Colonel Stewart had originally intended keeping the bonds he had possession of for his own personal use or not . If this point was stressed in the newspaper reports , I failed to see it , and if not inconsistent , would be glad to receive any information you have on the subject , or if you have no definite information , your opinion , which I will keep confidential if you wish . Reply by Mr. Debevoise . Jan. 17 , 1929 . Dear Sir : In the absence of Mr. John D. Rockefeller Jr . your letter of the 14th inst. has been referred to me as one of his associates . We have no information that Colonel Stewart originally intended to keep for his : onal use the Continental Trading Company bonds that were in his possession so long and we do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or many other , questions Which naturaiiy arise in connection with , the whole transaction and with Colonel Stewart 's attitude toward the Senate investigation and his testimony before the Senate committee . If Mr. Rockefeller started to make such comments his contest with Colonel Stewart would rapidly fall from the high plane on which he thinks it should be kept . He feels that the confidence of the public in the Standard Oil Company of Indiana has been seriously impaired and that it can not be restored without a change in leadership . We believe that in this feeling a majority not only in interest but a majority in number agree with Mr. Rockefeller and we are very anxious that every one be encouraged to join with us . Very teuly yours , T. M. DEBEVOISE . The stock of the Standard of Indiana moved within a narrow range yesterday , although trading was uncommonly heavy . The stock opened at 97 , rose to a high of 98 , fell back to 943 and closed at 96 , showing a net loss of 3 , i point . Rockefeller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. ? Spokesmen for John D. Rockefeller Sr. , vacationing at his Winter home here , refused to comment today on dispatches saying that he had brought his influence to the aid of his son , John D. Rockefeller Jr. , in the latter 's fight against Colonel Robert W. Stewart . " Mr. Rockefeller positively will have nothing to say regarding this matter , " his secretary said . " Does Mr. Rockefeller intend to use his influence or participate in any way in the controversy ? " the secretary was asked . " No , " the spokesman said . " He does n't intend to do anything like that . " " He will deny it then ? " " No , he will not deny or affirm it , " was the answer . " If you must say anything about it in the papers , just say that Mr. Rockefeller asks to be excused from making any comment whatever on the affair . I do n't know where the report originated , but it probably was the work of some newspaper trying to dig up something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 cm ? A. P. Giannini , president of the Trans-American Corporation , threw the 32,000 shares of Standard Oil Company of Indiana today to the support of John D. Rockefeller Jr . Mr. Giannini said late today that he understood several other San Franciscans who held large blocks of Standard of Indiana stock had sided with Mr. Rockefeller . He was confident , he said , that Mr. Rockefeller would win .                     