@@690890

txt Nothing in the day-to-day news of the fortnight past has caused more widespread interest and comment than the rise on the Stock Exchange . The remark is sometimes elicited that absorption in a game of hazard , a gamble in paper values , does no credit to the general intelligence . But this view of the matter misses the point . The attention given by the average man to a prolonged advance in stocks , with " buying for the outside public " and a succession of " two-million-share days , " has in the majority of cases nothing to do with the prospect of personal gains from the rise in prices.t The reason why the serious business man , even to the clerk and the small shopkeeper , watches the daily stock market reports , even in quiet times , lies in his knowledge , from long experience , that such markets usually indicate beforehand a favorable or unfavorable movement in general trade . This aspect of the stock market is often obscured , in discussions of the subject , by the purely technical view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present time , for the reason that the world has witnessed many speculative markets in the past few years when prices , rose violently , not because of an improving outlook for finance and industry but because of a depreciating currency , which automatically compelled advance in prices of goods or share certificates . The present rise on the New York Stock Exchange has a visibly different basis . Its scope has no doubt been enlarged by the low money rates and the abundant credit facilities caused by our country 's overflowing reservoir of gold , and therein lies the ultimate possibility of extravagant speculation and eventual serious reaction . But the primary and unmistakable cause of the remarkable movement which began after the election was the inference drawn by all experienced financiers and busines4 men concerning the probable effect on the coming twelvemonth 's industrial prosperity , in the United States , of the grain harvest outcome which has enriched the lately impoverished West , of the abundant cotton crop which has ended the period of a textile industry deadlocked because of inadequate ' supplies , and of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placing the companies in a position where they could earn an adequate surplus income . The inference obviously drawn by the Stock Exchange , as soon as the possibility of political disturbance had been removed , was that promise of further American trade revival on a wholly legitimate basis is in sight . It is true that such movements on the Stock Exchange are often overdone , that the spirit of speculation sometimes pushes prices far beyond the point even of intelligent forecast . Such an experience may await the present stock market . At the present moment , more attention is likely to be paid to the facts that values of shares in sound American corporations had very . recently been depressed by expectation of hard times Or political unsettlement , and that even " two-million-share days " on the Stock Exchange do not mean as much as they did in 1906 or 19017 when allowance is made for the great increase of the country 's wealth in the intervening period and for the ' addition of a large number of new industrial shares to the active investment list . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another question , much discussed at the present time  --  the . question whether the present market does or does not represent a mere " inflation boom . " Some people , with their eye on the country 's abnormally large gold reserve , are asserting that it does . If that view were to be accepted , then the nearest analogy for the present " bull movement " would be that of 1919 . But the analogy will hardly hold . The fact of the moment is that , whereas the unsound and reckless bull market of 1919 began with $1,800,000,000 rediscounted bills ' in the Reserve Banks ' hands and an outstanding Reserve note circulation of $2,500,000,000 ( both of them destined to far greater expansion before the season was over ) , the system 's present position is that of only $234,000,000 rediscounts and $1,823,000,000 circulation . Each of these figures is only slightly above the lowest record since we entered the war in 1917 . This does not prove that expansion at such a pace as to constitute " inflation " is not a theoretical possibility . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reserve Banks themselves admit . They also recognize , however , as they did not recognize in 1919 until very late in the day , that officially they have both the power and the duty to control and stop the recourse to actual credit and currency inflation . The point on which - emphasis mayjustly belaid , ever , is that " inflation " of the 1919 sort does not aethe present time exist in. the financial markets ; also that , if and when the necessity for the Reserve System 's intervention shall arise , the Reserve Banks will not , as in the early months of 1919 , be handicapped by the Treasury 's virtual pledge of low-rate rediscount of loans on United States bonds floated in the " war loan drives , " but will be absolutely free-handed for such prompt and effective action as the situation may require : -                     