@@695326

txt Deputy Police Conirnis , ioner John Stege last night announced his intention of investigating the authenticity of stars or commissions which per . mit civilians to carry concealed weapons . The matter came to the attention of the police last Friday , when Michael Carrozza , business agent of the street cleaners ' union , was arraigned in the South Clark Street court , charged with carrying a pistol . Carrozza had the pistol , but he also had a card purporting to be a commission in the Illinois highway maintenance police . Judge Howard Hayes believed the commission was genuine and released Carrozza . Denies Entanglements . An inquiry yesterday disclosed that the highway maintenance police have their headquarters at Kankakee . John Stack is chief , lie asserted , however , that his force is clear of any entanglements and has never issued any courtesy commissions . " I have 165 men under me , " he said . " They arc all working men and they wear uniforms . Their sole business is to enforce the traffic laws and to collect delinquent taxes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any work in Chicago , and none are stationed there . I have never issued a single complimentary star or commission ; never a courtesy card . Any one except my 165 , all of whom are personally known to me , who shows such a commission is a fraud . " Nearly half the state highway police  - -  eighty  --  are now concentrated at . Springfield , where they are handling traffic on the roads leading to the Mate fair grounds . Must Wear Uniform . The highway maintenance police body was formed under authority of a legislative act passed in 1923 . Each appointee is required to furnish a bond of 11,000 , undergo a physical examination , take an oath to uphold the Constitution , wear a uniform and a star , ride a motorcycle furnished by the state and draw pay not to exceed i $150 a month . Larrozza , was not wearing a star or a uniform and was not , apparently , engaged in the work of a highway policeman when he was taken into custody by policemen investigating the West bank robbery . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police stars , and coroners ' stars have all been withdrawn . He added a belief that if downstate organizations all do away with their nominal commissions it will be possible to obtain convictions against many pistol carriers who under present circumstances must be turned out by the courts .                     