@@693363

txt Lithuania has now undergone its rovolutio mama has Its dictatorship . Lithuania , on the lialtio , fa in tune with Italy , Spain , and Greece on the Mediterranean , Hungary and Poland in middle Europe and Russia to the east . All of them have ceased to rely upon representative , government and have abandoned the whole democratic theory as well . Opposition to the government is a crime and Is punished as ? such , either with confiscation of property . imprisonment , or death . The , return to absolutism in a large section of Europe is an ironic footnote on the principle of self-determination , of which much was heard in this country during the war and afterward . What was chiefly needed . to make peace and happiness in Europe permanent , we were advised on high authority , was to give the peoples of Europe selfdetermination and democratic government . Selfdetermination meant political independence based on raco rather than geography . Accordingly , when the war ended , new states , some little , some big , were set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have shown a marked incapacity for self-government as we know it ; one after another they have drifted toward chaos , to be rescued at length by self  --  appointed dictators . So far as the peoples go , they have exchanged one oppression for another . So far as the peace of Europe and of the world is concerned , the increase In the number of states and the exercise of absolute power over them by ruthless men are not reassuring . The'Llthuanian dictatorship Is a reminder that Europe is not homogeneous and that political generalizations which can safely be applied to the western nations do not apply elsewhere on the continent . THE TRIBUNES correspondent in Kovno is enlightening on this point . Kovno , the Lithuanian capital , ho says , " remains a Russian frontier garrison town with six horse cars and a huge ghetto without sewers . " The picture is of poverty and illiteracy , yet it has been assumed that the Lithuanians were as competent to rule themselves through democratic forms as the Danes or the Dutch . Under the circumstances , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arisen , they have not been instantly challenged and overthrown . It takes a long time to learn the value of political liberty , and some people never learn it .                     