@@689843

txt Some thrill of recollection , something of the surcharged atmosphere of patriotism , of celf-sacrifice , devotion to a cause beyond and above the petty routine of self-centered daily life , seems to have been revived for the moment with the death and funeral of the commander in chief of the United States army and navy in the great war . Those who benignly disagreed with some of the policies of President Wilson as well as those who gave him undivided approval agree that when he finally entered the war he did so with Ream soul , mind , and all his physical and nervous energy , and led America without faltering to victory . Now that he himself has followed In death the brave men whom the nation under his leadership sent to the supreme sacrifice , we can not fail to sense a revival of a spirit of heroism and of unstinted devotion which marked the mass of the nation In the days of war , The flags flying at half mast throughout the country today are the same flags which flew so cheerfully and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and smiling Americans cheered their sons and fathers , their husbands and brothers , on the way to the battlefields . In the tkourning and the eulogies of today the spirit of those days of war and sacrifice , and of dependence upon the man power , of the country , is more easily recalled than at any moCs ment since the victory . Nothing more can be given the war President save honor . He has fought . his fight , has ' finished the course , and has kept the faith ' eh he saw it . Ills name will take Its proper place in the judgment of history . But ; in this momentary revitalization of the spirit of those brave andIerrible days of war an honest people oughlto Kaye a thought also for the four million young men of America without whose unwavering support and assistance the work of the President would have all beet futile .. The nation called them , and cheered them on to sacrifice and victory , as it called the President and united behind him to achieve that same victory . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and are unhonoied by any material token , or by any sacrifice on the pail of the nation they saved . It ought not to be so . The nation can honor them with material opprecMtion . It need not wait to weep Over a grave , er shrug at the passing funeral of a forgotten soldier . Death is one proper time for honors . Life Is another . We can pay a debt of honor to a President in death . We can not , as a nation , pay a debt of honor to each of our four millions of ex-service men in death . It we are even to recognize that debt , and meet it in small part , we must do so In life . Shall we do so ? This congress and this peace time President can decide .                     