@@686582

txt Harry Williams , 87 years old , known as the " dean of the pickpockets , " was arrested at the Fort Lee Ferry yesterday . charged with practicing the calling in which he is now a veteran of fiftyfour years ' standing . Williams , who is well preserved , erect and steady of hand , had not been ar- ; rested before in 1921 , although he served two terms of three months each in 1920 . Detectives Coy and Long of the Pickpocket Squad were sent yesterday . to the ferry after a number of complaints had been received from passengers who had lost purses , money and watches .. The venerable Williams had not been suspected . He is said even to have condoled in a grandfatherly manner with some of his victims . The two detectives saw the lightfingered Nestor make his way to the centre of a group of persons leaving the ferry . Pretending to have difficulty in keeping his footing , the experienced old man bumped one of his neighbors after the other and clutched at them . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We saw you , " he said . " Well , you need n't shout and attract a crowd , " said Williams . The old man then walked over and gave himself up , asking to get to jail as quickly as possible . Says Jail Life is Healthful . Williams has spent a large proportion of his time in jail since 1867 and says that it is a healthful life . He has frequented New York jails principally in recent years , but he has been in jails in nearly every city of the country . For years he inhabited jails in the Miduc West for the most part , chiefly at Omaha and Kansas City . He used to Winter usually in Southern . jails . Williams is seldom caught in the act of pickpocketing , and usually serves short sentences for jostling . That was the charge against him yesterday . According to the detectives , the old man 's earning capacity has increased with age . He does not smoke or drink , and a half century of training has given him such nerve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as motionless as marble . Detectives William J. Raftis and Henry C. Mugge spent part of the day yesterday riding up and down and watching the stations of ' the Third Avenue eleva ted line , where pickpocketcf have been repr , ? ' el fr  --  onentiv . A crowded northbound train was pulling out ( .1 ' the 12:10i Street station , when Raftis , who had been intent in watching the hands and pockets of others , became aware that alien fingers were invading his own right-hand trouser 's pocket . The first finger began making cautious explorations . A handkerchief was deftly tucked in a corner of the Pocket . Seizes Hand in His Pocket . Raftis , moving slowly so as not to interrupt , worked his arm down to his side and then suddenly closed his hand over the wrist . All this took place so inconspicuously that the other passengers were not aware of what was going on . Raftis turncal to look at his prisoner . " Why , hello Harry . " he exclaimed . Then turning to his partner . he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it is n't Harry Da.v.s . ' Mugge was turning to look , when his attention was attracted by a movement in the crowd near him . A little man was making his way toward the door with the highest speed possible in such a tightly packed crowd .. Mugge shouldered his way toward him and they had a race . Making a : ? eed of about a foot a second . Mugge gradually overhauled the leader and finally caught h7m in the doorway just before the train entered the station . Its Joe Perlis ; . " shouted Mugge back to Raft : : . Perliss and Davis were both well known to the two detectives , who had picked them up several times before . The , - were locked up at Police Headquarters .                     