@@695837

txt Arlie Boswell , former state 's attorney of Williamson . county , Ill. , was found guilty of conspiracy to violate , the national prohibition act by a jury in United States District court here tonight . Three other defendants were also found guilty while the fifth , Thomas Boyd , forimer Marion , Ill. , chief of police , was found not guilty . Those convicted are George Bell , former Williamson county coroner ; Hezzie Byrn , former Johnston City police chief , and Pete Salm , alleged.bootlegger . Judge Walter C. Lindley denied the defense motion for a new , trial . He also deferred passing sentence . The jury deliberated three hours and seven minutes . They had been instructed by Judge Lindley not to worry about possible punishment in case of conviction . Calls Evidence Plain . " The evidence is plain , " he said in the charge to the jury , " that a conspiracy under the leadership of Charles Birger did exist in Williamson county . It is your duty to determine if Arlie Boswell and his four co-defendants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reference to his order of yesterday , which held Jake Gruzinsky , alleged bootlegger of Weaver , Ill. , and a defense witness , in $10,000 ball . for perjury . The five day trial constituted a history of Williamson county while Boa-well was state 's attorney . Almost every.crirne committed in and around Marion and Heirin in the last four years was brought into the record . The jurors all lived in the area where Birger 's gang engaged in wholesale killing and liquor running . Nine of the jury were farmers , one an automobile dealer , one an insurance agent , and the other a service station proprietor . Convicts on Stand . The government offered evidence through peace officers , former public officials , bootleggers and convicts to prove Boswell connived with the Birgerites in the protection of the liquor traffic in Williamson county . It was brought out the National Guard was called into the county five times during the four years . Boswell also admitted on the stand he turned over the matter of obtaining indictments in the Herrin primary election riots of April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was not in Williamson county that day , although Sheriff Oren Coleman testified he - had naked Boswell to ask for the militia to protect Herrin . Art Newman , former Birger lieutenant , and now serving two life sentences for murder , for one of which his chief was hanged , was a government witness . He told of Boswell'a frequenting Shady Rest , the gang headquarters , of ordering the Herrin riots , of suggesting the killing of Sheriff Coleman and being the one who instigated the slayings of Lory Price , state highway patrolman , and Mrs. Price . Newman also told of collecting " protection money " for Boswell . More than 33,000 tons of steel , said to be the largest quantity ever assembled in one yard , are now being fabricated by the McClintic-Marshall company , 8301 Stewart avenue , for use in the construction of the Merchandise mart , at Wells street and the river . Several of the columns , which will be used in the first tier of construction , are nearly 72 feet long and weigh 43 tons . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mart about Feb. 15. 310THER AND CHID 6TRICItEN . Believed to be suffering from ptomaine poisoning . Mrs. Gwendolyn Itarello and her 4 year old daughter . Adeline , were found seriously in In their home at 1821 Austin avenue by neighbors last night .                     