@@686026

txt BLUE LAW ENFORCEMENT . Some Suggestions Volunteered on the Way to Do It . To the Editor of The New York Times : Now that the observance of the oldfashioned Sabbath is likely to become a burning question , would it not be a good idea to establish a League for Religious Enforcement . in each town and village throughout the country ? A Black Maria -- preferably painted blue , to conform to the law -- could be stationed near each church -- like the fire patrol near the engine houses -- and when certain members of the congregation do not show up the wagon could be sent to drag them out of bed , or away from the garden where they might be committing the heinous offense of planting flowers . No one should be exempt , because when people stay away from church they fail to contribute to the support of their pastors  --  which the Bible enjoins  --  and how are the 37 , or is it 57 , varieties of churches going to get on if people stay home and read the Sunday papers ? As there are to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no morning milk , no doctors , no working nurses . no accidents ( even if the ass falleth into a hole , he must wait till Monday ) there will be nothing to do but go to church . In order that full congregations shall ? be sure to attend , persons found on the streets after midnight Saturday could be rounded up and put in a " hull pen " till church time , when they could be distributed in accordance with their respective creeds . W. B. NORTHROP . New York , Nov. 30 , 1920 . Appointment of Judges . To the Editor of The New York Times : Recently your paper published an editorial article on " Selecting Judges by Chance , " which ended with the observation , perhaps the only remedy is to have judges appointed instead of elected . " I believe that I can demonstrate that this is one of the biggest questions that confronts the people of this State today . There are a , number of well-known lawyers in New York who are convinced that the present system is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the question , I will take the chance of basing my view as to its importance on three facts that can not be questioned : The adjoining States of New Jersey and Connecticut have the appointive system and the results far surpass New York . Neither of these States would consider going back to the old method of securing Judges by election . The Federal Judges in the State of New Yotic are appointed and furnish many opportunities for comparison that are unfavorable to the State courts . The politicians have long resisted any interfTence with the election of Judges , the reason being that it furnishes them with additional political power , and with many opportunities for patronage  --  the effect of this requires no explanation  --  the judiciary is acknowledged a political office , and is regarded by the public accordingly . HENRY M. EARLE . New York , Dec. 30 , 1920.                     