@@693012

txt Today marked the beginning of the third week during which the Government 's religious regulations have been in force , but there were few signs in the capital of the conflict between the Catholic Church and the State precipitated by President Calles 's ciderdi . The economic boycott , which is fostered by the League for the Defense of Religious Liberty and through which Catholics hope to force the Government to modify its restrictions on the Church , continues to affect business , but just to what extent it is impossible to judge exactly . Some stores have been harder hit than others . Large department stores in Mexico City and business houses with a wholesale trade in the cities , towns and villages outside the capital report that they are suffering heavily , as the boycott , especialy in the western and southern parts of Mexico , is cutting deeply into general business . The most severe effects have been felt in the States of Michoacan , Jalisco , Colima , and Oaxaca . In the northern part of the republic , reports say , general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Storm Seen . The Government is holding firm , and officials say that unless the Catholics enforce the boycott more rigorously they expect business will return to normal within three weeks . But Catholics , on the other hand , declare that they are prepared to carry on the boycott for months , and possibly for a year , unless the Government consents to relax the religious regulations . The attitude of the United States , which so far has maintained a " handsoff " policy , on the ground that the religious controversy is a purely internal Mexican affair , has created a good impression among Government officials here . However , one sign of a possible storm on the horizon is seen by some in the arrest and imprisonment here of J. H. Grande , who was held incomunicado in the police station for several days . Grande , a Los Angeles fruit broker , is held on a charge of fraud in connection with the sale of bananas for a Mexican company which includes members of the . Mexican Government . Grande has not yet been brought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the municipality of Tabuca , a suburb of Mexico City , are reported to have resulted in the death of a brother of one Alderman and the arrest of the entire board . Federal troops are now in charge of the city . ? A band attacked the home of Mayor Gamboa , firing more than 100 shots at the house . The attackers fled when the Federal forces arrived . Orders were issued by General Serrano , Governor of the Federal District , for the arrest of the Board of Aldermen . Until an investigation is made into the mysterious killing and the attack against the Mayor , the fight remains unexplained . Telegrams from the State of Puebla to newspapers here say that the State Congress has approved a resolution ! offered by Congressman Ibanez and directed to President Calles which reads in part as follows : " Congress , having been informed that the Knights of Columbus in the United States have conferred with the Secretary of State of the United States with the object of having the United States use pressure on the Mexican Government in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintains firmly that the sovereignty of this nation prevents interference on the part of the United States in the national affairs of Mexico . " We recognize among the Knights of Columbus the same individuals who in this city of Puebla received American and French invaders and who are considered . enemies of the National Government . " This Congress again declares its adherence to you and is resolved to accept whatever political consequences may arise through our anti-clerical attitude . "                     