@@695117

txt Nomination of Herbert Hoover on an early ballot , in the now cxpected event that ' President Coolidge adheres to his refusal to run again , Is the prospective outcome of the Re publican national convention on the evo of the assembling of delegates . If the President should by anY chance give way to pressure , his renomination is a virtual certainty , but the " draft Coolidge " movement received tonight what looks like a knockout blow in a statement from Senator Simeon D. Fess of Ohio , who is to be temporary chairman and will deliver the keynote speech on Tuesday . Wo n't Accept , Even if Drafted . Senator Fess was one of the orig . Inal " draft Coolidge " men , frequently at the White House urging the President to yield to the demand . Ho reached hero tonight and predicted the selection of Mr. Hoover . " I have known for somo time that President Coolidge would not accept renomination if drafted , " said Senator Fess . " Herbert Hoover will be nomMated by this convention and wilt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with remarkable unanimity a ; support back of Rh choice , and a complete agreemeat on the platform with which it will go to the country . Republicans believe In the soundness or the party 's principles and will present a united front in the coming contest . " The senator declined to explain how he camp to know the President 's WItude . Hope for Some Sign . Hoover leaders think the draft Cool , idge movement will be still further and more definitely blighted by a statement from the President himself before the roll is called for the first time . Dispatches from Washington today , how . ever , said the cabinet members who are Coming to Kansas City had all left without any message from the " White House : Secretary of the Treasury Mellon was the one supposed to have the final Coolidge word . " I have no such message and I do not know about . any , " the secretary . said on his arrival at Pittsburgh on . tho way W. He then refused to amplify bis recent Philadelphia statement that Herbert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared clos ? est , to the party 's Mr. Mellon 's statement , when ( *cu. laced here . upheld previous predie. ttona by Pennsylvania delegates that Secretary Mellon " will put Hoover over on the second or . third ballot . " 60 N. Y. Votes for Coolidge . But the " draft Coolidge " movement Is still alive , whatever the outcome . It . will be initiated on the first ballot , according to George K. Morris , chair . man of the New York Republican state cominictee , who further predicted that if the President declines , the conven ? tIon will nominate Hoover . " New York will give Cal Coolidge sixty of its 90 votes on tho first bal. lot , " said Mr. Morris , thus Indicating that not  --  more than 30 New York voles will be cast at first for Hoover . " We plan to go right ahead with the movement for the renomination a the President . Ile never has said ho would not take the nomination . The Republican party has done a great thing for him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " If the President will not take the nomination there will , be only one thing left for us to do ? nominate Herbert Hoover . The Republican party c ... nnot : repudiate the administration or Coolidge - and win next ' Novernber : Hoover stands for the Coolidge pollcies . Thumbs Down on Lowden . " The nomination of ex-Gov . Lowden , Vico President Dawes or any of the farm bloc crowd would be regarded as a repudiation of Coolidge and his veto of the MeNary  --  Haugen bill , " Mr. Morris admitted that he bad . no Information indicating that tho President would accept . " But remember , " ho added . " that the Preeldent never has . any trouble making himself understood . ? Ile known the English language . He never has tad he would decline renomination . We should net take It . for granted that be will not run under the circumstances , particularly as it is clearly in the best interests of the party to renominate him . " Stiffens Farm Opponents . These developments spurred the leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fresh zeal by the arrival of Frank 0 . Lowden , who uttered an impressive warning that the Republican party will make a disastrous mistake if it ignores the demand of the corn belt for a satisfactory farm relief platform plank and a candidate in harmony therewith . The corn belt anti-Hooverites are confident that Mellon will refuse to put Hoover over and will stand with them to stop the secretary of commerce and nominate a corn belt candidate . Mellon is to be given his choice of Lowden , Senator Curtis of Kansas , Vice President Dawes . and Gen. John J. Pershing , as candidates acceptable to the organized farmers of the middle west . Mrs. McCormick Confident . Mrs. Ruth Hanna McCormick was not disturbed by the prediction that if It is not Coolidge it will be Hoover . " We have Hoover stopped , " she said . " I never was more surd of anything in my life . I know any number of Hoover men who realize that the fig . is up , and are preparing to fall back on Coolidge . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Good , the Hoover campaign manager , sniffed at Mr. Morris ' plan to draft Mr. Coolidge . " Tho President , " said Mr. Good , " has eliminated himself by his utterances on four different occasions . We are taking him at his word , and the supporters of Secretary Hoover will not embarrass the President by voting for him when the balloting begins , " The arrival of Mr. Lowden threw the movement of the allies to beat Hoover into high gear . He spent the day in a series of conferences with Secretary of State Emmerson of Illinois , generalissimo of the allies ; Clarence Buck , the Lowden manager , and other leaders in the corn belt group . " I am a thousand times more interested in the party squarely meeting the farm relief problem than I am in the nomination , " said Mr. Lowden in response to questions fired at him when he received the newspaper reporters in his hotel room . " If I am not nominated my troubles will be over and I shall be able to , look forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominated my troubles will be only begun . The important thing is that the party shall meet the problem squarely and effectively and if it does so while choosing a candidate other than myself I shall be profoundly happy . " Explains Ills Position , " Have you declared that you would withdraw as a candidate if the platform should not Indorse the bill ? " he was asked , " What I said , " replied Mr. Lowden , " was that I should not want to be the candidate unless the platform met the farm relief problem without evasion . " , The farmer 's champion . remarked at this point that the platform is not to be considered more important than the nomination . " There is such a thing as nominating a man who is his own platform , " be observed . This was interpreted as a suggestion that the midwest would be satisfied if Lowden , Dawes , or any one of the other corn belt candidates should be nominated , oven if the platform should hot completely meet the views Of the farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the renomination of President Coolidge would be a case of naming a candidate who Is his own platform . When asked , however . how the nomination of the man who vetoed the bill could possibly harmonize with a platform satisfactory to the corn belt on farm relief he replied that he was not answering " moot questions . " " Would not a platform plank on farm relief , such as you advocate , repudiate the President ? " he was asked . " No , I do not think it would repudiate the Cook:Igo administration , " Mr. Lowden responded with deliberation . " Would the nomination of Hoover harmonize with your farm relief plank ? " was the next question . " Ask the farm organization , " shot back the sage of SinnisippL Prohibition Question Irks Him . Mr. Lowden professed Ignorance of the organization of the allied candidates into a coalition against Hoover , captained by Secretary of State Lou Emmerson of Illinois , who. managed the Lowden nomination campaign in 1920 . He was reminded the newspapers had been full of the details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said and then with a chuckle : " I did not choose to read the newspapers . " A question regarding his stand on prohibition aroused intense resent . ment on the part of the candidate . Ho glared at the reporter who had had the temerity to broach the subject , hesitated , stammered and finally , with reddenini features , blurted out : " I do not underlstand your question . ' Then , calming down , Mr. Lowden added : " I am not discussing probibi. ties , " After further talk of farm relief the , candidate was asked whether he wanted it understood that he refuses to Mscuss other issues . Ho replied that he is confining himself to the farm issue , but finally volunteered to answer the question on prohibition after all . " When I was governor the prohibition enforcement bill was passed by the legislature , " he said . " There was a great deal of controversy over it , but I signed it . I stand on that . " The former governor was in a belligerent mocd when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found a reception committee of reporters on hand . When one asked him his opinion of the farm relief plank drafted by the American Farm Bureau Federation in Chicago yesterday he scowled and struck the reporter in the shoulder with his fist , nearly knocking the impertinent " ' pressman " ' to the floor . " Did n't I tell you that I am not answering any questions ? " Mr. Lowden angrily exclaimed : Gives Second Interview . Two and a half Pours later he received the reporters in a. more amiable mood . This turned into a vigorous argument for the equalization fee , Reports from Chicago that the American Farm bureau had rejected the equalization fee in his proposed farm plank had caused some excitement among delegates . These reports were accompanied by a crop of rumors and conjectures that the farm revolt is now all over and the uprising all died down . Leaders of the corn belt movement , however , said the text of the plank took no backward step . This was also the interpretation by Gov . Lowden . " The farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to say that : ' CoOperative marketing is fundamentally sound and experience has proven that the cost of distribution must be equitably borne by the entire volume of the marketed product , ' etc . " This does not use the two words ' equalization fee , ' but it describes the principle as accurately as could ' be . Any Inference that this is a rejection of the ' principle is erroneous . " The principle of the equalization fee is to enable cooperatives to be made effective in a way by which the burden of the expense should be distributed among all producers of the commodity and not among the members of the cooperatives only . " To say this farm plank abandons tiVs idea is for one to confess utter ignorance of what is being sought in the surplus control legislation . " Nothing is more destructive of the morale of cooperatives than when the benefits accrue snore to non-members than to members . The costs should be distributed among all producers of a commodity , and that is the basis of the equalization fee . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know of no other way . But if any one knows a better way , let him for God 's sake bring it out , " I am absolutely for an equalization fee . If any one objects to the principle , I believe the burden is-on him to present something better , " Mr. Lowden declared what is needed most is a new attitude towards the farm and its problems . " I said before and I repeat it now , " ' , he said , " that I do not want the nomination unless the Republican party Is prepared to meet fully the agricultural problem . I 've never thought any single piece of legislation in itself could correct the farm situation . But what we need is a , new attitude toward agriculture that will give it the same consideration that other industries have . " This is not simply an , agricultural problem . I believe industry , labor , commerce , and business in general are as vitally interested in the solution of this problem as is agriculture itself . " All our interests are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The farmer Is not able to solve it alone . He 's got ' to have cooperation of business , industry and labor . " This is a national problem , not simply an agrarian problem . As governor of Illinois I found that the only way the maiihinery could function well was when labor , industry and agriculture , and business were working together . It is the function of government to preserve the balance . " At this convention I want to see Preserved the same alliance on which the Republican party was founded in 1856 , an alliance between agriculture and business . In looking back to those days the question of slavery has been prone to overshadow everything else . But if we turn back to 1860 we find the platform was a strong agricultural one , and the agricultural planks played a big part in that campaign . Recites Some History . " President Buchanan had vetoed ' the homestead act , saying it was socialistic and unconstitutional  --  everything in short which they now say of the bill . The Republicans passed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also put through the land grant colleges . " The Republican party has succeeded in the past because it has kept up the old partnership between business and farming in good faith . I want to sea the old alliance maintained because I want to see the Republican party successful in November . I 'm a thousand times more interested in ' this than in my own candidacy . " Mr. Lowden drew analogies between the fight over farm equality and the tariff fight and other struggles of other days . " The interstate commerce act was opposed on the same grounds as is the farm equality bill , " he said . " So was the income tax , and the federal reserve act , and the parcel post , act , and the postal savings act .. I 'm sure the Republican party is going to meet the crisis by facing the question squarely of giving real relief to agriculture . "                     