@@686266

txt Controller Charles L. Craig announced yesterday at a mass meeting in City Hall to protest against Governor Miller 's traction plan that he was drafting a bill to empower the city to acquire under its right of eminent domain all the transit lines , subway , elevates , and surface , which he said would solve the transit problem . Controller Craig said later than besides having the bill introduced in the Legislature he would place the matter formally before Governor Miller by letter . The Controller attacked the Governor 's plan , as outlined in the latter 's letter to General Oliver B. Bridgman , declared 1. : was unconstitutional and that he doubted if the Governor believe.I it to be constitutional . Mr. Craig said many of the surface lines were obsolete : and should be scrapped and denouncer the Governor 's proposal to unload what he described aS worthless properties upon the city . He asserted that most of the north and south surface linos. re esumably those in Manhattan , should b ' continued because they were paralleled by other transit lines above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to traffic . Mr. Craig did not explain the detail of his bill , but said he would do so later . In regard to the city 's ability to finance his program , he said the city would have ? a debt margin of . $230,000,000 at the end of this month . Mayor Attacks Miller Plum . Mayor Hylan , with whom Controller Craig has not been In accord on Who ? matters affecting the city , also attacked ' the Governor 's plan as an attempt to increase fares , to foist the " antiquated surface lines " upon the taxpayers of the city and to turn over to private corporations valuable bus franchises . It was noticeable that the Mayor did not enter the meeting until after Controller Craig had finished his speech and that the latter left before the Mayor began . The meeting was called by the Democratic legislators from Now York City , and adjournment was taken with the understanding that the legislators would meet again at Albany and call another meeting here , if deemed advisable later , F. H. LaGuardia , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not attend the meeting , but sent word that he had not changed in his decision to oppose the Governor 's plan . In explaining his proposed bill to enable the city to take over all traction lines , Controller Craig said it would authorize the termination of all private operation of traction lines within New York City . " Such a bill , " he said , " would permit the termination of existing contracts , so far as they may concern the subways , and may make provision for the payment to security , holders of any money of theirs which has gone into the properties , and from which the city in that way has received benefit . " So far as the surface lines are concerned , and particularly those holding perpetual franchlsos under legislative grants , the city should have the right to terminate the operation of these lines , because they are obsolete , such as the Broadway surface line in Manhattan . These lines have become obsolete because they are paralleled underneath or above by rapid transit lines which provide local and express service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south surface lines . " Upon the dtermination that these lines no longer serve any useful purpose , the city should be empowered to compel tho removal of their tracks and cars from the public streets . The obstruction to traffic now caused by the lines operating under the receivership of Job Hedge 's costs the City of New York annually untold millions in trucking charges in the movement or vehicular traffic carrying food , merchandise and other necessary commodities , the cost of which is greatly increased by the obstruction of Receiver Hedges 's cars . Right to Own Publics Utilities . " The Constitution authorizes the City of New York to own public utilities and to issue its bonds in payment for them . The right of ownership by the city should include the right of eminent domain over property for which the city has use . " Controller Craig declared that the evident purpose of Governor Miller 's program was the perpetuation of the private ownership of the traction lines in New York City . Senator James J. Walker , who presided , asked Controller Craig if he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's letter to General Bridgman . " In plain English . stripped of all its rhetoric and advice , the Governor 's plan is nothing more nor less than an in- I creased fare plan , " the Controller replied . Mayor Hylnn said that the latest report concerning the Albany program was that New York City should have a voice but no veto power in the solution of the traction problem and that this was all the home rule that would be allowed in traction matters . What a Commission Will Do . " Every one knows , " said the Mayor , " that a commission not responsible to the people will do just as the old Public Service Commission did when the dual subway contracts were prepared and executed . At that time they gave the corporations every possible advantage , and all the people got out of these contracts was a five-cent fare . Now it is proposed to appoint another commission for the express purpose of revising these contracts by taking this five-cent fare away from the people . " With regard to our local traction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paying proposition , the privately-owned surface lines , in which the , city has no financial interest , are hot . Therefore , the traction crowd clamor for a ' unified system . ' The purpose of the unified system is to consolidate all transit lines in the city , so that the city-owned subway lines . which are a perfect gold mine at a five-cent fare , may be tied up with and forced to carry tlir financial burdens of the stock-inflated. unprofitable , privately-owned surface lines . and then force an Increase in fare . " The further purpose of the traction interests is to seize the bus franchise Privileges of this city , which are worth millions of dollars to the people . In fact , they arc about the only franchise privileges which the people still retain and from which substantial profits may be derived and used to reduce taxation . I shall oppose with all the vigor and power at my command all dark-lantern and hack-stairs attempts of the traction interests to lay hold of the city 's bus franchises . " The Meyer reiterated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface transit problem by displacing the present surface car lines and said the city would put on 5,000 municipal buses at once , if given the power by the Legislature .                     