@@685475

txt Members of the constitutional ponvention were warned yesterday In a letter signed by M. E. Greenebaum and George E. Cole , president and vice president , respectively , of the Citizens ' Association of Chicago , that the eon.1,1 un reiectea , PY the voters of Cook county if the ( plan for limiting the county 's representation in both branches of the general assembly is carried Into that document . Mr. Cole , who was one of the first backers of the convention movement , declares that it has been understood all along by the members of the Citizens ' association that the only limifa ? Lion on Cook county 's representatiOn would be in the senate . That was the basis the Chicago leaders worked upon for five Years in fathering the $500,000 convention . That was back of the campaign of 1918 . For the convention to go back on that now . In the opinion of Mr. Cole , means that the rest of the constIttition will be dragged down to defeat . Letter of Protest . " We address you on behalf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted with deep regret that the - constitutional convention has adopted , on first reading , a proposal which.will limit Chicago 's representation in the general assembly to one-third of the senate and to one less than a majority In the ho Ise . " Being aware of the state of public sentiment on this question in this community , we deem it our duty to warn you that any plan for limiting Cock county 's representation in both branches of the general assembly will be rejected by the voters of Cook county . " Early in the five year campaign which this association carried on from 1912 to 1917 , with newspaper help , to bring about the calling of a constitutional convention , we became aware of the existence of a strong feeling outside Chicago that any new constitution should place a limitation upon Chicago 's representation in the legislature to safeguard the rest of the state from the danger of being dominated in the general-assembly by the voting strength of Cook county . " After giving careful thought to that proposition we became convinced In 1914 that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from that time urged the fairness of limiting the number of Cook courttys senators to two-fifths of the membership of the senate , while continuing to apportion the membership of the lower house according to population . On that basis this association Induced a large number of leaders throughout the state to join in urging the calling of . a convention . While any suggestion about limiting Cook county aroused sharp antagonism at first , the press and people , of Chicago have now generally come to recognize-the justice of accepting a limitation in one house , which would prevent any one county from dominating the remainder of the state in the legislature . Take up Legislative End . " It was on the basis of this suggested limitation in only one house that Chicago members of the general assembly were induced to vote for the passage of the recessary joint resolution for ! Submitting to the people the question of calling a constitutional convention . If a double limitation had been looked upon as a possibility at Springfield in Match , 1917 , the joint resolution would not have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On this basis of a one branch limitation the people of the state voted in favor of calling a constitutional con-1 vention . Cook county casting a larger affirmative vote in proportion to its ' population than was obtained in the rest of the state . From our knowledge of the subject we have no . hesitation in saying that if , a limitation in both branches of the legislature had been advocated by the state campaign committee the people of Cook county would have voted overwhelmingly against the convention proposition . " The present proposal to limit Chicago In both branches is substantially a breach of faith and as such is re ? sented by the people of Chicago . Should that proposal bo finally adopted as a part of the proposed new constitu ? tion It will undoubtedly meet with defeat when submitted to the voters of Cook county and will be likely to cam , to defeat the remainder of the pronosed new constitution . "                     