@@689287

txt Arc you ready , movie winners , for the great time we 're going to have this afternoon at Orchestra Hall , seeing Harold Lloyd 's film . " Safety Last " Are you set for the thrill of your young lives ? You 'd better he , I promise you , because  --  you 're going to get it ! 1 expect all of you have received your invitations and letters giving full directionis . If you have n't , by any chance , or If there 's anything you 're in doubt about , please telephone me at Tun Tatutrila this morning . -. - Isere are a few of the letters that have won ins-Mations to my White City patty ! " Dear Sally Joy Brown : ? Please make me a winner of your contest . I am asking this because I have never . been to White City and I am anxious to go . My friends have been and they tell me in glowing words the wonders of White City . The fun house , trouble house and cyclone bowl are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shooting through the air on the airplane , slowly being lifted above the city on the Ferris wheel , and being whirled around on the whip . Well ; I guess , I have told you why I like all the excitements of White City . . Hoping to de a winner . K. S. " " Dear Sally Joy Brown : How are you today ? ? I am sure you must be feeling wonderful to give us such a big offer . f love amusement parks more than anything else for pleasure . 0 , boy ! If I . win , what a wonderful time I will have ! The chutes is my palace of thrills . I simply am frantic with Joy when I go on IL I think the shows are wonderful . Sometimes they give YOU the shivers , other times fits of laughter . Altogether It 's a jolly good mixture . The- rides are a delightful delicacy ' to me . My heart leaps to my Mouth , 1 can hardly compress my ' cries of joy and then , but all too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do n't like about the parks  --  there is always an end . H. L. " " Dear Sally Joy Brown : I have heard about the lovely time the boys - and girls have been having at your parties . I know I would be happy If I should receive an Invitation to your party on Aug. 31 . I have been to an ! amusement ' park only once , about live years ago . I liked it very much . The . giant coaster was my most thrilling ride . I have heard that It is lots of fun ' to go in the fun house . I think the amusement parks are so nice and it I will be a. lot of fun to go with a large crowd because you do not feel so timid . H. G. "                     