@@696066

txt Speaking before a joint meeting of the American Council of Learned Societies and the Oriental Society of Harvard University last Wednesday , Mr. E. C. CARTER , secretary of the American group of the Institute of Pacific Relations , indicated that American universities and colleges are notably lacking in offering courses on China and Japan . Mr. CARTER presented a report based on investigations of more than five hundred institutions of learning in the United States . One hundred and eleven of these reported courses on Far Eastern subjects , with a total enrolment of more than six thousand students . To the average graduate of an American college the surprise Is not that there are so few courses as that there are so many , with such a large attendance . It is true that many of the courses are very general . Yet the University of California teaches the Chinese and Japanese languages , and there are courses at Harvard in Oriental fine arts and history . The number of students taking these is comparatively small . But it is unexpectedly large in view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time is at hand when the Western world must learn from and about the Orient . In England , France and Holland , with their Asiatic possessions , and in Germany , with its traditions of scientific scholarship and with its outstanding Orientalists , a greater emphasis has.long been laid on studying the literature , language , history and arts of Oriental countries . Great Britain has produced a number of distinguished sinologues and numerous Indian scholars . of note . The University of Leyden has Tong been famous for its courses in Oriental learning . Numerically speaking , the output of these European universities has been small . It has been , in the main , of a higher quality because of the older interest which has permitted the ripening of many minds versed from youth in the affairs of the Orient . In time we shall have teachers like theirs . Till recently our emphasis has been more on the study of contemporary politics and economics than of the arts and languages . But we are beginning to develop Oriental scholars of genuine ability . It is encouraging to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centres of interest in Oriental : affairs are on the Pacific Coast . We of the East overlook the fact that Yokohama is the same distance from Seattle that Naples is from New York . The terms " Near East " and " Far East " are misnomers in the United State . The " Far East , " which embraces China , Japan . the Philippines and the Dutch East Indies , is nearer to the United States than is the so-called " Near East . " The Pacific Coast States are developing closer relations with the Orient each year  --  relations growing not only out of increased commerce , but out of travel and out of the gradual adjustment of the long disturbed relations between the Oriental populations on our own Pacific Coast and the Americans in that region . The Institute of Pacific Relations is playing an important part in stimulating a still greater interest in Pacific affairs in the United States . Its great service so far has been its endeavor to place facts before the public , rather than opinions or propaganda . So long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great need . The mere assembling of detailed information about the precise nature and number of courses on Far Eastern affairs in our colleges in itself will serve to rouse greater interest and will suggest to various colleges methods by which they may improve their educational services in this field .                     