@@694326

txt The New ' York World wants the Democratic Party to cease its factional tight over prohibition . The World finds that the Democrats have been spending their force , in recent years in ' fighting most over those Issues upon which their party was least in agreement . If the Democratic party were not torn by the licluor issue , the factions might present a united front on foreign policy , flood control , farm relief , disarmament , Muscle Shoals and other important national problems , the argument runs . The World offers as a basis for peace In the party a frank acceptance of prohibition as an isSue to be decided by states . " There is a genuine sectional disagreement in this country over prohibition , " the World says . " A realistic policy will recognize that fact . It will recognize that there is wisdom in leaving to local sentiment an Issue which can not be settled nationally by the Democratic party or by anybody else . It will frankly advocate an increasing measure of autonomy as an alternative to the hypocrisy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretend that such a solution would be a compromise in any real sense of the word . A compromise involves sacrifices by both sides for the sake of agreement . The basis for settlement which the ' World proposes is , in reality , a victory over Volsteadism . It would restore the situation existing before the enactment of the eighteenth amendment . To that extent It would be a complete repudiation of the Anti-Saloon league and its associated organizations and all they have stood for in the last fifteen years . No Anti-Saloon leaguer could conceivably approve the settlement and no wet.could. oppose it . The Democratic party is not likely to come to such an understanding next year . Long and bitter as it was , the last convention did not exhaust the ability or the desire of the contending factions to renew the fight . The probability is that the struggle ' will be resumed this time where it left off three years ago and that after another exhausting trial of strength some meaningless phrases will be adopted to cover the prohibition issue . BY 1922 the futility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic leaders and there is reason to believe they may take some such stand against prohibition as the World-is. advocating . ' That will be a dark day for the ? lepublican party . We do not believe the Republicans ' can be defeated in 1928 , but we can make no such con= fident prediction for the following election . The policy of the Republican party toward prohibition has thus far been successful , and we fear it will not be abandoned until too late . The party has done . what , the Democrats did in the years preceding the civil war : it has sought to reconcile and compromise views which , by their nature , were Irreconcilable . The Democrats continued to elect Presidents , but for lack of strong moral leadership and a fdrthright policy went down eventually in defeat and disgrace . The nation is confronted today with the same kind of moral issuo that it faced in the late ' 40s and ' 50s , and it Is being met by the dominant party , now , as then , with evasion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present basis of denying the existence of one of the most significant and pressing of national issues . Not even the fact that the country has learned to expect a far abler administration of public affairs from Republicans than from Democrats will save the day if the Democrats ever take a lesson from their repeated defeats .                     