@@686916

txt UNEMPLOYMENT . Explanation of the High Figure Given , and Another of the Cause . To the Editor of The New York Times : It is unfortunate that in the published reports of the statement made by Secretary of Labor Davis on the number of unemployed in this country , 5,700,000 , his explanatory - clauses were omitted , There is no doubt that there is much unemployment at this time and that we are facing a severe Winter on that account ; but I think all will agree that there is no use in making it appear any larger than it really is . For instance , Secretary Davis , in his testimony , took pains to say that the chief of the Bureau of Labor Statistics who furnished the figures predicated them upon the number at work during the highest peak of employment in this country , January , 1920 . At that time , as is well known , every man , woman and child who could possibly be influenced by the highest wage ever offered and by the Patriotic slogan that " ' We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " were dragged into the factories . As soon as the slump came the women and children went back into the homes which they never would have left except under these extraordinary circumstances , and the men went back to the jobs that they had previously held . I know of a locality in Connecticut where three factories that are completely shut down now were largely manned in 1920 , when they were running full tilt , by workers drawn from estates and farms on which this year they are back at work , much to the gratification of the owners of said estates and farms . This situation is typical of conditions all over the country and that is why when hundreds of thousands . if not millions , of factory workers were laid off last year no serious hardship followed . Generally they went back to their prewar work , not at inflated but at living wages . But all such workers were included in the 5,700,000 unemployed computation made by Secretary Davis , Doubtless the President 's forthcoming conference on unemployment will provide for scientific investigation of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. EASLEY . New York , Aug. 31 , 1921 . To the Editor of The New York Times : There must be a good many people who , like Myself , are unable to see any mystery in the present prevalence of unemployment , and if there is anything beyond the simple statement of facts which I will try to set forth , you might do a public service by expounding it : The community is in sore need of houses , clothes , food , railway facilities and many other things . The criminal classes who have been guilty of the nefarious act of saving up some money would like to provide these things ( I myself would like to provide a few books ) , but the wages of labor forced up during the war make it impossible to provide the things with reasonable safety , not to speak of profit . The trade unions are straining every- nerve to prevent wages coming back to . a point where labor can be generally employed , and as long as this state of affairs prevails unemployment will prevail . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let us have it , HENRY ; HOLT . Dublin , N. H. , Aug. 30 , 1921 . Causes of Pellagra . To the Editor of The New York Times : In your issue of Aug. 18 appears a letter from E. M. Perdue , M. D. , in which he makes some very positive statements to the effect that pellagra Is due wholly to the drinking of " soft water coining from a clay soil . " If this is true , how art we to tiers counf , for the established fact that in cities ' of the South , where all the families have the same water supply , the pellagra rate rapidly declines as family income Increases ? Is it not a little strange that the substitution of a more varied diet has completely eliminated pellagra from orphan asylums in which it was formerly very abundant ? Is it not peculiar that the disease occurs mainly in the late Spring , cases being rare , at other seasons ? How does it happen that pellagra is so much more abundant in years of business depression ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a list of the pellagra cases coming under his observation which have occurred among those well-fed Southern families visif. , -1 rinrinff his soicarn in the South . WILLFORD I. KING , Formerly Statistician in the United States Public Health Service . New York , Aug. 25 , lk2l . Translation of " Reich . " To the Editor of Thg New York Times : I note in your isue of yesterday , and in that of other NeW ? York papers , that the title of our erstwhile enemy 's Chief Executive as reported in the treaty text is the President of the German Empire . Is it possible that this is correct ? If so , how long low , is it alma reilublic reverted to empire ? And , again , it so , what should we consider the significance thereof ? SAMUEL W. PATTERSON . Bread Loaf . Vt .. Aug. 27. 1021.                     