@@690880

txt The air at Washington is already thick with suggestion how to reorganize and revivify the Democratic Party . Senator BAYARD of Delaware declares that " we must swing back to first principles " and refuse to be a party to the many " isms - advanced for purely local condi " tions . " In line with this is the reported utterance of another Democratic Senator , Mr. BRUCE of Maryland , who thinks that there is no hope for the party except in reasserting " historic Democratic p  --  inciples . " It must be said that this does not get us very far . Unfortunately , the country has got the impression that those " principles " have become something to be laid away in mothballs while actual legislation is afoot , and to be brought out with veneration only in the midst of a Presidential campaign , after which they are returned to their cedar chest . It is the concrete application , not the abstract doctrine , that counts in politics . And it has in recent years counted heavily against the Democratic Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , has a more precise idea of what the party needs . In a recent interview he said that it " will not be entrusted with power unless it has a capacity for leadership . " This is a truth which appears somewhat melancholy in retrospect . It is hinted at Washington that Democratic Senators aspire to a stronger control of the t arty than they have had . All will depend upon which ones get that control . Those who had it last Winter demonstrated their capacity for leadership chiefly in the way of leading the party into the ditch . They were men of too narrow vision to perceive their great opportunity , and of minds too small to deal with big questions in a large way . They were the linen who , in union with Democrats in the House of similar light weight , made the ghastly blunder of opposing the Mellon plan of tax reduction instead of seizing upon it and carrying it even further . The result was that , as Governor MoRRisoN of North Carolina now discovers , " the Republicans were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " struction in Congress the benefits of " tax reduction would have been more " substantial . " Upon the subsequent political campaign the blight of these same petty-minded Senatorial leaders was cast . It was they who tried to magnify such irrelevant trifles as the Boston police strike and the fact that Mr. COOLIDGE , as Vice President , had taken a fee of $250 for giving a lecture . With such stupidity the gods themselves fight in vain . The leadership which the Democratic Party now requires has less to do with any personality at present in sight than with ideas and an attitude . On this point , Governor Cox says , with much appositeness , " we are living in a very posi " tive age , and the Democratic Party " must be something besides a party of " opposition . " Hence , in his . opinion , the need of developing a party leadership which will cause a stand to be taken , " for a definite thing . " This is consistent with the general view that the Democrats ought to make of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticize and withstand purely Republican measures . Beyond that , they will , if they are wise , seek to demonstrate to the people that they are ready and fit to take office , without alarming the country , whenever it may seem desirable to turn out the party in power . But something more specific is necessary . There must be a cause , a program , a rallying cry for the Democrats in Congress . What better one can be found than the still urgent issue of economy ? With it will naturally go the effort still further to cut down taxes , to relieve businecs from needless burdens , to prevent tjk rise of prices and the inrj . Creasing pressure upon the : : consuming.masses caused by ihe.apitalizing of ? ? - ? ? necessarily high taxation , mid passing it on to those ' who can not escape it , in the form of rents raised , and food and clothing made dearer , The sound and strategic course for the Democrats in Congress would seem to be so plainly indicated that a wayfaring man need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they took during the last session , when , for the sake of an immediate defeat of the Administration plan , they aligned themselves with the La Follette fringe and did their best to denature the Mellon proposals for tax reduction . The Democtats got their cheap victory in Congress , but presdrited the Republicans with an issue which helped them to sweep the country in the Presidential election . Let that folly now be renounced . Economy in government and the lightest possible taxation are Democratic principles , if any exist at all . The true Democratic tactics now would be to call for still more drastic retrenchment , with a cut in taxation yet more radical , even at the risk of a possible Treasury deficit temporarily . The first recommendations of such a policy after the war came from a Democratic President and from . two Democratic Secretaries of the Treasury . With entire consistency , therefore , and with great political effect , the Democrats in Congress could strike boldly , in season and out of season , for the most stringent economy and the most thoroughgoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is far from broken . It will have a strength in the next Congress much greater than its electoral vote would call for . With 183 Democratic Representatives in the House , and - nearly forty Democratic Senators , the material for reconstructing a party full of hope again , and full of fight , is ample . The work requires sagacious leaders and the right choice of issues . It will be difficult but not impossible . CECIL RHODES used to say , after the Jameson raid : " It is worth " while being down to see who. are your " friends . " The Democratic Party today is down , but it still has a multitude of friends in the persons of all who ' believe in the need of a strong and militant opposition party , and who would have Government kept from placing a heavy hand upon commercial and industrial enterprise , and an insatiate hand in the pocket of the taxpayer .                     