@@689134

txt The Rev. - George Lyman Paine , Executive Secretary of the Greater Boston Federation of Churches , today sent a letter of apology and explanation to Mrs. Priscilla Redgrave Hague , bride of Lieutenant Wesley Hague , U. S. N .. in con ' nection with the incident which culminated yesterday in a hand-to-hand encounter between Lieutenant Hague and Mr. Paine in the latter 's offices . Lieutenant Hague has said that his anger was aroused when the clergyman admitted kissing his bride , and that he went to the clergyman 's offices with the intention of administering a thrashing . The letter of apology in part says : " I am gentleman enough to begin by a.pologiztng to you as a lady . humbly and sincerely , for having . as it seems . given you any slightest cause for annoyance . That was the last thing in the world that was in my mind . Certalnlx at the time you took no offense. and I would have stopped playfully tickling Yo4 with a graes ? stalk the moment you asked it . " I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my hand for a friendly handshake , and while saying to him ' I 'm glad to see you - again , ' striking With full force . in thi face ... and followIngit up with ' further blows ' while I was dazed and trembling . Ha.d he ** asked for some account of whatev.n. had been done , simple and foolish as 1t was , and what we had not done , I am sure Ile never would have struck me at all , nor acted like the madman he did . " If I were his enemy and not his friend , as I still count myself , I could have him arraigned on a charge of assault and battery . I am afraid the affair will be out in the papers , but the less said about it the better anu tile sooner they will forget it . " In a. postscript the clergyman added : " I ca n't help adding that I think . N ? ou owe me an apology for acting as you did . " The episode referred to in the letter was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Hague for an automobile ride to Belmont and later for a walk . This statement was made tonight by Mrs. Hague in connection with the af-fair : " When Mr. Paine asked me to go to ride with him I had in mind that he both baptized and married me , and even though my mother , who was uneXpectedly present at the time he called , was not invited I saw no harm in going with him . If I had not been reluctantly forced to the conclusion that Mr. Paine 's motives were not innocent , I " ' would never have written to my husband about the occurrence at all . ? ' I am proud of my husband and his conduct in the whole affair , and I sincerely hope that Mr. Paine 's conduct will be a lesson to alI young married couples under similar circumstances . " The best way to dismiss the whole matter is to say that very fortunately Mr. Paine 's ponduct has been such as to endear my husband to me more than ever . " The Rev. Mr. Paine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hague and who baptized Mrs. Hague . has stated that he kissed the girl on both occasions , as well as the day of the automobile ride , and that in each case it was merely a display of fatherly affection . Lieutenant Hague stated that he had today retained counsel in connection with the ' caee. ? It was also announced that the Rev. Mr. Paine would conduct the services at Trinity Protestant Episcopal Church next Sunday . Unofficial ecclesiastical and naval inquiries into the fight are forecast . While navy intelligence officers were getting evidence with a view of placing it before a naval board of inquiry , the minister was in conference with the Rt . Rev. Samuel G. Babcock , Suffragan Bishop of the Episcopal diocese , at the Diocese House on Joy Street . At the conclusion of his talk with Bishop Babcock the clergyman said he would not resign his office as a clergyman and executive head of the Federation .                     