@@695882

txt A movement to put teeth in the Kellogg millti/atera/ treaty renouncing war as an instrument of national policy , otherwise known as the Pact of Paris , recently ratified by the Senate , will be started tomorrow , when Senator Arthur Capper of Kansas , a nAmber of the Committee on Foreign Relations , ; will offer a joint resolution , designed to authorize the employment of non , forcible sanctions or disciplinary measures against any adhering government which violates the pact . The Capper resolution , the text of which was made public tonight , pro ' vides , in effect , that this government F hall establish an economic boycott . against any such nation , and invest the President with authority to issiin ? a proclamation forbidding the expo : ? t of munitions of war to any offendin ; , : overnment . This approximates economic boycott provisions of the ? T. , league of Nations Covenant . No re . sort to force by the . United States contemplated in the provisions . Provision for Boycott . The fundamental principle enunciated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following provision : " That whenever the President de , termines and by proclamation declares that any country has violated the . multilateral treaty for the renunciation of war , it shall be unlawful , unless otherwise provided by act or Congress or by proclamation of the President , to export to such country , arms , munitions , implements of war or other articles for use in war until the President shall by proclamation declare that such violation no longer continues . " From this it will he seen that the authority to be conveyed to the President may be qualified or withdrawn if Congress enacts a law to that effect or the President hitnze ! C issue ; ; a proclamation declaring that the economic boycott is not to be employed . Another provision states it to be the policy of the United States that its citizens shall not be protected by the government if they give " aid and comfort " to a nation which violates the pact . The resolution also requests the President to negotiate treaties with other adherents of the treaty to insure that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give assistance to an offending nation . It is provided , however , that the policy of refusing protection to American citizens in such circumstances shall not apply against a violating nation which has failed to make a declaration that it will not protect its citizens when engaged in similar practices . Wants Time for Discussion . Senator Ca pper stated tonight that he had no expectation of obtaining action on his resolution in the present Congress , which will come to an end three weeks from tomorrow , or in the extra session , which is to convene in April . His idea in offering the measure at this time , he explained , was to allow discussion of the proposal and the forming of public opinion , so that its purpose would be thoroughly understood when Con. congress assembled in regular session in December , at which time he would press for its adoption . That purpose , he said , was to have : the United States Government go cm record in favor of refusing to aid any nation signatory to the multilateral treaty which broke its word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covenant . In his opinion , any war undertaken by a signatory would end when that nation found it would be unable to buy war supplies from the United States . " In fact , " added Senator Capper , " I doubt whether it will ever be begun . " Senator Borah , chairman of Pie Committee on Foreign Relations , declined to discuss the resolution . He said he would withhold comment NW til it was offered in the Senate tomorrow . Mr. Borah 's attitude toward similar suggestions has been so well defined , however , that it seems to be assured that he will oppose the Capper proposition . In the Senate debates on ratification of the anti-war pact Senator Borah insisted that no sanctions or disciplinary or punitive measures were necessary to enforce its provisions . He maintained that adherence to every treaty rested on the good faith of its signatories and not on compulsion by the use of force or non-forcible , coercive methods . This he maintained in the face of assertions by other Senators that in the declaration denouncing war as an instrument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the signatories that the settlement of disputes between them " shall never be sought except by pacific means , " the pact amounted to nothing more than a noble gesture toward international peace . Mr. Borah , therefore , may be counted an opponent of the Capper resolution and it is to be expected that he will be supported by Senators who were among the irreconcilable element when the League of Nations Covenant was under consideration , and others of like sentiments who have entered the Senate since that time . Anti-League Attitude Reflected . This attitude is a reflection of the course which dominated the anticovenant Senators . They held that the United States must not commit itself to join with other nations in proceeding against violators of the covenant 's terms by the application of sanctions , whether non-forcible , such as an economic boycott , or through resort to actual hostilities . The stand taken by Senator Borah when the multilateral pact was under consideration in the Senate was similar to that of the Coolidge administration . There is said to be reason to believe that Mr. Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought before Congress at the regular session , shares the foregoing view . But for the present there is no authoritative disclosure of the opinion held either by President Coolidge or President-elect Hoover regarding Senator Capper 's resolution . Senator Capper Explains Purpose . In a statement of explanation given out with the text of his resolution , Senator Capper said : " The purpose of this resolution is to put the Government of the United States on record , in response to an insistent and well-nigh unanimous public demand , by taking the next step toward safeguarding international peace , following the ratification of the Pact of Paris . " This resolution renews in substance a proposal contained in my resolution of Dec. 9. 1927 , that any nation signatory to the Pact of Paris which breaks its word shall not be aided directly or indirectly by our nationals in carrying on its war . " My resolution also contemplates that our government shall at once negotiate treaties or understandings with other signatory powers for similar action on their part . " The moment it becomes clear that a nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of national policy , but which nevertheless provokes or invites a war , will not be able to buy munitions or supplies from the American people with which to carry on the war , then that war will come to a sudden end . In fact , I doubt whether it will ever be begun . Would " Underwrite the Peace Pact . " " In other words , I believe the adoption and effectuation of this resolution will tend to make the peace pact effective . It will in a measure underwrite the peace pact without compelling us to police the world . " I hope and believe that public opinion will approve this resolution and that before long it will receive the overwhelming . if not unanimous , approval of both houses of Congress . It is not expected that action will be taken at this session , but the introduction of the resolution , it is hoped , will bring about discussion and consideration which will result in action at an early date in a sueceeding session . " The full import and implications of the Pact of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including not a few of those who write on such subjects for periodicals . Says Pact Marks New Era . " The peace pact , or multilateral treaty , marks a new era in international relations and international law . In this new era we must learn to think and to speak in terms of realities , not in terms of worn-out and abandoned policies which the Pact of Paris openly and emphatically renounces . " Fortunately , as our own record shows and as Sir Austen Chamberlain recently has stated in the House of Commons , there are no reservations on the part of nations signatory to the pact . It is an absolute renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy . " Therefore it is not only logical but necessary that a nation like our own , which intends solemnly to keep its word in this respect , shall not aid any other nation that may prove faithless , either directly or indirectly . " Let that once become known and announced to the world and any government will hesitate a long time before it violates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The enthusiasm which greeted the conclusion of the Pact of Paris , in foreign nations as well as in our own ; the readiness with which arbitration treaties are being concluded between the United States and other nations , these give testimony to the strong popular support of the Movement against war . " The people and the peoples of the world want peace . They want the assurance of peace , if that is possible . " In face of the engagements of the pact and in face of the widespread treaties of arbitration and conciliation , it would be anomalous , to say the least , for the people of the States which have bound themselves by the terms of the pact to encourage its breach by permitting the shipment of arms and munitions of war to the treaty-breaker . It would be a breach of faith on the part of a signatory to encourage their nationals by contributions of goods or money , to sustain an offending nation and ' aid that nation in striking down the defenders of the pact . " It is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not give aid and comfort to a treaty-breaking State . It is of vital interest to this nation that it should seek to prevent the outbreak of war by warning possible treaty-breaking nations of the attitude the United States will take . Seeks to Check Traffic in Arms . " What is proposed in the new resolution is simply to carry out the spirit of the Briand-Kellogg pact ; to prevent conscienceless nationals from making a profit out of aiding and abetting nations that violate the pact . " The spirit of the pact should be borne in upon the mind of the citizen as well as that of the statesman . It should be impressed that war will not be a means of carrying on a profitable trade with the belligerent nations , a profitable trade that in the end will cost the lives of our own youth and saddle another tremendous war debt upon the surviving people of the nation . " Rather it should be impressed upon the consciousness of every citizen and every statesman that the effect of the pact will be to diminish or cut off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the interest of armament-makers or the private traffickers in blood money to connive with a government which in defiance of its obligations lets loose upon the world the pestilence of war . " Carries Out Spirit of Treaty . The outstanding feature of Senator Capper 's statement is the explanation that his resolution " is simply to carry out the spirit of the Briand-Kellogg pact , to prevent conscienceless nationals from making a profit out of aiding and abetting na ? tions that violate the pact . " To understand that purpose better , it is necessary to have in mind the essential provisions of the treaty renouncing war . These features are stated in the following articles : " Article 1 . The high temtracting parties solemnly declare that they condemn recourse to war for the solution of international controversies and renounce it as an instrument of national policy in their relations with one another . " Article 2 . The high contracting parties agree that the settlement or solution of all disputes or conflicts , rof whatever nature or whatever origin they may be , which may arise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This treaty was the result of a statement made by Aristide Briand , Foreign Minister of France , on April 6 , 1927 , the tenth anniversary of the entrance of the United States into the World War , that " France would be willing to subscribe publicly with the United States to any mutual engagement tending to outlaw war , " and proposing that the two countries agree to renounce war " as an instrument of national policy . " In the following November Senator Capper announced that when Congress assembled in December he would offer a resolution designed to carry out the purposes of the Briand proposal . By that time it had become clear that the Coolidge Administration did not favor making with France alone a treaty renouncing war and believed any such agreement should include all nations . Senator Capper 's resolution provided that the pant should take the multilateral form . It contained , however , a provision under which this government would regard as " an aggressor nation " any government which violated the agreement . Steps Toward the Treaty . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Butler , while in Paris , offered suggestions for an anti-war pact , and these suggestions apparently were reflected in the resolution which Senator Capper offered in the Senate in the following December . , Further impetus to the movement was given by the publication of the so-called draft treaty offered by Professor James T. Shotwell and J. P. ' Chamberlain of Columbia University as a basis for procedure . In the draft the signatory nations were to pledge themselves not to attack or invade one another or resort to war except in the exercise of the right of legitimate defense and " action by the United States in pursuance of its traditional policy with reference to the American continent , " an affirmation of American rights under the Monroe Doctrine . The resolution which Senator Capper will offer tomorrow reflects a provision of the draft treaty pledging the signatory powers not to " aid or abet the treaty-breaking power . " Meanwhile the United States Government was engaged in exchanges with the French Government looking to carrying out the Briand proposal . Professor Shotwell says in his recently published book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that " on June 7 , 1927 , the Washington correspondent of THE NEW YORK TIMES published the news that the French Government had approached the American Ambassador in Paris with a suggestion for the negotiation of a treaty between France and the United States for the elimination of war and the preservation of peace between the two nations . " Capper Praised by Shotwell . Various proposals were offered that had a bearing on the subject , including Senator Borah 's resolutions for the codification of international law and seeking to outlaw war , and out of it all came the multilateral treaty which was concluded at Paris on Aug. 27 , 1928 , with nine independent nations and six British dependencies participating as signatories . Secretary Kellogg , who was the chief negotiator of the treaty , went from Washington to Paris to sign the agreement on the part of the United States . In his book Professor Shotwell gives high praise to Senator Capper for his part in arousing interest in the proposal to renounce war as an instrument of national policy . Of Mr. Capper 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected in the resolution he will offer tomorrow , Professor Shotwell says : " The resolution of Senator Capper was especially significant because , in the first place , it came from the Senator from Kansas . It was an unique incident in American history to have an authoritative exponent of the sentiment of the agricultural areas of the Middle West interpret , and , as it proved ultimately , correctly interpret , the idealism of France . " A member of the Republican party and a consistent supporter of the administration of President Coolidge , Senator Capper was not the kind of man to play politics by outbidding the Executive for popular approval . Nor was he the kind of man to be stampeded by popular movements into the support of measures which he did not himself study carefully and thoroughly ; although a lifelong exponent of farming interests , he had never been carried away by the extreme partisan views of radicalism , contenting himself with a program of forward-looking liberalism , combined with a vigilant care for those practical measures by which democracy schools itself in statesmanship. " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           