@@688183

txt Congress adjourns to the usual Music of contradictory oratory . The leaders of the majority gravely assure the country that this has been the most industrious , fruitful and generally beneficent session of Congress ever known . With equal gravity the leaders of the minority affirm that no Congress so negligent , extravagant and futile ever sat in Washington . These rival adjurations fall vainly upon the ears of the people . The public verdict on this Congress was long since made up and nothing that can be ' said now will change it . The work of the session has had full publicity . The things that Congress has done it has not done in a corner . The popular judgment has been formed on the basis of abundant and reiterated evidence ; and that it is strongly adverse to the record made by this Congress is notorious . In such matters the whole is greater than the sum of all its parts . Specifications of the shortcomings and misdeeds of this Congress could be piled up indefinitely . but the total would not he so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes pinned upon this session have almost all been grievously disappointed , while the fears entertained in advance have been outstripped in reality . Never were the auspices apparently so bright as when this Congress began its work ; seldom can the sense of failure have been so deep as it is at the close of the session . Public criticism and censure have been fixed , and will remain fixed , upon a few salient feat . ares of Congressional activity . On the subject of tax reform this Congreas broke the party pledges , withstood the urgings of the President , and left the overburdened taxpayers despairing of relief . The long-drawn-out wranglings and wire-pullings over the tariff were of a sort to disgust even protectionists of the older school . But what the observant citizen has viewed with most concern is the apparent breakdown of the machinery of which use was formerly made in order to render Congress a reasonably efficient body . In this Congress party discipline has been trampled upon . A system of legislation on the demand of mutinous groups , and through logrolling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of the old way of decision by party majorities enforced by party loyalty . The result has been to throw about this Congress an air of cross-purposes and imbecility rarely if ever equaled before . The President has been openly flouted by the leaders of his own party in Congress . They , in their turn , have repeatedly had to face rebellion among their nominal followers . And no sustained effort has been made to change those " Silurian epigrams called the rules of the Senate " which have again demonstrated their power to exhaust the public patience and to ruin a legislative program . All this is no matter merely for party recrimination . It is easy to believe that if the Democrats had been in power they would have done as badly as the Republicans . With the latter must rest the immediate responsibility , and upon them must be visited whatever punishment the voters decide to inflict for the sins of this Congress . But there is a larger ? sense In which Congress adjourns with tale honors easy as between parties , and with reflecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steadily to deteriorate . If this is true , remedies must be sought , although no one but a panacea-peddler would dream that he could effect a Cure at once . There are obviously certain things for the electors to drive at directly . They must seek to re- store the authority of party , and to raise the level of intelligence among members of Congress . They must ' fight government by groups , as the root of growing evils . In a word , they must endeavor to elect a Congress in which there shall be no blocs at all and as few blockheads as possible .                     