@@687374

txt There does n't seem much use In complaining against gun toting when advertisements like the one we reproduce below , appear in the pfess . We have omitted the address of the concern , but It should be stated it is located in a state which has a drastic anti-pistol law . Yet this law does not prevent the concern from advertising in Chicago and distributing its goods here and elsewhere . The fact is , as we have urged repeatedly ; the way to stop the national vice of gun toting is 4.0 prohibit the private manufacture and sale of revolvers . Only the government should be allowed to make revolvers . Under existing condition 's any one can get a revolver any timeonywhere . This means that those who are unfit to carry weapons are the ones who carry them . It means that so long as criminals ; roughs ; and degenerates have no trouble in arming themselves , It is out of the question to enforce gun toting laws against decent citizens . ' Thus the community reverts to a condition resembling that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacture is prohibited , the police would find it worth while to disarm the criminal and dubious classes , and punishment for Carrying a gun could and would be strictly enforced . While private manufacture continues , very little can be done to correct the gun toting evil . FIGHTING THOMPSON WITH FEATHERS : Charles S. Detieen , Edward J. Brundage , and Robert Crowe tried to agree on a. ticket to oppose the LundintThoMpson ticket in the Republican Primaries . They seem to have begun with the theory that in an agreement it is possible for two or three conflicting interests to be fully satisfied and take everything without giving anything . . Their only probable chance against the city hall organization was - In agreement ' and combination . The city hall had to take a bad defeat in the Judicial , election-because , for the first time , it encountered consolidated instead of divided opposition . That was a consolidation of both Republicans and Democrats determined.that the city hall should not control the judges . In the Republican primaries there was to be a consolidation of Republicans in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the city hall . That would . elitninate Thompson and Lundin from county control and tt might keep them out of the legislature . Deneen , Brundage , and , Crowe seemingly have decided that the way to get what they want is to fight each other . Mr.Deneen and Mr. Brundage will put up one ticket and Mr , Crowe will mit gip another , and Thompson will make the nominre ? dons . ' hat 's all the voting about ?                     