@@694564

txt Thirty-one defense witnesses took the stand here today , many of them giving testimony to support the stories told by Mrs. Margaret Lilliendahi and Willis Beach , who are on trial for the murder of the woman 's husband , Dr. William Lilliendahi , near Hammonton on Sept. 15 . The witnesses included a youthful truck driver who testified that he was an eyewitness to the events immediately preceding the murder . His story supported Mrs. Lilliendahl 's contention that her husband had been killed by negro hold-up men . The widow 's defence gained further support from the testimony of a woman who said two negroes had tried to hold her up on that day near the scene of the crime in the same manner described by Mrs. Lilliendahl . The widow smiled happily as she listened to this line of testimony . Beach , her codefendant , found occasion also to smile as a dozen friends and relatives offered alibi testimony to indicate that he could not have been near the lonely lane where the doctor was slain . Aids Story of Hold-Up . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Lilliendahl , said in his opening address to the jury that he would prove the truth of her story that two negro robbers jumped on the automobile in which she and the doctor were riding along the Atsion Road . forced her to drive un the lane and then robbed her and her husband and killed Dr. Lilliendahl . The truck driver he called to substantiate this declared he had seen a car like Mrs. Lilliendahl 's turn into that lane with two men standing on the running board . The witness said he was almost certain that one of those men was a negro . This witness , Martin Lashley of Oceanville , N. J. , was subjected to a severe cross-examination by S. Cameron Hinkle , Assistant Prosecutor , who is directing the State 's case . Lashley said he did not stop his truck but continued along the road . He admitted that it was not until Tuesday that he told what he had seen to any one connected with the case . When he did tell , he admitted , it was to Mr. Phillips , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could use the information . The woman who described the attempted hold-up by the negroes was Mrs. Lillie Lehman of Minatola . She said she was driving along the Atsion Road on Sept. 15 and that about three-quarters of a mile from the lane the negroes had tried to stop her . She said she sped past them . She , too , admitted that the first person connected with the case to whom she had offered her information had been a defense detective , but , like the truck driver , she insisted that the reason she had not informed the police was that she did not want to " get mixed up in this . " Beach Relies on Alibi . Edison Hedges , counsel for Beach , asserted in his opening statement that he would show that Beach could not have been near the lane on the day of the murder . To support this he put on the stand Beach 's son , his daughter-in-law and a carpenter , who said that at 12:30 P. M. Beach had been at his home in South Vineland. twenty-five miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the stand another witness , who testified that Beach had been in Hammonton at 1:15 P. M. The murder was committed some time in the neighborhood of noon and P. M. Other witnesses of . the day included persons who testified to the good character of the defendants . Among these were Bishop Manuel Ferando , Suffragan Episcopal Bishop of Porto Rico and brother-in-law by marriage of Mrs. Lilliendahl ; the woman principal of the school attended by the widow 's 8-year-old son Alfred , and friends and neighbors of both the woman and Meech . Other defense witnesses were put on the stand to combat parts of the evidence developed by the State in the first four days of the trial and to offer further proof that Mrs. Lilliendabi 's story about the negro hold-up men was true . Defense May Close Today . While the defense counsel were making preparations tonight , to complete their case , which will include the appearance on the stand of both Beach and Mrs. Lilliendahl , probably tomorrow , representatives of the prosecution were pressing their investigation of the failure of several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these witnesses was Harry F. Sanderson , an aluminum-ware salesman , who had been relied on to make positive identification of Beach as the man he saw running from the woods near the lane about the time of the murder . Sanderson was questioned today , and persons connected with the prosecution intimated that important developments might come tomorrow . In addition to putting the widow and Beach on the stand , defense counsel , according to an announcement tonight , plan to have in court tomorrow a confessed negro robber whose picture Mrs. Lehman identified while on the stand . This man , Alphonso Anderson , now in jail in Norristown , Pa. , for a hold-up near Jenkintown , Pa. , was brought here several weeks ago to be confronted by Mrs. Lilliendahl . Members of the defense counsel said Mrs. Lilliendahl made a partial identification of him , but the prosecution declared she had failed to do so . It was admitted several days ago by a defense lawyer that Anderson was connected with the murder , but no explanation was forthcoming as to why . after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To Fight Bark Testimony . The defense has announced that it will also put on the stand several witnesses whose testimony will be offered to offset the assertion of Samuel Bark , trick roper , lawyer and real estate man , that Beach had confessed the murder to him and had implicated the widow . Mrs. Lilliendahl and Beach were in far better spirits today than at any time since the trial started . They smiled frequently as their attorneys elicited favorable answers from the defense witnesses . As usual , they held long conversations with friends and relatives during recesses . Mrs. Lilliendahl was permitted by Sheriff James Cimino to remain in court 1. long after adjournment , talking happily with ? her friends and playing Iwith her son . Lashley , the truck driver was the ' last witness of the day . A well-built young man . with a tanned face , he related under the direction of Robert H. McCarter , senior counsel for Mrs. ILilliendahl , how on Sept. 15 he was driving toward Hammonton along the Atsion . Road about 12:30 P. M. As he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed , he said , he looked ahead and saw an automobile answering the description of Mrs. Liniendahrs sedan , coming toward him . There was a man on each side of the running board , he said . " And were those men colored men ? " asked Mr. McCarter . " One of them was a colored man , " replied the witness . " I could n't see the man on the other side closely enough to tell . The man on my side was looking into the sedan but I could see his back . " When Mr. Hinkle took him for cross-examination he modified his statement to say he was not positive the man was a negro but testified the man was " dark and looked like a colored man . " Woman Tells of Hold-Vp Attempt . Mrs. Lehman , who told of the attempted hold-up by negroes on Sept. 15 , said she was employed by the Pennsylvania Railroad in a switch tower at . Winslow Junction , N. J. , near her home at Minatola . She said her job was to throw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a middle-aged woman with bobbed hair . She said that on the day of the murder she was speeding along the Atsion Road about forty-five miles an hour about noon when she saw two negroes by the roadside , about three-quarters of a mile nearer Hammonton than the murder lane . Mr. McCarter then showed her a picture of Anderson . " Yes , " she said , " that 's the man who held up his hand and tried to stop me in the road . " Mrs. Lehman told Mr. Hinkle under cross-examination that she was able to identify the man from the pictures because she had noted his " thick lies and peculiar eyes . " T. W. Neil of Hammonton testified that when he visited the scene of the murder late in the afternoon he found two sets of footprints in a charcoal pit not far away . The footprints indicated that the men who made them were heading toward the Atsion Road , he said . Mr. McCarter in an effort to show the prints had been made by negroes got him to say that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City Department of Correction , a fingerprint expert , testified that the marks of a man 's hand on the windshield and door of the Lilliendahl automobile were those of a very large man and appeared to have been placed there by a man holding a very tight grip as if he might have been trying to maintain a place on the running board of the car . Mr. Hinkle got him to admit that it was only this week that he bad made an examination of the car and that , as the car had been handled frequently " It might have been possible for the , marks to have been ' made since the murder : " Ray Beach , the defendant 's son , said that on the morning of the murder his father had been at home all morning except between 8 and 9 o'clock and that he was certain his father had not left the house to go to the monument works in Hammonton until 12:30 P. M. He said . his father had left for Hammonton , after a talk with Frank Howard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daisy Beach , the son 's wife. , also testified that the defendant did not leave the South Vineland ' tense until 12:30 . Howard corroborated her statement . Ray Beach and his wife also denied previous testimony that Willis Beach and his wife had quarreled over Beach 's attentions to Mrs. Lilliendahl . Ray Beach identified a pistel seized in his home as the one Edward Pugh , a Philadelphia friend of his father , had loaned to him for his father 's use several years ago . The prosecution had sought to show that this weapon was still missing and that this might be of some significance . Other alibi witnesses were John . Thornborrow , neighbor of Beach , who disappointed the prosecution on Wednesday by failing to tell the story expected of him ; Mrs. James A. Vannaman , his mother , and Mrs. Laura B. Pedrick , another neighbor . Thornborrow said he had seen Beach driving past his house that morning and the two women said they had seen Beach in his car during the time his son said . he was away from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Beach reached his place of business at 1:15 P. M. The distance from Beach 's home to the murder lane is more than twenty-five miles and Mr. Hedges got into the record testimony indicating that between 12:80 and 1:15 o'clock Beach would have had time only to drive directly to see Mr. Collins . The defense counsel announced they were well pleased with the progress made during the day and said they expected to put their remaining witnesses on the stand tomorrow . The case is not expected to go to the jury until next week , however . A full court session will probably be held tomorrow .                     