@@696273

txt The graduating class of Massachusetts Institute or Technology today had a new set of guide rules to success set before it by Prof. Robert E. Rogers , of the English department . In his address at the graduation banquet , he brushed aside tho " work and win ' formula by advising his hearers to " be a snob , marry the boss ' daughter instead of his stenographer , dress , speak , and act like a gentleman , and you 'll be surprised at the amount of ' murder ' you can get away with . " Prof. Rogers pointed to Harvard university as an institution which for 300 years had never stopped " putting up a front , " proceeding , on the assumption that everything It does is right , never gives in , never argues , blandly going its own way , receiving more publicity and more money than any other American school . What goes for an institution goes for an individual as well , Take Rule from Bootlegger . " I am. going to talk to you on the necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentleman , and belonging to the ruling class , " Prof. Rogers told his auditors . " You have to take the rule away from the bootleg. ger , the politician , ' and the man who came up from one suspender button . " You must set before yourself a ane rote nian to he a ruling person . Be superior . Act superior . Talk that way . Think that way . " I want to preach to you the gospel of being a snob  --  not allowing yourself to go to the level of the crowd that has n't had the opportunities you have had . " Have Plenty of Clothes . " " Have plenty of clothes and keep them pressed . Have your shoes shined every day , and shave every day . Dress , speak , act , like a gentleman and you will be surprised at . the amount of ' murder ' you can get away with . " Found a family that will be successful . Seek the leadership of the ruting class . The ambitious , aspiring men are always marrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Do that yourselves . It Is Just as easy to marry the boss ' daughter as the stenographer , and more profitable . " You have got to make up your minds that you are superior people , get the better jobs , and the money to finance tho things that are worth while . " You can not go on the assumption that you are as good a.s the rest of folks . You should take the attitude that you are a damned sight better . Belong to a club , even if you ca n't afford it , demand good service , and , above all , be with gentlemen . " Some believe that to be a real college man one should be vulgarian ? take part in rows . In plain , Just to raise hell , in a gross and vulgar meaner . If you have that feeling and take It out with yuti. you will remain on that common level . "                     