@@692917

txt When Premier Mussolini turned from visions of Italian domination of the Mediterranean and cavalier gestures toward Germany-over the Tyrol to- apply fascism in earnest to internal economic problems , everyone could perceive that the political system of his invention had entered upon a new phase . It looks very much as ' though n Duce , with characteristic audacity , had staked his political existence , to win or lose . It was one thing to tell his followers in vague terms of the glory that would be Rome 's , of his inflexible purpose to subordinate . every factional interest to the national welfare , of the state 's grave concern for the humblest of its children . It is quite another and a more formidable undertaking to tell those children that , pending . ' realization of the imperial dream , they will have to work as long hours as the government thinks expedient and to regulate their diet more or less by the fluctuations of the lira at London and New York . So smoothly has the fascist machine been functioning these several year4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the tactics of the steamoiler , that it is startling to read of a firm protest against the nine-hour day from the General Confederation of Labor : Most of us had supposed that all such bodies , or r/ any rate their independent vigor , had been long since absorbed into fascismo itself . It had been widely believed , too , that the age-old contention between employers and employed over the division of the fruits of industry had been somehow submerged under an ultra-modern formula ; that prince and peasant , capitalist and machine-tender v ere all keeping obedient step with the music of the nationalist blues . Suddenly a labor organization shows itself still able to refuse the greatest of the leader 's demands , still able to advance its own theories of social progress and economic health . Whatever its merits , the protest reveals at least tie possibilities of a breach in the fascist ranks . These differences may be composed . Probably enough they will be , in some temporary fashion . But the spell of an omnipotent and omniscient leadership has been lessened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend , to explain and justify and at last to give and take . That will bring Italy back to much the same plane ef social and industrial evolution upon which other nations of the western world are obliged slowly and painfully to **mirk out their destiny . The Mussolini regime may endure for many years ; it is to be hoped that it does . But its quality of beneficent dictatorship has been rudely challdnged . In Spain absolutism has so far altered its-character as to impose mere fines upon convicted rebels against its authority . More than one dictator appears to be slipping .                     