@@696276

txt Miss Ruth Wilson , 25 years old , and Horace Roberts Jr. , also 2s , both members of socially prominent families , were found fatally wounded in her home here early this morning . Both died without regaining consciousness . The case was classified by the Moorestown police and George M. Hillman , Burlington County prosecutor , as murder and suicide by Roberts . Jealousy was tentatively assigned as the motive . The young couple had been engaged to be married , but the engagement had been broken by Miss Wilson . Miss Wilson , daughter of John 0 . Wilson , Camden lawyer and realty operator , was a graduate of Wilson College at Chambersburg , Pa . She was an attractive brunette and said to have been popular in the younger social set . Roberts , son of Mr. and Mrs. Horace Roberts of Hootan Hall , near here , and half-brother of former State Senator Emmor Roberts , was graduated from Swarthmore College in 1926 . Conflicting Stories Develop . Conflicting stories of the shooting developed . Mr. Wilson , who found the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his law partner . Mr. Stackhouse issued O formal statement saying that " no cause for the shooting has been determined . " The young couple were described by Mr. Stackhouse as " friends for many years . " According to Prosecutor Hillman , it had been taken for granted that the friendship would culminate in marriage , although no formal announcement of the engagement had ever been made . " Two years ago , for some unknown reason , however , Miss Wilson returned to Mr. Roberts a ring which he had given her , " said Mr. Hillman . " Since then they have been good friends and have been seen together frequently at social functions . " Acquaintances insisted that Roberts had quarreled with Miss Wilson over her friendship for another Moorestown young man and had been depressed and worried over his courtship . Her friends , however , generally expected that Miss Wilson would eventually marry Roberts . Couple Go on an Outing . Saturday afternoon the couple , with John Collins , a recent Princeton graduate , and a young woman whose name has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Riverton , N. J. , drove to Ocean City for an . outing . Collins refused today to say whether there had been a lovers ' quarrel during the trip , referring all questions to Mr. Stackhouse . Collins and his companion left Miss Wilson and Roberts at the Wilson home at 11:30 P. M. About an hour later Mr. and Mrs. Wilson returned from a neighbor 's . As they approached the house they noticed a light in their daughter 's bedroom and in the ball Mr. Wilson found a man 's hat . According to the story repeated by the Moorestown police . Mr. Wilson thought there ' might be a burglar in the room . Trying  --  the door , he found it locked , according to the police , and made his way along the porch roof to a window , through which he saw the two lying wounded on the bed . Mr. Stackhouse denied ? that the bedroom door had been locked . Mr. Wilson entered , according to Mr. Stackhouse , and found his daughter on the bed and young Roberts on the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both were fully clothed . Miss Wilson had been shot twice in the left side of the head and Roberts three times in the right side of the head . Girl Dies Within Hour . Drs . F. Emlen Stokes , Howard Curtis , Paul McCray and Nathan Thorne were summoned by Mr. Wilson , and they in turn ? notified Chief of Police John H. Bradshaw . Miss Wilson died within an hour , but the physicians decided to rush Roberts to the Cooper Hospital at Camden for an emergency operation . When he arrived there , however , it was decided that the operation would be useless , and he died at 7:15 A. M. with his parents at his bedside . Chief County Detective Ellis Parker immediately began an investigation , but declined to give out any information . It was not until Mr. Hillman was reached at the seashore by telephone that any light was cast on the affair . " Our very first theory of murder and suicide has been sustained by subsequent investigations , " he said this afternoon . " The investigation will continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other official investigator offered any suggestion as to the motive . Coroner Melvin Cain of Camden ' , County issued a death certificate for young Roberts , giving the cause of death as " gun-shot wounds , probably self-inflicted . " He explained he had no jurisdiction over the investigation of the shooting , which had taken place in Burlington County . The Burlington County Coroner , Benjamin Farmer , announced he would hold an inquest tomorrow . The Wilson and Roberts families are both members of the Society of Friends and have been close friends for many years . The elder Mr. Roberts is one of the largest land owners in this part of the State . and his home , " Hooton Hall , " in South Church Street here , is one of the show places of the town . In addition to his law practice , Mr. Wilson owns a truck factory at Ardmore , Pa. , and constructed the twelve-story Wilson Building in Camden , which he recently sold to the West Jersey Parkside Trust Company for a price reported in excess of $1,000,000 . Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been married several years ago .. While at Wilson College , where she was graduated in 1028 , she was voted the best dressed girl in her class . She was a member of her class hockey team and assistant business manager of the senior class year book , The Conococheague . She was a tennis enthusiast , and was a member of the women 's golf team of the Riverton Country Club . Since his graduation from Swarthmore young Roberts had assisted his father in managing his extensive fruit farms .                     