@@696624

txt Commercial Bank of Australia discloses satisfactory results for the year and steady progress in operations . The bank has made several increases in capital in recent years and during the past year offered a further 500.000 ordinary shares to both preference and ordinary shareholders at a premium of 52.50 a share , in the proportion of one share for every seven held . The issue was oversubscribed , and shareholders applying for shares in excess of the proportion to which the ' , were entitled had shares allotted to them , as in previous years . As result of this issue , paid capital of the bank has been increased to $19. , 336,750 . Reserve fund was increased during the year out of profits and premium on the new issue to $9,818,750 , more than half the paid capita , . Net profit increased by $1S3.020. compared with the previous year . despite the dull trading conditions which prevailed . Government deposits increased by 5289,600. current accounts increased by 5672.315. and fixed deposits bearing interest increased by $S , 403.890 . Advances Increased by 819.648.370 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Zealand , and was employed in financing trade and commerce as well as primary production in Australia and New Zealand Funds in London for temporary investment were larger than usual , and surplus since has been transferred into more remunerative channels in Australia . At the annual meeting . Mr. 3 . L. Webb , the ehairna'an , referred to the burden of taxation in Australia , which had proved a discouragement to business enterprise , and said it should be reduced and distributed more widely . Discussing the general economic position in Australia , Mr. Webb said : " Australia is experiencing a time of depression , to which , apart from climatic conditions , contributions have been made by the frequency of industrial disputes : injudicious expenditure of government loan funds in connection with public works which are not returning reasonable interest on the outlay : heavy losses by governments on unnecessary business experiments : artificial stimulus given to unprofitable industries in the form of bounties and other expedients. which have been a disturbing influence to the burden of taxation . " Mr. Webb emphasized the immediate needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readjustsnent of the internal price level . and a consequent reduction in the cost of production are matters of pressing importance . This is particularly necessary . as the tendency of world prices appears to be downward . Operation of economic laws has at last been making itself felt , as was to ba expected , and , if the position is now faced and dealt with judiciously . I the way may be prepared for a gradual return sounder and more prosperous conditions throughout the Commonwealth . "                     