@@692039

txt Harvey S. Firestone , President of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company , said yesterday that the Firestone Plantations Company , of which he is President , would invest 3100,000,000 in developing its rubber concession in Liberia . and would eventually have 1,000,000 acres of rubber trees growing on what is now bush and jungle . Outlining his plans in an interview at the Hotel Plaza yesterday , Mr. Firestone said he had formed twenty planting organizations , and expected eventually to have an output of 250,000 tons of rubber a year , which Is more than 50 per cent . of the world 's present output . At present , America controls 3 per cent . of the world 's rubber production , the remaining 97 per cent . being controlled by British and Dutch capital . " This is the first big movement that America has made to obtain her own rubber , " said Mr. Firestone . The rubber manufacturer cescribed how he had sent exploring parties of experts out three years ago to look the world over for vast acreages suitable . for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determination to grow his own rubber , because of the British restrictions which kept down the output and kept up the price . Politics , difficult laws , and revolutions kept him out of the Philippines , Mexico and Central America , but his agents reported ideal conditions in Liberia . ? To Employ 500,000 Natives . A contract with the Liberian Government enables the American company , Mr. Firestone said , to survey the whole of Liberia and choose here and there the land best suited for rubber productions until 3.000,000 acres have been taken over . His plans call for the employment of more than 300,000 natives , besides a great organization of whites . One 2,000-acre plantation  --  a going concern in British hands  --  was purchased outright by the company , and its production of thousands of pounds of rubber per month is coming to this country , though the plantation is being used mainly as a great nursery of rubber trees for the new ones . His million-acre project will be the greatest rubber plantation in the world , Mr. Firestone said , and America 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remodeling of a whole country  --  the building of harbors , roads , towns , hospitals and other Public works . The new corporation has already let a contract to the J. G. White Engineering Company of New York to build a harbor at Monrovia , the capital and principal city of Liberia . Liberia now has no shipping facilities , the ships riding off the coast and landing and taking shipment with the help of surfboats when the weather favors . A great breakwater will be constructed so that ships may be in shelter and unload from lighters . It will take five or six years for the Plantations now being set out to mature , and until then at least two shipping lines Which now touch Liberia will be sufficient to carry freight for the Firestone Plantations Company . Later , he intimated , the company might enter the shipping business . The projected $100,000,000 commercial empire which will be planted in Africa would have gone to the Philippines , according to Mr. Firestone , except for the fact that native politicians two years ago opposed the Invasion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy American investments there would Postpone the day of Philippine independence . Mr. Firestone said he understood that a- change of feeling had taken place in the ikands , and that rubber growers would be welcomed there now . Explorer Praises Climate . M. A. Cheeke , a rubber planter , who carried on part of the exploration work that preceded the negotiations with the Liberian Government , said yesterday that , in spite of its position on the west coast of Africa , within a few degrees of the equator , the climate of Liberia was pleasant and healthy . " If Liberia was in easy distance of this city . New Yorkers would never go to Florida . " he said " There is a variation of temperature from 55 to occasional extremes of 105 . It Is very much like Florida , with better fishing . There la practically no hunting , however , the dense population having killed out most animal life . This Is one reason for its healthiness , as there are few mammals to carry disease parasites . There is some malaria , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a man of powerful build and a fine worker . This abundant labor supply is one of the chief advantages of the place . " One reason for the fine physique of the natives , it was said , is that they carry burdens of all sizes on their heads . so that they develop tremendous shoulders and necks . Carrying forty or fifty pounds all day long on his head is said to be nothing to a native Liberian . " If you give a native a silver coin as a tip , " said one of the recently returned members of the Firestone staff , he will put a. plate on his head and carry the coin about on the plate . If you give him a letter to deliver , he will put the letter on his head and a stone on the letter to hold it in place . " Cheap Labor Supply . Cheap production was assured . Mr. Firestone said , because the native Liberian will work for less than the Malays , who receive a shilling a day for labor on the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for American negroes , both because the rate of pay would not attract them and because the Liberians did not welcome black immigrants from America , although the Government and the civilized part of the country was originally founded by American negroes  --  escaped slaves and freedmen who were sent to Liberia by abolition sbciotlea . The occasion for Mr. Firestone making his plans public yesterday was his visit to this city to see his son , Harvey S. Firestone Jr. , and Mrs. Firestone Jr . off to Europe . The son will open an office of the Plantations Company in London . London is the business centre of English rubber-producing activities , and Mr. Firestone Jr . intends to keep in close touch with rubber-growing affairs there and to take advantage of the experience of rubber-growing experts . Mr. Firestone said : " I have been very active recently in Akron getting together the organization and equipment for Liberia . The country Is wholly undeveloped either agriculturally or industrially and my effort is naturally a pioneer one . It is my intention to plant up as much land as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Government and other figures show there Is a shortage of rubber now . " While organizing for the Liberian enterprise I ' have also taken a lease on 35,000 acres of land in Mexico , upon which there is located 850 acres of Hevea trees  --  the best rubber-producing tree known today  --  and several thousand acres of Castilloa rubber trees . " I have been investigating in Mexico for two years and plan to carry foivard an experiment upon this plantation . I sent two experienced planters to Mexico two years ago to look over this property , but they were forced to abandon any attempt at further investigation at that time because of a revolution . I now have two men in Mexico City organizing a force for this operation , and , If Ponieal and labor conditions will permit , expect to prove whether Mexico is a suitable place for rubber production . " Why Liberia Was Chosen . Asked why Liberia had been chosen for the development , Mr. Firestone said : " When I first started on this my preference was for the Philippine Islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I sent three experienced rubber growers from the Malay Peninsula there to investigate . The Philippine Islands have the soil and the climatic conditions and , I believe , have sufficient labor for such a plantation . But their land laws and their governmental conditions made it impossible to go there and invest capital . In fact I do n't think that the Philippine Islands at that time  --  two years ago  --  wanted us to come . " When these investigators returned from the Philippines I sent two of them into Central Mexico . ' " The 35,000-acre rubber plantation was started . Then a revolution came and they had to go out through Guatemala . They went down through Central America . They found plenty of opportunity for growing rubber in Central America. , but the labor conditions and land laws were not favorable . " Then I looked toward Liberia , where this country has a moral protectorate , if not a direct protectorate . The experts found conditions there in all respects favorable . The Liberian Government was well disposed toward the project and gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " American capital has always shied at the tropics and preferred home investments . The British rubber growers have always laughed at the idea of Americans entering that market , because of our attitude toward tropical investments . But I want it understood that this is wholly serious , and the first real American bid at growning our own rubber . We have to start at the bottom , plant the country and build everything we need , but conditions are highly favorable , and our labor cost will be 50 per cent . less than that in the Malay Peninsula . " Doubts Florida Experiment . Asked about the 300-acre experimental rubber plantation in Florida , Mr. Firestone said : " I am not interested in that . That is an experiment of Mr. Edison 's and Mr. Ford 's . I ca n't see how It can be grown successfully there . In Liberia , we pay practically nothing for a million acres . The cost of the ground in Florida would be heavy , not considering taxes , labor and land laws . " Mr. Firestone said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees by machinery , " in place of cheap labor . At present , one native tends about three acres of trees , keeping the sap , or latex , of the crude rubber running the year round , and no practical substitute for the native has yet been proposed . Asked if Henry Ford was interested in the $100,000,000 investment , Mr. Firestone said : " I do n't want to say anything about that . This is the Firestone Plantations Company . I am not prepared as yet to try anything about the financing QM "                     