@@696230

txt A moderate volume of transaction . in the two-hour session disclosed little as to the OUtlook for he market other than to indicate the absence of selling pressure , the bulk of the liquidation taking place appearing more in the nature of discouraged selling than anything else . An irregular opening was followed a period of selling by professionals as well as small traders . but the selling did not follow prices down and the market became somewhat firmer . Practically all the uncertainty at the opening was engendered by the renewed discussion of the credit situation on the disclosure that the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had made application to raise its rediscount rate . Any bearish feeling moused by this development was tempered by the fact that the Federal Reserve Board had taken no action on the Chicago request . leaving it in the same position as the New York institution whose similar requests weeks ago have not been approved . Business news continued favorable Iron and steel production schedules continue talgn , although some easing in demand from the automobile trade was noted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proving an important factor in the current situation . As the lowering of market quotations in the early part of the session failed to bring out stock , tendency in the last half hour of trading was to resume the upward movement . but with final prices somewhat below the highs of the day . There was no evidence of important selling pressure Montgomery Ward had a sharp initial gain . Official predictions of gross business of 5300,000. - 000 or more for 1929 , which would mean a 2Uf , c increase over last year . has drawn renewed attention to the shares which for several months have shown none of last . year 's buoyancy . Undoubtedly many old shareholders who subscribed to the new stock last year disposed of part of their holdings in view of the fact that in number of shares they had been tripled by the financing operation . making the aggregate of holdings look rather larget than many individuals were inclined to keep In opinion of many who have closely folloy.eci the situation , this selling has been completed and the shares taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period . even on a Saturday morning . So quiet was the trading that odd lots were printed on the tape . ? While there is undoubtedly a large aggregate of professional selling from day to day ? many close observers feel that the major part of it is professional  --  liquidation by small traders and investors continues to appear whenever any untoward development relating to credit conditions assumes prominence . In view of the relatively small recessions on this selling it seems reasonable to conclude that the purchasers are more powerful financially than the sellers : in the familiar words of the Street , the stocks go into stronger hands . In various banking quarters there is no diminution of the attitude that many sound securities will witness much higher levels but that if the market last year was a selective one the next major advance will be an exceedingly selective one . ? ? ? A flurry of 1. quida.t.ori carried prices down somewhat , but the niaiket steadied during the first hour on the icaction the low levels of a couple of days ago were not repeated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     