@@695987

txt Aviation Corp. , recently formed $35,000,000 aviation holding and development corporation . is already credited with control of several important companies , prominent in both manufacturing and training fields . In establishing its position in the manufacturing line , the corporation is believed to have secured a substantial interest in Fokker Aircraft Corp . of America and control of the Fairchild Aviation Corp. , while in the transportation field it probably approaches controlling interest in the Aviation Corp . of the Americas and Un - versa ' Aviation Corp . It is understood that . n offer to the minority stockholders of Universal Aviation Corp . has been made and accepted cia a share-for-share exchange basis . Universal owns 50.000 shares of Fokker. which is nearly 10 , , of the entire outstanding common stock of this company . Link With Western Air Ei. - presa Since Universal Aviation Corp . is closely allied with ' Western Air E : : press interests , it is possible the latter company may enter the Aviation Corp . group . Universal and Western not only have close working agreements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another reason leading to the belief Western Air Express may enter Aviation Corp . group is the fact the Hanshue-Talbot group which dominates the Fokker company controls ' Western Air . Western Air recently announced it would shortly establish an air transport service between Los Angeles and Kansas City . At the latter city it would connect with the lines of the Universal Aviation Corp .. which run from that city to Cleveland and which will soon be ex tended to New York City . The merging of the two lines would thus give Aviation Corp the second transcontinental air service , the first being Transcontinental Air Transport 's . Interest in Aviation Corp . of America Although control of Aviation Corp . of America by Aviation Corp . is denied in some quarters . it seems quite possible that the combination of the Fairchild-Lehman interests - with market buying attributed to Aviation Corp has given the latter at least the dominant interest in Aviation Corp . 01 America Besides its interests in these companies , Aviation Corp is actively negotiating for several other aircraft concerns . It is understood to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Armstrong-Siddeley . Ltd . of England . If such rights are secured it is possible a substantial portion of the plane production of Aviation Corp . ' s companies may be equipped with these motors It is understood Aviation Corp . has made an of . ' er for Consolidated Aircraft Corp .. but it is doubtful if that company will enter the group Aviation Corp . has also been negotiating for Stearman Aircraft Co. and the Kreider-Reisner Aircraft Co .. Inc .. but whether these negotiations will be successful is also ' problematical .                     