@@685681

txt Many State commissions are acting with respect to the regulation of railway rates as if the conditions were the same now as when the Interstate Commerce Commission decided that it had no power to correct the relations between interstate and intrastate rates . The fact is that it now has both the power and the ' duty to use it . The rates in dispute are established under the act of Congress which prescribes the course to be taken whenever there is a conflict between State and Federal rates . Upon finding that the State rates are Prejudicial to national or foreign commerce the Interstate Commission " shall prescribe the rate , " fare or charge , or the maximum or " minimum , or maximum and mini " mum , thereafter to be charged , and " the classification , regulation or prac " tice . thereafter to be observed , in " such manner as , in its judgment , " will remove such advantage , prefer " ence , prejudice or discrimination . " Such rates , fares , charges , classifi " cations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect by " the carriers parties to such proceed " ing affected thereby , the law of any " State , or the decision or order of " any State authority , to the contrary " notwithstanding . " That section explains ' why the railways are to appeal to the Interstate Commission instead of to the ' courts . Hitherto the railways have been embarrassed ? when confronted by conflicting Federal and State laws or orders . Hereafter the conflict will be between the two classes of regulators , with no doubt of the result . Congress has acted in the manner which the highest court has said is conclusive , and the Commerce Commission has made a decision after inquiry . It is to be remarked that the State commissions will be overruled , not in the interest of the railways , but in that of the nation , The Union of States would be disorganized if each of them were allowed to poach on the trade of its neighbor States , and to bid ' for ' exports or , imports by discrimination which would compel the railways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humiliating for the New York State Commission to be superseded , but it will be right . Consider the ' folly of the procedure which assumes to correct the commission 's rates . For June , the latest month reported , the principal railroads ' operating revenue increased $66,592,565 , but the operating deficit increased $66,766,072 . And the New York Commission proposes to make an independent valuation to discover whether the new rates are excessive . What will the New York valuation cost ? When will it ? be ready ? What rates are to be paid meanwhile ? The United States valuation has cost forty millions , and has been proceeding seven years . It is not yet complete enough to be used by the Interstate Commission , so the commission took an approximation of the companies ' book valuation . Why should not the States follow that example if there are any intrastate rates . which need a State valuation ?                     