@@693823

txt Bank of France Acts to Check Rise as It Acted ' During . Fall of Currency .. BUYS MUCH FOREIGN PAPER Industrialists Warn of a CrIsts Without Stabilization , but . Poincare Is . Silent . By EDWIN L. JAMES. - Copyright , 1927. by The New York Times Com0s0Y . Special Cable to THE New Toss TIMES . PARIS , May ** a page from fiction reads the effort of the French Government and the Bank of France to keep the franc from going higher . A few short months ago , Paris was straining to the utmost to keep the franc from falling . Now the strain is directed toward keeping it . from mounting . Then the Bank of France was printing banknotes because the franc was falling . Now it , is printing them because it has risen . In the past four . or five months the Bank of France has bought 10,000,000 , - 000 francs ' worth of ? foreign gold and paper in exchange operations . In the first few months securities for these operations were acquired through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it looked as if the franc were going to smash . Francs paid for these returning securities , which were placed on deposit and thus through the French banking machine became available for the use of the Bank of France . With the slowing up of this movement , the need for intervention in the exchange market to prevent too great a rise in the franc has increased . Last week , the Bank of France bought foreign paper to the value of a billion and a quarter francs , and this week devoted a sum of 100.000,000 francs greater to this purpose . A good part of this sum of francs was realized by putting new bills into circulation . This week , although the Government did not increase its borrowings and business did not increase its demand the bank put out more than a billion in new notes . Now , why is it France does not want the franc to increase further in value now ? Business Leaders Fear a Crisis . Because not only does every rise in the franc add to the gold value of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country have warned the Government that a further rise will surely precipitate a business crisis unless it be long delayed . Even the recent reports that the Government would put the franc at twenty to a dollar and 100 to the pound sterling , instead of the present price of 25.50 to the dollar and 124 to the pound , caused marked slackening in business of all kinds . Business in France wants the franc stabilized ; but apparently those In power , perhaps with an eye to next year 's election , look forward to doing still better . than they have done with the national money . Despite the many demands ' on him to announce a policy of stabilization , M. Poincard guards his own counsel and no one appears to know what he plans to do . Certainly , if the present program of printing money to keep the franc down is carried far enough , it will accomplish that purpose . The financial editor of the Paris Midi says that on one day this week exchange agents for the Bank of France sold half a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the danger in allowing foreign interests to get hold of too many francs , which might be dumped on the market if untoward circumstances should arise . Liberte says tonight that . whereas a. month ago business was going good , reports of further revalorization have slowed things up all around . Liberte speaks of holding the franc at 124 to the pound at all costs until salaries can ho adjusted down from the level they reached last year when the pound was at 240 . Naturally , Liberte blames foreigners . " In the movement of the rise of the franc , as was the case with the movement of its fall , it is foreigners who direct the game , " the paper says . " They are betting on Poincard , as yesterday they bet against Herriot. "                     