@@687037

txt Chief 17itzmorrie says that if Chicago isfnot to be a 1 o'clock . town he and his police can not handle the crime elements . The crime that a man commits eating a sandwich or a steak after 1 o'clock In the morning is vaigue , although it probably is easy to prevent him from committing it by closing the eating place . In the meantime the Nineteenth ward is a twentyfour hour part of a 1 o'clock town . The sawed off shotgun expert never sleeps there . The police seem . ' to do nothing else . What Mr. Fitzmorris probably means by a 1 o'clock town is that the police call It a. day at that Dour . The thug 's work is never done . No one has suggested yet that all the fairly peaceable people ha herded into stockades at sundown . That would help the police some . Editorial of the Day MORE THAN LABOR . Decatur Review . ) In a speech in Chicago , last week Gov . Allen of Kansas made an observation that should not be allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If labor were in truth the basis of all wealth , China would be the richest nation on earth . " Yes , It is the common understanding that the Chinaman works harder and longer hours than anybody else . Along with this he is about the poorest civilized heathen on earth , and It is bard to see that his country is any better off than himself , lie has mighty little to show for all the work he has done , perhaps only a trifle more than lazy people In other countries who have conscientious scruples against ever doing a fair day 's work . In justice the Chlnaman should be about the richest In the world , would be if labor were the sure foundation of a superstructure of wealth . In China they have a great lot of foundation , but they have never succeeded In building anything on IL If you will permit him , the Chinaman can come to this country and lay bp a store of wealth , and this without the enjoyment of any special advantages , We know he can do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he be kept out . In this country he Ands something else that helps his industry , and this something else Is a thing that usually does not go under the name of labor . A STITCH IN TIME , ? ? Motorists on the north shore of ng island Tot with many kinds of signs which givarning of steep hills or sharp turns . This is especialintrue of the ishore road , which traces the coast line of the sound . Near Oyster Bay there is a sign with this potent warning : " Slow down , dangerous hill . ' Nearest hospital nine miles away . " ? Exchangs.                     