@@690805

txt With the season for campaign oratory and personal persuasion virtually ended , political managers of all calibres turned their attention today - to the problem of bringing out the full voting strength of their parties at the polls Tuesday . As an unusual climax to the threecornered contest for the Presidency , President Coolidge and John W. Davis will spealc , to the entire country tomorrow night by radio , but neither appears to regard the remarks he will make as an integral part of his campaign speechmaking . Party managers believe that appreciable blocks of votes are seldom changed in the last twenty-four hours , and their chief concern now is to deliver in the voting booth the votes already won over to their candidates . Mr. Coolidge regards the speech he delivered here ten days ago before the Chamber of Commerce as summarizing fully : his views on the issues of the Campaign , and a corresponding summary was made by Mr. Davis last night in his address in Carnegie Hall . Senator La Follette likewise made a final presentation of his case last night at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive a welcome from his neighbors and await the result of Tuesday 's balloting .  - -  Waders Predict ' Victory . Busy as they were today with plans to get the voters to the polls , political managers ranging from the pilots of national campaigns down to ward and township Chairman found time to renew their claims of victory . The Republicans declared they were counting on a clean sweep for Coolidge , approaching the proportions of a landslide , right across the country from New England to California , holding the La Follette strength in the Northwest to a negligible quantity and cutting into territory usually classed as a part of the Democratic solid South . Democratic leaders countered with a claim that Davis not only would holdthe South and the border States , but would profit by Republican local quarrels and capture enough electoral votes in the West and pivotal States of the East to put him in the White House . The La Follette managers were not so specific , but they predicted that an astonishingly large popular vote would turn out for their candidate in every State in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that is the West and Northwest he would sweet ' , everything before him . There was the same conflict of predictions as to the political complexion of the next Congress . Both the Republican and Democratic Congressional Committees predicted ' dear majorities in the new House arid gains also In the Senate , where thirty-four of the ninetysix seats are to be filled in Tuesday 's voting . In thirty-four States Governors are to be chosen , and in many - States important questions of legislative policy are to be submitted for a popular verdict . An unusual number of tight Sub ernatorlal races have oeveloped , particularly in sections whore the Ku Klux Klan has become a local issue . Thel  --  e has been a further comsdcation of State politics , particularly in the West , by joint endorsement of certain candidates , by the La Follette group and one or the other of the old parties . In some sections interest apparently has risen to fever heat , but the party managers appear pretty much at sea as to the actual degree of interest that voters as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All of the candidates have been greeted by large and noisy crowds , yet from some sections there have come persistent reports of apathy . Various get-out-thevote campaigns have been carried on by non-partisan agencies , but there has been no way of gauging how successful the effort has been . In some districts registration figures have gone soaring ; in others the stay-at-home percentage has been astonishingly large . It is because of this element of uncertainty , which appears to weigh on the minds of all party managers alike . that unusual efforts are to be made by each group on Tuesday to round up at the voting places all possible strength . Those who are really confident by virtue of reports from their local leaders want to avoid a last minute surprise Party engineered by the " silent vote . " In the'same way each group is hoping that the " silent vote " will turn the trick for it . The Democrats have a far-flung getout-the-vote machinery in the network of Davis victory clubs which have been organized by the thousand over the country for that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by Republican managers , reaching down to wards and townships . The La Follette supporters , who have inherited less of a compact party machine than either of their older adver-saries , are placing their reliance in the zeal of local leaders who have been imbued with the Idea of founding an enduring group in American politics . So far as the State contests are concerned , there have been so many conflicting current of campaign opinion , so many unusual combinations and so many pleas for the election of split tickets that party managers at national headquarters privately admit they scarcely know what toprediet , In some States La Follette supporters have openly endorsed Democrats , and in others they have cast their lot with Republicans . The Klan issue has Washed out party lines to a great extent in still other sections of the country , while other local issues and threecornered Gubernatorial contests have enveloped the whole prospect in a fog of uncertainty . It has been supposed generally that if any Presidential candidate awept the country or any section of it , his party 's State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the trend of election returns for the several campaign years has been away , from the " straight ticket , " and many forces have been at work to Malice voters to scatter their support among the representatives et more than one party . Thus the " split vote , " like the ' Silent vote , " has become this year somewhat - of , a cross-Word puzzle . In ' the main ? the national campaign liaslovershadoWed , Wthe : : public eye-icpti ontepts. every:VIM . But thereare eral State campaigns whose outcome the country will watch with more than ordinary interest . One of these is in New York . where Governor Smith and Theodore Roosevelt have opposed each other as candidates for Governor in a campaign of unusual vigor . Another is in Kansas , where William Allen White , running on an anti-Klan platform , nas taken the field as a Gubernatorial candidate against both the Republican and Democratic regulars . In Texas , too . where a woman is the Democratic candidate , and in Indiana and several other States the Klan issue is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Governor . In Oklahoma , the Klan question focuses in the Senatorship tight , with J. C. Walton . an impeached Governor , running on the Democratic ticket and making a direct anti-Klan appeal to voters . An alignment of another kind has taken place in the Senatorial contest in Iowa . where Senator Brookhart has lost the support of some of the regular Republican Party leaders because of his attitude toward Senator La ; Follette . A particularly hard fight has been made to defeat for re-election two Western Senators who are well known to the public the country over , Senator Borah of Idaho , a Republican , and Senator Walsh of Montana . Democratic prosecutor of the oil committee .                     