@@696660

txt Hidden chapters in the lives of kinsmen of Earl Peacox were laid before the court trying him for the murder of his wife , Dorothy , today as his lawyers opened their fight to save him from the electric chair by laying the groundwork of an insanity defense . Soon after District Attorney Coyne informed Supreme Court Justice Tompkins that he had completed his carat , Sydney Syme , chief of defense counsel , called the name of John Peacox and a lean faced , sharp featured man with a shock of white hair trimmed in Bryanesque fashion took the stand . ' He explained that he was an uncle of the defendant and had appeared on ' the stage as John Foal:Tett . Died In Asylum . He testified that his first cousin , George Roof , had died In an upstate insane asylum after living for several ; years in a padded cell under the de-1 lusion that he was a famous comic sheet character of a decade or two ago . Marie Pe-acox , the defendant 's aunt , spent most of her life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Peso= said he was one of a family of seven -- fonr girls and three boys . When he was 8 , he said , his father ran off with a woman , leaving his wife and family to shift for themselves . Before he left the stand District Attorney Coyne forced Peacox to admit that , although two of his sisters are married , none of their children shows any sign of insanity . The quondam actor was the seventh witness called by the defense . The I first was Mr. Coyne , who played the dual role of witness and prosecutor . finally admitting that he had received a written request last summer from the defense lawyer for a copy of the medical examiner 's report of his find-lags in the autopsy on the dead girl 's body . John Denehy , a civil engineer , hientitled a diagram he had made of the apartment In Mount Vernon where Peacox killed his wife . Edward and Stanley Hart , father and son , respectively , of Yonkers , took the stand as character witnesses . Peacox on Stand Today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rested its case and it became apparent that Peacox would have to wait until tomorrow ta tell his own story from the witness stand . The jury already had heard the version of the killing contained in the four statements dictated and signed by him . Through the whole grim recital , full of such revelatory quotations as " I told her Cieqar 's wife should be above reproach , " " I can hold any job that has anything to do with radio , " " I was a good shot and proud of my knowledge of firearms , " and " I am Lille to deliver a good , hard punch . " Peacox slumped in his chair . His head cupped in hands , with an occasional tear dripping down his pallid cheeks , there was little to suggest the arrogant youth who last spring would not confess his crime at first .                     