@@689656

txt Attorney General Edward J. Brundage 's public statement , promised at the time his candidacy for reelection was announced last week , was made public yesterday in Springfield . In substance ho said he has been persuaded to seek another term In order that his battle against Gov . Len Small over the interest in public funds in the hands of Small as state treasurer may be brought to a conclusion . He said suits tiled to recover that interest and interest paid to other treasurers are still to be completed .. but stressed the fact that the voters of the state are to be the jury on the main issue , as his opponent , Oscar tairlstrom. a member of the Small tax commission , is-running on a platform consisting of a promise to dismiss those suits . Statement by Brundage . His statement follows : " I have announced my candidacy for renomination . The decision to become a candidate was because of . uncompleted litigation and its threatened dismissaL " The pending litigation of the utmost importmice to the people of this state is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other former state treasurers . The institution of these suits was based upon evidence ample , sufficient , and unanswerable . Every chance for dilatory tactics that legal ingenuity could devise has delayed the ! tearing of these cases upon their merits . I have at last gotten them at issue and the taking of evidence will begin at once before a master in chartcery . Appeals to Voters as Jury . " Gov . Small is traveling about the state , scantling me and proclaiming his innocence . He had a chance , at 1Vaukegan , to answer the charges under oath , but refrained from taking the witness stand . He points to the stequittal by the jury at Waukegan four members of which were subsequently rewarded with positions upon the state pay roll as a finality . I shall appeal to another jury composed of the electorate of this state , and ask them to pass judgment whether " the king can do no wrong . " In other words , whether the governor of this state shall be answerable the same as any other person who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary because one of the governor 's appointees has announced his candidacy for the office ' of attorney general upon the platform of dismissing the civil suits against Gov . Small and other state treasurers . Would Foil Oismissals . " This candidacy meets with the approval of- the governor . Why should it                     