@@688384

txt Senator RANSDELL of Louisiana does the duty of a Senator in defending his State and in minimizing the activities in it of the Ku Klux Elan . It is scarcely fair , however , to compare the deliberate disorders and crimes of an organized association with the sudden , passionate riots and outrages committed by miners in West Virginia and Illinois . The sporadic flaring-up of violence , dreadful as it is , is not so dangerous as a brooding , continual conspiracy against the reign of law , against the rights of individual citizens and large classes of citizens , against the equality of all citizens under the law , whatever their origin or their religion . The Governor of Louisiana , the Governors of some other States , ascribe a good deal more importance than Mr. RANSDELL does to tile evil work of the Klan . That curious association may be regarded in two aspects . The first aspect , the regulation and punishment of private conduct or opinion , is not universal . The flogging or even the murder of persons objectionable to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other manifestations of rural wrath , sporadically familiar enough in various parts of the country . In this respect the Klan merely represents the subconscious malice and cruelty that exist probably in ? all of us. in acting as a Velimgericht it appeals to the selfimportance of its members by its pompous titles , its absurd uniform , its masks , its secrecy . It Satisfies vanity , a certain love in democracy of a cheap distinction whereby one man shall be " better " than another , and tile deep-rooted human fondness for drama . Even in model Kansas the violent phase of the Klan has shown itself . This tendency is not the essential or most offensive characteristic of the Klan . Disorder can be suppressed by the local authorities , if they are not in sympathy with it . The real strength and peril of the thing is its racial and religious bigotry . That is what the klansman of Oregon has in common with the klansman of Georgia and Alabama and Texas . That , too , has been bringing new recruits to the army of bigots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Klan is a revival of the Nativist movement which , in the ' 40s , carried the elections in Boston , New York and Philaderphia , sent half a dozen Representatives to Washington , then vanished almost as quickly as it had come . The revival of the movement after the Irish famine and the revolutions in Europe was first as a secret society , the Sons of ' 76 , and so on , founded to resist immigration and the extension of the Catholic Church in the United States . Its political emanation was the KnowNothing Party , which carried a few States in the ' 50s , but was dead by 1860 . While the present intolemits have a wider scope than their predecessors , their appearance now seems to have substantially the same causes , . The death of the Whig Party left a certain amount of political opinion fluid , uncertain , gropIng.for an issue . The Know-Nothings rose , flourished a little and fell in the Interim between the dissolution of the Whigs and the consolidation of the Republican Party . In the Southern States where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all practical intents and purposes , .. butoneparty . .. Oppoaltion to  --  it takes here and there the form or nucleus of the Ku Klux movement , utilized by politicians who perhaps do n't care a rap for its program . In the Northern States there is a great amount of'miscellaneous ' " unrest . " This displays itself , in part , in the political activities and triumphs of the Ku Klux Klan , made use of by politicians , but its exact voting strength ca n't be judged and is probably much magnified . The Ku Klux hullabaloo is deplorable , but presumably it is only a passing idiocy . Certain it is that , if racial and religious intolerance raises its head high enough in national politics , the good sense and the sense of justice of the majority of the American people will promptly knock that superfluous member off .                     