@@693087

txt In influential financial quarters a plan is being discussed to ask Congress to repeal the so-called recapture provisions of the Transportation Act . These clauses of Section 15-a , the rate-making section , ' n brief provide that any individual carrier which makes net railway operating income exceeding 6 ' ; ' , on its property investment as determined by the commission shall pay one-half of the excess into a general contingent fund administered by the commission and usable for loans to carriers needing capital . Chief among tile reasons which the proponents of the plan see for doing away with recapture is the part that railroad service , not to mention the expenditures which make that service possible , arc playing in the present prosperity of the United States . They hold that restoration of railroad earning power . to the extent that It has been restored since federal control , is the basis of the very considerable increase in annual capital expenditures for more and better transportation facilities . If recapture i4 to be made actual , instead of theoretical as it is now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for improvements but will be influenced by ordinary business prudence to limit their borrowing for construe ' ion and extension . Another of the grounds upon which repeal will probably be urged is that Supreme Court decisions have held , in public utility cases , that a return of as much as has not been unreasonable under recently prevailing erg , - mimic conditions . The point is made that the railroads deserve equally favorable treatment , whereas the recapture clause is framed to take away half of any balar.ce over a rigidly fixed If , for instance , a carrier earns 7% upon its investment , it has not earnedfan unreasonably great return , according to the standards adopted by the courts for the gas and electric companies . Yet the Transportation Act was drawn with the intention of reducing that carrier 's return to 634% . In this connection it is pointed out that railroad stocks are widely distributed among small investors , far more so than was the case 20 or even 10 years ago . A great many of these holders have fallen far short of receiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years and have fared worse than investors in comparable industrial and utility stocks . Contrary to widespread impression , recapture does not concern strong roads alone , if valuations being made on a pre-war basis are to be sustained by the courts . The reason given for recapture in the act itself is held by many acute students of railroad affairs to have lost whatever force it may have had , while the incidental purpose of providing funds for the assistance of railroads otherwise unable to finance themselves can not now be served that way . The act says , in - substance , that recapture is decreed because it is impossible to establish general rate levels " which will adequately sustain all the carriers which are engaged in such traffic and which are indispensable to the communities to welch they render the service of transportation , without enabling some of such carriers to receive a net railway operating inc , me substantially and unreasonably in excess of a fair recurn upon the value of their railway property . " etc . It was supposed when the act was passed that .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under which the weaker carriers would receive a fair return on their property values , without fear of unduly enriching the stronger roads . Indeed , recapture was hailed as a practical solution of the " strong and weak roads problem . " But , the argument is. the Commission has found itself compelled by economic law , more or iess supplemented by political pressure , to make rates chiefly according to what the traffic will bear . As an aid in latemaking , recapture has thus pretty well broken down . while the long delay in reaching finally authoritative property valuations , on which alone proceedings to take alleged excess earnings away from carriers can be based . has prevented the creation of any contingent fund . Even if and when the contingent fund- , built up of recaptured excess earnings , becomes an actuality , it is asserted that it could not be used without extensive amendment of the law . Loans from the fund can be made only when the applicant borrower has given the Commission " reasonable assurance " of its ability to repay principal and 6% @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to secure the loan . " The point is made that when a carrier can meet such conditions it can borrow in the open market and quite possibly at a lower rate than An alternative used of the fund is for the purchase of equipment to be leased to carriers , the rental to cover 6% interest on cost and depreciation charges . Existence and operation of such a fund would certainly mean " more government in business , " whether or not it meant " mere business in government . " During the last session of Congress , the late Senator Cummins introduced a bill to amend the consolidation provisions of the Transportation Act in which he proposed ultimate exemption from recapture for consolidated systems as an inducement to consolidate . The bill failed of passage , but it is interesting to observe that this was at ' least a glance in the direction of abolishing recapture .                     