@@687733

txt Oil men report demand for crude in mid-continent field is probably biggest on record . Large purchasing and pipe line companies continue to be big buyers of crude , while small refiners are again coming into the market , seeking connections with producing wells . Many small refiner , have virtually been out of business for months , because little , if any , profit was available from their skimming operations with crude at $2 a barrel and gasoline wholesaling in Tulsa around 13 cents a gallon . Demand for gasoline has been particularly heavy in last sixty days , with result that prices are again on upward swing and , under these conditions , skimming plants can make some money on $2 crude , with larger profits in sight as refined oil prices show further firmness . Price of 1734 cents a gallon is being offered freely for gasoline , f. o. b . Tulsa , but with little moving , because refiners there are either without sufficient stocks , or are holding on to supplies for better prices as big summer season develops . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15,000 barrels reported in average daily domestic crude oil production week ended May 13 , over previous week , 10,000 barrels were in Californian fields . This , of course . has virtually no trade effect on bulk of country 's oil produced in mid-continent district . That district showed a gain of 6,850 barrels last week over previous week . Alexia , district , week of May 13 , was shown at 86.500 barrels daily , against 91,000 barrels previous week4band 150,000 barrels daily a few months ago . INDEPENDENTS STORING OIL While many companies have big production today , not all of it is being offered to pipe line purchasing companies . More than ever before , independent producers of any size at all are storing a good part of their production , in expectation of higher crude prices later on . Oil companies came through depressing experience of 1921 as well as they did because demand for gasoline was sufficient to carry the load , 1921 gasoline consump- tion of over 5,000.000,000 gallons setting a new high record . This year , however , they should get considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in larger quantities , fuel oil and lubricants particularly , because of ' increased manufacturing and marine operations , as well as better export demand . GASOLENE CONSVSIPT/ON According to some gasoline authorities , consumption this year will not only outstrip 1921 , but will show an increase of close to a billion gallons , or total domestic consumption and exports of 6.000,000,000 gallons . On this basis , stocks of 834,000,000 gallons , end of March , represented less than two months ' supply , which will become smaller as big consuming season develops . This country will have close to 11,000,000 automobiles on the roads , end of the summer , against 9,500,000 in 1921 . Big oil companies which have large supplies of crude and refined oils on hand will benefit largely from this increased demand and higher prices . All the important companies have marked down their oil inventories to a point where they are carried substantially below prevailing markets . Such companies as Standard Oil of New Jersey . Standard Oil of Indiana , Texas Co. , Standard Oil of New York , big gasoline makers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of California , and many others , have big quantities of oils on hand to take care of the demand . New Jersey company is biggest factor , with crude and finished oil inventories of over $260,000,000 . Despite big supplies of gasoline which these big companies are carrying , there is little disposition on their part to sell any large quantities in wholesale lots , except to take care of existing contract . Some of the big companies , notably in southwest . are reported without sufficient supplies of gasoline ahead to take care of their marketing situations . They are bidding for gasoline from independent refiners.                     