@@688724

txt The WalkerUllman home rule amendment has struck a snag , and redemption of the Democratic campaign pledge to give to all municipalities throughout the State an adequate measure of home rule and freedom from legislative interference with their affairs may be deferred until another Administration holds the reins at the Capitol The proposed amendment was adopted as a non-partisan measure by the Republican Legislature last year . This year . after deliberation , the Democrats , although not at all certain that it was as far-reaching as they might desire , took it up when Senator Walker introduced it in the upper house on Feb. 12 . In the lower house the measure was introduced early in the session by Assemblyman Ullman of New York , a Republican , who sponsored it last year . If adopted this year by the Legislature , the proposed amendment would be submitted to the voters for ratification in the next general election . The Walker resolution has made no progress in the Senate where it was referred to the Judiciary Committee . In the Assembly Mr. Ullman 's resolution I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been on the second reading calendar since but has not been read because a critical survey of the text has revealed that if adopted and ratified it may prove invalid . Fate Rests With Assembly . Speaker Machold , while the r'solution is held in the Assembly , is having the measure submitted  --  to eminent legal experts for an opinion . Should their opinion be adverse the resolution will be dropped by the Assembly where the Republicans are in control . With the Walker-Ullman resolution , shelved , all hope of constitutional home rule for cities in the immediate future would vanish . Such as it is , the WalkerUllman resolution is the cornerstone of the entire Democratic structure of proposed home rule grants for State municipalities . A new constitutional amendment with the error corrected could not . even under the most favorable circumstances , be submitted to the people for ratification any earlier than November , 1925 . By that time another administration will be in power . The concurrent resolution sponsored by Senator Walker and Assemblyman Ullman proposes tar  --  reaching amendments to Article XII . of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature approved for the second time another amendment to Section 2 of Article XII. , which provided that city bills , when returned by Mayors , who must have an opportunity to approve them before they become law , must be remitted , not to the Governor , as had been the practice , but to the clerk of that branch of the Legislature from which the Mayor received them . The amendment was made to correct a situation which was Drought forcefully to the attention of the lawmakers when Mayor Hylan returned with his veto a New York City bill to the Governor , who held it until the Legislature had adjourned sine die , thus making it impossible for the lawmaking body to override the Mayor 's veto , as undoubt- edly it would have had the bill been returned in time . The language embodied in this amendment , of course , was not included in the Walker-Ullman or . as it was then known , the Tolbert Home Rule amendment . when it was adopted by the Legislature last year . Section 2 of Article XII . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the entire Section 2 is quoted in the measure But it is the language of the Constitution before ratification of the amendment dealing with city bills and not the ? language of that section as it reads this year . Hence the objection is raised that the Walker-Ullman amendment is not in fact an amendment to the Constitution as at present worded and many experienced lawmakers fear that the enemies of hone rule , should they resort to the courts , may succeed in having nullified this new proposed charter of cities rights to manage their own affairs . Changes Not Deemed Legal . Section 2 of the article , over which this trouble has occurred , provides for the classification of cities into cities of the first , second and third class . based on population . The entire old section is eliminated through the WalkerUllman amendment . It is renumbered and some new language is substituted . The matter concerning the method of remitting city bills back to the Legislature direct , the lawmakers are exceedingly anxious , should be retained in the organic law . The general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walker-Ullman proposal this provision can not possibly be affected because it is not embodied in the resolution now before the Legislature . If to correct the error the resolution should be amended so as to incorporate this provision , it would require the a.p- ? proval of another Legislature . It has been proposed that the Legislature should take a chance with the Walker-Ullman amendment as it reads now and at the same time adopt another concurrent resolution with the error eliminated . and so changed as to be more nearly in accord - with the views of the Democrats here and other advocates of a fuller measure of home rule than the present proposal provides . Should the worst fears of those who discovered the error be realized it would mean a setback . for the time being at least , for advocates of home rule who , like the Citizens ' Union and the City Club in New York City . saw in the present amendment a partial victory at least crowning a bitter struggle that has been in progress for a dozen years or more . The Walker-Ullman Amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of municipalities the power to provide for the drafting and to adopt and amend the charters of their respective communities under conditions to be prescribed by the 1 , - ? gislature which afterward , except in grave emergencies anti upon a message frog the Governor , would be restrained from enacting any legislation affecting the property or business of any city which did not alike apply to all . In its amended form Article XII . would read : The Proposed Changes . " I. It shall - be the duty of the Legislature to provide for the organization of cities and incorporated villages and to restrict their-power of taxation , assessment , borrowing money , contracting debts and loaning their credit so as to prevent abuses in , assessments and in contracting debt by such municipal corporations ; and the Legislature may regulate and fix the wages or salaries , the hours of work or labor , and make provision for the protection , welfare and safety of persons employed by the State or by any county , city , town , village or other civil division of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , labor or services for the State . or for any county , city , town , village or other civil division thereof . " The Legislature shall not pass any law relating to the property , affairs or government of cities which shall be special or local either in its terms or in its effect , but shall act in relation to the property . affairs or government of any city only by general laws which shall in terms and in effect apply alike to all . cities except on message from the Gov governor declaring that an emergency exists and the concurrent action of twothirds of the members of each house of the ' Legislature . " Every city shall have power to adopt and amend local laws not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the State . relating to the powers , duties , qualifications , number , mode of selection and removal , terms of office and compensation of all officers and employes of the city , the transaction of its business , the incurring of its obligations . the presentation , ascertainment and discharge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and use of its streets and property , the wages or salaries , the hours of work or labor . and the protection , welfare and safety of persons employed by any contractor or sub-contractor performing work , labor or services for it , and the government and regulation of the conduct of its inhabitants and the protection of their property , safety and health . The Legislature at its next session after this section shall become part of ' the Constitution , provide by general law for carrying into effect the provisions of this section . " The provisions of this article shall not be deemed to restrict the power of the Legislature to enact laws relating to matters other than the property , affairs or government of cities . " The Legislature may by general laws confer on cities such further powers of local legislation and administration as it may from time to time deem expedient . " All elections of officers , Including supervisors and judicial officers of inferior local courts , elected in any city or part of a city , and of county officers elected in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all counties whose boundaries are the same as those of a city , except to fill vacancies , shall be held on the Tuesday succeeding the first Monday in November In ' an odd numbered year and the term , of every such officer shall expire at the end of an odd numbered year . The terms of office of all such officers elected before Jan , 1893 , whose successors have not then been ' elected , which , under existing laws , would expire with an even numbered year , or in an odd numbered year , and before the end thereof , are extended to and including the last day of December next following the time when such terms would otherwise expire . The terms of office of all such officers . ' which under existing laws would expire in an even numbered year and before the end thereof are abridged so as to expire at the end of the preceding year . This section shall not apply to elections of any judicial officer . except judges ' and justices of inferior local courts . I " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law ; but all existing charters and other laws shall continue in force until repealed , amended , modified or superseded in accordance with the provisions of this article . Nothing in this article contained shall apply to or affect the maintenance , support or administration of the public school systems in the several cities of the State , as required or provided by Article 9 of the Constitution . " Approval of the amendment in the Legislature is not by any means general , although if it passes review by the legal lights who are now surveying it critically for Speaker Machold it undoubtedly will go through . There has been considerable opposition to the provision doing away with the classification of cities . i ? Some lawmakers feel that conditions land needs in the City of New York and other big cities are so different from what they are in the smaller municipalities up-State that measures which will suit the rormer will not - suit the latter , and vice versa . The resolution has been set down for second reading in the Assembly on Tuesday .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         