@@695415

txt Following a conference today with President Coolidge , who is deeply concerned over the plight of hurricaneswept Porto Rico , officials . of the American Red Cross decided to send a relief expedition to the stormstricken island to take charge of the situation . Soon afterward , the relief unit , ' headed by Henry M. Baker , the society 's National Director of Disaster Relief , started by train for Charleston , S. C. , whence it will proceed on a naval vessel to Porto Rico . Those accompanying Mr. Baker are Mabbit Reckford , Grover C. Crane , Charles Carr and William B. Taylor , all experienced Red Cross disaster relief workers . To Await Call for Supplies . Efforts to obtain detailed Information as to the extent of the damage and the relief needs of those in the stricken sections of Porto Rico were not available today . Up to 4 o'clock no official information had come to Red Cross headquarters from its Porto Rico chapter or from any other source . Nevertheless , despite the absence of detailed reports , but certain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send the Baker expedition . Dwight F. Davis , Secretary of War , sent a message to Governor Towner of Porto Rico asking for a full report on the situation and stating that this Government was " deeply desirous of extending all possible assistance if necessary . " No shipments of supplies will be made until definite information comes that they are needed . It was believed at the Red Cross national headquarters that the Porto Rico Chapter was in all probability caring for the immediate needs of the sufferers as it has a strong disaster relief organization , and as a result of its work in several Porto Rican catastrophies , is experienced in handling such problems . Governor Tells of Damage . WASHINGTON , Sept 14 ( 211 . ? A message declaring that tens of thousands were made homeless by yesterday 's hurricane in Porto Rico and that the cost of relief and reconstruction would probably run into lions was received at the War Department tonight from Governor Towner . The Navy Department ordered several small vessels today to stand ready to carry assistance to San Juan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is waiting until more definite information is received before ordering any of its vessels into the hurricane region . The communication , which was in the nature of a report to the Department 's Bureau of Insular Affairs , was as follows : " A storm of great intensity swept Porto Rico yesterday . Details impossible at present . All telephone , telegraph and other means of communication destroyed . Roads impassable . No loss of life reported so far , but destruction of homes and property immense . Practically all frame structures destroyed . " Tens of thousands of people are homeless . Local assistance will be organized in San Juan and vicinity . No information regarding crops destroyed . Probable injury to fruits considerable , sugar cane not serious , tobacco quite large , coffee very great . " Storm worst that ever struck the island . Full relief and reconstruction will probably reach into millions . " Only two tugboats and some auxiliary navy vessels are at the naval station at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , but it was indicated that some of the two-score destroyers of Destroyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. C. , uld be dispatched if an official nest for aid was made ? : i.                     