@@691992

txt Important progress in an effort to Iach an agreement on the terms for funding the French war-time debt to the United States was reported today as a result of a long conference held last night by Secretary Mellon , Chairman of the American Debt Commission , and Finance Minister Caillaux of France . The conference took place at a private dinner at the home of Under-Secretary Garrard B. Winston , who is also Secretary of the American Commission , and no announcement of the fact was made until today . The only others present at any stage of the talk were Mr. Winston and M. Moreay-Neret , one of the French financial experts . Secretary Mellon and M. Caillaux were being referred , to today on all sides as the " Big Two " of the negotiations and attention was called to the ' fact that the terms of the recent Churchill-Caillaux agreement , covering some of the French debts to Great Britain , were largely the outcome of similar conversations between M. Caillaux and Winston Churchill . Frequent reference was also heard today to the Ma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Four " ? Wilson . Lloyd George , Clemenceau and Nitti  --  worked out most of the problems . Viewpoints Being Reconciled . There were no formal statements today , but in behalf of the French mission the belief was expressed that the late developments may clear the way for a rapid understanding . From the American side came the optimistic brediction that the American and French viewpoints apparently were being brought gradually closer and hope was expressed that a funding agreement might be reached by Wednesday or Thursday . M. Caillaux has planned to sail for home on Saturday . The French , it was said , had their beliefs as to the utmost to which they could agree to pay if they were to receive the support of the French people . The American negotiators had certain convictions concerning the greatest ' concessions to which Congress would agree , and Congress must ratify a compact before it becomes effective . But out of such a situation it was hoped an agreement gradually could be worked out , to which negotiators for both sides would give their assent . Tonight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step was " up to the French , " and that it was expected the French would make another proposal to the American Commission on Monday morning . M. Caillaux got to work early this morning , framing the new French statement of what that country believes it has capacity to pay . He arrived at the Hotel Hamilton , where the French experts are quartered , at 8:30 o'clock , unannounced , and before some of his associates had left their rooms . There was a great scurrying about , and within fifteen minutes N. Caillaux was closeted with the experts , at work on the docu ment which he will give to the American Commission . The understanding was that his second statement would stick to a schedule of stated amounts and would not take up the matter of interest rates or other controversial features of the negotiations . As a result of the Mellon-Caillaux conversation it was said that an agreement was reached along this line : That M. Caillaux should make another statement as to capacity to pay , based upon the new understanding , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the amount of interest which the fixed payments represented , Would be left for later figuring . Acceptance of New Offer Doubted . It is scarcely believed probable that the second French offer will be accepted by the American Commission , but it is hoped that the American reply can be made by Tuesday and the principles of a funding agreement reached by the following day or Thursday morning . This is the optimistic viewpoint which was expressed in certain American quarters this evening . The conversations at the private dinner of last night were followed up today by a luncheon at the French Embassy to Secretary Mellon and Under Secretary Winston , which has - attended by M. Caillaux and about eight of the French Commissioners and experts . Following this luncheon Secretary Mellon and M. Caillaux had an opportunity for a further exchange of views concerning developments since last night 's talk . Arrangements also have been made for a trip tomorrow to Mount Vernon , once the home of President ' Washington . The members of both commissions , as wcil as Ambassadors Daeaschner and ' Herrick , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Mellon and M. Caillaux together and it is to be followest by a luncheon to the party as the guests of . Secretary Mellon . The information here today was that Secretary Mellon arid M. Caillaux at last night 's private dinner discussed in great detail the economic conditions of France , the relation of a debt funding compact to the plans which M. Caillaux has made to bring about domestic fiscal reforms in France , the American and French viewpoints of the French capacity to pay  --  present and future  --  the Caillaux-Churchill agreement covering France 's debts to Great Britain , and many other matters which play a prominent part in the negotiations . ' By this procedure the heads of the two commissions were able to get at their subject in a thorough and intimate manner and have an exchange of viewpoints which was difficult if not impossible at the joint commission meetings at which a dozen or more attended . M. Caillaux had sought such an interview with Secretary Mellon before his arrival here on Wednesday , believing that in this manner the most rapid progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fixed interest rates was set by either commission in the proposals or the deffinite limitation made that the period for making payments should be restricted to sixty-Iwo years , - as in the British - American funding compact . Neither has there been any request as yet on the part of the French to have accrued interest wiped out . The original French proposal was simply a statement that it was in the capacity of France to pay annual instalments starting at $2:1,000.000 and stepping up to $60.000.000 within twenty years , with the latter payments by Prance not to exceed Sii0.000.1100 annually . France had accepted that payments should stop after sixty-two years , but it was stated that the question of whether Payments might not be continued over a longer period , if ' that would provide a solution for the settlement of the debt problem , had been left open . Commercial Loan Question , Th amounts which the French commission stated were within the capacity *4 France to pay , however , were based on a settlement even more lenient to France than the so-called CaillauxChurchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter agreement did not even take into consideration the heavy advances Of the Bank of England to the Bank of France , which the latter country is also repaying to England at the rate of 6 per cent . This bank loan , which was extended to help France sustain her exchange , is said to be about S , 650,000,000 . Part of the money advanced to France by the United States under the Liberty Loan Acts also was employed by the Bank of France to sustain French exchange and was , in effect , what the French have characterized as a commercial loan . Time original French offer would have included that part of the American loans with the other advances , and sought to keep interest on the total down to not more than 2 per cent . The American reply pointed out that acceptance of such a proposal scarcely could be expected , even if there were no reasons for its rejection , It Is now understood- that the American reply fixed the payments to be made by France during the first five years at not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American commission , while following closely tile lines of the British-American compact , were indefinite enough to cause some confusion arhong the French experts who attempted to work out the total of payments which France would be called upon to make . One version heard today in French circles was that the American proposal could be so construed as to call for maximum payments of about 500,000.000 annually after earlier easier payments . Certain of the members of the American Commission have been reported as insisting that a settlement of the French debt must follow closely the lines of the British-American comic/et , but it is believed that this opposition can be overcome , for the most part , if a compromise is reached between the French and the American viewpoints which is acceptable to Secretary Mellon and a majority of the members of the American Commission as a. fair settlement . Serious Trading Basis Hoped For . It is the hope there tonight that the ' French proposal to be made Monday morning will set up figures of capacity to pay which may be made the baste I for serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to by the American Commission which will put France in the position of meeting the principa. amount of the debt and paying an interest rate close enough to that assessed against Great Britain to make ineffectual the opposition of those who have been demanding sterner terms . At the meeting between Secretary Mellon and Id . Ca lilaux last night it 15 Said that each stated his viewpoint in the frankest of terms and there seemed to be good reason for the conviction that a much better understanding had been reached . Both Secretary Mellon and M. Cadieux appeared more optimistic today of obtaining definite results than at any time since the negotiations were begun . It was again stated by members of the French delegation that . there had been no alteration of plans on the part of M. Caillaux and some of his associates Lo sail for home next Friday night . Caillaux has an engagement in New York prior to sailing on Friday and has indicated that he expects to ' keep it . This would make it necessary for him to leave Washington not later than noon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed the so-called CaillaaxChurchill agreement would In the ' alt analysis form the basis of an agreement between France and the United States they were non-committal and refused to go into details . The general belief here , however , seems to be that a settlement somewhat more favorable to the United States than that contained in the French-Brit , lab agreement must be accepted ay France if funding is to be accomplished . Under terms comparable to those contained in the French-British agreenunit France would be called upon to make sixty-two annual payments or about 500,000,000 spread out so as to make - lie payments in the early years smaller than that figure and In excess of it in ' the later years . Such an arrangement , it has been estimated , would call for the repayment of the pfineipal amount of the debt , if reckoned at slightly less than 54.000 , - tiotattoo because of reduction in accrued interest with interest at a rate of about 2 per cent . Exact figures , however , hove not been worked out by officials . who contend that all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown by the confirmation which has been Published ? It i. : pretty generally agreed that important concessions Will , in the last analysis , be granted to France by the American Debt Commission . But it is hoped tonight that the next French pr-posal may admit on the part of France ability to make payments on a basis slightly better than that represented by the British-French agreement , just as the original French proposal sought a settlement on . even easier terms .                     