@@687034

txt The United States senate made the Washington conference for the limitation of armament liossible . It did so when it refused to accept the treaty of Versailles and the covenant of the league of nations . It did so when the Republican party Indorsed the stand of the Republican senators and obtained rivet the people tho fiat rejection of the international scheme which in its operations has proved the charges brought against it and has revealed weaknesses and futilities which had net been anticipated . The - senate made this possible and made it possible for the present . American administration to ask the great naval and military powers to enter a conferende which would endeavor to reach agreements for world peace . Whatever guaranties of peace are obtained from the conference will have their origin in the determination of American sena.tors not to surrender their nation to the illusion of a world state . Now it is unreasonable for the senate , having created the probability of a real achievement of peace , to diminish the prospects of benefit by an act of had faith just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The repeal of the Panama canal tolls in favor of American shipping can not be defended as an honorable act . It will be regarded by every nation invited to Washington as the breaking of a treaty . There is no explanation which the United States senate can make of it . The treaty witht Great Britain stipulating the  --  manner in which the canal should be administered did net intend that American shipping should be granted discriminations . The United States has assumed its right to4fortify the canal and no objection has been made to that , although the British ' might have raised a point against it . It had to i5 fortified . The interest of the entire nation demanded it . The breach of faith which would be in the toll repeal is not demanded by the Interests of the entire nation . It is contrary to the interest of . the midwest . R is contrary to national honor , and it is in favor of special interests in seaboard sec-. tions . If the senate follows Mr. Borah in this attack upon a national obligation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to repeal the tolls for American ships , it will do the worst thing it could do tobleud the'prospects of the conference of which it is the originating genius . No nation can look at the broken treaty and have faith in the agreements made by the United States . The American delegates in the conference will be confronted by ikeidenee of national bad faith at . the moment they are offering the good faith of the nation In a most important pledge to keep theipeace , If the anxiety for gain and profit is so compelling that shipping interests in America can force an act of bad faith , what reliance . An be placed upon the American pledge ? It can not be said that the treaty is subject to the intepretation Mr. Borah and his followers want to place upon it . If the United States had reserved etteti a right to itself the reservation would have been stated . The senate knows something about reservations and has been right in insisting upon them . It can not be said that a reservation of this character was implied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bad faith will dd the United States can be foreseen . There will be retaliation . Canada will not suffer the ( ES , crimination without answering . The American mid . west , which bears the discrimination In favor of the coast sections , will bear the retaliation which will put a toll on shipments through tho Welland canal . It is unpatriotic for the senate to tear up a treaty and to cloud with distrust a conference which is trying to protect the peace of the world by agreement . It would he a had deed at any time , It will he incalculably damaging at this time .                     