@@685538

txt It is in the public interest that an our cranks , soreheads and anarchists should get together , so that we may count them in a constitutional way and estimate the real extent of the forces of disease they represent . The Republican party has nothing to lose thereby and the Democratic party probably little enough . Here is a distributed volume of poison permeating the body politic sufficiently to cause a vague discomfort that gathers itself to a head in a position wheie the boil may burst , leaving the blood free from taint . So far the Cave of Adullam at Chicago lacks a David . Whether La Follette will come out of the tomb of oblivion to which he voluntarily consigned himself , by his intemperate speech to the publishers at Philadelphia in the Summer of 1912 ; or whether Henry Ford will repeat the experiment of the Ship of Fools , makes little difference . The indicated logical head of the movement is the maker of the keynote speech , Fitzpatrick , who promoted and lost the steel strike and wants to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions in Russia repeated here . By all means ' let them get together . They have no more power of cohesion or combination than a mechanical mixture of steel filings and sawdust . There is only one conceivable plank upon which they can all join . This is that a majority has no rights which a fanatic and murderous minority need respect . It is not eapitihu klismor the bourgeoisie or the Constitution or any church which is cast to the winds . It is democracy , the right self-government , of self-determination . A soviet ownership of the railroads or a war with Great Britain over Ireland or harmless fads like single tax can he united only for the purposes of anarchy . It is a pity that faddists more respectable can not be segregated in the same way . The question between government of America by Americans for Americans and government of America by anarchists for Russians or Irish is easily defined and its fate at the polls is beyond doubt . But a government to enforce morality , a pharisaic self-righteousness based upon such a moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of private morality not even by the wise Khalif Haroun-al-Raschid , but by his fax orite eunuch , has yet to he submitted to the American people . That also will come in wiser and more truly temperate years . In the meantime we have the forces of anarchy where we can count them , out in the open and not working from within , and that in itself is a great gain for civilization . Homer Cummings denies the charge that the Wilson Administration is guilty of wilful extravagance . from which the only inference is that it is too ignorant e  --  en for wilfulness.                     