@@694596

txt The Interstate Commerce Commission today won a test case of great importance . the principle of valuation of railroads on the basis of original cost being in effect upheld . The railroads had contended that the valuation should be made on the basis of cost of reproduction now . In this test the railroads lost their attempt to have the commission valuation and order for recapture of excess earnings of the St. Louis &; O'Fallon Railroad set aside . The decision was given by unanimous decision of a special court of three Federal Judges . The opinion was written by Judge Kimbrough Stone of the United States Court of Appeals . It was concurred in by District Judge C. B. Faris of St. Louis in a separate opinion and by Judge Arba S. Van Valkenburgh of the Court of Appeals without comment . . ? The case has been called . ' , ' the biggest lawsuit in history " because of acceptance by both the Interstate Commerce Commission and the railroads as a test of the principles and methods to be employed in the valuation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose of rate making and the recapture by the Federal Government of one-half of the excess earnings above 6 per cent . Ultimately Involves Eleven Billions . It is estimated that a potential total of $11,000,000,000 is involved in the difference between the two principles of valuation . It was announced that the case would be carried to t he United States Supreme Court for final adjudication . The O'Fallon ' and the Manufacturers Railroad , both Owned by Busch interests , sought to set aside an order of the commission which , it was contended . would establish prudent investment is the principle of determining railway valuations . The ruling marks the end of the second skirmish in the " battle ' of billions , " which began when the Interstate Commerce Commission ruled that the O'Fallon road owed the . Government railroad reserve $226.880 in excess profits . The commission bottomed its cal1 culation on excess earnings on the prudent investment theory ? y using the level of 1914 prices as a yardstick to measure the value of the O'Fallon Road . . The next encounter will be before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be its first on a commission order affecting the principle of public utility valuation . Judge . Stone 's opinion dogs not discuss in detail what principle shall govern valuation , holding . that the order of the commission is not open to attack on the ground of wrongful valuation . " It is unnecessary , " Judge Stone says , " to examine and determine the various contentions concerning the proper manner of ascertaining v alu e . " Proper Valuation Method . Judge Faris , on the other , hand . goes into the question at length . He holds that the commission arrived at its valuation ' figure in the only way possible , but observes that neither prucleht ini:restfnent nor reproduction cost shall be the sole basis of fixing rail valuations . The use of either method exclusively would work " a monstrous in- equity " to the public and to the railroads , he asserts . Valuation , Judge Faris holds , ought to be " the net result of expert opinion , reasonably and honestly exercised , " and the methods employed should take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both labor and materials over a fair term of years preceding and following the date of valuation . " Judge Stone 's opinion directed that the order of the commission should be modified to allow additional interest on the amount of excess profits which the commission ordered the O'Falion road to turn back . Judge Faris in his concurring opinion said : " I am not convinced that the commission erred , but am of the opinion that it reached the valuation found by it in the only way possible in a situation so difficult as that . Absolute certainty on correctness is wellnigh finitely impossible . Therefore I concur in the result . " The question here , I repeat , is one of valuation for recapture of profits purposes and not one of valuation for rate-making purposes . The matter of valuation for rate-making purposes is involved incidentally , and in a way is adventitious only . With deference then , I ale , of the view that this Court can not avoid the necessity of meeting the question of legal methods of valuation , face to face . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I am constrained to the view that what was said in the case of Dayton-Goose Creek Railway vs . United States ( 263 U.S.I.C. 486 ) was obiter dictum . a statement made by a Court in passing , but not to be construed as defending the question , and clearly meant to be so , by the distinguished and learned writer of that opinion . Moreover , in the Dayton-Goose Creek case , the correctness of the valuation was not attacked , but at least tacitly conceded . " A valuation arrived at by the sole use of either the prudent investment theory bottomed on the cost when constructed , or on the present cost of reproduction new , less depreciation , would work presently to the public and eventually to the carriers themselves such monstrous inequity as to preclude wholly the use of either of such methods exclusively and eliminate the notion that Congress contemplated the exclusive use of either of such methods . " It is my opinion that the test of value in use is inapplicable because of the provisions of the Transportation act and because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whereby the more a carrier earns the more it would be entitled to earn , and so hence to infinity . " Judge Faris gives this formula for proper valuation of properties : " The value of physical property of a common carrier under the recapture provisions of the Interstate Commerce act ought to be the net result of expert opinion , reasonably and honestly exercised ( and informed by a consideration of the information required by statute to be obtained ) , as is to be deduced from a fair analysis of the items considered and of the methods employed in valuation of the statutory information , taking into consideration the average of known price levels for both labor and materials over a fair term of years preceding the valuation , as well as for a fair term of years thereafter , based on the trend of such levels , according to historical observation and human experience . "                     