@@687652

txt The first sensation at the Genoa conference was the Soviet-German treaty , privately negotiated and signed at the Russian headquarters at Rapallo Sunday , April 16 , by Chicherin and Rathenau and coolly handed out to the press . The Germans felt as they did at the sinking of the Lusitania , " we have torpedoed the biggest ship and now the world will respect us . " At Genoa they had complained that they had never been so isolated before the world . The , Russiani had been in private conference with Lloyd George . Chicherin was the one man listened to on the opening day of the conference . B'irth 's address said nothing and passed almost unnoticed . But now the Germans had done something that would command attention ; they would be respected . They were astounded and crestfallen . when the other delegates , England and the newspaper correspondents expressed their opinion of such traitorous action . They then proceeded to make all sorts of excuses that the treaty was made at Berlin and was incidentally signed here ; that they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out for themselves ; that they had tried to notify Lloyd George but could not reach him and at any rate he had been informed of what was going on . But Lloyd George was furious and so were the other delegates . The matter was an absolute surprise to everybody outside the German and the Russians . There never had been an intimation of such a thing . The very basis of the conference to which Germany and Russia had been invited was an open and above-board discussion of the best means of arriving at a compact of trade with Russia for all parties . Germany was promptly denounced and notified that she could cancel the treaty or take no further part in discussion of trade relations between Russia and the other powers . Germany asked why she alone was blamed and not Russia , but accepted the alternative and would not discuss in the conference or committees trade relations with Russia and other countries . EUROPEAN BALANCE OF POWER Now allied with France in denouncing the Germans and thereby pleasing the French , the English secretly were pleased with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he declared it was not aimed at the suc- cess of the conference and as the Germans had accepted the alternative it was now a closed incident and in the interest of peace must not be further discussed . On the surface it is an agreement to trade between Germany that has nothing with which to buy , and Russia that has nothing for the moment to sell- But the Germans are looking far ahead . Privately they admit Russia is now a liability , but they look upon her as the asset of the future for Germany . The British see in the incident a restoration of the balance of power in Europe . We do not appreciate in the United States the strong military position France has acquired on the Continent . She has drilled the armies of Poland and has made friends with smaller nations recently carved out of the older countries . With Austria dismembered , Germany disarmed and Russia in chaos , France has loomed large as the power in Europe . She is educating every schoolboy to defend the territory , the life and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her people are able to maintain under arms the victorious French armies and steadily rebuild the , devastated area without the promised aid from Germany . Her spirit runs high . The French nation stands as a unit behind the government which dictates to the Genoa conference that the Versailles treaty and the reparations question are not to be under revision . Arms and armament , self-defence and reparations are the watch-cries of France , while the policy of England is peace , disarmament , tax reduction , restor  --  ttion of trade relations and progress in capital augmentationfor world development . POLAND 'S POSIT/ON Forty to fifty per cent . of the bread of Europe before the war came from Russia . Europe must not be alone dependent upon American wheat . High-priced food is not good foundation for trade . Ten per cent . of England 's trade was with Germany and there was besides the profits of shipping , shipbuilding , agency commissions . insurance and finance . Here is employment for English workers and English capital with hundreds of millions of profits that are not measured in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 10% of foreign trade between England and Germany or the less than 31/4 of trade between Great Britain and Russia . If the beginning of a trade alliance between 60.000,000 working Germans and more than 120,000,0000 Russians who can be worked is followed by closer relations , political and defensive , where is the power , in the world that can maintain Poland as an independent state between them ? No - German believes in the future independence of Poland . No thoughtful man can see in Poland any ability in self-government or national finance . Can France in any way defend Poland whenever the issue arises as to free trade through her territory as between Germany and Russia ? Russia must come back . Germany will again gain in population . But the statistics for France , just published , show that France is on the way to only 30,000,000 population in 1945 and 25,000,000 in the generation following . Already the Polish Jews , who are not agriculturalists but small shopkeepers and traders , are swarming down throughout southeastern Europe to Palestine , and the Arabs and the followers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim Palestine when they arc : -o small a minority therein , and trouble is brewing straight ahead , not only for Palestine , but all Asia Minor . The mandate over Asia Minor given to Greece must be taken back . The Turk is there the superior man physically , mentally and morally . But this is another story , of which the world has little heard . From Smyrna and Crete to Jerusalem arc two chapters in Mr. Wilson 's attempt to seal the fate of nations and peoples by his self determination . The world has no time now to listen to these nor does it know that King Constantine of Greece is putting his German military methods into operation to the extent that he is transporting from Crete to Greece the children , wives , mothers and grandmothers of eighty , and casting them into prison , that he may force the men of Crete to come clown from the hills and mobilize for Greece . Sufficient to say that the land of Venizelos now holds more bitter hatred toward Greece and the Greeks than it formerely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to massacre by the Cretan Christians . IMMEASURAHLE rossinit.rrims Germany has always claimed that with capital assistance and a free hand in Russia she could bring order , production and vast profits out of that country for the benefit of all Europe . She has claimed it as her  --  Special sphere . Her people understand Russia and can give the Russians the organization they need . Germany feared she would not get the leadership she so much desires in Russia if she was tangled up by the Allies with Russian claims , counterclaims , Allied reparation claims , etc . Therefore she has cleared the slate of claims and counterclaims as respects both nations and nationals and specified by treaty that she is in alliance with Russia for trade under the principle of the most favored nation clauses and will get all the subsequent benefits or rights Russia may give to other European countries . The future of Europe may depend entirely upon how this treaty works out and what mutual advantages are obtained under it three to five years hence . For the moment it must shock France as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united Germany and Russia disciplined , in many senses of the word , but expanding in the future in population and production . Can France contemplate a position in the future of isolation and dictatorship with a receding population and cause for increased burdens from militarism and taxation ? - England . views with equanimity a French realization of the meaning and usefulness of that phrase . " the balance of power in Europe. ? England 's voice is with France . The heart of England is set on restoration of trade and , however France may fear it , Germany and Russia must come back into world of trade and world expansion . The English expectation is that France will now be reasonable and will not seek isolation or self-determination . It is wood opinion inside the English lines that the Soviet-German treaty will be absorbed into , annexed or recognized in the general trade agreement to be made between Russia and the other European nations , and there is possibility that such a treaty may be signed at the Genoa conference . It was hoped that this conference might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the lines that the conference may not terminate until near the end of May . This is interpreted to mean treaties of peace and trade between Russia and the European nations . PRESENT PRESSING FACTORS Let it not be assumed for one moment that Germany and Russia are in any present position to be mutually helpful except sentimentally . One-third of Germanys population or 20,000,000 people must be fed from the outside and the Russian harvests in all kinds of cereals now amounts to slightly less than half that of pre-war days . Germany has over-committed herself in her financial suicide pact upon the doorsteps of the Allies . With the breaking down of the mark there is danger that her merchants can no longer import for her the necessary wheat from America . The situation is so serious here that German statesmen and European economists are in a maze . Professor Keynes throws his hands above his head and admits he is powerless to attempt a solution of any such riddle as that which confronts Germany today in respect to the importation of foodstuffs for the . continued sustenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paper mark steadily receding in value . Benes of Czechoslovakia , one of the ablest delegates at Genoa , admits that it is bankruptcy for Germany to attempt any restoration in the value of the mark and with the falling mark the country is rushing straight ahead to disaster the extent of which no man can foresee . Nevertheless , the fact remains that the people of both Germany and Austria arc kept at work and fed under depreciating currencies . They and the Russians are encouraged by the fictions from America dangled before Europe that five and more millions of American working men are out of employment ; that 40% of the world 's gold is uselessly heaped up in the United States that can not help these poor American working men , but might , if released to Russia and Germany and the rest of Europe , help to set all the world aright . Truly there is here at Genoa the most kaleidoscopic picture of fact and fiction in economics , the like of which was never before dreamed of . There is not such a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe  --  isolated Russia and the British Isles  --  when viewed from the standpoint of the steadily advancing , prosperity of the western hemisphere upon the strongest foundation in the world 's gold it has ever known .                     