@@695717

txt Alfred J. Brosseau , vice president of Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America and president of Mack Trucks . Inc. , speaking before Life Insurance Co. presidents , said in part : " There are striking evidences of the rapid changes going on in our business world . Competition takes on newer and baffling phases . " Science and invention shift the industrial and economic stage settings with almost bewildering rapidity . The pressure of a reviving foreign competition both in overseas and in domestic markets is increasing . A. more stable balance between production and consumption is a major problem in our manufacturing industry . " Moreover , life in this country  --  both economic and social ? is becoming increasingly nationaL More and more the larger meaning of things and a broader sense of responsibility are coming to us alL So it is that the need and value of national viewpoint is impressed upon us . We have come to the point in our economic development where  --  like it or not  --  the individual must think in terms of his relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international , conditions . No man. - today , is big enough ; no man is strong enough to go blindly forward without regard to what the rest of the business world is doing . " Because of its extensive operations . insurance is in a peculiarly fortunate position to contribute materially to the development of this all-inclusive national viewpoint in business . " It is the duty of business and business mean to take leadership in fostering proper relations between business and its public . If those relations are based upon proper understanding the threat of improper relations as between government and business is largely removed ; for a public which understands that its welfare is intimately involved in the smooth and proper functioning of the processes of business will not raise the hue and cry for government unduly to hamper the liberty of business . Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . " To foster such an understanding is a task worthy of our best efforts . It offers an opportunity for both business and public service of the highest order  --  this task of promoting the community of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewpoint . "                     