@@687994

txt As a net result of President Harding 's proposal for a railroad strike settlement the strike still persists , in all its wretchedness and futility where , if there had been no executive action , the strikers might by this time have returned to work . Vice President Coolidge , whose Cabinet cooperation was asked by President Harding , might well have dictated a different sort of message . He had no illusions about seniority where the Boston police were concerned . Remember that the seniority  --  which has nothing to do with pensions , but concerns chiefly the choice of work ? which the railroad employes enjoy , has been established by the Labor Board itself . It came into being through national agreements and these agreements have been ratified by the board . The board could not adopt the President 's view without flatly reversing itself . But what did Mr. Harding propose ? He practically said to the railroad executives : " We will abolish the Laboti  --  Board and all its rulings for half an hour , while you take the strikers back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board , thereafter accepting its utterances as gospel . " To what depths have politics sunk when a proposal so immoral , so unjust , so unbalanced , so certain to bring the deadliest consequences in the future , is made with practically no excuse but the congressional election pending in No-vember ! If such a settlement had been accepted by the railroad executives how could they ever refuse a similar demand in the future ? If President Harding had proposed that the unions call off the strike , that the carriers take the men back on their individual applications for jobs , and that all issues , including conflicting seniority claims , should he submitted without reservation to the Labor Board , the carriers might well have put themselves in the wrong by refusing to accept that method of settlement . On that basis the Labor Board would have been left free to " do as becometh a judge , " and the President would really have been sustaining the authority of the law and the hoard . But the President did nothing like that . He swept the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the very decision for which it was created had been taken out of its hands . Far better for Mr. Harding to have done nothing and to have told the railroads and their , men to fight out the question to a settlement . There is all the difference in the world between a compromise and a surrender . When the " two sides to a question , " always assumed by weak people with a false pretense of fairness , are merely the right side and the wrong side . compromise can concede details of adjustment but never the vital principle at stake , if this union of states is to survive . In naming the twelve greatest women in the United States there is a suspicion that the other eleven have red hair also .                     