@@694031

txt When Chief Justice TAFT set out recently for his Summer home in Canada he was asked what reading would be a part of his recreation . After mentioning that he did not care particularly for novels , he said : " I do not mind detective stories , if I can get a good one . " And he has read many of them . A mystery story seems to be the only type of fiction with a completely universal appeal . People with a special taste for foolish love stories , tales of the West , historical novels , narratives of adventure or accounts of political intrigue also enjoy a detective story . Thousands of them , the great majority being indifferently written , are sold every year to an insatiable public . But the reader who is careless of style and too lazy ever to do any serious reading is not the only type finding satisfaction in the revelation of the crook 's villainy and the detective 's astuteness . Chief Justices , Presidents , heads of huge corporations , bank directors , men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sooner or later confess their liking for tales of crime and mystery . There is a rumor that at one of the older - English universities a club exists for the exchange of crook stories . Its membership includes august dignitaries , learned scholars , advanced thinkers . In their hours of ease they read the latest books of crime and its detection . When they come across one which is well written , with some characterization , motivation not too dim and a new twist to the plot they pass it along with a recommendation . The plot is , of course , the main thing . An intelligent reader is grateful for the minor virtues of good style and characters who seem something more than puppets jumping when the author pulls the strings , but , after all , he can forgive much if the author 's invention brings out a new kind of knot to be untied . In the enormous output in the last few years there have not been many to come up even to that standard . A few combining all the good points have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WILLIAM GILLETTE , the famous actor of Sherlock Holmes , which promises to be a best seller with the learned . It makes no experiment with public psychology in a startling departure from the accepted formula , but does differ from the usual routine sufficiently to be admired by musicians , astronomers and literary critics . In that kind of " new detective story , " which the book publishers love to announce as a discovery , there is enough similarity to the old ones to keep habit-bound readers satisfied and enough difference to get even the more captious hot on the trail for a happy evening .                     