@@694841

txt From Bach to Bartok and back again was geographically not such a long trip last night , but mupically it was about like going from Chlmigo to central Hindustan . The Apollo Musical club gave its ninth performance of Bach 's Mass in 13 minor at Orchestra hall . At the same hour Bela Bartok was making his first appearance in Chicago and playing some of his Mane works at the Cordon club . There is no denying that Bartok 's music is as hard to listen to as advance accounts stated . He has been wandering about through Hungary , Roumania. , and Czecho-Slovakia , picking up peasant folk tunes by scores ' and hundreds and working them into his own compositions . This is a pleasant occupation indulged in by many People in many lands . Usually . how , ever , such collectors are content to present the results of their collecting in a reasonably simple and understandable harmonic form . Mr. Bartok is not . Ho says that his treatment has developed out of the tunes themselves , but the development would seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeps to himself and whose results are frequently dieconcerting . It is apparently based on the theory that the louder and the more clashing the dissonance , the better fitted it is to accompany a peasant tune . This may possibly surprise the peasants . One may take Mr. Bartok 's word for it that his transcriptions are accurate , that the tunes make frequent use of all the modes , that they have a rhythmic freedom more marked than most other folk music . In their bare form they are pleasant to a degree , but that Mr. Bartok 's treatment of them affords any Insight into the peasant soul where they originated will be hard to believe except on the testimonY of an accredited committee of peasants in good standing . In detail the program consisted of a suite composed in 1916 , some Raumanias Christmas songs , which from the simplicity of their settings were the most pleasant of all , two pieces by Zoltan Kodaly who , Mr. Bartok says , interprets the soul of Hungary , Bartok 's own Sonata of 1926 , and a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is the best pianist of the several composers who have Played their own works here . After hearing them , it was a pleasant return into recognized and approved territory to hear the long lined . exquisitely wrought structure of the Bach Mass , and the dealings of the Apollo club therewith . It is a masterpiece of its kind . The soloists were Flora Wa  --  ikes , Lillian Knowles , Edwin Kemp , substituting for Robert Qualt , announced but 111 , and Herbert Could . They , the chorus , and the Chicago Symphony orchestra , all conducted by Harrison Wild , gave the great work the best of the nine performances it has had by this organization .                     