@@688445

txt French bankers have apparently little to fear from American competition . Three of the five New York banking institutions which maintain , or have maintained branches in Paris , admit losses in their operation , and aone apparently has made large profits . Losses have been directly proportional to domestic business done in that country . Banks which have confined their dealings to the financing of foreign trade and accepting accounts from American firms or individuals domiciled abroad have enjoyed the best records . In the-past year the Farmers ' Loan &; Trust Co. sold its Paris branch to the National City Bank . Equitable Trust Co. recently wrote off $3,500,000 to cover losses sustained in France . Bankers ' Trust Co. admits It lost money through its Paris office . These losses have been taken care of . Guaranty Trust Co. and the City Bank have apparently made small profits . Active competition with domestic banking institutions has been more or less abandoned by American bankers . It was never attempted by several . 7 ? Ii Ft TLIN.1,1 ? : MI-Wr CNSsit " rnasisr:I . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business has been made indefinite by existing French legal procedure . In order to relieve French business of the disastrous effect of conditions created by the Aver , including the rapid decline in commodity prices , a law was enacted , known as the Reglement Transa  --  tionnel . A business man , when faced with financial difficulties , was permitted , upon presentation of justifying evidence , to take advantage of this law which allowed him to continue in business practically unmolested and at the same time to obtain extensions of time within which to pay his debts . After an investigation dif assets and business prospects by an official administrator . proposition of settlement over a period of years is presented to his creditors for acceptance or rejection by a majority in number and amount . This proposition may call for settlement at any specified percentage . During the existence of the debtor 's Reglement Transactionek all creditors are barred from taking legal action , provided the accepted proposition of settlement is complied with . This law practically effects a moratorium for the period of the settlement There has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invasion of their country by foreign banking houses , but the best opinions which can he obtained here are to the effect that it is very doubtful o.hether these periodical criticisms of foreign banking in France have the suport and backing of the better element in the French political and business world . The National City Bank 's Paris office . in existence a little more than a year , has served as a clearing biciuse for its European branches , and has transacted a large foreign exchange business . Farmers ' Loan &; Trust Co. still maintains a representative in Paris for the convenience of its American patrons . but does no actual busine:s . Guaranty Trust Co. ' s Paris office was established in 1917 . During the war it acted xs pay agent for the A. E. F .. and did a great deal of work for the American Red Cross . and other relief organizations . While some losses were sustained in the post - Astir deflation period , it is said these have all been taken care of . and that the office is now on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American firms and individuals doing business in France . It accepts deposits both in francs and dollars . and , at the current rate of exchange , owes its Paris customers about S25.000.000 . The Paris branch of the Bankers Trust Company came into existence a little over two s ears ago . It occupies the site of the old Hotel Bristol on the Plat e Vendome . It does approximately the same kind of business as the Guaranty . Its deposits today aggregate about $10.000.000 . ' This l'aris office acts as the clearing house in Europe for the American Bankers ' Association tras viers ' cheques . Losses incurred by Bankers Trust Company througa its Paris office have been written off and reserves have been set up for any doubtful items . Equitable Trust Co. is one of the banks ' widish has sustained losses in loans which hate proses difficult of collection , owing to the leniency of the French courts . It has almost given up the domestic field in that country , and is practically confining its dealings to exchange transactions and financing of lot eign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American bankers who have Paris offices are far from convinced that their entrance into the French field has been a mistake . American bunks will play an ever increasing part in the financing of trade between the two countries ? it is said . Even if the foreign offices are not directly profitable . the business gained by the home offices of banks which can offer foreign credit and other facilities is expected to eventually more than offset losses previously sustained .                     