@@696118

txt President Hoover sent to the Senate today the nominations of eleven Federal Circuit and district court judges , including four to fill all but one of the five recently created Federal judgeships for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York . and in doing so gave the newspapers the names of the individuals and organizations that had endorsed his selections for these important places . This action in making public the names of the endorsers of nominees . for judicial offices was unprecedented . It was made known at the White House that the practice would be followed in all future nominations to the Federal judiciary . Toward th .. 1 end of his term President Coolidge nominated five men to fill the newly created judgeships in the New York judicial districts , but the Senate failed to confirm them before it adjourned finally on March 4 . From the list of New York judicial nominations sent to the Senate today by President Hoover the names of two of . those who had - been nominated by Mr. Coolidge were missing . They were Lloyd P. Stryker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Alfred A. Wheat , who had been named by Mr. Coolidge for the Eastern ? ) istriet . Mr. Wheat , however , was nominated today to be a justice of the . Supreme Court of the District of Columbia .. Protest on Caffey Unheeded . The President declined to heed the protests of Senator Wagner and Tammany Democrats , and renamed Francis G. Caffey , an opponent of the Tammany organization , for the Southern District . John M. Woolsey and Alfred C. Coxe were the other nominees in the Southern district . Clarence G. Galston was appointed for the Eastern district . Judge George H. Furman of Suffolk County , N. Y. , is represented as being under consideration for the second place in the Eastern District . He has been a county judge six years and served eleven years as District Attorney of that county . Today 's New York appointments are said to be acceptable to the New York members of the House , who , led by Representative Snell ; opposed the original set-up which made Messrs . Hilles . Machold and Hill the distributers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York members thought a Democrat should not have been named . The Other Renominations . The other Coolidge judgeship appointees renominated today were : Circuit Judge , Eighth Circuit Archibald K. Gardner of South Dakota . Circuit Judge , Ninth Circuit -- Curtis D. Wilbur of California . Circuit Judges , Tenth Circuit ? George D. of Kansas and Orie L. Phillips of New Mexico . District Judge , District of South Dakota ? A. Lee Wyman of South Dakota . Harry H. Glassie of Washington was not renamed for additional judge of the District of Columbia Supreme Court . In his place Alfred A. Wheat was selected . J. Lyles Glenn of South Carolina , a Democrat , associated with Mr. Hoover in Belgian relief work , was appointed to the additional judgeship in the Eastern and Western districts of South Carolina . He cap- tul'ed this place over the recommendations of Senators Blease and many leading Republicans , who had recommended Representative F. H. Dominick of Newberry , S. C. Mr. Glenn is 37 years old . Today 's appointments represented the first patronage to go to New York under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House members , they are satisfied because they hold the political triumvirate was not recognized , the selections resulting chiefly from influence of the bar associations and leading lawyers , it was stated . Generally speaking the New York selections were received with satisfaction , and Senators Wagner and Copeland assured the President of their support . Hoover Sets a Precedent . President Hoover established a precedent in making public the endorsers of the judicial nominations . Former Secretary Wilbur was the only one of the eleven appointees whose endorsers were not made public by the White House . It is understood this selection was personal to both President Hoover and Mr. Coolidge and that no list of endorsers was filed with the Department of Justice . Brief sketches of the appointees which were sent to the Senate show that with the exception of Mr. Glenn most of the appointees are men of middle age , who have won a reputation at the bar and commended themselves to their associates in their communities . In New York the bar associations and leading attorneys suggested the men for judicial places , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Machold and Hill Sketches of the Appointees . Francis G. Caffey was a leading figure in the Wilson Administration . He served as Socilitor for the Department of Agriculture in the Wilson Administration and as United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York from 1917 to 1921 . He has been independent of the Democratic machine in New York and thereby won Tammany 's disapproval . Alfred C. Coxe was graduated from Yale in 1901 and has been an active Practitioner for many years at the State and Federal bars in New York . He was highly endorsed . John M. Woolsey , the third selec , ! Lion for the Southern District , is 52 jyears old and an admiralty lawyer of note . : le was educated at Phillips Academy , Yale University and Columbia Law School . He was admitted to the bar of New York State in 1901 and has practiced ever since . Clarence G. Gaiston , named in the Eastern District , is also 52 years old . He was educated in the College of the City of New York and was graduated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was an instructor in mathematics , English and logic in the City College from 1895 to 1900 , also a lecturer on patent law at the Brooklyn Law School , and has long been a member of the firm of Warner , Johnson &; Garton . Curtis Was Long On Bench , The other appointees are well known in their respective communities . Former Secretary Wilbur was Chief Justice of the California Supreme Court when he resigned to accept a Cabinet place . Previous to that he had been District Attorney in Los Angeles County , a member of the Superior Court and has served twenty-one years on the bench . Archibald K. Gardner of South Dakota , appointee to the Eighth Circuit , has been a leading attorney in his State and has served years as State 's Attorney of Pennington County . He is a graduate in law from the State University of Iowa . Judge has served as Federal District Judge for the District of Kansas since Jan. 28. 1.928 . Ode L. Phillips , also named in the Tenth Circuit , has been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member of the New Mexico State Senate and a District . Attorney . A. Lee Wyman , who was named district judge of the South . Dakota District , is next to the youngest appointee . He is 44 years old , has practiced law since his graduation from the State University and served in the State Legislature and as State 's Attorney . The endorsement of the New York appointees , which represent the leading members of the bar , show that political influence did not determine the selections . In issuing the long list of endorsements for all the judicial places announcement was made at the White House that this policy would be followed in other cases . Endorsers have not been made public in this fashion in the past . List of the Endorsors . Those endorsing Mr. Woolsey were : Judiciary committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York , Charles Evans Hughes , Thomas W. Swan , circuit judge ; Augustus N. Hand , circuit judge : Edmund Waddill Jr. , circuit judge ; Martin T. . Manton , circuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Knox , district judge ; Charles D. Hines , William H. Hill , H. Edmund Machold , Frederick R. Coildent , Howard Thayer Kingsbury . Goldthwaite H. Dorr . William E. Evarts , Charles E. Hughes Jr. , Rol ) ert M. Marsh , Mark W. Maclay , Courtlandt Nicoll . Ezra P. Prentice , Beverly R. Robinson , Elihu Root Jr .. Kenneth M. Spence , Henry Root Stern . Among those who endorsed Mr. Coxe were Charles Evans Hughes . . Tudges Learned Hand , Thomas W. Swan and Augustus N. Hand , George Whitefield Betts Jr. , Lansing P. Reed , Morris Leon , Charles D. Hilles , Edmond Machold , William H. Hid . Eonnoth M. Spence , Thomas New York Patent Law Association and the Judiciary Committee of 1 ! : e Association of the Bar of the City ee New York . Endorsers of Gaffey . The endorsers of Francis G. Caffey were as follows : The Judiciary Committee of the Association of the Ear of the City of New York , Charles Evans Hughes , John W. Davis , Augustus TT . Hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dykman , Charles S. Haight , Frank L. Polk , Acielbert Moot of Buffalo , Thomas W. Swan , George W. Wickersham , John Lord O'Brien , Buffalo ; Henry G. - Ward . Eldon Bisbee . William D. Guthrie . Cornelius J. Smythe , Carl A. Mea. ! , George Whitefield Betts Jr. , Benjamin N. Cardozo , Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals , State of New York ; Thomas D. Thacher and John ' C. Knox . Supporters of Gaiston . Among those who endorsed Mr. Gaiston were the following : Board of Governers , New York Patent Law Association ; George W. Wickersham , Nathan Miller , Robert L. Bacon , Henry W. Holmes , dean Graduate School of Education , Harvard University ; C. C. Burlingham . Henry W. Taft , Judge Hand , James A. Foley , Surrogate ; Justice ? Thomas W. Churchill , Justice George H. Taylor Jr. , Charles D. Hines , William H. Hill , H. E. Machold , Frank L. Polk , Judge Frederick Crane of the Court of Appeals ; George W. Schurman , Henry A. Wise , Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kenyon , Dean Emery , Justice Jeremiah T. Mahoney , William Barclay Parsons , Hubert Howson . Maurice Hotchner ? Charles A. Jacobson , C. J. Sawyer , George P. Nicholson , Hamilton C. Rixaby , Robert H. Neilson , David C. Bennett , Edwin J. Prindle and Justice F. B. Delehanty . Among those who commended Mr. Wheat are the following : George W. Wickersham , Charles Downer Hazon , head of the Department of History , Columbia University ; Judge Manton . Judge Learned Hand , William Church Osborn , Charles W. Littlefield , Charles C. Burlingham , Samuel Seabury . Isidor J. Kresel , Morton C. Finch , Francis G. Caffey , James M. Beck , John S. Wise Jr .. James A. O'Gorman , George Gordon Battle , ex-Governor Charles S. Whitman , Justice Edward R. Finch , Judge Cardoso and James W. Wadsworth.                     