@@687777

txt A midnight encounter between George H. Broadhurst of New York , theatrical producer and playwright , and J. B. Symon , a wealthy contractor of San Francisco , in the . author 's cabin on the steamer Columbia , which arrived here this afternoon from San Francisco , resulted in the arrest of Symon on the charge of assaulting Broadhurst on the high seas . Symon was arrested by Department of Justice agents , who had been notified by wireless of the attack . After conference with United States District Attorney Robert R. Carman Broadhurst placed the charge against Symon and the formal arrest was ' made . Symon was arraigned before United States Commissioner Supplee and released on $5,000 bail for further hearing . He did not take the stand , and refused to make a statement for publication . At the hearing Broadhurst described the attack upon him in his stateroom on the night of - May 26 , that Commissioner Supplee afterward characterized as a " practically murderous assault . " Shortly after 11 o'clock on the night of the attack , Broadhurst testified , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabin , he went into the hallway . He addressed occupants of the room saying : " Boys , you 've had a nice long party and now I suggest that you get to bed and give somebody else a chance . " Retiring to .. his cabin , he said - he climbed into a berth and lay there for five or ten minutes . Suddenly a man whom he recognized as ? Symon , stripped of clothing , rushed into his cabin , grabbed him and hurled him to the floor , his head striking against a trunk . He said Symon hit him several blows in the face and kicked him in the groin . He then lapsed into a semi-conscious condition . He is still under a doctor 's care , he said . Under cross-examination Broadhurst said he had twice changed his stateroom aboard ' the steamer because of the noise . Joseph J. Mahoney of San Francisco , a passenger on the steamer , testified for the defense . He practically corroborated Broadhurst 's testimony , except that he said Broadhurst had entered Symon 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in holding Symon under bond , said that the - character of the attack really constituted felonious attack upon the high seas . The charge was not preferred , however . The attack ' occurred after the steamer had left the Panama Canal and was nearing Havana . Baltimore is the first American port at which the ? vessel docked after the occurrence and charges were preferred here . After the hearing , Broadhurst returned to the Columbia to resume his trip to New York . Mrs. L. T. Bradley , who is Broadhurst 's stage director , is said to have threatened Symon  --  with a. : revolver . Mrs. Bradley denied the charge , but admitted she loaned her ' revolver to ( nip- of the ship 's officers , who she said asked her for it . as he believed he would need it to quell the trouble . Mrs. Bradley said she was asked to go into Broadhurses stateroom b5%.1 . J. Mahoney , a passenger . Mahoney ; she said , told her to see if she could not do something , as " Symon was killing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bradley said , she found Symon on top of Broadhurst , who appeared to be bleeding from -a number of injuries . Mrs. Bradley said , Broadhurst had been suffering from a severe cold and had a temperature of 103 . He had been attended by the ship 's surgeon . Dr. Moore. - Mrs. Bradley charged that he was hardly able to walk when Symon , who , she : alleged , was intoxicated ; attacked him in his stateroom and beat . him up . A report of a midnight ? attack is entered upon the logs of the ship and , under maritime laws , constitutes an offense which carries with it a severe penalty . Captain Andrew Thompson of the Columbia , however , endeavored to hush up the matter . He interrupted Broadhurst when the latter was being interviewed by reporters who met the vessel , saying that it was not necessary for him to make a statement to newspaper men and , turning to them , threatened , " Get out or I will have you escorted out . " The Columbia was four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She left San Francisco May 3 , and was detained in Central American ports by extra heavy cargoes . She carried ninety-two passengers , of whom thirty-five left the ship at Baltimore . Although Mr. Broadhurst would not speak of the assault , he told of his stay In California , where he said he wrote a new play that is to be produced at Atlantic City on July 10 . It is a comedy drama and has not yet been named . George H. Broadhurst has been prominent here as a theatrical producer , theatre owner and playwright for a number of years . He is principal owner of the BrOadhurst Theatre , in Forty-fourth Street . and is also interested in the Forty-eighth Street Theatre . During the early part of last season he produced several plays here , but when the season gave evidence of being below normal he suspended his activities temporarily and took an ocean trip . As a playwright he is best known for " Bought and Paid For , " which was revived here- only a few months ago . His first success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " produced twenty-five years ago , and revived by Mr. Broadhurst at the Forty-eighth Street Theatre two seasons ago . It was Mr. Broadhurst , also , who rewrote " Within the Law , " one Of the great successes of its day in the theatre . - " The Man of the Hour " was another Broadhurst success , and he was part author of " The Law of the Land , " ' , Today , " " Why Smith Left Home , " ' ? The Crimson Alibi " and perhaps a score of plays in all . As ? a producer he has chiefly presented his own plays in recent years . " Tarzan of -- the Apes , " with which he opened the Broadhurst Theatre ? last August , was in part his . own work , but his second and last production , of the season , " The Elton Case , " was the work of ' ad-other ? plaS7- ?                     