@@685424

txt A serious traffic situation has developed in the Southwegt since last Autumn . As a result , that territory alone now holds more old wheat than the surplus carried over by the United States in the preceding year , and another harvest is about to begin . The market value of that wheat approximates $150,000,000 . Adequate transportation would quickly convert this wheat into money , and make a vast addition to bank deposits . But until it is given transportation facilities , Kansas banks must carry a vast amount of wheat paper . It is to be assumed the Commerce Commission will do what it can to relieve the traffic congestion , and through it , the credit situation . But it has not yet taken proper steps . It has ordered return of cars to different lines , so as to give each one its own normal equipment . This is eminently fair , assuming the volume of traffic to be the same in all parts of the grain belt . But in practice it does not work out that way . Under this order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no great accumulation of grain , and the crop movement will not begin until late in September . The Southwest , theoretically , gets 7,650 cars . Of these at least 3,300 belong to the Atchison , which for weeks have been tied up at Galveston , where nearly 5,000 loaded cars are awaiting opportunity to unload . Possibly , here is something too the attention of the Shipping Board . Meanwhile , the Atchison , which serves the earliest harvesting territory , and the Missouri Pacific in the second earliest belt , get no cars . And in Texas the whirr of the harvesting machines will begin this week . But if every car allotted to the Southwest should arrive at Kansas City this morning , and every one suitable for carrying wheat , the elevators of that one market would fill them full , and still need more . Then every country elevator would call for cars . Wheat running into millions of bushels is heaped up in the open , waiting for cars . There arc no bins on Kansas farms , nor buildings in which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places . A torrent is needed , but a driblet is given . Plainly the Commerce Commission did not take into consideration the volume of traffic at this point . It is an element of greatness in any man to be able to see and acknowledge a mistake . It is to be hoped the commission will reverse itself or at least modify its order , so this great producing section can relieve the credit situation to the extent of its enormous surplus of farm products . Bryan says " Republican chances are in danger " ? which means he is losing hope of the Democratic nomination .                     