@@687531

txt In a criticism of the Stock Exchange which might almost have been designed to avenge the bucket shops upon that institution , Samuel Untermyer makes an assertion for which he might well be invited to furnish'proof . His bold assumption that nobody in ' America is likely to confute his statement is not sufficient . lie says : " The Exchange should be subject to the supervision and regulaticin of state authority . The first of these regulating restrictions would be to prohibit brokers from speculating , as in Great Britain and other countries , where brokers are required to be brokers and brokers only . " Has Mr. Untermyer ever read the rules of the London Stock Exchange ? Can he specify a single rule which prohibits " speculation " by a broker there ? Those who differ from him are not called upon to prove a negative . Mr. Untermyer makes a positive assertion . Where the " other " stock exchanges are he does ' not say . He thinks there is no copy of the London Stock Exchange rules to be had in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own ? if he has one . He is mistaken . Those rules prohibit speculating by employes of London Stock Exchange hotises , whether they arc members of the exchange or not . There are many members who are employed by other members , or as the London Stock Exchange rules put it , " clerks authorized to transact business " for the firm which employs them . These employes can not speculate there and like employes can not speculate in New York , as Mr. Untermyer knows . If Mr. Untermycr is thinking of the suspension of the London Stock Exchange fortnightly settlements during the war , and the restriction to trading for cash , he might gather , from the New York Stock Exchange itself , which does all its business on a cash basis , that this was not directed , against speculation , which does not depend upon a fortnightly settlement . But perhaps Mr. Untermyer will favor us with sonic English statute law on the subject . But any member of the London Stock Exchange who is in business for himself can speculate to the extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in his actual transactions on the floor , whether he is speculating or not . If he makes a purchase he can finance it through his bank or in any legitimate way he chooses . Even if he pays for it outright he may be speculating or he may be investing . The London Stock Exchange committee does not assume to say . Like Mr. Untermyer and this news-. paper , . andj the judges of any court United States ; ' here AiiveStinentiiion444d : suited : front speculation by thef.bankrUpi not-only in stocks but in real estate , cotton , clothing , coffee , leather ' and scores of other things . Unfortunately it is a common incident in many , lines of business. , Any law Which attempted to supervise such a thing could not be confined to the Stock Exchange . It would have to take in overtrading anywhere . But if that overtrading is fraudulent there is already ample law to meet the necessities of the case . Mr. Untermyer knows well enough that the New York Stock Exchange is not above the law . Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of such lawyers as himself , and this is his chief grievance . Litigation is at best a means and , in the present condi-. tions of American law , a most uncertain means . But Mr. Untermyer thinks it is an end and , so far as he is concerned ; a highly profitable end . " Austria wants loan of . $:300,000.000 to stabilize her . currency "  --  and might even get some of it if she scrapped the printing press and scaled her billions to a gold basis .                     