@@695714

txt Negotiations are under way between representatives of the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corp. , the Equitable Coach Co. and the City looking to a reallocation of bus routes in Brooklyn and Queens . The Equitable received franchises for bus routes in the boroughs of Queens , Brooklyn and Nranb.ttan a year ago last spring with a 5-cent fare . It has been unable up to date to secure a certificate of convenience and necessity from the Transit C.ornmis.don . It is understood the company has not been able to obtain financial backing . It would not be surprising if in the near future T. took over control of the Equitable or if the Board of Estimate reallocated the bus routes in Brooklyn and Queens to the B.-M . T. surface lines , possibly including the Brooklyn City Railroad after an agreement among the parties involved had been reached . The bus situation has held up any active negotiations between the City and the B.-M . T. on a merger of the new city subway with the company 's rapid transit lines . Conversations along this line . however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bus franchises has been reached it is likely active discussions will occur . In fact , it is not unlikely the city will use its control over bus franchises to its advantage in any subway merges negotiations . Negotiations are also in progress between representatives of Equitable Coach Co .. New York Railways Corp . and the city as to the disposition of the bus franchises for Manhattan . The companies are maintaining that a much better public service could be rendered if the sus lines were coordinated with the existing surface lines . The Equitable has apparently not been able to obtain financial support on the basis of a 5-cent fare to which it is limited under the franchise award , due to the fact bus companies have not generally been able to earn a satisfactory return on their investment with such a fare . With the bus situation cleared up , the ritvr year may bring forth developments in the way of a rapid tranait merger of the ? city line and the B. : ? 12. -T lines Particularly is this likely if the Interborough Rapid Transit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase its fare to 7 cents- Otherwise the city PArnintstration might not care to make any move until after the Mayoralty election next fall , using the 5-cent fare as a campaign issue . However , if a merger on a 5-cent fare basis could be worked out it would be a substantial accomplishment to which the city administration could point with pride in the campaign .                     