@@695109

txt Since his unhappy adventure in Corfu nearly five years ago Premier MUSSOLINI has been a good friend of peace in Europe , in deeds if not always in words . His latest declaration on foreign policy shows an excellent temper . There is a noticeable absence of the challenging phrases which were a luxury he formerly would not deny himself even when his actions showed restraint . His earlier contempt for anything that smacked of " idealism " has grown much softer on a topic like the League of Nations . He still permits himself to doubt the " mythological virtues " ascribed to the League by some , but admits that it is an organization which has proved useful in the past and may be expected to show its worth in the future . One might see a threat in the Premier 's allusion to his favorite date , somewhere between the years 1935 and 1940 , when Europe , according to his way of thinking , must : be prepared for great events . But that is , after all , from half a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be grateful for a sane and statesmanlike Fascist foreign policy in the meanwhile . In detail the Mussolini position today comprises notably improved relations with France  --  his language in the matter of the Tangier negotiations is almost un-Roman in friendliness  --  and a desire to live at peace with Yugoslavia . It has been the custom to speak of MUSSOLINI 'S series of agreements and rapprochements with Rumania , Hungary and Greece as a part of a plan for the " encirclement " of Yugoslavia ; and no doubt considerations of balance of power in Southeastern Europe have entered in . On the other hand , it is not quite just to Italy to accept without reservation the pre-war tradition in Europe that an international agreement with somebody must always be an agreement against somebody else . Italy 's need for peace , if MUSSOLINI 'S grandiose schemes of drastic internal reform are to have a chance of success , is obvious . . Responsibility for recurrent periods of tension between Rome and Belgrade is by no means onesided . Even the problem of Albania may be studied without imputing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an earlier Mussolini period shows itself in that part of the Premier 's speech which deals with disarmament . The conditions which he lays down are not too modest . He is willing to cut down Italian armament as far as any one else in Europe , but not more . For his own country he demands parity with the best-armed nation on the Continent . But it is not altogether unlikely that on this question , too , if it should come down to actual ways and means , Signor MUSSOLINI will be a bit more conciliatory than when he is engaged in laying down general principles . How far power and responsibility have sobered the Fascist international attitude is exemplified in the Premier 's words of admonition to his countrymen in the United States . Italians who have become American citizens are reminded that with respect to the mother country they are now foreigners , and the hint is broad that they are not to trouble our own peace with echoes of Italian quarrels . Even for the unnaturalized Italians in this country there is the reminder that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , discipline and personal dignity . " It is a message which both our pro and anti Fascists should lose no time in taking to heart .                     