@@695133

txt Considerable irregularity was . displayed on the Stock Exchange Saturday . In the early dealings new liquidation caused reactions , but later in the session some of the traders who hal put out short lines on the recovery Wednesday were covering to even their accounts for the week-end and this caused rallies in a number of stocks . Statements are made that there are many stop orders in the market just under prevailing levels . These are for the purpose of protecting accounts against any new sharp decline , and part of the pressure which has developed in many issues from bear trader* has been attributed to efforts by this element to start a new wave of liquidation . Sharp decline in the averages on Friday caused many to expect a recovery but observers were advising their customers to lighten their long accounts during any good rally , so that when certain stocks moved forayer in the late dealings Saturday outside selling increased moderately . Sentiment around the Street continues cautious and is inclined to be pessimistic . Outsiders are being advised against long purchases at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will develop which may bring many stocks to more attractive buying levels . Meanwhile most interests are advocating a policy at prices under the recent lows . Trading Commission houses were sellers on balance again . Outsiders put out stocks in the early dealings and again late in the session when some stocks rallied from their early lows . Only small new buying developed on the reactions . Professional operators and floor traders were buyers on balance as a result of the short covering from this element which was active toward the end of the session . These traders were closing their commitments for the weekend . Trade Spotty Weekly reviews continue to report unevenness in trade conditions , influenced particularly by weather conditions . Where the weather has been favorable there has been a comparatively good demand for seasonal products . On the other hand complaint is still made of sluggishness in many lines . Basic industries are showing the normal let-up for this time of the year . This is true notably of steel , which is likely to report further curtailment in operations and new buying in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally expected . Scale Buying There has been evidence of meagre scale buying in recent sessions. but this demand has appeared only when reactions were attractive . Such purchasing also occurs after the market has suffered a sharp setback and indicates that there has been moderate replacement of long lines which were sold at higher levels . It is not likely that this buying will become expensive or be a market influence until it is definitely shown that conditions have improved all around . Pools Dormant Several pools , actively operating up to about two weeks ago , have been doing little in recent sessions . In fact it is maintained that several groups were among the first to get out of their stocks when the market showed a tendency toward lower levels . With such operations eliminated , trading has been reduced and some of the rather impressive advances which occurred in specialties under group domination may be missing for a time . Public lValting Commission houses report that even the custoniel who have been out of the market for the past two weeks have shown no inclination to return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarters that stocks will reach lower levels before they are ready to start a new sustained upturn . Heretofore this public buying has been the foundation when the market has been reactionary . Concessions in prices attracted an outside demand which not only absorbed the offerings but turned the market upward again This factor is now absent said : s likely to be until there has been a substantial decrease in brokers ' loans and conservative market students again adopt a constructive view . Gold Exports Considerable comment is heard regarding gold exports . Some interests state that there is as yet no indication the Federal Reserve Board will relinquish its efforts to keep money away from speculative channels and point to the earmarking of an additional $45,000,000 gold for French account as a straw in the wind . In this connection , however . it is maintained in other ! quarters that gold shipments to Prance will not seriously interfere with reserves in this country , inasmuch as the stabilization of the franc appears probable within the next 30 days . Oils Better market for the oil shares has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the recessions there is reported to have been good accumulation of the leading oil stocks for the account of important interests who have taken a more favorable attitude toward this group . It is maintained that consumption of gasoline this year probably will break all records , which should make for favorable earnings for the refining companies , and much is expected in the last six months of this year . Motors Judging from the selling which has come into the motor group from time to time the opinion ls spreading that these companies have passed the peak of their sales and earnings . This view has been expressed on numerous occasons In the past two weeks by traders who have been sellers of the motor issues . Stop loss orders were uncovered in the motor stocks recently , which eliminated part of the long following in this group . Motor Company Profits On August 25 , 1921 , Maxwell Motor B could have been purchased at $8 a share , and on the same date General Motors sold at Sri , . Investment of $100 would have shown as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent Chrysler stock for the Maxwell was $3,981 , while that of General Motors was $1,534 . Exclusive of dividends Chrysler has increased in the ratio of approximately 40 to 1 , compared with 15i , to 1 for General Motors . Total dividends which would have been received on the original $100 invested in Chrysler amount to $337.50 against $213.75 for General Motors . Coppers Copper industry is in good condition and further im- provement later in the year would be in line.wifia predictions heard in that trade recently . Copper shares suffered with others during the reactions and are not expected to move contrary to any general trend in the market , but there has been good scale buying in some of these stocks on the theory that eventually they will reflect the changes for the better which have come in this industry . Increased dividends are expected by several companies if the trade improvement continues . American International Although there has been outside liquidation in - American International recently by those who followed the last big bulge in the stock , the bulk of the selling has come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discounted its immediate prospects . Considerable discussion is heard of the book losses which must have been recorded by the company on its stock holdings during the decline from the high records . Nevertheless there are certain interests who consider the issue a purchase on sharp setbacks in the future . Electric Storage Battery Electric Storage Battery is expected to show good increases in earnings in the second half of the year . It is normal for this company to report its best business in the later months and predictions are heard that 1928 will be better than 1927 in this connection . Company 's new power unit for radios placed on the market late last year has been meeting with a good reception and this is likely to make for the stabilization of earnings in the future . Moderate buying in the stock recently has been credited to important Philadelphia interests . National Power d Light National Power Light is one of the low-priced utilities likely to meet with an outside demand when the market again turns upward . Many observers favor the issue because of the theory that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerns . Territories now served are growing in industrial importance and new districts will be added n the future . Manhattan Shirt Earnings and balance sheet of Manhattan Shirt have been showing steady improvement in the past several years . while net income for the fiscal year ended November 30 , last , was the best since 1923 . Interests in the company are expecting continued growth in the coming years . Stock is down materially from its high of the year , and shows a fair yield at present prices on its $2 a share annual dividend . Railroads Outsiders , anxious to take a long position on reactions , are being urged by many brokers to give preference to the railroad shares . It is the view that this group will not suffer in reactions to the extent that industrials are likely to decline , while the improved outlook for car loadings and earnings may make leaders in the rails the features on a recovery . Pennsylvania There has been evidence at times of excellent scale buying in Pennsylvania . The stock has been well taken during weak periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made for a demonstration of strength against the trend of other issues . Some investment firms report that they have been getting buying orders in the stock , and odd lot transactions have been larger than in some time . St. Louis Southwestern St. Louis Southwestern continues to be in favor in quarters where the outlook for the railroads is given most consideration . It is maintained that the prospects for good earnings and the possibilities of the road figuring in one of the mergers of the future make the issue a favorite among the so-called speculative rail shares .                     