@@692256

txt A step toward the conservation of ' surplus milk production during seasonal periods has been taken in the incorporation of the United Milk Products Corporation , with a capitalization of $25,000,000 of cumulative 7 per cent . preferred stock and 250,000 shares of no par value common stock . The merger embraces approximately twelve companies , having about fifty plants located in New York , Michigan , Oregon , Ohio , California and other parts of the United States . The financing of the corporation has been completed and its securities are now being dealt in in Wall Street . It is said that all of the securities have been placed with investors . ' The principal products handled by the consolidated company are evaporated milk , powdered milk , barrel sweetened and wholesale fresh milk . The ' plan for conservation , of production and elimination of seasonal surplus had its inception with the officials of the Western Reserve Condensed Milk Company , an Ohio corporation , which has done a national business foi more than twenty years and has its headquarters at Cleveland . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the merger finally resulted . Harry N. Gifford of Chicago is President and Clarence L. Bartsche of Cleveland is Chairman of the board . The Vice Presidents are Fred B. Childs of Chicago and James L. Harris of Ilkhorn , Wis . Phillip L. Hames of Cleveland is Secretary and Treasurer . The f6llowing statement was authorized yesterday on behalf of the new corporation : " Stimulation of milk production , con-. servation of waste and economy of distributVn are imperative in the industry at the present time . Under the terms of the new merger provision is contemplated to assist in having available adequate supplies of milk when production is at its low ebb and consumption in the large centres of population is at its height . Liberal consideration has been given to economical methods of handling and distribution and some original methods are to be put into actual practice , such as the use of sanitary glass-lined transportation equipment by rail and motor truck . " Atkins Heads Punta Alegre Sugar . R. W. Atkins of Boston was elected President of the Punta Alegre Sugar Company at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was previously Vice President and Treasurer , succeeds his father , E. F. Atkins , who will continue as a director . Two Roads Buy 40 Locomotives . The Baldwin Locomotive Works has , received orders for forty locomotives , of which twenty-five were for the Baltimore &; Ohio and fifteen for the Atchison , Topeka &; Santa Fe.                     