@@695880

txt There need , be no doubt about the reception by other powers of the proposal based on Senator Capper 's resolution if the United States should make it . The reception would be enthusiastic . It would be received as a great step toward bridging the gap between the United States and the League of Nations , a gap which - was not closed by the Kellogg treaty . Not only would the adoption by Washington of the policy outlined by Senator Capper be a great supplement to the Kellogg treaty but it would also contribute enormously toward solving the problems which now represent issues between the American and other governments . It would , for example , leave the freedom of the seas issue representing a small instead of an immense difference between Washington and London . At the Quai d'Orsay this afternoon a spokesman for the French Government said that the Capper resolution was of transcendent importance and represented an entirely logical sequence to the presentation of the anti-war pact by America to the world . Strengthening of the Covenant . And why should not other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's declaration that she would enforce an economic blockade against a nation violating the Kellogg Pact . A violator of the Kellogg Pact would in all human likelihood be a violator of the League Covenant and League members have agreed to take measures , including an economic blockade , against any nation going to war in violation of the commitments under the League Covenant . True enough , the League Covenant envisages other and more drastic measures , but , as Senator Capper says , the assurance beforehand that a breaker of world peace could not count on aid from the United States would be a powerful deterrent to any planning to make a war of aggression . Further than that , every meeting of the League of Nations which has tried to plan definite measures to apply to a breaker of world peace has been up against the danger that an economic blockade would result only in trade being shifted from League members to America ana also up against the danger that in the case of a blockade of peacebreaking nations America 's doctrine of freedom of the seas might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis between the United States and the nations carrying out the blockade on behalf of the League . Use of Our Navy Not Expected . If Senator Capper 's idea goes through , ? this trouble would be largely removed . America would be committed not to supply nations breaking the peace and that would make us parties , in effect , to any economic blockade , and as for a naval blockade , we would scarcely be expected to use our fleet to enforce rights to carry on a trade we had already branded as illegal . It will be recalled that Sir Austen Chamberlain stated in the House of Commons that the Kellogg treaty would be important or unimportant as a factor in world relations depending on whether or not the American people got behind it . There can be no doubt that adoption of the policy advocated by Senator Capper would be construed as America getting behind her treaty . Of course , there would remain the fact that the President of the United States would decide for America which was the aggressor nation , whereas other nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to Aggressor . But it is regarded as entirely likely that the League Council 's decision would be the same as that of the President or vice versa . Especially so since the Capper resolution provides for negotiations with other nations which might very easily lead to further steps to cover what is regarded as the remote possibility of the President and the League not agreeing on who was the aggressor or , in other words , who was the violator of the anti-war pact and at the same time violator of the League Covenant . It is believed that the carrying out of the Capper program would result in further solidarity between the United States and other nations for the preservation of world peace . It is pointed out here that there would be room for discussion as to what would constitute materials of war . However , if further provision referring to aid or comfort would be taken to include products , other than munitions or implements of war , which would be useful in the prosecution of war , there appears to be ample room for agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are many issues to be debated , but what is regarded here as important is that America is willing to help put teeth in the Kellogg Pact and to join with other nations in punishing any violator of that pact , it always being emphasized that it is expected that a violator of the Kellogg Pact would always stack up as a violator of the League Covenant . End of " Neutrality " Envisaged . Any student of the situation will see at once the vast importance of the ? Capper proposal on the freedom of the sea issue , which is especially important between Britain and the The American position In favor of the freedom of navigation in time of war outside territorial waters for all neutrals would naturally be changed basically if , in effect , there were to be no more neutrals . If the Capper plan went into effect , no nation in the world of any importance would be neutral in the old acceptance of the word . There could no longer be any question , as in 1915 and 1916 , of the right of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation if we took the position that we would not trade with a nation which wrongfully went to war . And , presuming that we would agree with other nations on the aggressor nation and that all would help the attacked nation , it appears at once that most probabilities of such troubles would vanish of themselves . If we had declared it illegal to send arms or munitions or give aid or comfort to an offending nation , how could we maintain our rights of trade with such a nation ? If the League powers put into effect a blockade against a warring nation , how could we insist upon our right to break that blockade , no matter where enforced on the high seas , if we had agreed that such trading was illegal ? Thus the position would be similar to that existing at the Paris peace conference where President Wilson dropped his demand for freedom of the seas on the ground that if all the nations of the world were members of the League there would be no neutrals in future wars , so that the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Attitude Welcomed . Comment was made here that It might turn out to be unfortunate that Senator Capper referred to our policing the world to preserve peace as an alternative to his plan , for , regardless of our views , it is not the general understanding of the other signatories of the Kellogg pact that any one signatory nation reserves unto itself any special rights or duties in preserving the peace . However , the Senator 's auxiliary statement will doubtless be lost sight of in the view of the larger i-portance of the prospect of real American cooperation in maintaining peace or restoring peace when it has been broken . It would be going too far to say that the adoption of the Capper policy would mean America 's assuming the same attitude ' as League members toward a peace-breaking nation . The League Covenant provides for active blockading and further steps , if decided by the League Council and the interested governments . However , the Capper policy would mean that America was going part of the way , and a most important part , because , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the importance of a naval blockade would become measureably less . It is no exaggeration to say that Senator Capper proposes just what the League of Nations , especially Britain , has been hoping from the United States for the past five or six years and , if adopted by the Congress and put into execution , will mark very important progress in the coordination of efforts to preserve world peace . LINKS MOVE TO COOLIDGE . Sauerwein in Paris Matin Says lie May Be Inspiring Capper . Special Cable , to THI1 Nrw Yonx num . PARIS , web . ** Matin tomorrow morning is publishing under a prominent heading on the first page a Washington dispatch which gives the substance of Senator Capper 's resolution . Commenting editorially therein , Jules Sauerwein says : " The proposition of the honorable Senator from Kansas is of the greatest importance , because Mr. Capper is known in Washington to be very close to the President and undoubtedly has taken the advice of Mr. Coolidge before adopting this course . " It seems that the President before quitting the White House wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in agreement with his successor , Mr. Hoover , who on his part has decided to send Elihu Root to Europe to study questions concerning the entrance of the United States into the International Court of Justice . " Mr. Capper 's proposition means that in case of war the United States will not allow itself to remain neutral . It will decide itself who is the aggressor and against this aggressor it will take action which is equivalent to an economic blockade . " It is inconceivable that the Government of the United States will assume an attitude contrary to the attitude of the League of Nations in such circumstances . The new project fortifies powerfully all that has been done so far for the maintenance of peace . " It may also be supposed that the government of the United States will withdraw all protection from its nationals who privately Lind money to an aggressor . " The fact that ti.c United States would seek an understanding with other nations for reciprocal operation of these conditions only enhances the great international value of this initiative . It is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which can not be over-estimated , will be ratified by the United States Senate . "                     