@@691025

txt Chicago aroused itself yesterday , determined to fight for the preservation of Its Health . At the offices of the sanitary heard drainage officials received many offers of help in obtaining immediate relief from the war department in the form of a permit that will permit the district to withdraw 10,000 cubic feet per second from Lake Michigan to dispose of the area 's sewago and waste , Most of the offers of assistance came by telegraph or telephone , but many officials and private citizens came in person to volunteer their services . Congressman Martin D. Madden of Chicago through his secretary urged President Lawrence F. King of the board and the trustees to come to Washington at once and meet with the Illinois delegation and determine upon I la course of action . President King advised him that the Chicago delegation would probably leave Sunday following the massmeeting planned for Saturday afternoon in the council chamber . 6,000 Invited to Meeting. - Yesterday 6,000 Invitations went out from the sanitary district addressed to private citizens , members of the state legislature , city , state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the district , bankers , civic ergo/1W , I lions , hotels and physicians asking i , them to attend the meeting which is I set for 1 o'clock Saturday . IThe meeting will be advised of the situation created by the United States Supreme court 's order directing the reduction of water withdrawal froth Lake Michigan from 10.000 to 4.167 eunic feet ago crisis will come today at meetings of the Chicago Association Of . COM ? merco at noon In the hotel La Salle and of the Chicago public affairs committee in the evening . Ilundesen Is Aroused . New perils if the federal Court 's order Is carried out ln sixty days were recited by Ilealth Commissioner Berman N. Bundesen . Ho said : Any increase in the pollution Of the Lake will Impair the effectiveness of chlorine for safeguarding the public water . Additional sewage that would undoubtedly follow If only 4,167 cubic feet of water were diverted would tax the chlorinator equipment beyond its capacity . The first step of the drainage trustees will be to seek relief from Secretary of War Weeks and it la @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorizing the district to continue its usual withdrawals . Regardless of what action he tapes , it was rolnied out , the relief is only temporary and any permanent assurance of sanitation must come by congressional action . The war department , it was noted , could at any time revoke the permit and the situation now confronting the district would be renewed . ? Favor Madden 's Bill . Congressman Madden 's bill , known as house- bill No. 7,044 , is the one on which the sanitary district officials will most likely concentrate . The bill ; long pending in the boom provides for the withdrawal of Water required by the district , not to exceed 10,000 cubic feet , and in turn the district is to pay to the federal government Its reasonable share of the cost of constructing the required works to control water levels in the great lakes . It further requires the board to con ? Brine with the installation of sewage purification plants so that within a period of twenty-five years the amount of raw sewage and waste Passing through the Des Plaines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the amount passing through : these streams now . Congressman M. A. Michaelson of Chicago also has a bill in the house which guarantees 10,000 cubic feet of water per second for the district . TRAIN KILLS TWO AT CROSSING . Seymour , lad .. Jan. ** Lewis . 63 . Ind an unidentified youth about 16 years old were kilted today when their ' wagon was struck by all interurban me four miles from here .                     