@@694924

txt A quarter of a million motorists , It is estimated . took advantage of the first fair Sunday of the spring of 1925 yesterday , and opened the auttimobile season on the drives of the city parks and the network of rural pavement throughout the county . The initial week-end touring proves more successful and somewhat less exasperating than during the closing Sundays of last fall , largely because of the experimental nature of yesterday 's outpouring . Congestion proved a frequent factor in stowing down traffic both in the city and out in the county , and it was evident that the thousands upon thousands of over Sunday excursionists w ho in season habitually weekend in Wisconsin , Indiana and downstate localities , have not yet ventured far from the city . Some Improvement Soled . As a result the highways were spared the burden of endless lines of inbound traffic . By sundown the incoming traffic was heaviest , from all directions , but few serious traffic Jams were reported . On the River road , the Rand road , Waukegan highway , Sheridan road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mannheim road and the south thoroughfares that include Western avenue , Cicero avenue , Misted street and Indianapolis avenue , tho density of traffic was heavy ; but on none of the arteries observed were there more than three or four minute waits . Partial widening of Roosevelt road , the widening of Ogden avenue , the elimination of the narrow curve at Glenview on the Waukegan road , offered evidence of benefits to the speed of traffic . Crowded in City . Within the city , points such as Montrose and Clarendon avenues . Ogden avenue and Sheridan road , Lawrence avenue and Sheridan , Ewing avenue from 101st to 95th street , Western avenue and 31st street , were scenes of almost constant congestion , with lines of waiting traffic backed up for several blocks . At Rand and River road . Dempster street and Waukegan road , St. Charles and Mannheim roads , and other grado highway crossings out in the county , the late afternoon travel caused froquent waits and the piling up of home hound motorists In lines from a quarter to halt a mile In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are nearly 60,000 more automobiles registered in Chicago this spring than a year ago . On the other hand more than 100 miles of new concrete highway were completed last year . This year 175 miles of new road are to be placed under contract in the county . The county highway department states that when its work is under way from sixty to ninety miles of road that was in use last year will be shut off from traffic . This will leave the road mileage about the same as last season , with traffic increased by about 60,000 vehicles .                     