@@685335

txt Debate on the peace resolution will end tomorrow and a final vote will be taken . Republican leaders said that the resolution would be adopted . Before the debate is brought to a close more Democratic Senators are to discuss it and some of those who have heretofore been stanchly loyal to President Wilson are expected to criticise him . The feeling aroused by the President 's telegram to G. E. Hamaker of Oregon , has grown as Senators have considered and analyzed the situation in which it places them and the party generally . Democratic criticism of President Wilson for his attitude as expressed in his telegram continued today in the Senate . In a characteristically bitter speech Senator Reed of Missouri , a Democrat , who has consistently opposed . the League of Nations covenant , flayed the President , and after telling what , in his opinion , the President had demanded of Democrats in the campaign , concluded with the words : " Madness could go no further . " Mr. Reed took - up the President 's statement that the Democrats must " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Keep faith with whom and wkat ? " Senator Reed asked . " The President , says in his telegram that he was authorized by the great fighting nations to inform the eneme. ? Germany , in other Words  --  that the League of Nations had been decided on . Our pledge then is to Germany . On - his speaking tour the President called the opponents of the league pro-German . Now we are told we must accept the league because we promised it to Germany . Warns of Democratic Fights . " No sane man believes it possible that the Peace Treaty can be ratified before March 4 , 11 ) 21 . If the Democratic Party writes into its platform a declaration for unconditional acceptance of the treaty . there can not be such a change made in the complexion of the Senate as would prevent its rejection . Nobody outside of a lunatic asylum believes unqualified ratification possible . " I wonder what will become of Democratic candidates foe re-election to the Senate with the treaty a party issue . Does not the position taken by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list of the Democratic Senators who voted for the Lodge reservations and who are seeking reelection . " How long can a party live if one ' man 's will is to be set up regardless of the political situation ? " Mr. Reed exclaimed . When he reached the name of Senator Gore of Oklahoma , Senator Reed said : " Woodrow Wilson would not have been nominated for President in 1912 if it had not been for Thomas P. Gore . I know that to be the " truth . " In one way or another , Mr. Reed said , all but six Democratic Senators come under the President 's censure and displeasure , and " wear his brand of dishonor . " " If they deserve that , they ought to be put out of office , " he asserted . " Dishonored , disgraced and damned , " he said , " wore those Democrats who at the last voted to ratify the treaty , incurring all the dishonor imputed by the President . " " What a spectacle the party will present , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coming campaign ! Those who voted for the Lodge reservations must eat their own words and their own votes on every platform from which they speak . W will enter the fight . If we accept the President 's advice , with every man who has been honored by the party disgraced and his record repudiated . . The platform will be the epitaph of present-day Democracy . Says Bankers Work on Hays . " Great financial interests and the international bankers are trying to influence . Chairman Will Hays to adopt a halfway plank on the treaty . All such sinister influences have been at work . I do not believe they will succeed . The Republicans , have heard from too many States , and Johnson has received too great a popular ' indorsement . " Taking up the President 's telegram in detail Mr. Reed ? said that Deinoerats would be called upon to support " indefensible things . " He enumerated the plural votes allowed the British Empire in the League Assembly , the question of the . Monroe Doctrine and the article relating to disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said , " the proposal to say that when this nation is engaged in war , and defending ourselves . against an . invader , we cannot. raise a single soldier nor call into being a single shin  --  wIthout the consent , the unanimous consent , of a council composed exclusively of foreigners , sitting on the top of a mountain in Switzerland , In the new capital of the world . We are asked to sanction giving up what no nation or no man ever should give up  --  the right of self-defense . " Predict Majority of Five to Seven . WASHINGTON . May 14 ( Associated Press ) . ? Arrangements for the Senate 's vote tomorrow at 4 P. M : on the Republican peace resolution were completed tonight , with its adoption and a veto later by President Wilson foregone conclusions , according to leaders of both parties . Democratic estimates were that the resolution would have a majority of from five to seven votes , depending on whether another Republican joins Senator McCumber of North Dakota in opposition . At least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption . The President 's veto message is ex ' pected to define more clearly the campaign issue on the question of peace and the Treaty of Versailles . Democratic leaders tonight predicted that the treaty would not be returned to the Senate with the veto message , but that the President would outline more extensively his position in the veto message and- thus let matters " go to the country . "                     