@@690682

txt Gen. Charles Dawes spent this rainy day in potting haelib.ine and lighting spirit into the censervatives Of Minnesota and Wisconsin , oementing and consolidating the opposition to La Follette , and stirring the silent majority that has been discouraged or apathetic daring ! the last few years , under the sting of repeated defeats at the hands of militant minorities . In a string of rear platform speeches reaching from St. Paul to the Illinois line , speeches delivered to deeply interested crowds that came out to meet him in the face of a cold rain , the Vice Presidential candidate strove Toughly and vigorously to arouse the : feeling that in the La Follette attack on constitutional protection of individual right the American people are con ? fronted with the most important issuesince the conflict of ideas that brought on the civil war . IN'arm Welcome in VIseonsin . Hundreds listened to him in the rain at Lake City , Wabasha , and Winona , Minn. , and at no one of eight stops from La Crosse down the line did they ! fail him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' by cords of love to the Independent leader , there was just as much of cordiality and interest in rain drenched , shivering crowds as in the farther north coon ! try . Wisconsin leaders joined him at various points , inchiding Ed Dithmar , former lieutenant governor ; ? George Burton of La Crosse , George Gordon , ? Harry Dahl of La Crosse , and others . In Madison , the home town of Sena tor La Follec.e . Gen. Dawes received a welcome from a crowd of 300 to 400. gathered at the railroad station . Many were students of the university , but the North Dakotadladger football gains , omit the time , WaS the chief attraction of the day . The general paid his respects to the " courage " of those who are opposing the present form of government , but he did nut mention the name of La Follette . He was invited to return here to make a special talk to the students .. liere 's Composite Speech . ? A composite of the Dawes speeches today may be.set forth as follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have had in this country since the civil . War . When It started out the major parties did n't think they were going to have this kind of a ca mpaign . They expected that we would discuss the budget , taxation , the league of nations , the world court . " There is a proposal in connection with the ship of state , under which we have sailed for 135 years pretty well , in this country , to throw away the compass , the constitution , and commence to steer by the ' wind , tot the politicians do these days , preaching high beef on the hoof and low beef on the table , high railroad wages . arftl low railroad rates , and all that sort of inconsistent clap trap .. Likes Bob 's Courage . " Now I 'll take up this proposition of Mr. La Follette , and he does n't lack courage . I respect courage . He proposes to make our government a government of congress . That Is what this proposition is , to subjugate the executive and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take away from us , as individuals , the protection of the constitution and courts which protect us in these rights , and put them at the mercy of cotpress . " Now what kind of a government is this going to be if congress has the right to pass a law telling us where to go to church , or taking our prop , erLy , if you please ? When you have an issue of that sort there is no other issue in the United States . Every . thing is bound up in it ; your wages , the price of farm products , your business , your country . ? Sneers at Bed Flag " Where di ) you stand ? That is the issue . On the constitution , the rock of the constitution , and under the American flag , behind President Coolidge , who has got the guts to stand for them without apology atd with courage ? Or in the sinking hands of socialism with the Ned flag . " As Mr. Eugene Debs says , We will now make no nominations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cialistic principles and keep the lied flag flying . ' " That is what he says ; just think it over . Take it into your hearts and conscience , and do n't listen to these fellows who are preaching all things to all men . They are a menace . " BACK TO EVANSTON . Tired by three dayS of strenuous campaigning during which he made a total of twenty-two speeches , Gen. Charles G , Dawes , returned to his ' Evanston home last night for several days of rest before beginning his next speaking trip . The next campaign address will be in Memphis , Tenn. , Thursday . Ile will leave Chicago late Wednesday night .                     