@@691115

txt The extraordinary mystery of the sequestration and internment by relatives of a beautiful young Countess bearing one of the most renowned names in French history is today exciting the intense interest of Parisians , who , especially in society circles , . are amazed at the astonishing details of the story as told by Albert Londres , a well-known journalist , whose revelations recently led the Government to decide to abolish convict colonies . For reasons difficult at present to clarify , but which the victim alleges are connected with the ownership and administration of a great fortune , an attempt has been made to intern the Countess Helene de Chateaubriand in an asylum under circumstances and by the use of methods worthy the imagination of a first-class dime novel writer . Due to the fact that she was able to smuggle a letter out of the asylum to a friend , the Countess was free today . She lodged a complaint at the office of the public prosecutor and sensational revelations are promised when the case comes up in the courts . Twice Freed as Perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HeMne Justs Faria de Saint ? George Armstrong , married Count Frederic Jean Baptiste de Chateaubriand in 1906 and has a baby girl . Her husband died two years ago . Albert Londres 's version of the strange adventures of the Countess is as follows . On Nov. 21 the Countess left her home at 40 Avenue Kleber , where she has an apartment in the house of her mother , Mme. de Saint-George Armstrong . Proceeding toward the Champs-Elysees , she noticed that she was being followed . Later an agent hired by relatives jumped on the footboard of her car and ordered the chauffeur to , drive to Police Headquarters . When with perfect calm the Countess in rational language explained that the family was trying to have her declared insane and locked up , she was instantly freed . Returning home , she received a visitor who introduced himself as the public prosecutor . The Countess having remarked it was unlikely that so high an official would make a personal call , the visitor said he was an assistant sent by the public prosecutor to investigate the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go with him and took her to the Insane asylum at La Malmaison . The director . Dr. Trepsat , after a conversation , refused to intern the Countess against her will without an official order , saying : " Madame , I am sincerely sorry for Locked Up and Drugged in Asylum . Members of the family who were waiting outside were crestfallen . They took the Countes back home after a hurried conference . They then bundled her into a motor car and drove along dark quais of the river to beyond the Bois de Bou -- logne. to a place she was unable to recognize . There the Countess again explained the case to a doctor whose soothing manner allayed her fears momentarily . However , when she refused to be condudted on a " visit " of the building , attendants seized her and threw her into a barred and padded room . Sobbing , the Countess offered to do anything , pay large sums , turn over her whole fortune to the family , and even go to America , provided only that her little baby girl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was held down , a hypodermic injection made the Countess fall into a deep sleep . Two days later she was taken to see her mother , but , no agreement having apparently been reached , she was taken back to the asylum , where she was Rein until Dec. 20 . That day her mother visited her and a. possible arrangement was discussed . Nevertheless she was still detained . The doctor attempted to force her to take some odd-tasting pills , which , however , she managed to secrete instead of swallowing . Having succeeded in smuggling a letter to her private secretary , the Countess was freed a few days ago and immediately had herself examined by a number of well-known doctors , including Professor Babinsky and Dr. Voronoff. who signed a formal declaration testifying to her complete sanity . To THE NEW YORK TIMES correspondent the Countess said this afternoon that the story as related by N. Londres was true indeed and that when the case came up in the courts even more startling facts would come to light , but intimated that she could not just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wa 's sequestered is full of many patients , notably drug addicts , many of whom are foreigners . The methods employed by certain charlatans to exploit rich foreigners , it la said , will be exposed .                     