@@696375

txt OUR OWN LABOR PARTY . Socialist Lays Lack of Interest to Trade Union Officials . To the Editor of The New i'urk Chester C. Platt in THE TIMES of June 30 tnakes. ' the ' astounding suggestion that ? we-. ? Socialists are the Chief ' obstacle to the ' formation of a Labor party in this country similar to the British Labor party , citing as proof especially our alleged failure to keep alive the La Follette Progressive movement after 1924 . I am a ' member of the National Executive Committee of the Socialist Party and was one ot the most active campaigners for La Follette in Massachusetts ; and I can state quite definitely that the failure to establish definitely a Labor party in the United States to which the unions could affiliate as they do in Great Britain is due to the attitude of nearly all the American trade union officials . On every occasion they have taken pains to state that they favor the " non-partisan " political policy of endorsing Democrats and Republicans , and are opposed to independent political action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1924 it was the trade union leaders who said " never again , " and who refused to go forward to the formation of a permanent independent political party , while we Socialists urged them to do so . In fact , prominent trade union leaders knifed the La Follette Progressives even before the elections , for it will be recalled that the New York City Central Trades and Labor Council came out with a last-minute statement in 1924 endorsing Davis rather than La Follette . While it is true that we Socialists on occasion do criticize certain policies of the organized labor movement , most of the criticism is directed specifically against their persistent opposition to the formation of any kind of labor party independent of the two old parties . Nor do I think the name Socialist is much of a hindrance . La Follette ran in 1924 in New York State both as a Socialist and as an Independent Progressive , and nearly two-thirds of the New York State vote was cast for him as a Socialist . In California he appeared on the ballot only as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vote in California . than of the vote in the whole country . Furthermore , any Labor party would favor socialistic measures and would be ? called Socialist and even Bolshevist by its opponents , just as is the case with the British Labor party now , so that a change of name would not attract those who are frightened by the word socialism . Yet , despite all those facts , I can say for myself , and I think for practically all of . our party members , that we would be glad to change our name and form a Labor party if any important number of unions would drop their outworn policy of rewarding allegedly deserving Democrats and Republicans and come out for independent political . action for organized Jabot- instead . ALFRED BAKER LEWIS . Boston , Mass. , July 1 , 1929 . HELP FOR ADULTS ALSO . Scope of the Guggenheim Dental Clinic Should Be Broadened . 7'o the Editor of The Nem York Times : The munificent donation of Mr. and Mrs. Murry Guggenheim for dental service in New York can not but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those dentists and co-workers who have struggled for years to convince the public that the dentist is not merely a mechanic of the mouth but an agent of health service . Having been responsible for the survey of dental facilities in New York to ' which Mr. Guggenheim 's . public statement referred and interested in community dental services for many years , I feel especial satisfaction at the announcement of Mr. Guggenheim 's beneficence . It is invidious to look a gift horse in the mouth , even when he comes for dental services , yet I can not refrain from expressing the hope that the statement made in your columns did not give the whole story on one point . It would be unfortunate if the use of the buildings , equipment and organization were to be restricted solely to children . It is indeed true that work for children is the point of approach and the main task of dental hygiene . Yet there remains a vast amount of dental work for adults which can not be done now for lack of facilities within the patient 's means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private dentists to do completely , even if every dentist in the city were busy all the time . In your editorial the , other day you mentioned ' the special - needs of the working girl . . for . dental service . She is one . but not , the only type of adult who ? can not now find enough . and good enough dental care within the limits set by the pocketbook . Furthermore . ' experience has indicated that it would be easier and more economical to secure well-qualified dentists to serve on the ' staffs of the clinics for children , if through the mane organization they might also have opportunities to : work on adults . Only a ' comparatively small . Part of the dentist 's private practice is ordinarily with children . His . service in the ; clinics ? should be paid for in money , but it is also legitimate and proper that ? he should gain professional experience . Millions of dollars ' worth of capital - and ; equipment ought not td- be limited.indefinitely to work for children only . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - would not ? be , interfered with . The governing body of the organization which , Mr. Guggenheim 's beneficence will set up should be trusted not to allow work for adults to assume-any major or ; dispropOrtionate use of the ' facili- ? ties . but it ' would be unfortunate if - they had rici right in. - the long years ahead to ' use and.adapt thesel  --  fatilities . for , the benefit of those sections of the community who most need them , without distinction as to sex , creed , race or age . MICHAEL . M. DAVIE : Chicago , Ill. , July 1 , 1920.                     