@@694967

txt Down In the.nether regions of the radio spectrum , oftimes referred to as radio 's " purgatory , " the amateurs are pro . ceeding , to experiment in their , own happy-go-lucky , noncommercial way . The 18,000 amateur radio operators , youths , mere ouths , having been deprived of much of their " playground- " in the ether by the recent international radio-telegraph- ' treaty , have just plucked a " plum " from the sparsely supplied baskets of the federal radio commission . By : special order they have had opened for their use the band between 30,000 and 28,000 kilocycles 9.99 and 10.71 meters . This complies with the provisions of the international radiotelegraph Convention signed at Washington last autumn and recently ratified by the United States senate . It adds another amateur radio-telephone band to the few left open for amateur operation under the treaty  --  namely : 64,000 to 56,000 kilocycles 4.69 to 5.35 meters ; 3,550 to 3,500 84.5 to 85.7 meters , and 2,000 to 1,710 kilocycles 150 to 175 meters . Simply Experiment . What do the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? They simply desire to experiment , to " tackle " the problem of ultra-short waves where others , presumably- better versed in the radio science , disdain to tread . " A great deal of experimental activity in this band may now be expected , " said K. a Warner , secretary of the American Radio Relay league , enthusiastic over his successful mission to Washington recently to get the 10 meter band opened up . " Normal methods of operating do n't seem to apply on waves that short . New and novel methods , possibly involving curious antennas and reflectors , may have to be devised before the problem is solved . " But with many thousands of stillful and intensely interested amateurs anxious to tackle the problem , I believe some interesting results can be expected . " Government radio officials are equally enthusiastic . Over and over again they have said the amateurs have done good work . The youthful dabblers in radio have contributed some valuable knowledge to the science of short wave transmission , now one of the most important commercial factors in Converse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with amteurs in other lands have been more than mere oddities to radio scientists . Their pickup of explorers ' messages and relays to the newspapers and their emergency work during catastrophes such as the Mississippi and New England floods are all well known . The opening of the 10 meter band will have little or no effect on other short wave services unless , as some one suggested , the amateurs lose this band as soon as they prove its efficacy for reliable communications . The u. , ma-. tours came out of the international conference with their lease on the ether channels circumscribed considerably at the insistence of foreign nations and in spite of the valiant efforts of the American delegation get them a fuller share of frequency bands . Canada has already authorized her amateurs to work in this band . - It is entirely clear of government and commercial stations , and under the new . treaty may not be used by other than . amateur and experimental stations . Another thing that came out of Mr. ' Warner 's recent visit to Washington was an official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written as a regulation for the purpose of clarifying his status in radio : " An amateur station , " the regula Bon rears , " is a station operated by a person interested in radio technique solely with a personal aim and with out pecuniary interest . Amateur licenses will not be issued to stations of other classes . " Under the new radio law amateur licenses may be issued for periods of one year .                     