@@695758

txt Saving the Yosemite . ' Jo the Editor of The New York runes : I write to express my appreciation and gratitude for the way you have defended Yosemite National Park . In August , 19 ' 28 , my husband and I made a special trip to Yosemite in order that I Might study the situation there and gain first-hand information . We gave especial attention to those lands within the Park boundaries that are owned by lumber companies . We found them lovely beyond description. ? We then looked upon the land that had been swept by lumbermen . It was awful to think that those magnificent forests should ever come to such a wretched condition . I feel . that the effort you have made to bring this important matter to the attention of the people to whom our National Parks Belong , deserves the highest praise . I understand that a bill for appropriations has passed the Douse and the Senate committee . But those of us who have this matter at heart should not give up our efforts until we know the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are the glory of Yosemite . ilmrsaro MARSIIALL , Chairman , Forests and Natural Scerery . New ' York , Dec. 30 , lfr.:S . THE NORRIS DECISION . No Rebuff to Too Ardent Drys Is Seen in Kirkpatrick Ruling . To the Editor of The New York Times : THE TIMES editorial concerning Judge Kirkpatrick 's decision in the Norris case finds a rebuff to the " too zealous drys " therein . Surely you are optimistic , because , if I read the news report of the decision correctly , its necessary effect is to make practically every purchaser of liquor , except for ccnsumption on the spot , a felon . Here 's how : The Volstead act makes the sale or transportation of liquor a misdemeanor . Section 332 of the United States Criminal Code makes an accomplices in any crime Principals therein . Section 37 of the United States Criminal Code makes it a felony for two or more persons to I agree or conspire together to cornmit any infraction of the federal laws , whether it be a misdemeanor or a felony , provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act in pursuance of the conspiracy . This is a general statute of very great importance , and is widely used by Federal prosecutors to reach a great variety of offenders in cases having nothing to do with the enforcement of prohibition . Its construction must of course be the same no matter what crime is the object of the conspiracy . The charge in the Norris case was conspiracy to transport liquor from Philadelphia to New York City . the facts being that Norris . a resident of New York , telephoned Kerper , a Philadelphia bootlegger. on a number of occasions , and arranged to buy and have cases of liquor sent to his residence in New York . Before making his decision upon the actual situation presented , Judge Kirkpatrick clears the ground 1w citing a number of situations in which by way of dictum he expresses the opinion that the purchaser of liquor would be guilty of no crime . In the first place , he says that the purchase of liquor is not a crime under the Volstead act . There is , of course . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is willing to assume that a purchaser of liquor can not be said to be an accomplice of the seller , and hence is not chargeable as a seller by force of Section 332 , United States Criminal Code . The court cites no authority for this assumption , however , and it does not appear to be inevitable by any means . Finally , the court assumes , without deciding , that where there is nothing in the case but a simple sale the purchaser can not be convicted of conspiring with the seller to make the sale , though attention is called to the fact that the United States Supreme Court in United States v. Katz ( 271 U. S. , 354 ) went no further than to say that such an indictment would be of doubtful validity . The reason of this rule is said to be that where a substantive crime is of such nature as to necessarily require the participation of two persons , e. , as in a sale of Winos , then the participants therein can not be charged as conspirators . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Supreme Court in the Katz case is to the effect that the embarrassment caused by this rule can be avoided if the buyer and seller can be charged with conspiracy to commit a substantive offense having an ingredient , in addition to the sale , not requiring the agreement of two persons for its completion . The court recognizes the situation before it as being just such a one , and holds that when the purchaser of liquor agrees with the seller to buy the liquor under such circumstances that transportation from the seller to the buyer necessarily follows , or is explicitly agreed upon , then the purchaser is guilty of conspiring with the seller to transport liquor , and hence is guilty of felony . The far-flung consequences of this decision can best be ' envisaged by noting the court 's answer to the defendant 's argument that every sale of liquor must necessarily contemplate a transportation , and hence that the Supreme Court 's dictum prohibits indictments for conspiracy to transport merely from seller to buyer . The court says in this connection : " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as is assumed to be necessary to constitute a sale of liquor ) can take place without transportation . For example , the bootlegger might , without any previous understanding or even knowledge on the part of the other party , bring the liquor to the customer 's house , sell it to him and leave it there . Or there might be a sale of liquor together with the premises on which it was stored . followed by the seller 's moving out and the purchaser 's moving in . " It is apparent at once that practically every purchase of liquor , except for consumption on the spot , would be outside these extraordinary situations . The fact that this particular court thought that the punishment to be imposed ought to be no greater than that for transportation under the Volstead act does not , of course , bind other judges , who may nave different views , and who can at their pleasure , if the Supreme Court holds to Judge Kirkpatrick 's decision , assess the maximum punishment under the conspiracy statute , i. e. , two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this decision for the anti-prohibitionists is that it is logically sound and inevitable . There is no stretching the law in favor of prohibition , as lay criticism will no doubt assert . There is merely a consistent construction of the general conspiracy statute , which applies alike to every crime on the Federal statute books . The remedy lies with Congress . THOMAS T. COOKE . New York , Dec. 28 , 1928 . Traffic Suggestions . To the Editor of The New York Ttmes : III a trip I have just made through the Southeastern States I have been surprised at the absolute up-to-dateness of everything in the realm of mechanics and electricity along the path of the tourists . There is tin town too small to have its little system of traffic lights , and the authorities expect not only automobillsts but pedestrians to obey them . This , it seems to toe , would be a good plan for New York to follow . The chief reason so many people here are unable to wait for the traffic signals before starting across the sidewalk is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to me that the rapid-change system , involving also a warning bell and a white transition tight , would be better than the long wait which tempts every one to rush across at the first little lull in traffic . Another plan has been adopted with sueeess in at least one Southern eity  --  IiIrmingham ? and It seems to me would lie excellent for New York . The signals on any given street are flashed on in waves instead of simultaneously , so that an automobilist , by regulating the speed of his car , eau begin with the flashing of the green light and travel for miles . without being stopped by the red light . FOSTER . New York , Dec. 31 , IP28.                     