@@684963

txt Demands of more than 2,000,000 railroad workers for wage increases pill be formally renewed tomorrow by the " Sig Four " brotherhoods and the railroad department of the American Federation of Labor . The railroad workers ' organizations want to get action before the roads are returned to private ownership , illarch 1 , as scheduled by President Wilson . While it is obvious that the railroad administration can guarantee no increases beyond March 1 , provided the roads go back at that time , the determined attitude of the workers means that the railroad companies will find a wage problem to add to their other troubles when they get back their property . Win Strike Ban Fight . Although the brotherhoods and other organizations are making no strike threats , they have won their fight to prevent enactment of the Cummins. anti-strike provision in the railroad regulation bill , and they Insist that no regulative legislation can abridge their right to strike . The organizations also are insistent In their nation-wide campaign for government control of the railroads iiIrough nationalization , an Issue which they , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . References to the power of the strike in this connection are frequently made . Walkout Held as Club . Some of the radical leaders in the Sea to end private ownership of the railroads hold the view that a general strike would be necessary for the purpose of forcing the government to take hold of the roads again , temporarily . at least , while the political struggle for nationalization under the Plumb labor profit-sharing plan continued . It Is pointed out by some of the leaders that a strike would have Immediate and mighty effect In bringing the nationalization issue to a political focus in the organization of a third big political party in the United States for a first show-down at tine next national election , with govern-neat ownership and lowering of the colt of living as the platform . Third Party in the Oiling .. The formation of such a party Is already being seriously discussed , and the raliretad labor leaders already have the matter under consideration . ) othing of this , however , as yet appears on the surface in connection ' with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where they were left off last August , when President Wilson urged delay while the government whacked away at high costs . Now , the railroad men say the government has had enough time to demonstrate that It is not going to reduce costs materially and wages must be brought ? up to meet them . The demands , which range from to 40 per cent , in accordance with the character of the work affected , are to be submitted by the heads of the brotherhoods . Overtime Also Demanded . They include also time and a half for overtime in certain cases , and rearrangement of working . conditions in the freight find passenger service and in ranOad shops . More than fifty delegates , representing the various organizations are expected to participate in the conferences , which Will continue for several days . Final agreement on the railroad bill is likely tomorrow when , Senator Cum-'nine said today , he believed it would Possible to dispose of the last of the disputed questions . After action Is taken by the conferees , several days will be required In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan is to bring this report into the house by the latter Dart of the week . This will give a margin of three weeks before March 1 , the date for the return of the roads .                     