@@686314

txt Edwin Denby of Detroit , gunner 's mate in the Spanish-American War and enlisted man and officer of the Marine Corps in the World War , accepted this morning an invitation from President-elect Harding to be Secretary of the Navy , and Theodore Roosevelt of New ' York , Lieutenant Colonel of Infantry with the First - Division in France , will be Assts. - tant Secretary of the Navy , Mr. Harding announced after an hour 's conference with Major Denby . Both Major Denby and Colonel Roosevelt are members of the American Legion . The . naval policy of the incoming Administration will be , continuance of a big navy and a capital shipbuilding program until there is an international agreement for disarmament . The President-elect and the next Secretary of the Navy in their talk this morning discovered that they have the same fundamental beliefs concerning naval policy . They hope for disarmament , but until that is achieved insist on an increasingly big navy . This was brought out by Mr. Harding and Major Denby in talks with newspaper correspondents . Although he declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pass the naval building program , Mr. Harding , in referring to this communication , said : " I have said to several members of the Senate and House Committees on Naval Affairs who sought my views that I would be reluctant to suspend our capital ship building program until we have entered into an agreement for disarmament with other nations . " Reasons Assigned for Polley . Throughout his conferences since election , indications have increased that the President-elect 's naval policy fits in with his plans for approaching other powers relative to disarmament and a modified association of nations . It is also understood to figure in his consideration of means for carrying out his campaign pledge of free tolls for American ships passing through the Panama Canal by seeking a nalll agreement with Great Britain in return for abrogation of the Hay-Pauncefote treaty . Back of the Harding big navy policy appears to be the following reasoning ? 1 ? In comparison with other nations , the United States is best situated financially to build the most powerful navy in the world . 2 ? The possession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this Country 's good faith in calling upon the world to disarm . 3 . Continuation of , an up-to-date , powerful navy would not place the United States in a comparatively impotent position should , in the future , only part or fractional disarmament be agreed upon . So far as Major Denby is concerned , his chief thought in relation to his new duties is to continue in peace time a fighting navy . " Mr. Harding 's invitation to head the Navy Department , " he said , " literally has taken me off my feet , and it would be folly for me to commit myself now upon any definite policies until after I familiarize myself with the affairs of the department . As I see it now , however , my duties as Secretary of the Navy will be , first , as a member of the Cabinet to advise the President and Congress , and , second , and probably most important , to maintain whateVbr navy Congress gives us at the highest ) ealt of power , ready for instant battle . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Major Denby las become an interesting figure . Invitation Surprise to Denby . " To put it mildly , " he said this morning , " I was overwhelmed with surprise when I received a telegram ' on Washing:Girl 's Birthday from Mr. Harding , repleating. me to come here to discuss with my entering the Cabinet , Feb. 22 , itrangely enough , is the birthday of both ny wife and my mother . " You ask me if ? I am glad to get the ob ? Frankly , I am . I have always eyed the navy , for not only have I erved there as sailor and marine , but ottny of my family before me . I was lamed after my uncle , a Fleet Surgeon . rho died in line of duty , protecting his leet against the ravages of yellow fever . My great-uncle commanded the Mosquito fleet in the Indian River campaign during the Civil War . " Major Denby expressed his pleasure that Theodore Roosevelt had accepted an invitation to become Assistant Secretary of the Navy . " With President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the family , and now the - younger Theodore Roosevelt as Assistant Secretaries of the Navy , " he said , " it is good for navy tradition to continue a Roosevelt in the navy . I recall vividly the first time I ever saw the elder Theodore Roosevelt . That WAS in 1S97 , when I was in the Michigan Naval Reserve and Roosevelt , then Assistant Secretaryof the Navy , Inspected us on our Summer cruise on the Great Lakes . I remember his outspoken talk to us then when he told us of a number of things at-out the prospective war that followed a year later . " During the : Spanish -- American war Major Denby served as third gunner 's mate on board the ' United States ship Yosemite in Southe ? ? n te  --  S under Admiral Sampson . It was active service . too , for the crew of the little Yosemite received some ' naval bounty money for their exploit in sinking just off San Juan , Porto Rico , a larger Spanish v.uxiliary cruiser . " Service in the World War . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ** war , when men in army camps tiled like flies tlirot-Fgh lack of instruction of proper sanitary precautions , " said Major Denby . " we left the blockadinfr fleet THEODORE ' ROOSEVELT , Chosen , as His Father Was , to Be Assistant Secretary of the Navy . off San Juan to attack the Spanish r.m:1 ? er I 2 ? PMF71 ) ) 1P : ' the fleet der , Captain ? Slgsbce , who went down on the Maine , repeating to us on a meg-aphone : ? ' ' You are in immediate danger , you are in immediate danger . ' " We remembered that warning , for when the crew of the Yosemite saw the Spaniard sink that warning was repeated by all hands . " Having given up direction of the Hupp Automobile Company after his service in Congress , Major Denby was head ' of the Denby Motor Truck Corporation when this country entered the World War . Denby enlisted as a private in the Marine Corps in April , 1917 . He was sent to Paris Island , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " training there and rose from Corporal and Sergeant to Second Lieutenant . He left the service a Major of Reserve . " Do you still hold your reserve commission , " Major Denby was asked . " No , " he replied , " I gave that up some time ago when I thought that I would runtfor the Republican nomination for Governor of Michigan . It did n't seem proper , holding one commission to try for another . " Thousands of marines who passed throagli Paris Island remember Major Denby , and since announcement of his being considered for Secretary o ( the Navy , he has received hundreds of congratulatory telegrams from his former pupils . Major Denby was pleased over Secretary of the Navy Daniels 's praise of him when he learned of his prospective appointment , and today sent the following telegram to Mr. Daniels : " Have read with groat pleasure your kind reference to me in the press . Please accept my cordial thanks .. I shall see you in Yr shington in a day or two , I hope . " Major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty for observation at the front . " I was under a little artillery fire in October when I was with the headquarters of the Marine Brigade in the 4,11:1 mpagne country . " lie slid . " Are you with Mr. Daniels in his order for a dry navy ? " Major Denby was asked . " Absolutely , " he answered . " I served before the mast , and I appreciate Kipling 's ' single men in barracks ' line . Abolition of the wine mess in the navy was one of the best things , that Mr. Daniels ever did . Enlisted men in the navy were not allowed to drink on shipboard , and I have heard a. number of naval officers agree with the principles of the ruling , hut , of course , now , this is an academic question . "                     