@@691622

txt In an article in Harper 's Magazine for July Admiral FISK E predicts that the " probable consequences " of the Washington Conference , of whose naval treaty he disapproves , will be Japanese encroachments " on our rights to the Open Door . " These , he thinks , the United States would not resist , lest " the Japanese capture the Philippines . " There would arise a tension ending in " emotional disturbance " that would precipitate war . Admiral FISK E finds warrant for his concern in the fact that the NinePower Treaty , protecting China In her sovereignty and assuring her opportunity " to develop and maintain for herself an effective and stable Gov " eniment , " has not been ratified by France . But ratification by France of other treaties proposed at the Washington Conference has been accompHshed , and there is no reason for apprehension that France will fail to keep faith with regard to the NinePower Treaty . Pending final action by her , the Four-Power Treaty should be of avail to prevent war in the Pacific . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , Great Britain , France and Japan arises and is not settled by diplomacy , there shall be a joint conference ; also that if any rights are threatened by the aggressive action " of any other power , " the high contracting parties shall communicate with one another " to arrive at an - understanding " as to measures to be taken in the emergency . Admiral FISKE , no doubt from a sense of Duty , Is constantly warning the country to be on its guard against sinister designs of Japan . His paper in Harper 's Magazine is a lamentation that we shall yet rue the day when the naval limitation treaty was agreed to at Washington . He can see only the seeds of war in it . Admiral PRATT , on the other hand , has found in the work of the Washington Conference assurance of peace In the Pacific , and his able and lucid argument is Impressive . What is wanted to quiet such alarms as Admiral Fis NE raises is full and free discussion of Pacific questions , and this the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will hold its first conference in Hawaii in July . Canada , Japan , China , Australia , New Zealand , the Philippine Islands and the continental United States will be represented . The society is modeled on the Institute of Politics at Williamstown . The Pacific parliament in Hawaii will give a patient hearing to men of all shades of opinion , but it will not extend a friendly hand to alarmi3ts . Among those interested in the Institute , and who support its aims , are President LOWELL of Harvard . President GARFIELD of Williams , Professor HENRY PRATT FAIRCHILD of New York University , W , CAMERON FORBES . formerly Governor General of the Philippines ; BETtNARD BAnt-cx , WALLACE M. ALEXANDER . FRANK C. ATHERTON Of Hawaii , CHARLES C. BATCHELDER and Professor GEORGE H. BLA K ESLEE of Clark University . President W I . RUR of Leland Stanford Junior University W-1 be Chairman of the American group . The movement , he has said , will be the first attempt to mobilize Pan-Pacific thought in international affairs . The suggestion of an Institute of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was taken up with approval in the Far East as well as in North America . Its promoters hold that its usefulness will lie in bringing out facts . The Institute hopes to be helpful in preventing misunderstandings . above all in abating prejudices raid letting in the light on difficulties that may cause tension between the East and West unless all the facts are spread upon the record . It has an opportunity to render a great international service .                     