@@694908

txt Plenty of fuel will be added today to the fire that keeps the pot boiling with the heavyweight challenger stew when the New York State Athletic Commission meets for the ostensible purpose of placing Gene Tunney , the champion , under suspension for his unsatisfactory reply to the Boxing Board 's notice that his six months ' time-limit in which to name an opponent against whom to defend his title would expire yesterday . Tunney 's answer on Wednesday was that he was signed with Tex Rickard to meet an opponent whom the promoter named in July . It made no reference to Jack Sharkey , Toni Heeney or Johnny Risko , who were mentioned in the commission 's notice as having filed challenges . This omission , sources close to the boxing board said , left the commission 's expectations unfulfilled and left no other course than for the commission to suspend the champion . No Further Word From Tunney . No further communication was received yesterday from Tunney or Rickard , both of whom were apprised in Miami by representatives here that Tunney 's first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suspension will be applied today , inasmuch as the regulation concerning the six months ' time limit is part of the State 's boxing law and leaves no other course open . The fire that will be added by the expected suspension of the champion will not be he only brands that may make the challenger pot boil over . First of all , word has been received from Jimmy Dougherty , manager of George Godfrey , negro heavy-weight , that he would file a challenge and that a check covering the forfeit had been placed in the mails on the Coast . That will not be all . Al Mayer , financial and foreign minister in Paulino 's cabinet , said yesterday that he also would appear with a challenge on behalf of the Basque woodchopper . A few days ago Jimmy Johnston , manager of Phil Scott , English heavyweight , who made a strong showing against Pierre Charles at the St. Nicholas Arena on Monday , declared that Scott was entitled to a chance at Tunney and that he also would file a challenge . Thus where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on file with the commission there will be six today if all of them carry out their promises . The order now stands Sharkey , Heeney and Risko . It will be a scramble today to see who will be fourth , fifth and sixth . Old Situation Recalled . Until the commission acts today there will be no telling what the upshot of the whole matter will be . There were some indications that the Boxing Board would dictate whom Tunney shall fight . This possibility recalls the situation two years ago when the board and its since-abolished License Committee insisted that Harry Wills was the logical contender , and Rickard was forced to move his Tunney-Dempsey fight to Philadelphia . - There appears to be no disposition to drive the bout away from New York but unless the board happens to select a challenger who promises to be an attraction as well as a contender , this outcome is not an impossibility . The last two heavyweight fights have been out of New York and Rickard may well make a similar move this time . Regardless of rumors that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is more likely that New York will lose the battle before Rickard loses it . The law requires that a champion be banned at the end of the six months ' period but the suspension may be lifted again if a subsequent move by Tunney should fulfill the commission 's requirements . Rickard Going Ahead With Plans . In the absence of direct word from Rickard at Madison Square Garden it may be presumed that the promoter is going ahead with the announced intention of holding a fight in July . At the most it appears that a suspension merely would project the proposed fight into September . Present indications are that there is no hope for Tunney to have more than one bout this year . Meanwhile , Matchmaker Jess was awaiting the arrival of Johnny Buckley today from Boston to confer with the manager of Sharkey concerning the proposed bout between Sharkey and Jack Delaney on April 30 . The Sharkey-Delaney bout is all but set . Jimmy Johnston , ten per cent . local manager of Sharkey , has agreed to terms and Buckley may place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , manager of Delaney , has expressed himself as agreeable . The " logic " of the numerous contenders will be aired effusively today , Johnston may be expected to shelve his ten per cent , interest in Sharkey for the moment until he gets Scott on the list . Mayer will argue that all of the contenders have eliminated themselves leaving only Paulino and Godfrey , and he expressed readiness yesterday to have Paulino fight Godfrey over again if the commission desired .                     