@@690352

txt Although professing to have suffered no loss of prestige in defeat in the first test vote of the convention and asserting that the vote really showed strength enough , to justify prediction of nomination . a their candidate , Die board of strategy was busy last evening strengthening their alignment . The supporters began a campaign to solidify their forces by having telegrams sent to them from the " folks back home " urging them to support Mr. to the last ditch . This campaign was applied particularily to delegates from Southern States . Coupled with this campaign were complaints against the way the entertainment provided for delegates was interfering with the convention . These complaints were against both the official entertainments provided by local committees and the unofficial social entertainments provided by individuals . The charge was made that friend 's of Governor Smith were attempting to break into the ranks by showing his delegates a good time . Judge David Ladd Rockwell , national campaign manager for Mr. and generalissimo of the field forces at the convention , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of the day , despite the failure of the leaders to get an evening session last night to complete the nominating and seconding speeches . Denies It Upsets Ms Plans . " Did n't the adjournment until the morning upset the whole plan of the campaign , which , as we understood it . was to begin the balloting for President as quickly as possible ? " Judge Rockwell was asked . " Why would it ? " Judge Rockwell replied . " Our whole purpose in seeking to take a recess until evening only was to impress upon the delegates the necessity of cutting out entertainments and getting down to work . I told Bruce Kremer ( J. Bruce Kremer , Vice Chairman of the Democratic National Committee and floor leader ) that the motion would not carry , but he said it was necessary to impress on the delegates the necessity of getting down to work , and we decided to let it come to a vote . " Judge Rockwell was told that the leaders opposed to Mr. 's candidacy would claim the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. 's supporters controlled a majority of the convention . " If they can get any comfort out of the incident , they are entitled to all they can get , " he commented . Judge Rockwell was asked to explain the rather unexpected alignment under which some States believed to be friendly to Mr. had voted for the adjournment motion and other States , believed to be opposed to him in whole or in part , had voted against it . Some Already Feeling Expenses . " I would n't say that all the States which voted with us are necessarily with us on everything , " Judge Rockwell said . " Some of the States that voted for the motion to adjourn undoubtedly are favorable to Mr. 's ' candidacy . " Judge Rockwell said it was essential that the convention get down to business because some of the delegates were already getting uneasy about expenses and could not afford to stay here during a protracted deadlock . " We thought we ought to serve notice on the delegates that they ought to get down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That was the only purpose of the vote . We appreciate the hospitality of the New Yorkers , but we are here for a serious purpose . and I fear some of the delegates have lost sight of it . We have got to get down to business " After all , the vote showed great strength for Mr. . Those opposed to his nomination must take comfort out of the smallest sort of action from which they can , get a small amount of solace . " A short time ago those opposed to Mr. 's nomination said he was out of It . We do n't hear that now . All the other candidates and their managers are out to beat . You do n't hear of any other candidate forging to the front , do you ? I do n't . " Thinks Smith " Out Of It . " Judge Rockwell added that so far as he and his associates could estimate the Smith demonstration indicated that Gov. governor Smith could not get more than 260 votes . " The parade demonstrated that Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I talked with a number of impartial observers and the consensus was that the weakness of the demonstration in its showing of actual dele , gates had put Smith out of it . " One well-known newspaper observer that I talked with said he was sure of this . His observation was , ' Smith 's out . ' " We have eliminated a lot of them in the campaign . First , ' Jim ' Reed of Missouri , then Senator Underwood of Alabama , and now Governor Smith . Who 's the next ? " The man who had the virility , to win State after State and come into this convention as the dominating figure is not going to be stopped now . He will start strong . He will be able to gain the necessary accretions and he will be nominated . " Judge Rockwell was asked about a reported conference between Mr. and Thomas Taggart of Indiana , sponsor of the boom for Senator Samuel M. Ralston . He replied that he knew nothing of the conference , but that if there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thought the balloting Air the Presidential nomination would begin , Judge Rockwell said : " Probably not before Saturday . " In this he admitted that at least one part of the plan of campaign had been blocked . " We wanted to save a day , " he said . " By going back tonight we Could have finished the nominating and seconding speeches and adopted the platform the next morning . In that case we could have begun the balloting by Saturday morning , possibly by Friday night . Says Delegates Peel ' Uneasy . Judge Rockwell said that J. F. T. O'Connor of North rrakota could tell how many of the delegates were beginning to feel uneasy about their finances . " Many of the delegates feel that they ca n't afford to stay in New York much longe ? , " Mr. O'Connor said . " It is a serious situation . " Judge Rockwell would not make a direct charge that the anti-qzmcq#Adoo leaders were manoeuvring to delay the convention to put off the balloting until next week . ' He was asked if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates by offering to assist them financially in case of temporary embarrassment . " I do n't know about that , he said . " What 's your best guess ? : ' was the next question . " A long protracted convention is going to be a great hardship on some of the delegates , " Judge Rockwell said . " One of the nominating speeches told of the conditions in the Northwest , " Mr. O'Connor interjected . " There are 40 per cent , of the farmers of that section who ' have gone bankrupt . The Northwest is broke . The farms are vacated ' and grown with weeds . They are- coming from there . hard up and ManY.01. them . have come to the convention on borrowed money in the hope that the Democratic Party will take action that will bring them relief . That 's my interest in this matter . " Judge Rockwell was asked if he still believed that Mr. would be nominated . " I am more certain than ever , " he replied . " I have n't seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leader and . who is the candidate on the other side ? It is anything to beat . One man as the candidate on one day and another man as the candidate on another day . " Rockwell Wo n't Discuss Elan . Judge Rockwell declined to be drawn into a discussion of the proposed antiKlan plank . " We are leaving that entirely to the Resolutions Committee , " he replied . Mr. remained in his quarters at the Hotel Vanderbilt most of the day . Representative Upshaw of Georgia said Mr. had heard the Smith demonstration over the radio and that he had called him - by telephone to tell him all abount it . " It was a wonderful demonstration of flags , hot air and imported noise , " Mr. Upshaw said he told Mr. - There were thirteen State standards in the procession , at most sixteen . They failed to scare the unterrified crowd . " Mr. Upshaw , who is a candidate for nomination for Vice President as a dry , declared against any specific anti- . Klan plank . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were open to any one upon no other credentials than that he was a good American citizen , " Mr. Upshaw said . " Time was when a Democratic convention demanded only that a man should be a good Democrat and a good American and had no thought of denouncing any Specific Protestant order ' and leaving out Catholic and Hebrew orders . The day the Democratic Part : : makes such a specific declaration that day it will rue its folly . " Mr. Upshaw added a little later : " There will not be the swerving of one inch in the convention to the wet crowd , either in the platform or in the candidate . " " You can bet your life on that , " shouted an enthusiast in the headquarters who overheard the ' remark . Belittle Smith:Demonstration . Members of the staff , who checked the Smith demonstration , said only 170 delegates marched in the procession by actual count . The assertion also was made that the doors of Madison Square Garden were thrown open and that the Smith enthusiasts ; massed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. went to the ? breakfast of the Texas . delegation at the Hotel , MeAlpin.in the morging , and made a-short speech , thanking the Texans for their support . Colonel Thomas B. Love , National Committeeman from Texas , said later in the day that he believed the majority of the Committee on Resolutions was against a specific anti-Klan plank . " They favor a plank like the Virginia plank , " he said . With the convention reaching . a critical period Mr. was again in conference with his leaders last evening . Those who were present either ' in the evening or late afternoon ' included Thomas L. Chadbourne and Gavin of San Francisco , in addition to most of the leaders of delegations and those who have been helping Judge Rockwell right along in shaping his plan of campaign .                     