@@694678

txt President Coolidge today took a position in favor of Government subsidy for an American merchant marine and for the sale of the Governmentowned and operated fleet under a guarantee of maintenance of the necessary trade routes . The President at the time he expressed his stand for a ship subsidy , was informally commenting upon reports that a proposal may be made by a syndicate to purchase the merchant fleet and indicating his opposition to the Jones bill for an extensive replacement program which would keep the Government in the shipping business . Asserting that he had no knowledge of the reports that proposals might be made by private interests to buy the Government fleet , he defined to callers his views on the shipping question . Mr. Coolidge 's policy has been for the speedy sale of the ships and Government retirement from the shipping business , as fast as possible when assurance is given that trade routes necessary to American business will be maintained . He pointed out that several investigations had been made , including one by Colonel Dalton , which recommended sale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's views , which he indicated today were now stronger , since it is proposed by the Jones bill to authorize replacement of Shipping Board vessels . Holds Federal Aid Necessary . The Government can not profitably operate ships nor conduct any business , the President holds . That had been shown most patently in the operation of the United States Shipping Beard , and therefore he feels that the sooner the Government gets out of this business the better it will be for the American marine and the nation 's economic system . He believes the ships ought to be sold as speedily as possible in accordance with present law , which also demands maintenance of the service for a period of five years . In his opinion , the situation is such , due to law and other conditions , that a private merchant marine can not be profitably operated without some help from the Government . Even without Federal assistance . the merchant marine , he holds , could be operated at a saving by private concerns over the present cost of operation by the Shipping Board . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country and necessary to its naval strength , the President feels that the Government might enter on a policy of Government aid for private operation of the fleet . This , he feels . can he done by mail subsidy or some other form of Federal assistance and by placing the crews under direction of the navy in time of war . Government assistance in some form , not necessarily a direct subsidy , such as exists in other countries , seems to him inevitable and as the necessary step to take in the successful carrying out of the present plan to dispose of the Government ships to private operators . The President referred to the dis- Position of some members of the Shipping Board not to carry out the law and sell the ships . He indicated that one member of the board had always voted against the sale of ships , and then favored the sale of the fleet and some plan for Govern ; - ment aid . In the President 's opinion , it would be unwise to require " a unanimous vote of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such a vast business by a board of seven men , he indicated , was not acceptable and nu private business would have such an administration as now exists in the Shipping Board . Not only the Shipping Board 's administration but the whole scheme of continued Government operation appeared to the President undesirable . In opposing the Government building of more ships he cited the great loss in the present operations and recalled the view of experts that the Government could not operate any business as efficiently or economically as could private individuals . Not more ships were necessary , he thought , to carry American tonnage offered so much as greater use of American ships by American shippers . It seemed evident to the President that the Government could not compete with private concerns and ships could not be built by the Government for operation at a profit . Representatives of private shipping interests met with the Shipping Board today to consider proposals for the further development of the American merchant marine under private enterprise . The hearing was attended by representatives of all the principal American lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , and the discussion dealt with practically every phase of the situation . Recommendations of plans for hastening the transfer of ships to private capital and providing for replacements were presented , some of these corresponding closely with measures pending in Congress . The American Steamship Owners ' Association , through its President , H. B. Walker , together with officials of the Pacific American Steamship Association and the Ship Owners ' Association of the Pacific Coast , favored the general provisions of the Wood bill now before Congress . This bill provides for Government absorption of the difference in costs of American and foreign vessels . The replacement of obsolete and outworn ships was a primary one of many recommendations submitted by Mr. Walker on behalf of the steamship owners . He urged the necessity of reducing operating cost differentials , retiring the Government from operation of ownership and operation of vessels , and less stringent American maritime laws . He stated all Dieselized ships in the Government service should be disposed of as a unit , without a price limit . He favored long-term ocean mail contracts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by William H. Knox of the Merchants ' Association of New York . He suggested that such aid might be in the form of financing in which the public might participate , or some kind of insurance at lower rates than were now obtained .                     