@@685625

txt By re . striction of permits the United States may eliminate wholesale liquor dealers . Prohibition Commissioner Kramer declared wholesale dealers resorted to subterfuges which made the dry law enforcement difficult . The internal revenue bureau may make regulations to make liquor transfers direct from bonded warehouse to retailer or consumer . Full Inquiry Planned . Applications for wholesale licenses must be in the hands of federal officials by Oct. 1 , givingthe government the three months prior to Jan. 1 in which to investigate the responsibility of the applicant . Inquiry may extend to " all the affairs " of the applicant , it was said . Treasury records reveal that more - wholesale licenses are in existence now than immediately prior to the date the Volstead act became effective . Ne licenses have been issued in Chicago for wholesale traffic in the last six ' weeks , Mr. Kramer said , and restriction is reported in New York . Wholesalers and " plain bootleggers , " it was asserted by prohibition enforcement officials , have combined to complicate the enforcement of the law in Baltimore . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforcement ai-onts , tftill. be announced soon . Ask Beer Rehearing . William D. Guthrie and Eithu Root , counsel for Christian Feigenspan , a brewer of Newark , N. J. , today filed , with the United States Supreme court a petition for a reconsideration of the court 's decision on Juno 7 sustaining the validity of the eighteenth amendment and parts of the Volstead enforcement act . The petition contended that the eighteenth amendment was designed to deal exclusively with intoxicating liquors . Mr. Feigenspan in his original suit sought to prove that beer of 2.71 per cent alcoholic content was not intoxicating . Court 's Action Puzzles . Tho latest petition pointed out the importance of the constitutional quosttons involved and declared that so far as the petitioner has been able to ascertain " there is no record of any important modern case Involving such vital questions being disposed of by a court of final resort without explaining its conclusions . " " Not only is it unprecedented in the history of this court for it thus to dispose of , without expressions of opinion , matters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but emphasized by Justice in his dissenting opinion , It is difficult to Measure the force of the conclusions stated by the court or the deductions Properly to be drawn from them . Furthermore , the conclusions do not completely answer questions actually involved in the litigation and submitted for decision . " The petition declared that the meaning and erect of such an amendment was necessarily the " subject of discussion and concern in the forum of public opinion and the failure of the court to assign any reasons for its decision has tended naturally to invite criticism and create much public dissatisfaction . "                     