@@688020

txt President Harding will appear before Congress within the next 1S hours to deliver a message on the rail strike situation . it was announced at the Whit : . House today . It was unofficially stated that the President plans to place entire strike situation before Congress . At sante time it was expected he would suggest the next move that must he nutde by government to relieve situation . Just what recommendation the Executive would make was not learned , but it wa apparent the President has few alternatives left , other than to ask approval for seizure of the railroads in event of a more serious breakdown of transportation system . Mr. Harding will make his message to Congress a statement to the people r f the country , outlining principles in the - trikc dispute and his efforts to bring about peace . In this manner he hopes that the full force of public opinion may be brought to bear to force an ending of the rail strike before the federal government is obliged to take forceful measures , such as seizure of the railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interfere with the efforts of the " Big Four ' brotherhood leaders to ineiliate the strike , he has planned no further peace moves before going to I ongress . It was emphasized that the Executive will stand upon the same position which he has held in his negotiations . his message will he based upon information regarding strike gleaned from conferences and correspondence with both factions during last month . Washington  --  In a letter dated August II to the President , given out today . the eigh , heads of the railway workers state that " Your latest proposal is impracticable and ' would create a chaotic condition because of the undeteri mined seniority status of the employes . " Following is the text of the reply sent bystriking shopmen in rejecting President Harding 's second proposal to end the rail strike : " We are in receipt of your telegram of August . 7. refertling to your message to us of July 31. and our reply of August 2 . " In your telegram or August 7. you request that striking railroad employes return to work and leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have returned to work , the question of seniority as covered in the third paragraph of your telegram of July 31 . " This request has been fully considered by the executive council of the railway employes ' department who represent the railway employes affected , and you are hereby advised that the proposal contained in your telegram of August 7 has been unanimously declined , for , among others , the following reasons : " 1 . On July 13 you submitted to the representatives of the railroad employes in question and to the railway managers the terms of agreement upon which the railway managers and united shop craft workers arc to unite prcliminary to calling off the existing strike . " " Your terms of agreement above referred to were accepted by the representatives of the employes . On the seniority question your terms of agreement were , ' all employes now on strike to be returned to work to . their former positions with seniority and other rights unimpaired . The representatives of the carriers and the representatives of the organizations especially agree that there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or did not strike . ' This clearly provides that the seniority question was to be settled before the employes returned to work . Your proposal of August . 7 is that it be agreed to , or rather disposed of , only after they have returned to work . " This strike can not be , and no other railroad strike . has been settled until it was agreed , that all employes on strike are to be returned to work and to their former positions with seniority and other rights unimpaired. " 2 : Seniority was not and is not now , by right , an issue or a dispute in this strike . The authors of the transportation act , have on many occasions , stated that there is no penalty in the transportation act against employes who strike when an injustice is done through a decision of the railroad labor board . Admittedly they have the right to strike and , therefore , they do not forfeit their standing as railrokid employes because they strike . Any other construction of the law would read into the transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : On August 2 , we acquiesced in the terms of agreement which you declared to be just fair and reasonable , and we are willing now , in the interest of all concerned to settle the strike in accordance with the terms of that agreement . We are , of course , unable to understand why after we had accepted your own terms of agreement , you should now request us to accept a proposal which is directly in conflict with your former proposed agreement " 4 : Your latest proposal is impracticable and would create a chaotic condition because of the undetermined seniority status of the employes . " Railroad employes are ever mindful of the public interest . They have accepted your own terms of agreement , which called for no sacrifice on the part of the railroad executives , but which did require that the employes make a concession of practically every issue which brought about the strike . We have repeatedly called attention to the fact that the campaign against the di. - ganized railroad employes was a part of the general ' open shop ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managers of some of the railroads the the managers of some of the railroads the last few days have frankly admitted that they do not desire at this time to settle the strike , but hope to he permitted to continue their efforts to disintegrate the organizations of railroad employes . " The reply was signed by William H. Johnston . Janos P. Noonan . J. A. Franklin , Martin F. Ryan , James W. Kline . Timothy Healty , J. J. Hynes , B. M. Jewell .                     