@@693742

txt As anticipated yesterday , the guns of Pukow are silent and the Northerners ' airplanes have been restrained , leaving peace to reign over Nanking for the Kuomintang conference beginning Friday . The conviction therefore grows that an agreement has- been reached between General Chiang Kaishek and the Northern Generals . No foreign warship today reports troop movements or shelling across the river . Two passenger trains from Shanghai went to Nanking yesterday . Unless a truce has been arranged for at least several days , the conferees would be in danger of being prevented from returning by the railway being cut or being bombed . Moreover , the Nationalist warships have been anchored out Of action above Nanking . Recent events have shov. -n how wary the foreigner must be in accepting Chinese statements at their face value . Two weeks ago informations. was current in informed Chinese ' circles that Chinese bankers and merchants had sent a delegation to Chiang Ka'i-shek petitioning him to remain at Shanghai to maintain order , offering him a fund of 13.000,000 Shanghai dollars on condition that he suppress communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China and whoever controls it can become the richest and may be the most powerful military chief . Instalment Reported Paid . My information that the first instalment of 3,000,009 Shanghai dollars was paid is from such sources that I have no doubt of its correctness . Furthermore , facts seem to corroborate it . Soon after the money is alleged to have been paid . Chiang dispatched all his own troops to Nanking , leaving Shanghai controlled by General Chow Peng-chi , who recently deserted the former Northern war lord of Shanghai . Sun Chuan-fang . Under General Chow Feng-chi the work of suppressing the armed laborers and Communists has been proceeding in the past forty-eight hours with effective results . According to the best reports 3,000 rifles . 20 machine guns , 600 pistols ... lid nearly 1,000.000 rounds of ammunition were captured at the Commercial Press . where several fights occurred . Two thousand long-handled pikes were taken from Toongwoo Temple . One hundred and twenty armed laborers were killed , 180 wounded . How many soldiers and how many civilians is not stated . Wang Sbou-hua , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported kidnapped and executed . The General Labor Union has been dissolved and the Federated Association of Labor Unions ordered to assume its place with two military men as administrators . The battles lasted one to three hours , causing the streets to be deserted and the stores barricaded in the neighborhood , and - the foreign troops , reinforced , to stand to arms at the barricades with armored cars ready for any emergency . Chinese Quit Native City . Thousands of Chinese from the Chapel have moved into the foreign settlement , keeping the police busy for hours searching them and their baggage as they entered through the barbed-wire gates . The exodus from Shanghai southward continues daily . Among the places raided by the soldiers were the headquarters of the General Labor Union , one police station , the Anti-Kidnapping Society , the premises of the Door of Hope mission . the Shanghai Kuomintang headquarters , the Shanghai provincial government headquarters and a dozen others in which armed laborers and Communists had established themselves . It is believed that the city is now in Military hands . The students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parades and the declaration of the general strike , but the gatherings were dispersed or ignored , and the strike failed . Docilely , the laborers are returning to work , although several assassinations of foremen are reported . The newspapers report events , but fear a display of sympathy with the defeated radicals . Repetition of Tragic Events . But tragic as events are , they are only a repetition of what has been going on in the wealth-producing cities of China since the republic was established and military chieftains began battling one another for prizes under patriotic titles and with generous promises . One group calls itself the People 's Party , that is , the Kuomintang ; another , the Peace Restoration Army , that Is , the Ankuochun ; a third the People 's Army , that is , the Nationalists , but the war lords dominate the Governments and the soldiers murder and plunder when pay is in arrears or when Bolshevists incite . Sometimes , however , for periods of Many months a city has peace by tribute funds , such as is now being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a desire to belittle the group now gathering at Nanking to formulate a new government and make new promises , but with a sense of duty to the readers of THE Truss 's dispatches , that I state what I believe to be the facts and what I know represents the opinions of the majority of Americans here . Others besides the missionaries hope Intensely that a better spirit will some day pervade the Chinese , but if those others do not permit themselves to be caught by each new promise it means only that they permit their heads to control their hearts . Lull Deported In Fighting . SHANGHAI , April 14 ( . l ) . ? After several days of hectic developments that included Cantonese reverses along the Yangtse battlefront and inter-party bloodshed in Shanghai between Cantonese moderates and radicals , China 's civil warfare today was comparatively quiet Whether it was merely the lull before the possible storm of tomorrow 's scheduled meeting at Nanking , called by General Chiang Kai-shek , for the expected purpose of destroying the power of the radicals within the Cantonese regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday 's raids by Chiang 's soldiers on th. " reds " which resulted in the death of 100 Chinese and the demonstration at Chiang 's military headquarters in which 20 persons were killed , reports from Hankow indicated further apprehension on the part of foreigners . A telegram from Hankow said Frank P. Lockhart , American Consul General there , had served notice on American residents in the city that the American naval authorities at Hankow would not attempt to defend any point except the Consulate in the event of trouble . The message added that the naval authorities felt they did not have sufficient forces available to undertake any defense except in the case of an actual evacuation , and that the American Chamber of Commerce in Hankow had protested against this , asking ' . for full protection of property . A strong force of Japanese sailors are o. patrolin the Japanese concession of Hankow behind heavy barricades . ' Persistent rumors were current that the Cantonese , who lost Pukow , across the river from Nanking , to the North- , erners on Tuesday , have retaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Shanghai said that advices had been received reporting Pukow to be in the hands of their troops , but no confirmation of this could be obtained .                     