@@687111

txt Bloodhounds ; trailing through a snow storm and darkness tonight , led County Attorney James Fowler and a posse to the house occupied by Tony4 Bartolino , the man said to have reported the finding of the body of Father Arthur B. Belknap , pastor of St. Patrick 's Roman Catholic church , early yesterday morning . With Bartolino lives Simon Kootzman . Both said they had heard shots . The former said he believed some one was shooting at his horse that was loose in his yard and might have strayed on to the road . Wanted to Save Horse . " I ran out and saw a man across the road , " Bartolino told the county attorney . " r shouted : ' What you try ing to do ? Kill my horse ? ' He shout : ' You go to hell . You better watch out . ' " Bartolino then reentered , the house , put on his shoes , went out , and saw a man lying on the road , he said . That man was the priest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neither Bartolino nor Kootzman has been arrested . Coroner IIolver had a man busy today with tape measure and magnifying glass going all over the scene of the crime . The day 's discoveries , however , dealt with the finding of L. C.'Decroy , from ' whose house the sick call was supposed to be brought to the priest at about 3:30 yesterday morning . There was no one sick In Decroy 's family . Ho had sent out no call . Miner Mot Priest . Another bit of information came from Arthin Miller , an assistant night foreman at a nearby mine . He was coming home , he said . A man passed him on Main street , he followed and the man turned around introducing himself as Father Belknap . Miller then told him how to reach the " third house from the roundhouse in Bender Park . " The way led over a hill and into a suburb called " Poorman 's Gulch . " At the hill Miller left the priest , who never again was seen alive by any one so far found . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no shots . Expert Damaged Auto . Examining the dead priest 's auto , which Miller said the priest told hha had been " tampered with , " the police were ? told by an auto repairman that the machine had been made useless by an expert . Thus the priest was forced to take the lonely walk . A finger print expert will look over the auto tomorrow : The inquest posts pored ! until today was delayed again . It is set for tomorrow . The funeral is to be on Saturday                     