@@690323

txt The American Embassy in Mexico City has taken charge of the archives of the British Embassy there , which have been in the custody of Herbert C. Cummins , the British agent against whom the Mexican Government has endeavored to enforce an order of expulsion . Premier discussed the situation at Mexico City this week with American Ambassador Kellogg at London and it is assumed that the transfer is one result of that conference . The request that the embassy take charge of the archives was transmitted to Washington through Mr. Kellogg and instructions went forward today to H. F. Arthur Schoenfeld , Charg4 at the Mexican capital . He was directed to inform the Mexican Foreign Office of his action " as a matter of courtesy , " No information as to the next development in the case was available at the State Department . The substance of the exchanges between the Mexican and British Governments relative to the status of Herbert C. Cummins , agent of the British Government in Mexico City , was made Public by the Mexican Embassy today . The embassy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly effort had been exhausted in the attempt to relieve the situation , which , it is charged , was brought about by alleged " discourtesy " on the part of Mr. Cummins . The Mexican Foreign Office note , the announcement says , also pointed out that it was an elementary principle that any Government at any time had the right to request another Government to recall its representatives , with or without explanation . Text of Embassy Announcement . The Mexican Embassy announcement reads as follows : The Hon. Ramsay , British Prime Minister , held last Monday an interview with the Mexican Consul at London , in the course of which Mr. stated that he regarded . the attitude of the Mexican Government toward Mr. Cummins as a discourtesy incompatible with friendly relations , and that Mr. Cummins , in defending the interests of British subjects in Mexico , was only complying with his instructions . Mr. added that upon the arrival in Mexico of the British Mission , headed by Sir Thomas Hohler , Mr. Cummins would be immediately recalled to England : but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted in its present attitude , Mr. Crimmins would be immediately recalled and Sir Thomas Hohler 's mission would likewise be immediately canceled . The Department of Foreign Relations of Mexico replied to his majesty 's Government yesterday that it regretted exceedingly to disagree with its view in considering that the request for Mr. Crimmins 's recall constitutes a discourteous act , since the Mexican Government considers itself the victim of such situation , the . is , Mr. Cummins 's discourtesies , and rests assured of having endeavored to solve this incident in the most friendly manner , having exhausted , before adopting this attitude , all possible means , and since it is an elementary principle that any Government , at any rate , ' has the right to request other Governments to recall , with or without explanations , any of their diplomatic officials or agents , and since it is also an elementary duty of international comity to recall them , and not to endeavor to impose them on other countries . The Department of Foreign Relations likewise informed his Majesty 's Government that it had never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of British interests in Mexico in the discharge of instructions received from his Government , but that the Mexican Government could never permit Mr. Cummins 's discourtesies toward the Mexican authorities in the discharge of his duties .. The Department added that the Mexican Government after exhausting all friendly means to obtain a satisfactory solution , exceedingly regretted its inability to withdraw its instructions and that in order to obviate further difficulties , it would consider as a sincere demonstration of his Majesty 's Government . the immediate recall of Mr. Cummins , fully realizing . as in previous instances , that this attitude of defense of the national honor would mean the cancellation of Mr. Hobler 's mission , leaving to his Majesty 's Government to determine as it may deem convenient for its interests , the future relations , since Mexico has striven in all its actions to demonstrate that on this occasion Mexico has only defended its dignity due to her as a sovereign nation , in view of the discourtesies and well-known intrigues of Mr. Cummins , who for many years since has been the main obstacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    