@@695068

txt Although , as has been said , no race may consciously give itself to the higher ends of mankind , " it is " the prerogative of its men of genius " so to devote it . " After years of brilliant , unremitting labor in research and self-imposed perils for the safety and comfort of men , women and children of every race , HIDEy0 NOGOUCHI , dying far from his native land , on a lonely coast of Africa , of a disease which he hazarded in.order to banish it from the earth , had the high prerogative of so devoting his own race . Usually it has been a saint or a seer , a poet or a. philosopher , a statesman or a warrior who has performed this service . In this case it was a scientist . The story of his actual achievement in fighting the real foes of mankind will deserve to be written in the permanent records not only of his nation but of humanity ; for , as J. B. S. HALDANE said in an essay published only yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extends beyond the bound " aries of nationality , race or even " species . " Every Rumanian infected with infantile paralysis , every Indian with smallpox , every rat with plague , diminishes the probable length of my life : It is a short step from this to the conclusion that it is in the realm . n which Dr. NosottcHi labored and died that ' human solidarity is most completely displayed . Disease after disease he fought : rabies , the malady that comes of the rattlesnake bite , infantile paralysis , trachoma and yellow fever . More deadly than the beasts at Ephesus were the infinitesimal creatures against which he carried on his tireless campaigns in Japan , in China , here in the laboratories of America , down in the yellow-fever regions of Central and South America , where he succeeded in isolating the germ that caused this dread disease , and at last , when it had been virtually stamped out in the Western Hemisphere , setting out on his e -- .pedition to attack it in its stronghold in Africa . No warrior has better claim upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for he fights for something beyond country , beyond political or social freedom ? for that upon which the good of the soul itself must in great measure depend . We may felicitate ourselves as a nation that we pushed ajar and kept open the gates of Japan through which Dr. NOGOUCHI passed into the larger world and that our universities and research institutions gave him welcome opportunity and appreciation . Let this hospitality be set against an international discourtesy which this Promethean devotion to mankind in fighting " the immedicable plague " will , it is hoped , permit his own people in their consciousness of his achievement to forget . Free of ** pain " from which he tried , ' even in fad death , to protect others , he earn the reward of the happy warri who , doomed by his own choice to in company with pain and raise and death , " turns his necessity glorious gain . "                     