@@691801

txt Evidences of nation-wide interest and offers of active cooperation from leading citizens in various parts of the country caused leaders in the National Crime Commission movement , who met yesterday in the offices of Elbert H. Gary , head of the United States Steel Corporation , at 71 Broadway , to defer for one week the selection of a chairman and other officers . An Organization Committee was appointed and instructed to select a " slate " Monday for adoptien at a meeting next Wednesday . Although it was the announced pm -- pose to ask Judge Gary to accept the chairmanship , the receipt of hundreds of telegrams and letters from crime-experts , business men , State , county and city officials offering their services , led to a discussion regarding the advisability of making the organization more truly national by including among its officers men from other States . The Organization Committee , which is to gel in touch with various men in other parts of the country , comprises George W. Wickersham , Chairman ; Richard Washburn Child , William B. Joyce , former Governor Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their slate Monday in Mr.:Wickersham 's office . The meeting to which they will report will be in Judge Gary 's office . Those who attended yesterday 's meeting , presided over by Mr. Wickersham as Temporary Chairman , with Rayford I W. Alley acting as Secretary , were George Gordon Battle , Chairman of the Law Reform Committee of the Asso. elation of the Bar of New York ; Mr. Child , John W. Davis , Assemblyman F. Trubee Davison , Dr. John H. Finley , former State Commissioner of Education ; William B. Joyce , Chairman of the Board of the National Surety Company ; W. E. Knox , President of the American Bankers ' Association ; Bur- Bette G. Lewis , Commissioner of Institutions for New Jersey ; Mr. Poor , who is Chairman of the Crime Committee of the Merchants ' Association of New York City ; W. H. Pouch , President of the National Association of Credit Men . Others were Mark 0 . Prentiss , who is spokesman for the movement ; William L. Saunders , Chairman of the Board of the Ingersoll-Rand Company ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Tripp , Chairman of the Beard of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company ; former Governor Whitman . C. K. Woodridge , President of the National Vigilance Committee of the Associated Advertising Clubs of the World ; Governor Gtorge S. Silzer of New Jersey , Harry Davison , brother of Assemblyman Davison , and E. A. St. John , President of the National Surety Company- . Gary Again Explains Aims . Judge Gary explained the purpose of the movement and its progress to date . and . ) Ir . Child answered questions from those who did not attend the first meeting . It was generally sgreed that the movement was in response to a real need and would accomplish a great public service in stamping out , in so far as possible , crime conditions that were characterized as " terrifying . " The meeting was behind closed doors and information concerning it was made public by Mr. Prentiss . Asked if the question of financing had been diecussed , Mr. Prentiss said : " Judge Gary said lie would do all he could to help and would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one or two others endorsed Judge Gary 's idea of making contributions , but a detailed discussion of finances was not held . The commission certainly will have a high-class secretary and staff who will be paid . " Jersey Justice as a Cure . Governor Silzer was quoted by Mr. Prentiss as having emphasized that New Jersey stampec ? out a large part of its crimes of violence , including highway banditry , by immediate trials and very severe penalties . Governor Silzer called together the prosecuting attorneys and advised what they should do , then called together the Judges of New Jersey 's criminal courts and asked them to inflict the severest penalties . Mr. Prentiss pointed out that " Jersey justice " is now a well known phrase . Mr. Wickersham , according to Mr. Prentiss , said the National Crime Commission 's work is not to be accomplished in a week , or a month , and that those who really wanted to aid in the movement must enlist , in effect , " for the duration of the war . " As an aid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business men to occupy the bench with him and give their reaction to the day 's proceedings . In Yorkville Court yesterday W. J. L. Benham . President of the New York Board of Trade and Transportation and head of the Otis Elevator Company , sat with the alagistrate end later expressed surpri. , : e that so many men without proper licenses are ** taxicabs . " It is evident , " said Mr. Benham. " that the period during which occurred the transfer of control from the License to the Police Department contributed largely to the existing situation . Some drivers are still using their 1924-1925 licenses with only a slip of paper to sho wthey have filed application for new licenses . " WANT SINGLE CRIME BUREAU . Brooklyn Committee Says Records Now Are Scattered . In a statement issued yesterday J. W. Richardson , Chairman of the Puhllo Safety Committee of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce , said that plans were being considewc1 by that body for coordination of criminal records . The records , according to the statement , are distributed among many departments of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them into one department , where . they may be more readily accessible Certain changes in the penal and prison laws which will ? permit more se- , vere sentences for professional and dangerous criminals and greater leniency for first offenders are also under Consideration by the Public Safety Commit : . tee . The committee also is Inquiring into more careful segregation of prisonders and suitable work for all prisoner &;                     