@@688329

txt With the date of the Opening of the Lausanne Conference still fixed officially for Monday morning , a cloud thick with uncertainty hangs over the whole Near East situation . Pails , Rome and London are at odds on various points , and , although Ismet Pasha , head of the Turkish delegation , has left Constantinople and is due to arrive at Lausanne by Monaay , it is now certain that the allied delegations will not be there on time , and that the conference will not begin Monday . Probably sonic under-officials will be on hand to welcome Ismet Pasha and bid him wait a bit . - It was supposed yesterday that Paris and London had agreed to open the conference on Nov. ' 20 , but the Quai d'Or ' say , after a series of conflicting diplomatic reports on the intenions of the iFrench and British Governments , an-. flounced this afternoon that Premier Poincare stood out for beginning on Monday . It is believed here tonight that the conference may get under way ? about next Friday . This little difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeper and more important differences in the attitude of the Allies toward the exaggerated demands of the Turks . , The 7 British appear sincere in their desire to have an agreement between London and Paris before facing the Turks . The French proclaim the same desire , but up to tonight the two . Foreign Offices have not agreed on how far to go . Situation Full of Danger . The situation is full of danger . Kernal 's delegates have indicated that they ' Will take the stand that the Allies have no rights in Turkey which the Kemalist Government does not chose to recognize . In other words , Kemal does not recognize the allied victory of 1918 , as he has shown by declaring that the Mudros armistice , which ended the World War in the Near East , means nothing to him . It was , perhaps , to bring this point into relief that the Allied High Commissioners in their note to the Angora Government last night demanded the 1:nmediate revocation of the Kemalist orders taking over the customs and local administrations hitherto exercised by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Kemal 's orders were contrary to the terms of the Mudros armistice . The note threatens that if Kemal is obstinate the allied generals will take steps to enforce their will . This probably presages a declaration of martial law , in accordance with the authorization of the allied Governments given the High Commissioners three days ago . Tie prospect of a satisfactory settlement at Lausanne Is not bright . Even If the Kemalists do not demand that the ' French quit Syria and the British Mesopotamia , where both are by virtue of a treaty which has been torn up , even the fixing of the Turkish frontiers as laid down in the Angora National Pact would take from the British the Mosul oil region , in which the American Government has shown a keen interest . Kernal 's demands for the Aegean - islands are sure to make trouble , as well its his project to utinand payment of more than a billion dollars ' indemnity by the Greeks . Foreigners having business and other interests in Turkey have been deluging the British and French Governments with protests against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be hopelessly handicapped if it is subject to Turkish laws administered by Turkish courts . The Nationalists ' announcement of their intentions regarding missions surd schools indicates that there are great difficulties ahead tot those enterprises . In this respect it seems a safe prediction that American wishes as set forth in the note of Secretary Hughes to the Allies will suffer a severe disappointment , especially since the American Government proposes to do no more than sit on the sidelines at Lausanne . It will probably be one more illustration of the fact that by sitting on the sidelines Washington can not share in the prize money of international diplomatic games . Newspapers Turn Against Foincare . Because of the arrogance of the Turks Premier Poincare is steadily losing support in France for his pro-Kemal policy . The Journal des Dehats , the Liberte , the Eclair , the Figaro and the Echo de Paris are constantly begging him to make common cause with the British as the best way to protect French interests In the Near East . Andre Tardku. in the Echo National , says that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France go to Lausanne without agreeing on their line of conduct . The . Journal des Daats tonight accuses the French Government of playing // a losing game and says : " Proud in the belief that they conquered all Europe in beating the demoralized army of Constantine , the Turks attack not only the Treaty of Stvres , but the Balkan treaties . In the face of such shocking pretensions Lord Curzon is quite right when he thinks it imprudent to go to Lausanne without fixing a program for the Allies . " What does this mean , this cry from the Quai d'Orsay that we should hurry the Lausanne meeting where the Turks await us ? Does it mean that we prefer to make arrangements with the Turks rather than with the British ? That would mean that there would come nit of Lausanne not a satisfactory arrangement , but the triumph of the Turks over England . We do not like to believe that M. Poincaire has any such idea . Nothing is more foolish than to believe that we can get the co-operation of England in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get along without English co-operation . " At no time since the war have the Allies been in such confusion as they are with regard to Turkey , and that with the peace conference only a few days away . All of which redounds to the benefit of the Turks . Paris Agrees to Postponement . PARIS , Nov. 10 ( Associated Press ) . The French Government will accept Nov. 20 as the date for the beginning of the Lausanne conference on Near Eastern affairs if the British Government insists on a postponement from next week to that date . It Is understood , however , that France would prefer to start the conference officially , if not practically , on the original date , Nov. 13 . In case of a postponement It is considered not impossible that the Turkish delegation would take advantage of the delay and come , or at least a part of it , to Paris , where Premier Poincare could not refuse to receive the delegates , although it is asserted in high circles that the Premier of course would not lend himself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in London . LONDON , Nov. 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? Telegraphic communication between London and Constantinople continues interrupted . The only news that is coming in is reaching London slowly and through devious routes , Dispatches dated Wednesday . received by the Foreign and War Offices today by naval wireless , indicated that the Allied Commissioners then wore still awaiting a definite reply from the Angora Government to their demand that the Turks recede from their attitude , which the Allies regard RP out of accord with the Mudros and Muilania. conventions , The dispatchee showed that the allied representatIVeti had also lodged a strong protest with Rotel . Pasha , the Nationalist Governor , against the execution of Ali Kemal Boy ; editor of Sabah , an anti-Nationalist organ , That the ** continuos atralnad Is shown by the feet that the Earl of Derby , Secretary of War , was compelled to cancel a political engagement he had in the North today . He explained that things were in such shape us to make his presence at the War Office absolutely imperative . Pourpa Hera are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conference on Near Eastern affairs . Although no date has yet been set for the gathering . which was originally fixed for next week , it is still believed hero that a postponement will be taken until Nov. 20 . The Cabinet , with all the members attending , was in session more than two hours this forenoon , and it is understood that a message from General liarington , the British commander at Con ? stantinople , was dismissed . although the officials were absolutely silent after the meeting and would give no hint concerning the discussion . There was nothing to indicate when the Harington mesdag ? . if such a message actually was in hand . had been received . The extrema reticence observed by the officials , it was declared , did not necessarily indicate that the Near East situation was too serious to be discussed . It Is understood that Prime Minister T3one.r Law 's new Cabinet is adopting , for the time being , at any rate , a policy of utter secrecy regarding all Cabinet meetings . It is understood that no minutes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any news given to the press will be given by the Ministers separately as they see fit . If any Minister is not present he must- learn what happens from others will were there , if at all , as no record of the proceedings is distributed . as was the custom under Premier Lloyd George the only Prime Minister who ever tried such an innovation . One thing on which members of the Government were outspoken was that full power to declare a state of siege in Constantinople had been granted the Allied High Commissioners and the military commanders . The officials professed ignorance , however , as to whether this power had been exerted . " One thing is sure , " said one of the officials : " if a state of siege has not already been declared it will be declared if the Turks persist in their unwillingness to come to some arrangement , considered reasonable by the Allies , for the administration of Constantinople . " New Note Sent to Angora . CONSTANTINOPLE , Nov. 0 ( Associated Press ) .  - -  The Allied High Commissioners this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding the repeal of all measures relating to the customs , the public debt and the sanitary and other services which conflict with the capitulations and the stipulations of the aludros armistice agreement of 1018 . Otherwise , says the note , the commissioners will be compelled to refer to their Governments for necessary action : Tho allied Generals have also arranged a meeting with Rafet Pasha , the Nationalist Governor here , to whom they will submit minimum demands with a view to insuring the safety of the troops and efficient control of the police and gendarmerie , The commissioners will also discuss Lb ? situation at Chunak consequent upon Nomalist encroachments upon the neutral zone . Tho result of the meeting is not likely to be known for some tithe , but there are abundant indications that the Kernallots are in an intractable mood , an instance of ' which ' ALTO new deoazde for the evacuation of the allied ' troops and the withdrawal of the warships . Ismet Pasha , the Nationalist Foreign Minister , in a conversation with General liarington , the British ( ' onunandefth-Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put off the peace conference , which , he said , created a difficult situation . Ismet Posits Starts for Lausanne . Ismet left here this afternoon at 12:50 o'clock for Lausanne to attend the peace conference scheduled to begin there next Monday . He was accompanied by Dr. Riza Nur Bey and a suite of financial and economic experts . The Foreign Minister told The Associated Press he wag sincerely anxious for peace and was confident of achieving it if the Allies adopted a reasonable attitude . Humid Bey will sail Friday or Satu ? - day , with several experts , on the French steamer Tiger , which is due at Marseilles next Wednesday . The Sultan is virtually at the mercy of the Nationalists , should they decide to . make a descent in force on ? Is palace and attempt to carry him off , as is feared . Ills own guard has gone over to the Kemalists , and only nominal protection on the port of - allied troops seems so far to have been accorded him . The correspondent in a visit to the palace this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the palace the monarch is surrounded by seven trusted eunuchs , who remain at his side day and night . The Sultan , i it is said , may formally appeal to the Allies for protection , but it is believed they could prevent a possible Nationalist coup only if martial law were declared . Sir Horace George M. Rumbold , the British High Commissioner , and General Pelle . High Commissioner of France , have been the only visitors at the palace since the decision of the Angora Government not to recognize the Sultan 's temporal authority . The Sultan has refused to comment publicly on the present crisis or reveal his plans . To friends , however , he Was expressed the determination to remain on the throne unless removed by force . He insists that the National Assembly Is not representative of the sentiment of the Moslem world and therefore is without authority to modify the status of the successors to Mohammed who have enjoyed full temporal and spiritual power for more than a thousand years . Sultan 's Wives Praying for Rim . The greatest consternation prevails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caliph 's numerous wives and attendants are engaged in constant prayer that their sovereign be spared . The most devoted of them all is the wife ho married two months ago , the youthful Circassian beauty , daughter of the Palace gardener . Owing to the Sultan 's depleted fortune , he is faced with a difficult problem to provide sufficient food and clothing for the members of his household , some of whom receive a salary equivalent to only 2 a month . SOFIA , Nov. 10 ( Associated Press ) . - Ismet Pasha and the other members of the Turkish Nationalist delegation to the Near West peace conference passed through Sala today on the way to Lausanne . Ismet told The Aseoeletf-d Press correspondent that Tu rho-Bulge Han rein - ti0118 now viers good and would grow better , He said the Lepsanne conference would be called Mal ti ) consider the disposition of Western Ttlrace ,                     