@@694354

txt MOtherli ? in ? la iv , incompatibility. infidelity , drunkenness , and so on , have their places in divorce statistics . But tut Interesting contribution to the mar ? riago menace would be figures on the 11 umber of divorces with the money problem as their reasons , I 'd be ing to wager that a high percentage of causes listed otherwise , if rightly stated , would show money as , the rout of the evil . The danger does not lie in the possession of too much money nor to years of struggle against poverty , but to the lack of thrift among so many of our young married people . Illustrative of this Is a ease in point . Bohn years ago George .1 . Married . lie laid $2.500 saved . At the end of three years he had n't a cent of his original savings . And today , although during these seven years he has worked steadily and has earned a good salary , lie is in debt about 11,500. ilia wife would naturally appear to he to blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except that the young man before marriage could set aside money OM of his earnings and he could have continued doing it if he had sustained the character he set out with . Instead , he let . himself he led into a gay group . where drinking parties not . drunkenness , understand are u featured amusement , semi-weekly . This , of course , is only a ' signal of a general let down in the attitude toward thrift . Bat it is the parties and the entertainment and the clothes to be worn with them that play havoc in so many of the lives of these couples referred to . A hectic spending of time is always accompanied by a hectic spending of money . And debt , with its feeling of insecurity , its worries and its loss of self-respect , brings : t trail of misunderstandings , bickerIngs and hard words itt its wake , This particular couple referred to are on the verge of a divorce . Incompatibility , I understand , is the lame excuse given . The tragedy of it is that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreeably and well if they had steadied themselves with h a batik account , which was a perfectly possible accomplishment . I have a conviction that If a hank book were given with every marriage license and an oath taken that every week an entry would he made in it . were it only fifty cents . there would be an appreciable reduction in our appalling divorce statistics . * Prairie Club Hike . The Prairie club walk for Saturday will be from Brookfield to La Grange . The club will leave the Union station at 1:35 p. m. over the C. B. &; Q. The public is invited . The leaders will be Miss Hazel Keenan , Miss Grace In. graga in , Paul Burglund and Ross Preston .                     