@@691067

txt President Coolidge. it became known today . intends to look outside the diplomatic service for an Ambassador to Germany to fill the vacancy to be caused by the transfer of Alanson B. Houghton from the Berlin mission to become Ambassador to Great Britain . In the President 's opinion . as it was disclosed . the post of American Ambassador to GerrnapY requires some one experienced in economic and business matters rather than a diplomatist . He feels , it was said , that the problems which involve the relation between the United States and Ger many are largely business problems ar. , i can best be handled . as far as this Government is concerned , by a wide-awak , business man . - In view of this attitude of the President , reports that Henry P. Fletcher , the Ambassador to Italy . would be transferred to Berlin had a decided slump . Knowledge of the President 's position also served to bring into prominence the name of Senator Iedill McCormick of Illinois in connection with filling the German mission . Ogden -A .. Hammond Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate for the Ambassadorship to Germany today when he recommended to the President the appoint ' ment of Ogden H. Hammond of Bernardsville . N. J .. to succeed Ambassador Houghton . Mr. Edge said that Mr. Hammond was " big enough for any job . " Mr. Hammond was a New York banker , now retired from business . Secretary Hughes returned to Washington today from Atlanta , where ne went to preside over the meeting of the Executive Committee of the American Bar Association . It was his first appearance in Washington since announcement was made at the White House last Saturday evening that he Had tendered his resignation , to take effect March 1 . Mr. Hughes received newspaper men this morning and adhered to his attitude in Atlanta of refusing to discuss his prospective retirement from public life . Nothing has developed in Washington since Mr. Hughes 's return here to clear the mystery which those in political Life attach to his resignation . That his chief reason for wishing to give up public office was that he was entitled to a. rest after twenty years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those in the political world . Secretary Hughes called on President Coolidge at the White House this afternoon . Nothing was disclosed as to the nature of their conference . Report That Slemp Will Quit . Reports were current here tonight that C. Bascom Slemp will resign as private secretary to President Coolidge on March 4 and that the vacancy will be filled by the appointment of Representative Everett Sanders of Indiana . confirmation of the report was lackinz , in White House circles at a late hour tonight . The credited intention of the President to make Mr. been absent several days In New York City , returned to Washington late today and was at his office for a short time . He , however , gave no intimation that his resignation was in prospect , although it has becn the general expectation that ' he would not remain for any considerable time secretary to the President . Representative Sanders will retire from Congress on March 4 next , as he did not stand for re-election . It had been his intention to return to the practice of law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Speakers ' Bureau , with headquarters at Chicago , and had charge of the assignment of speaking dates for Republican campaign orators . He is rounding out eight years of service in the House , and on March 8 will be 43 years old . The selection of Mr. Sanders , it is held here , would be the continuation of an apparent policy of President Coolidge of having at his right hand a man thoroughly conversant with conditions in Congress and with the Congressional mind .                     