@@692948

txt WASHINGTON , July 22 . ? A .. ) challenge to Republicans to fight ... the campaign this-year on the tariff as an issue , - especially in the agricultural Midwest , where need for farm relief is emphasized by farm organizations , was issued today by Representative Cordell Hull of Tennessee ? former Chairman of the Democratic National Committee . Senator Harrison of Mississippi also assailed the present tariff law , declaring that " at last the farmers ' and the American people are disillusioned as to the principles of a protective tariff . " Mr. Hull attacked the economic policies of the Coolidge Administration , charging that it was dominated by high tariff manufacturers of the East . and that Eastern and Western wings . of the Republican Party tvere engaged in an irreconcilable conflict over the tariff . He declared the existing Fordney tariff was the " seat of the farm disease , " and that " the manifest remedy is tariff reduction . " The Tennessee Representative criticized Secretary ' Mellon for his letter opposing the passage of the Haugenqzmcq#Nary farm relief bill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other authorized , spokesmen for the Coolidge Administration and the Eastern wing of the Republican Party in recently denying the right of agriculture to some aPpreciable tariff benefits , while selfish and inconsistent in one sense , was , notwithstanding , entirely consistent according to the longtime viewpoint of the high tariff manufacturers and the teaching of the Eastern wing of the Republican Party during the past fifty years . " Mr. Hull insisted that " the outstanding question before the country is whether the high tariff manufacturers through such corruption and debauchery of elections as was recently witnessed in Pennsylvania shall continue to control the Government at Washington ' and to conduct it primarily for the purpose of gross favoritism to 10. or 15 per cent , of the American people at the expense of the other 85 to 90 per cent . " Senator Harrison asserted that nothing had happened in years to so arouse the farmers against the high tariff as the discussion of farm relief measures in the last session of Congress . Senator Fess of Ohio , who'll-ad been a guest of the President at White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the Mississippi Senator . " The game of political ' mutably peg ' at which Senator Fess and President Coolidge have been playing in the Adirondacks , " said Senator Harrison , " is amusing . Whether Governor Smitly was really in earnest or playing a joke on the President in placing that fish in the State Museum will remain a mooted question , but for Senator Fess to kid the President about his present popularity is cruel . " . ITALIANS GREET BONZANO . They Gather at St. , Patrick 's Cathedral to Welcome Him . Five thousand Italians thronged St. Patrick 's Cathedral last night , welcoming John ? Cardirial Bonzano , Papal Legate to the recent Eucharistic Congress . The reception was held under the auspices of the Italian branch of the Holy Name Society and the Italian Catholic churches throughout the city . It concluded with the benediction of the blessed sacrament , at which the Cardinal officiated . - Inspector Loonan McCormick and 250 policemen directed the crowds about the cathedral and guarded the procession of clergy from the residence of Patrick Cardinal Hayes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chidwick and Vincent Arcesi , deacons of honor , and Cardinal Hayes was escorted by Mgrs . Thomas ' Carroll and John Brady . Mgr . M. J. Lavelle , pastor of the cathedral , Italian priests and a group of Franciscan friars were also in the procession . Addresses were made by Mgr . Joseph Silipigni , pastor of Our Lady of Loretto Church at 303 Elizabeth Street , and Dr. Vittorio Pisani , President of the Italian Holy Name Society . The Cardinal , replying in Italian , spoke of his trip as a continual triumphal march . He said that Italians were second to none in their devotion to the Church and urged them to remain an example to the Catholics of other races . Speaking in English , he expressed thanks for the presence of those who were in the cathedral and gave a blessing to the children . A special musical program was arranged by Alberto Bimboni , organist and director of the choir .                     