@@693420

txt Strong efforts to take the gun from the gunman  --  and especially to take the machine gun from the gangster ? will be made at an open conference of chiefs of police and prosecuting attorneys for all large cities of the middle west , to be held In Chicago on Jan. 28 and 29 . The conference has been called by J. Weston Allen , chairman of the small arms regulation committee of the national crime commission . The principal aim of the conferees will be to encourage the passage in every state of legislation which will outlaw the general sale of revolvers . It is not proposed to draw a sample bill for submission to all the legislatures , but rather to set forth the general principles upon which such legislation should be founded . Guard Against Being Unjust . Chairman Allen said his committee hoped to recommend legislation which will prevent criminals from obtaining guns " without being unjust or unduly restrictive in preventing the possession of small arms by those who should properly ha ' e them . " The chiefs of police attending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , day session , and on the second day the prosecutors will be heard , it being the purpose to make the general theories of the police officials workable and effective in the hands of a vigorous state 's attorney . Discussing the increased recent use of machine guns in gang warfare , Mr. Allen said the committee has received a suggestion that they should be manufactured and sold only to the war department , which in turn would issue them to police and other bodies which might properly possess them . Others on Committee . Other members of the committee arc August Vollmer , general chairman as representing the police committee of tho national crime commission ; Philip S. Van Cise. former prosecuting attorney of Denver ; Jay 12 , Benton , attorney general of Massachusetts ; H. L. Ekern , attorney general of Wisconsin . and 0 . S. Spillman , attorney general of NebOBska , representing the Association of States ' Attorneys General ; Brig . Gen. Colden Ruggles , representing the war department ; James B. Baum , deputy manager of the American Bankers ' association ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the United States Revolver association ; S. M. Stone . president of Colt 's Patent Firearms company , officially representing all of the small arms manufacturers , and Ogden L. Mills , as a special adviser on national legislation .                     