@@690464

txt The failure of John W. Davis , Democratic nominee for President , to see Governor Smith since his return from Maine Thursday morning , although both were in the city until yesterday noon , was said yesterday to have been entirely ' without significance by a close friend of Mr. Davis . The fact that they did not have a conference , according to this view , gave no indication as to whether Governor Smith would be a candidate for re-election , as Mr. Dris is understood to desire . The two men will meet and talk over the situation , possibly tomorrow , and certainly at the rally of the . Mr. Davis yesterday denied reports that he was in any way dissatisfied or disappointed with the Governor 's position . " As far as our personal and political relations go , they could not be more satisfactory , " he said . Mr. Davis would be greatly pleased if Governor Smith would run for re election and believes it would strengthen the entire Democratic ticket itt this State . He does not know what Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Governor must make for himself . The prospective candidacy of Mayor Hylan for the Democratic nomination for Governor has created a situation which Mr. Davis and his friends realize must be handled carefully . It is regarded as certain that Mr. Davis 's advisers would prefer Governor Smith to Mayor Hylan as head of the State ticket , but it ? is not believed that they would like to take a stand against the Mayor . Mr. Davis arrived at his headquarters in the Murray Hill Hotel at 10:30 in the morning . Be had talks ' with William H. Chilton , former United States Senator from West Virginia , and Thomas J. Spellacy of Connecticut , his Eastern campaign manager . Mr. Spellacy said he would take over the Davis suite in the Murray Hill Hotel as the Eastern campaign headquarters for New England . New York and New Jersey , and also that he would accompany Mr. Davis to Clarksburg , W , Va. , for the notification ceremonies on Aug. 11 and would return immediately after to New York . " As soon as we return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Mr. Spellacy said . " Then I will take a trip through the New England States . " On his return to his home in Locust Valley , Mr. Davis was accompanied by J. M. Nye , his Assistant Secretary ; Norman H. Davis , former Under-Secretary of State , and Arthur Bullard , editor of Our World , and a prominent League of Nations advocate . Mr. Davis has practically completed the revision of his acceptance speech , the draft of which he wrote during his stay in Maine . Mr. Shaver was in Washington yesterday . but is expected to return to Rem ' York tomorrow . He. - will accompany Mr. Davis to Clarksburg and will go from there to Chicago to arrange for the opening of Western headquarters . After his return to his home at Locust Valley yesterday afternoon . Mr. Davis played Norman H. Davis . a round of golf and went bathing In Long . Island Sound . Former Supreme Court Justice Daniel F. Cohalan before sailing for Europe yesterday , on the White Star liner Adriatic for a six weeks ' holiday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silence if by nothing else , Mr. Cohalan said , the candidate hits endorsed the Ku Klux Klan and its methods . " The most Mr. Davis can hope for from any Progressive Democrat is silence , " Mr. Cohalan said . " But those who are not gagged by hope of gain or fear of consequences , political or otherwise , and who desire to serve the country . will oppose him and his Ku Klux platform . " In my opinion , events have made atiatopi La Follette the master of the situation . If he is - not elected at the Polls . the choice of President will not be made by the Electoral College , as no one of the candidates will have a majority ' ' there .                     