@@687380

txt It was reliably stated tonight that George Harvey , the American Ambassador to Great Britain , now making a brief sojourn in Paris on his way front Cannes to London , will tell Premier Polneart= that the United States may yet consider being represented at the forthcoming economic conference at Genoa . provided France will consent to full participation in that gathering . This was the view expressed tonight . subject to any further instructions the Ambassador may receive from Washington as to the course to bo taken toward the Genoa conference . Mr. Harvey 's interview with the French Premier , which is regarded In French official circles as unusually important . Is expected to take place tomorrow morning or tomorrow afternoon , and this meeting may be followed by another on Saturday or Monday . Ambassador Harvey said this evening that agile his visit to Paris was not in the nature of a special mission he would take the opportunity of making clear the American viewpoint with regard to the Genoa conference specifically and to the whole economic and financial question generally . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ li Government as possible , . but he was chiefly concerned with haw ' ing one or tv.0 talks with Premier Poincar6 , so that ' Prance .. Thight thoroughly understand the American attitude . Mr. Harvey .. also will hold a number of conferences with Myron T. Herrick. the American Ambassador to France . Mr. Ilerrick also has been . active in obtaining French opinion , and it is understood he will work closely with Mr. Harvey during . the latter 's visit in Paris . May Affect Washington Decision . It wit. : understood this evening that Mr. Harvey probably will inform Premier Poincare that tie : American Goveminent feels that the Genoa confercnce will be worthless , or at least of little value , unless France whole-heart. - filly takes part . Should France decide to remain out of the conference , Mr. Harvey is understood to believe that America would be particularly reluctant to join in its deliberations . It is understood in American quartcm here that President rd Ing 's final decision on acceptance of the invitation to be represented at Genoa depends to a considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paris , The extent to which the United States will participate at Genoa and in European economic reconstruction generally is also considered as somewhat dependent , aside from French participation . upon some solution of the reparations questions and upon a. sincere indication on the part of European countries that they are trying to balance their budgets by reduction of land armaments and other burdens which are regarded as unnecessary by America . Mr. Harvey , it is understood , . will make this plain in his talk with Premier I'oineare and other representatives of the French Government . It was also learned today , in conneo+ tion with Mr. Harvey 's visit , that the special committee which the allied powers appointed at Cannes to draw up the definite and final agenda for the Genoa conference has delayed its first meeting pending the outcome of Mr. Harvey 's conversations with Premier Poincare , it was pointed out that the Allies do not want actually to frame a final program until America 's views and desires are thoroughly understood . Moreover , it was explained that the proposals for discussion at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting of the Supreme Council , in no sense constitute the final agenda , which rests with the committee to decide . America has been asked to appoint a representative on this committee , but such an appointment has been left undecided pending a final-decision on the question of America 's par . ticipation in the conference . Talk of Change In Date . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Jan. 2G. ? American participation in an international economic conference may depend upon the attitude of the other nations in regard to postponement to a date later than March 8 , which was selected for the opening of the proposed meeting at Genoa . There was a strong intimation in official circles today that the United States was not yet prepared to accept the invitation to send a delegation to Genoa at this time . The feeling was that there would be better chance of accomplishment if the conference were delayed until the arms conference was concluded and the treaties acted upon by the United States Senate and the foreign Governments involved . There is a growing belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the proposed economic conference , although no official information to ' that effect has come from any of the foreign Governments . It has been indicated that some annooncement in regard to the attitude of the United States toward participation In the Genoa meeting may be expected within a day or two . The general belief hero seems to be that theAdministraCon would , in that event , express unwillingness to accept the invitation on such short notice and desire more information concerning the topics which are a discussed and the scope of the proposed conference . One official pointed out today . that the probability of attendance by the United States at an economic conference would be increased if it wz.s. decided to hold it at a later date than that set for the gathering at Genoa . Because of the many problems before the arms conference , the American officials have not had the opportunity to study carefully the proposals for the conference at Genoa and have taken the attitude that it will be time for the ' United States to decide upon its course after definite conclusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some who feel that the economic conference should be postponed until the treaties coming from the arms conference have been placed before the Senate and either ratified or reSected . They hold to the theory that the situation at Genoa will be largely influenced by what comes out of the arms conference . The United States , one official indicated , was not anxious to go into a conference where individual nations were seeking to gain individual ends . Its attude may , in the last analysis , depend upon the developments abroad within the next few weeks as to the question of German reparations and the attitude of certain nations to the question of the reduction of land armaments .                     