@@686051

txt An investigation of a criminal complaint made to him by Campbell McCulloch , formerly first reader of the First Church of Christ , Scientist , was begun yesterday by Assistant District Attorney Alexander I. Rorke , who will question six or seven members of that congregation today about the former reader 's complaint . Mr. McCulloch and Mr. Rorke rerusea yesterday to reveal the charge made by the former or any names mentioned , but it is known that the day before Mr. McCulloch complained at the District Attorney 's office his desk had been broken open and important papers stolen . In a statement yesterday Mr. McCulloch said : " Defamatory statements have been circulated about me and a general campaign of vilification and represensible falsehood carried on . All this is due to the efforts , of an organized spy system established in the church and which has for its object the dragooning of any one who may object to the intolerant and autocratic methods of the high officials of the church . " A tremendous machine of arbitrary power has been built up and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disciplined in a manner that can only be compared to the vicious practices of the Inquisition . Trouble In the First Church . " The present trouble in the First Church has been brewing for ten years . It has little or nothing to do with the situation in Boston . My own views as to Mrs. Stetson are well known . I have been Unalterably opposed to the policies which resulted in her dismissal from the First Church here and from the mother church in Boston , and I am still opposed to them . " The attack upon me and others in this city is solely because I have objected to the commercialism of the Church as it is being carried out . The trouble is based upon the . fact that the Christian Science Church has become too prosperous , too well fed and too powerful . " Mr. McCulloch says he wishes it understood that none of the things he referred to affect in any way the teachings of Mrs. Eddy . He regards these conditions as the result of a departure from her teachings . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside recklessly and an absolutism set up by the board . " There is no question that the Christian Science organization is split , " concludes Mr. McCulloch , " and the split will continue until the present regime is cleared out of the Church in Boston and the interference with the democratic conduct of the thousands of branch churches throughout the world abandoned by ' the directors . " Hundreds Seek Reinstatement . Preparations looking to the reinstatement of hundreds of members of the Christian Science Church , including fifty whose names were dropped from the rolls of the First Church , and others who were dismissed from branches of the Church in other cities , were begun yesterday as a result of the court order on Thursday compelling the reinstatement of twenty-six members of the local congregation . At the same time G. C. Frandscus , counsel for the Trustees of the First Church , announced that the Trustees would not combat the reinstatement of any dismissed members who were willing to state that they had not violated the Church by-laws by failure to attend services for a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former organist of the church , who says he was dismissed by the Trustees , said yesterday he had engaged Colonel Thomas B. Felder as counsel to represent him in mandamus proceedings to compel the Trustees to produce a copy of charges which he was informed had been preferred against him . Mr. Stephens asserted that many other members had been " railroaded " out of the congregation in the same way as he . In a formal statement on behalf of the Christian Science Committee on Publl- ? - cation for the . State of New . York , 52 Vanderbilt Avenue , Albert F. ' Gilmore took exception to the statement made by tr . Barnes , counsel for the twenty-six reinsated members . In part he says : " The allegations that Mrs. Stetson was refiloved from membership in the Mother Church because she stood for certain fundamental teachings of Christian Science has no basis whatever in fact . The charges upon which she was removed , as announced by the Christian Science Board of Directors on Nov. 1S , 1909 , are as follows : ' First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not her followers and against the interests of this Church . Second , persisting in teaching and prao. tices which are contrary to Christian Science . ' " That the action of the Board of Trustees of First Church in dismissing a considerable number of inactive members is another ' evidence of the ruses employed by the material heads of the church ' to interfere with the efforts to preserve the true spiritual import of the teachings of Christian Science . as is al .. leged , is equally untrue . " He added that the ' dismissals were because of in ? activity and infrequent attendance upon church services . Mrs. Stetson , who is alleged to be the storm centre of the present controversy was not at home yesterday . It was sai4 that she was out of town .                     