@@696719

txt With Prime Minister 's departure from Washington this morning . political circles in the capital turned attention to attempting to appraise the results of the series of discussions between President Hoover and the head of the British Government which were practically continuous since Mr. arrived here Friday . The text of the United States Government 's acceptance of the British I invitation to attend a naval disarmament conference in London in Jan , nary , which the State Department made public along with the news that it had been delivered to the British Foreign Office today , attracted little attention not only because cordial and prompt acceptance was assured but also because interest on Capitol Hill and elsewhere centred in what had taken place between the President and the British Premier . The American note is a mere colorless communication of ten typewritten lines in which Secretary Stimson tells the Right Honorable Arthur Henderson , the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , that he takes " great pleasure " in informing him that the American Government " hastens " to accept the invitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was delivered to Ambassador Dawes in London on Monday and cabled to the State Department that day . Its decoding was finished by the Department on Tuesday and the text was published yesterday . In the absence of Ambassador Dawes . who sailed from England for the United States yesterday , the American answer was delivered to the Foreign Office by Ray Atherton , Charg ? d'Affaires of our London Embassy . With the United States thus setting an example of ' prompt endorsement of the purposes of the disarmament conference , the way is paved for acceptances from France , Italy and Japan without any great delay . Ever since the project of having another naval disarmament conference was broached , the acceptance of Japan has been assured . France , whose attitude appeared for a time to be in doubt , intends to participate in the conference , according to positive statements in press dispatches from Paris . Italy , which means Premier Mussolini , ** question mark , but information from Rnme tends to give assurance that the British invitation will be accepted by the Italian Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the wake of Premier 's departure from Washington . That which appeared to most interest Senators was that President Hoover and Mr. had discussed American participation in the World Court among the myriad of things that entered into their conferences . But the rumor to that effect obtained no credence in the face of assurance from an informed member of the Senate that the World Court problem had not figured in the exchanges between President and Premier . There was a measure of disappointment among Senators over the failure of the joint statement issued yesterday by President Hoover and Prime Minister to enumerate topics they had discussed . ' The expectation that this enumeration would figure in the joint statement was based on the substantial ground that the communiqu ? , as originally prepared , had given some information as to the course the conversations at the White House and the President 's Virginia camp had taken , with specific reference to the Anglo-American questions that had been considerea . But , as was explained in a . Washington dispatch in today 's Nsw YORK TIMES , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should /nye an op- I Portunity to consult . his ministerial I colleagues before announcing any concrete results of his conversations with President . Hoover , caused the deletion of that part of the joint statement which was to inform the public of the specific subjects upon which they had deliberated . Senators Await Further Facts . One reaction on the Senate side of the Capitol was that nothing whatever of a definite character had been accomplished through the conversations between the President and the Premier , but it was not widespread and ' appeared to be due to disappointment over the failure to disclose that . some positive agreemeats on matters in which certain Senators were interested ? had been reached . On the whole , Senators are disposed to await- official information as to the outcome of the days of close conversational association between Mr. Hoover and Mr before expressing opinions as to the value of the exchanges . ? Part of the desired information is expected soon , with Mr. making the disclosure . The understanding is that he will make known , probably in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whence he is going after the conclusion of his New York visit , that the President and himself discussed the demilitarization of the British naval bases on the American continent . To Consult Dominions on Disarming . What he is expected to say is that this matter was taken up with the President . but . on account of its application to Britain 's overseas possessions , it was deemed wise to take no positive course until the governments of the Dominions had been consulted . It is with an eye to the defenses of Halifax , N. S. , that this policy of caution is aimed . There might be a popular reaction in Canada against any announcement . of Prime Minister that the fortifications there were to be dismantled ; and the . expected statement from him will be designed , apparently , to reassure Canada that nothing wottd be . done hastily . As for the British naval bases in the West Indies , there seems to be a likelihood that they will be demilitarized . As they mount guns not exceeding six inches calibre , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is certain to be interpreted as a friendly gesture toward the United States . in consonance with the declarations in yesterday 's joint statement that - " war between them ( Britain and America ) is unthinkable " and that " conflicts between our military and naval forces can not take place . " The " series of questions " which Mr. - MaeRsnald is taking to England with him , according to the separate statement he issued last night , " all of which , " he said . " are now to be the subject of study " by the Imperial Government and the dominions ; are believed to relate chiefly to the problem of freedom of the seas . An impression in some quarters here that this subject was brought into the discussions of the President and the Premier by Mr. Hoover is understood to be entirely erroneous and initiation of it is attributed to Mr. in informed quarters . In their rather brief interview yesterday afternoon . it was discussed by Mr. and Senator Borah . Borah Sees Fact Strengthened . A codification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time of war has been advocated for a long time by Mr. Borah as a preliminary to any naval disarmament treaty . While the conferences between the executives did not contemplate any such concession to Mr. Borah 's Views , the fact that . the matter figured in the discussions between them is somewhat in the nature of a victory for his contention . This is emphasized by the assurance that , when the Prime Minister returns to London . the British Cabinet will give consideration to finding a formula which will make clear that , with the Kellogg anti-war pact in Three and effect . no danger remainsof serious dispute between Britain and America over this dangerous problem . If Senator Borah is disappointed over the failure of Mr. Hoover and Mr. to announce that they had come to concrete agreements , he seems to have been impressed with the prominence given by them in their joint statement to the importance of the Kellogg pact . He feels that it is logical for the United States , if it becomes convinced of itself that a nation has violated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade with that nation and he believes this course would be sustained by American public opinion . ? Court Jurisdiction and Pact . Senator Borah 's views in this connection were the outcome of talk among Senators today , based on a report that Mr. Hoover and Mr. had discussed the World Court in the light of giving it jurisdiction In connection with the antiwar pact . i He is not in agreement with some other Senators that an opinion by the World Court that a nation had violated the Kellogg pact would be binding on the United States , as an adherent of the court , to the extent of requiring it to refuse to have ? dealgs with that offending nation . In view such a determination must bkreached by-the government ' itself . In the opinion of Senator Walsh of Montana the World Court could decide whether or not . a nation had violated the Kellogg pact , as well as whether it had violated the Locarno pact or the League of Nations covenant , and it might be , if it should determine that the anti-war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logically could refuse ? to trade with the offending belligerent . This view contrasts with that of Senator Borah in the particular that he feels that the United States should determine for itself whether it would refuse to trade with a violator of the pact and not be under any obligation to follow the dictum of the World Court . Some Senators Shy at League Link . Some dissatisfaction was apparent among Senators over the statement in the British invitation to the London disarmament conference that " it is hoped " that the projected conference will reach an agreement on naval armaments " which will facilitate the task of the League of Nations ' Preparatory Commission and of ? the consequent general disarmament conference , " Senators who did not relish this statement contend that the disarmament conference to be held in London should be separate and apart from any function of the League of Nations . Besides , there is little faith here that the Preparatory Commission is likely to make headway in the immediate future in the work of arranging for a general disarmament conference upon which it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stays to Shape Data . WASHINGTON , Oct. 10 ( 1E ) . ? R. L. Craigie , chief of the American Division of the British Foreign Office , remained in Washington after Prime Minister and his party had departed today . Until he leaves Saturday to rejoin them in New York , he will consult with State Department officials reviewing the work done by President Hoover and the Premier during their talks and putting into shape the material for the preparation of memoranda in London .                     