@@686818

txt " The railroads are the key to proslerity , " according to Vice President : 00LIDGE . " The country and the railrays must prosper or suffer together , " ays the President . It might be thought , herefore , that everybody would wish to ee the railways get at least fair play .. n their attempts to better their condiion . Yet more hands are lifted against hem than in their support . The Intertate Commerce Commission almost alone as seen the light , and acts according to that it has learned after painful experince . But there are bills at Washington epealing the commission 's power to fix Tofitable rates . Other bills repeal the guaranty . " There are demands that he railways shall cut rates ' for export . nd import so as to make our bankrupt hipping profitable , although the rates ixed by the commission are less than ost of transportation . The President 's sill for the payment to the railways of what is their just due , morally and egally , continues to be obstructed . When lenator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railway reports show that the States resist he payment of rates fixed by the Fedral commission . Strangest of all , th ' nnual reports prove that more people Iwn railway shares than ever before , he popular belief that the railways aie thriving seems invincible , although the facts are against it . The singular decisions of the Railroad Labor Board threaten the railways in point of discipline . Public opinion as a unit wishes railway unions to receive good pay and fair working conditions . But when it awakes to the meaning of the board 's recent decision in the case of the Pennsylvania , it will see that it amounts to no less than turning the management of the railways over to the unions . It is no accident that the Pennsylvania bears the brunt of resisting the procedure . The Pennsylvania , ranks among the best of the railways in treatment of its workers , but it is the one road in the country which traditionally opposes operation by what is known as the " Schedule . " The Pennsylvania is ready to make fair bargains with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to surrender to anybody the details of discipline and management of the property . If the Labor Board has its way , the unions will run every railway , and unionists will recognize their fellowunionists as their superior officers rather than the railway chiefs . The national working agreement is a code controlling every act of railway employes from the beginning to the end of called for duty and not called , leave of absence , extra service , emergency service , wreck train service ? nothing is so small as not to be included . Many of these rules are necessary and right . But other rules are wrongful , injurious to the unionists themselves and to public interests , when they limit reasonable control and discipline , when they defend inefficiency , prevent reward of merit and make it a virtue to get as much pay for as little work as possible . There has been ample testimony that the railway working rules have had that effect , and that the unions seek to preserve such conditions . Railway work is performed far from oversight by authority . Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as good conduct by workers . The question of discipline is as important as finance . It will not do to make the influence of unions dominant in matters which public interest requires should be controlled by those responsible for the management of the railways .                     