@@693934

txt And still another day of spontaneous enthusiasm , another day of rapturous ' cheering crowds , another day of signal honors for Clarence Chamberlin and Charles Levine  --  America 's air emissaries to Germany . It began with a trip to the plant of the great ' Siemens and Halske Works , in the so-called Siemensstadt , and then came the official reception of the City of Berlin and in the evening the banquet and dance arranged by the American Club of Berlin to permit the members of the American colony here and visiting Americans to meet and pay honor to the men who have added prestige here to the name America . It was not the least memorable day of a memorable week . The Weather Bureau , which heretofore has been most unkind and has sent rain and wind every day since the fliers arrived , relented today , letting the sun shine from a clear sky all day long . Still Wear " Atlantic Uniforms " The trip to Siemensstadt was taken under the guidance of Colonel Conger , the American Military Attach &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but naturally they were most interested in the new Siemens aircooled motors now under construction . They were also impressed by the appliances for testing motors under the hardest service conditions . From Siemensstadt , the aviators , who still wore their " transatlantic uniforms , " to the obvious gratification of both the cheering crowds and their hosts everywhere , were then brought to the Berlin Rathaus ( City Hall 1 in an automobile decked with flowers and followed by an automobile containing Ambassador Schurman and Councilor Adler as representative of the Magistracy . Stars and Stripes Everywhere . The reception was set for 12:30 o'clock , but the crowds had begun assembling two hours earlier and hundreds of policemen were required to hold them in check . The enthusiastic owner of a department sore opposite the Rathaus displayed the Stars and Stripes in every window and across the facade was a great shield with the inscrip-tion : " Three cheers for Chamberlin and Levine . " Above another store , an American flag waved in the breeze . When the automobiles hove in sight the crowds surged forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrations , which have marked every public appearance of the two Americans , were repeated . Greeted by Burgomaster . Head Burgomaster Boess received the guests on the stairway and welcomed them in the name of the city . He then conducted them to the repository of the sacred " Golden Book , " which contains the signatures of the great personages whom the city has delighted to honor , and requested them and also Ambassador Schurman to inscribe their names in . it . Herr Boess then conducted Chamberlin and Levine to the great banquet hall , where the Stars and Stripes , flanked by the German banner and the Berlin city flag , hung over the honor guests ' table . The same three flags in miniature form decked each table in the room . The orchestra of the municipal opera played the overture to Wagner 's " Meistersinger " as the guests entered . Prominent guests included Secretary of State Von Schubert , Prussian Minister of Justice Schmidt , President Mendelsohn of the Berlin Chamber of Commerce , Dr. Rumpler of airplane fame , Police President Zoergiebel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men prominent in various walks of life . Burgomaster Boess in a warm speech of welcome recalled the appearance some twenty years ago of the Wright brothers on almost the same spot where Chamberlin and Levine landed . He referred to the Germans ' new enthusiasm for sport and declared that they realized the fullest significance of the fliers ' accomplishment . United in " Proud Joy . " " In the whole Fatherland , as well as in our city , we are united in proud joy over the successful flight , " he said , " and are especially thankful for the fact that the fliers came to Germany . We know how since the war it has been possible to learn from America in every technical and economic department . Let us try , above all , to learn from the Americans in matters of aviati on . " Herr Boess expressed the hope that it would soon be possible for Germans also to cooperate in this most important branch of transportation . As an expression of their gratitude to the American fliers the Burgomaster then announced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give the name " Columbiastrasse " to the street on Tempelhof field leading to the airport . In addition it had been decided to confer on both men and also on Ambassador Schurman the city 's " Ehrenplakette " ( medal of honor ) , which is seldom conferred and is a most unusual distinction . Herr Boess closed with a toast to Chamberlin and Levine and to the American nation . Three ringing " hochs " followed and the orchestra played The Star-Spangled Banner . Schurman Hails Atlantic " Bridge . " Ambassador Schurman , who spoke in German , replied in behalf of the fliers . After an expression of gratitude for the " boundless enthusiasm " with which the Americans had been welcomed , the Ambassador declared that Chamberlin as well as Lindbergh had demonstrated that it was possible for energetic men to cross the Atlantic in airplanes . It was still impossible for everybody to fly to America to spend the week-end , he said , but all efforts must be directed to the high aim of making a regular , safe passage between America and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed , he went on , that it was like a tale from the Arabian Nights ? one steps on the magic carpet of the airplane and is soon at his goal  --  and that would soon be the case between continents . Dr. Schurman paid tribute to " a German , the brave Dr. Eckener , who was the first to build the bridge with a ... t airship over the Atlantic . " Th : airplane must be so developed , he added , that it could follow the airship 's lead . The whole orld now faced this problem , he said , and prominent among the countries in this respect was Germany with her profound science , inventions and exemplary accomplishments in every technical branch . But the whole world has an equal chance , he dedared , and it was impossible to say which country would be the first to succeed . " The competition will be sharp , but the aim repays all efforts , " he said . " May Heaven speedily bring the day when it will be achieved , a may the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thanks and proposed a toast to the German nation , which was drunk to the accompaniment of three hearty cheers and the playing of " Deutschland Ueber Alles " by the orchestra . When Chamberlin and Levine departed , the crowds were still beleaguering the Rathaus and the aut .. Tnobiles were followed by frantic cheers , and this chant which is now being taken up everywhere : " Eins , zwei , drie , Chamberlin ! " Chamberlin and Levine this morn ? ing laid a laurel wreath on the grave of the famous German ace , Captain Manfred von Richthofen . The wreath bore the single word " Homage . " The Columbia fliers today cabled to Captain Lindbergh : share with other Americans in your welcome . Please accept this greet " Sincerely regret our inability to ing as manifestation of our great personal esteem and admiration for you . " Levine today received the following cablegram from E. C. Chamberlin . Denison , Iowa , Clarence 's father : " Heartiest congratulations to the best pilot , the greatest , truest and most sincere friend , companion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered : " Your cablegram will be treasured by me . Looking forward to time when I can congratulate parents of son to be truly proud of in person . Clarence went through the worst without flinching , always smiling . 1 have learned to love him like a brother . "                     