@@689799

txt Foreign Minister Matsui , ' WhiIe Glad of Our Friendship , " Sees Difficulties : HOPES FOR CHINESE UNITY . Backs Washington Accords , but Maintains That Japan Has Special Interests There . TOKIO , Jan. 22 ( Associated Press ) . ? Foreign Minister Matsui , addressing the opening session of the Imperial Diet today , characterized as " regrettable " the treatment , of Japanese residents op fig , Pacific Coast of the United States . " This problem . " he continued , Ns exceedingly complicated and delicate and the Government in dealing with it . are constantly paying special attention and . all necessary steps are being taken . Our intention is to put forth our best efforts . so that the problem may be treated with full understanding and in a spirit of ' mutual respect on ' both sides , with a view to arriving at a proper solution . " The Foreign Minister expressed the profound grief of all classes over the death of President Harding and declared " it is a matter for great pleasure to note that our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of traditional friendship . " He laid down a program of effort , to promote peace throughout the world , and dealt at length with the Russian and Chinese policies . After declaring that outside interference in Chinese affairs should be " studiously avoided , " he said that Japan , " with full respect for the spirit of the various treaties and resolutions adopted at the Washington conference , " would take whatever measures were necessary in dealing with China . He emphasized . however , an attitude of friendship and co-operation toward China , and expressed the hope that the Chinese people and Government would co-operate in the establishment of a strong unified Government with " the least delay . " " It need hardly be said , " he continued , " that we should make it the guiding principle to abide by the spirit of international concord , but it must be remembered at the same time that there exist special relations between Japan and China . Therefore , bearing this fact constantly in mind , the Government will put forth endeavor to cultivate the best relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Collection to Be Sold to AL Victims of the Earthquake . The exhibition and sale of the works of more than fifty Japanese artists , now being held at ' the Art Centre , 65 East Fifty-sixth Street , for the benefit of the/ earthquake sufferers , also is serving the purpose of showing new types of Japanese art as well as introducing to this country many artists hitherto unknown . Interspersed with the pictures of subjects that have always been definitely Identified with Japanese art are others that are unfamiliar . The collection was brought to this country by Hiroshi Yoshida and his wife , both well-known Iartists who conduct the Taiheiyo Art School in ' rokio . They , as well as many of their artist , friends , were sufferers from the earthquake . and they decided to gather up some of the best works of the needy and bring them to this country for exhibition and sale . One of the most vivid of the pictures shown is called " Horror . " It is a portrayal of the fire and was sketched ' by Karig ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spot which overlooked the burning city . In the distance . to the right of the picture , the flames are shown leaping forward , and here and there are depicted explosions . with debris flying high in the air . In the foreground one sees hurrying figures everywhere , most of them eager to reach the station near by where cars are lined up to carry the people to safety . Many of the pictures are done on silk with the typical Japanese effects , but less typical is a painting of Hiroshi Yoshida , called " Evening . " Barges and sailboats lie peacefully in the harbor , whose water is shadowed with evening mists . The yellowish green reflected on the water is evidence of the recent sinking of the sun , and the purplish haze is just falling over the hills of an island in the distance . The place of honor in the- exhibit le given to several panels done on silk . They cover a variety of subjects . The one of most interesting color and line portrays a young Japanese girl carrying an infant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garment . The sombre note of her black attire is skillfully relieved by the touches of color in the street where she has paused . It is by Kunitaro Teramatsu . There are several works of classical treatment done on paper which absorbs the water colors and gives a peculiar softness to the lines . This detail is especially marked in the " Water Fall " of Yoshida . " Mist , " by Airs . Yoshida , gives ' an interesting idea of color . Others whose works are shown are Saichi Udo , Masato Kitaha.ra , Eizo Muse , Gyo Suzuki . Tetsuo Maeda and Kaku Endo.                     