@@694341

txt Are church weddings becoming more 1 1 vulgar and pagan ? Is there danger from progressive polygamy and respectable promiscuity ? Recently Dr. Caleb 11 . Stetson , rector of Tritnity Episcopal church , New York , said such is the case . Certain Chicago clergy see in the tendencies of the day a Justification for the position of Dr. Stetson , while others think the New York clergyman 's statements were too sweeping . The views of the Chicago clergy were gathered by the Diocesan , the official magazine of the Chicago diocese , which will be issued today . Ignore Vulgar ID/splay . Among those who deplore modern tendencies to vulgar display at weddings are Dr. Norman O. Hutton , reb , , , tor of St. Chrysostom 's church , and Dr. Duncan H. Browne , rector of St. James church . These two clergymen , it is stated , have more fashionable 1 i weddings in their respective churches than any other Episcopal churches in Chicago , and therefore , it is said , have the basis for forming an opinion . Bishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personally contributing to the discussion , is quoted in the discussion by one of the clergymen as saying that the troui ble that lies at the base of the prob . ism of marriage and divorce is a failure to distinguish between simply marriage and holy matrimony . " I think there is a tendency for church weddings today to become vulgar and pagan , " says Dr. Hutton . Not All Weddings Alike . " I do not mean that all weddings are of this character , but that the tendency exists , I invariably reconri. mend simple decorations anti no dis ? play . No persons contemplating mar. riage in St. Chrysostom 's are allowed to carry out their plans or those of any florist without consultation with the clergy . " As to ' progressive polygamy , " I have never known it to occur where both husband and wife are churchgoing Christian people . Irregularities occur among those who have cut loose from the church and religious principles . I require a certificate of health from both parties from a family phYalclan . " " Church weddings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said Dr. Browne . " Strict regulations are in force in our pariah . I think the church should be more careful in her attitude toward marriage and that the service of holy matrimony should be reserved for those who are willing to assume the Christian standard of marriage . " Cites Too Much Display . I ' Dr. John Henry Hopkins , Church of I the Redeemer , said : . " Among fashionable people who have but a slender , connedtion with the church , there Is occasionally too much display . " The Rev. Alfred Newbery , Church of the Atonement : " Our parish discourages large weddings and urges a morning ceremony to be followed by a nuptial eucharist . We do not marry unbaptized or divorced persons nor persons who are unknown to us . We require a reasonable advance notice and urge the presentation of a health certificate . Depends ' Upon the Methods . Dr. William C. Do Witt , president Western Theological seminary : " Wedding ceremonials always have a tendency to pagan vulgarity , It depends on whether the marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , St. Barnabas ' church , and the Rev. G. H. Thomas , St. Paul 's , 53Y they do not believe the ' tendency of weddings is to become vulgar and pagan . " Our American youth nre cleaner today than in the time of the colonies , under Puritan control , " said . Dr. Thomas . " Our parish has strict rules regarding decorations and weddings . "                     