@@696473

txt THE LATE HENRY FULLER . Fellow-Craftsman Pays Tribute . to His Work and Broad Knowledge . To the Editor of The New York Times : ? The Eastern friends of Henry Fuller were gratified ' by the comment which Trap Trams made upon his work . Fuller was , for more than thirty years , my intimate friend and adviser . I valued his judgment more than that of any of my friends save Howells . He was a man of wide reading and had all his information at the tip of ' his tongue . Shy as he was when meeting strangers , he had the precision of speech which comes from exact knowledge . He knew Chicago better than any other man and he wrote ? of it like the master of English that he was . His " With the Procession " and " The . Cliff Dwellers " remain the best , technically , of all the attempts to deal with Chicago social life because he knew it from the inside . He grew up . not with it . but . ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humor and precision  --  qualities which do ' not go out of date . As a resident of the " Literary and Artistic Bohemia " of Michigan Avenue , I can bear witness to the truth and genial understanding of his " Under the Skylight , " which is quite Continental in the quality of its comment . His subjects were local but his method was in key with the best writing anywhere . His " Lines . Long and Short , " while . confessedly a joyous slam at free verse , are much more ' than delightful fooling . They are realistic transcripts of Chicago life  --  some of them are autobiographical . " With the Procession , " however , remains - his chief novel of Chicago , as his " Chevalier of Pensieri Vani " remains his most famous romance of travel . He knew Italy and France and England from frequent journeys , much ? of the time on foot . His knowledge of European art and life was encyclopedic In extent and all in the grasp of his conscious mind . " Ask Fuller . he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was a surprise and . a ley to us all to . learn that during ' the last year of his life he I wrote two new books .. He died with nen in hand ! ? as I know he wished Ito do . ' HAMLIN ' GARLAND . New York . July 30 , 1929 . THE ELECTRIC TURBINE . Its Advantages Greater Than Those of the Geared Turbine . To the Editor of The New York Times : fn ? your- editorial " Speed at . Sea , " July 29. ' the staietnee.t ' is made that " without : the-geared ' turbine and a streamlined bow the Bremen would have been merely another huge ship , " and that " it is the geared:turbine that must drive any rival built to . wreat her laurels from her . " This is a- very broad statement ' and can-. not , in our opinion , be borne out by facts as it overlooks the tremendous impetus in this country IR the marine industry in the use of turbineelectric machinery for driving large cargo and passenger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , based upon statements of Dr. Bauer and his associates of the Bremen , shows that the total machinery weight with electric drive is practically the same : that it will take up no ' more room , and that the all-electric ship will be from 8 per cent ? to ... 10 , per - cent more efficient The . ciutracteristics airclperformance of turbine-electric drive are even ter for the higher powered vessels . . Installations made with : this typical form of American drive as exemplified by the airplane carriers Lexington. and Saratoga , and the International . Mercantile Marine vessels California and Virginia , prove conclusively that vibration and noise are very much less than with any other form of drive and , from a. passenger point of : vie* : it is ? obvious that these two points are tremendously important . Maintenance of electric drive based on service results to date would be less than on geared turbines , particularly when it is considered that , in an installation of the capacity of the Bremen , electric drive would have four high-speed turbines Operating at a speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eight reversing turbines operating at a speed of 2,000 R. P. M. It is practical:from an engineering point of view ? for this country to place in service super-transatlantic liners which , if they are equipped with turbine electric machinery , can far exceed any performance made to date . D. w. i ? TIVEN , Manager Federal Marine Dept. , General Electric Company . Schenectady , N. Y. , July 20 , 1929 . WARDENS AND KEEPERS . They Should . Have Training in Prison Work Before Appointment . To the Editor of The New York Times : A person or firm engaged in manufacturing would naturally try to find managers and employes possessing a knowledge of the article to be manufactured . Unfortunately - persons to be employed in government positions are not always measured by the knowledge and experience required to successfully carry out the work to be performed . This is not so in the appointment or election of a judge . A lawyer is selected for that position . It is different in the appointment of prison wardens or keepers , particularly the latter . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suitable for that position . I think there should be ' a school in which those who are to become keepers and wardens could obtain the training needed . to successfully carry out their work . The general idea is that the ' main duty of a warden is to prevent prisoners from escaping and perhaps keep order in the prison . It seems to me that the ' success of a warden should be measured- more by how many of the prisoners in his charge are induced to go " straight and become useful citizens after their discharge . The salaries of wardens as well as keepers should be liberal . as their work is very difficult and only high-grade persons should . be employed . More stress should be laid upon the preventing of criminal acts . by detectives and policemen instead of , as is now usually the case , rewarding them for apprehending the criminal after the act has been committed . It would be worth while to expend a large sum of money for the purpose of preventing crime and influencing persons who might commit crimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 29 , 1929 . Saving Fire Island . To the Editor of The New York Times : A hearty " Amen " to Arthur A. Shurtleff 's protest against ' destruction of spots of beauty by construction of motor roads whore they should not be built . Who can appreciate beauty at fifty miles an hour ? Let us also reflect that ' ' close at home we yet possess an apparently endless beauty of pine-covered dunes standing thirty feet above the clean , white Atlantic shore of Fire : Island . When we step from the boat at Ocean . Beach landing and are greeted by its healthy boys with their express baggage wagons , it is with relief and delight that we appreciate the survival ' of one charming resort where the honk and smoke and smell of the automobile is unknown . If the proposed bridge and ocean boulevard are built the dunes may soon yield to heaps - of tin cans , and another scene of virgin beauty will have vanished . Let us treasure and preserve while . we may . Keep the " desecration " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Arlington , ' N. J. , July ' 30. ' 1929 . Taxicab Rates . To the Editor of The New York . Times : The Citizens Street ' Traffic ? Committee . is doing some good work exposing the iniquities of parking and traffic ' impediments . I use the - Forty- second Street Ferry and am glad to say that the gyp dabs there are in the minority type . The way to get a low-rate cab , and . a good one , is to pick up a ' cruiser . I find . that in ' front of-.some of the large hotels the ' cabs in the ' line charge more . than 20 cents a mile and.What decrepit vehicles ! - . ? ELLIS 3 : FINCH . New York , July 29 , . 1929 ,                     