@@689673

txt Dr. von Hoesch , German Charge d'Affaires , went to the Quai d'Orsay today and asked for an appointment with Premier Poincare . Poincare agreed to receive him tomorrow morning . Herr von Hoesch 's purpose Is to arrange for formal conversations between Berlin and Paris on the situation of the Rhineland and the Ruhr . He was told at the French Foreign Office this afternoon that the Premier would " listen attentively " to what the German Charge had to propose , and it was intimated that the French Government would not be averse to conversations direct with Berlin on arrangements for smoother working conditions in the Rhineland , and especially the Ruhr , but that it would not discuss directly with Berlin the general subject of reparations . which , it was said , must pass through the Reparation Commission . The French Government reported two days ago that it had knowledge that Berlin was going to ask for con'Versations , and it is well to suppose that M. Poincare has some idea of what the Germans are seeking . Therefore the conciliatory attitude at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Paris there is some disposition to think that Berlin is trying to arouse bad feeling between France and England on the " eve of the new reparations inquiry . but this feeling is confined to the minority . The majority feeling is that the Berlin leaders are at the end of their rope and seeking a way out , and turn to France as the nation which controls the situation to a large extent . Expect Definite Berlin Proposals . On this feeling is based a hope that Berlin has really serious proposals to make . The Quai d'Orsay appears to be trying in advance to allay any British fears by stating that France 's allies will be kept fully in touch with any negotiations which may begin with Germany . and , secondly , that Paris will discuss directly to Germany only the details of measures taken in the Rhineland and Ruhr by France and Belgium , with which England has refused to have anything to do . However , perhaps it is better not to view these coming negotiations as unimportant . They may enlarge themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to M. Poincare , in preparation for next year 's election , and M. Poineare 's most formidable opponents , Briand and Herriot. would both favor negotiations with Germany . Therefore , in addition to the means he might see to further his own policy . Poincare would possibly be disposed , for reasons of domestic politics , not to be too abrupt with the Germans . There is another factor , in that all the accords which the French and Belgians have made with the Ruhr industrials ex pire in April . Berlin approved these accords , and an agreement between France and Germany as to their renewal might be something Poincare would not be at all averse to having . Reports from Berlin say the Germans will seek to commit the French on their attitude toward the Rhineland Separatist movement . Such an effort would probably result in no more than a repetition by Poincard of his statement that the French remain neutral , allowing the Rhinelanders to settle their own form of government . German attacks on the sincerity of this statement would not be likely to change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than today 's ddmarche of the German envoy , considered alone . Is an evident change in the tactics of Berlin . A few weeks ago Berlin 's policy was to forget all about reparations and let the French stay in the Ruhr until the day the Germans should be able to throw them out . It was announced that there would be no more help for the unemployed in the Ruhr ; that the Ruhr could shift for itself . This ultra-Nationalist view now seems to be modified , for there is talk of resuming allowances for the Ruhr and talk of Germany accepting fiscal tutelage ; and also , whereas Berlin not long ago would never speak to the French until they quit the illegal occupation of the Ruhr , they are asking for negotiations with H. Poincare . An in all , the situation seems to make especially opportune the coming experts ' inquiry on re-establishing Germany 's fiscal system . The Temps tonight warns against believing there is any change in German spirit , saying the fact is that France has forced Germany to cease resistance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Temps thinks France will be fully justified in refusing the Gerinan plea , but adds : " We shall not cede this temptation . If Germany shows tomorrow that she is simply trying to get us out of the Ruhr before we are paid , her envoy will be shown the door , but if the Germans wish help in making the Ruhr pay reparations France will hear them gladly . " The Journal des Debats sees room for advantageous accords between France and Belgium on ' the one hand and Germany on the other , and predicts that if Germany is ready to try to meet the terms of the French program , relations between Germany and France should improve . It is learned from high authority that if the Germans ask when evacuation of the left bank of the Rhine begin , the French will counter with a demand that military control in Germany be resumed fully before France will discuss this issue . Expect Germany to Enter League . In connection with this matter it may be announced in January that Germany will be a candidate next September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would probably mean that French opposition had been withdrawn . It is evident that settlement between France and Germany of the status of the Ruhr and Rhineland for a period of years would add enormously to the prospects of accomplishment by the Expert Committee which is to consider the means of Germany restoring her fiscal situation . : For example , an agreement on what proportion of taxes from the rich Rhineland should go to Berlin and what part to the French and Belgians would be important , as my agreement on the much-discussed problem of Rhineland money . To the credit of the German diplomats who have made so many stupid plans in the last three years it must be said that with the French election campaign in sight , in which the issue will be fought between the Nationalists and the Liberals , they have chosen a very good time to seek to reopen negotiations with France under advantageous conditions . In connection with the possibility a with good effects , it is interesting to note that the Council of the League announced tonight that an agreement had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effected for Hungary , and that the conditions follow closely those laid down for Austria . Of course , the success of the League plan applied to Hungary , after the Austrian success , would enhance its power in the eyes of ahe Germans . Such a drift by Germany would raise an interesting question of how far Washington would permit American citizens to give expert advice on a problem with which the League of Nations might have something to do . The Matin 's political correspondent , discussing the possibilities of conversations between Wilhelmstrasse and the Quaff D'Orsay , says the French Government is disposed to enter any coonversa. - tions with Germany - oh all subjects which can be usefully discussed between the two countries , now that obstacles to these discussions have been removed . But . The Matin says , it is clear that as the Reparation Commission has control - of reparation/ these can not be discussed , and as the Rhineland High Commission controls matters in the Rhineland , there is no Rhineland problem to be settled between the two Governments . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled for after April 15 , when the present provisional contracts with the Ruhr industrialists expire . " If the Reich wishes to facilitate accords of the same kind with other industrialists France will not oppose the suggestion , " says the writer . " as it is in her interest to increase the area from which she can derive payments in kind and cash . That should be a very fruitful subject of discussion . " If an agreement can bereached on these restrictions , and on these possibilities , there is no reason why the conversations should not take a more general and more political turn . " Perhaps some of our allies do not wish to see an exchange of views beginning which might lead to possibillties of an entente . But we have nothing to worry about there , since the press in all countries keeps urging us to come 11 to an agreement with Germany in the interests of peace and for the restoration of commerce . " The French Government , confronted by this attitude of Germany , has an exceptional chance of showing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has at the same time an opportunity of taking decisive precautions for its own security . If the conversations begin under satisfactory conditions vast results may follow . "                     