@@696179

txt That the Hahn portrait called " La Belle Ferronniere " is to have another court seance seems perfectly natural . Unquestionably the Hahn picture , as well as the one in the Louvre Gallery , is the work of Leonardo da Vinci . It seems to have been overlooked by all concerned in the discussion that frequently the old masters painted two pictures of their sitters . The first one was considered an " essal . " From this trial picture a second one was made with the intention of Its being considered the portrait . However , it was far from being a true resemblance of the sitter . In the second representation the artist idealized the subject , emphasized points of excellence and omitted defects . In this manner of transition , " La Ferronniere " of the Hahn portrait became " La Belle Ferronniere " of the Louvre painting : less buxom , more ethereal , somewhat " spirituelle . " She became " belle " during the progress of the second painting , which was an idealized copy of the first  --  a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brush . From these considerations there is no doubt that the Hahn picture is more real than that of the Louvre in more faithfully resembling the sitter . Unquestionably it is the " essai " made by da Vinci and gives us an unaltered , more true-to-life though perhaps less ? esthetic view of " La Ferronniere . " The statement made in court that all works of da Vinci are catalogued and their abiding place known is not quite exact . A portrait , entirely authentic , from the hand of the great Leonardo hangs unknown to the outside world in the diawing room of a European family , people of modest fortune but great culture . All the wealth of India could not buy it . IVAN TOUR . Long Island City . N. Y .. May 4. 1929 . Taxicab , Reform Suggested . To the Editor of The New York Times : With the improvement of traffic regulations in New York City it is surprising that nothing has been done to overcome a great source ? of danger to the public , namely , the impossibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . Night after night , especially in rainy and slippery . weather , In the ' theatre district persons desiring to engage ? s taxi ? have to go right . in the midst of the traffic trying to signal cabs that are already hired . If the police would prohibit all hired taxis to display more than the necessary headlights , then any persim could tell an empty cab by the display of extra lights . ROSARIO TORRISI . New York , May 6 , 1029.                     