@@689912

txt Not since 1920 , when Henry Ford startled the automobile world by cutting prices to the bone in a successful effort to stimulate business , has the price question assumed such proportions in they minds of . automobile manufacturers , as it does at present . It is generally admitted that prices are tending decidedly upward and many makers are expected to follow the lead of those who have already announced increases . But there seems to be no inclination to raise prices except for the sole purpose of conserving reasonable profits , particularly on open models . It'took some months for the industry to see the wisdom of the Ford strategy in 1920 , but as lower prices brought new buyers into the market , practically all manufacturers fell in line . Early in 1922 prices were considered at rock bottom and they have remained at or slightly below that level ever since . Increasing sales volume and large profits at the end of the year , although raw material and labor costs had advanced substantially , demonstrated the wisdom of the policy . LOW PRICES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business in sight and factory operations close to capacity , there was a distinct tendency to again Start prices upward and not without some justification . Materials were advancing sharply and manufacturers were scrambling for supplies and la : bor , bidding up prices against each other , and increasing their own costs . The wiser heads in the industry counselled conservatism and no important price advances took place . Again the outcome of low prices was reflected in large sales during the latter half of 1923 . But now rising manufacturing costs , reflected to some extent in the sharp drop in earnings in the last six months of 1923 , add difficulties to the situation . Important price changes announced the past few weeks show a tendency to restrict the advance to open models for which the selling season is commencing . This is true of Dodge , a , leader in the four-cylinder class , and Studebaker , in the six-cylinder class , both of whom advanced prices only on open models . Studebaker several weeks ago reduced prices on several closed models . The trade looks for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , except in a few cases , it being pointed out that the demand for this type has not been as large as it was expected to be when former prices were made . Margins of profit on open models , because of inability to meet necessary production schedules , have declined almost to the vanishing point . On the other hand , the strong demand for closed models has brought down costs and prices in this group . There has been a narrowing margin between selling prices of closed and of open models which some prominent executives freely predict may disappear entirely if the public continues to show such pronounced preference for the closed type of car . NO MICE INFLATION On the whole , there are no signs of an inflationary tendency in automobile prices . Manufacturers realize that the tremendous turnover of 6,500,000 new and Used cars in 1023 was accomplished largely by reason of maintaining a sane retail price level . It is also generally realized that at present price levels the industry is in no danger of starving so long as the public 's desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable outlook for record spring demand , most people who never owned an automobile can get along without one for awhile and many who now have one can drive it for a considerably longer time without hardship unless offered special inducement to part with it . If the industry hopes to increase its 1924 turnover by 2i as schedules of manufacturers for this year indicate , the result , in the opinion of some leaders , can be attained only by continuing to offer treat value at low cost which has Droved so effective in , the past two years . And this seems to be the present intention .                     