@@686447

txt Two steps are proposed toward making the Reserve system more a hank of hankers and less a bank of the Government than it is now . The Secretary of the Treasury is no longer to be a member . and chairman ex-officio , of the Reserve Board . The office of the Comptroller of the Currency is to be abolished , and the occupant of that position will thus no longer also be ex-officio a member of the Reserve Board , whether he be a modest and unpretending Crissinger , or someduture bounding Williams . Established as a desk in the anted of the Secretary of the Treasury in the exigency of the Civil War , it has been for many years recognized that the functions of the Comptrollership do not call for separate outstanding bureau work . The new forms of currency provided by the Reserve Act created no new necessity for a Comptroller . In every instance where bank circulation calls for Treasury approval , where the banking system itself therefore calls for periodical examination , that work can he more thoroughly done , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside than if it is within and , in fact , part of the Reserve system itself . It is regrettable that any official was ever vested with the %mit composite powers conferred by the railroad act , the Reserve system and many other acts , on the war Secretary of the Treasury . The grant was so large , the " ex-officio " responsibility for and authority over the " state of the Union " So great , that it really did not matter much whether a physically incapacitated President continued formally in the office of Chief Executive , or whether an honor almost lacking in active functions of a domestic nature , had gone to the Vice-President . Banking and currency are related , but are not the same thing . Government and banking are collateral kinsmen ; they are not father and son . The Government can create neither wealth nor money . It can create paper obligations called money or currency , when emergency calls for the excusable usurpation under the guise of monetary finance of the purely banking function of creating credits for public nee s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve Board will be directly appointed by the President . The system will continue , as no national bank has ever ceased to be , an , available banking agency of the Government . Its status as a bank of productive bankers will replace its veiled subordination to a department whose able head realises the Government has enough cares without ex-officio control of private banking .                     