@@694370

txt If there had been any lingering doubt concerning the purpose . of the Transit Commission 's opera botare investigation of the New York transit problem , the report of the engineer engaged by Comptroller Berry must already have dispelled it . This report is the only discussion of transit from a competent and disinterested source now before the public . It makes short work of the pretence that service at less than cost can ever be supported out of the tax budget with benefit to any part of the city 's population . It disposes completely of the imaginary and purely political necessity of expanding the city 's debt limit by $300,000,000 , or any other sum , to obtain safe and adequate transportation . This newspaper will perhaps be pardoned for referring to that passage in the Smith report which proposes a modification of the dual contracts to permit readjustment of subway and elevated fares to operating costs without allowing the existing companies the sole benefit of a higher fare . Months ago , The Wall Street Journal asserted that it was entirely feasible to persuade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city which would reduce or even wipe out the accumulated comparyy preferentials . That being done , the city would be the immediate and greatest beneficiary of a fare covering all the real costs of rendering the service . It was then pointed out that this was the quickest way to get to the  --  heart of the problem . Whether the St. Louis engineer 's suggestion for getting rid of the unearned preferentials , by canceling those of the city and funding for gradual amortization those of the companies , is exactly the right method or not is a matter of detail . If a comprehensive plan based on the Smith report shall include abandonment of the city 's hazardous project of a municipal subway on a five-cent fare , the Interborough and I3. - M. - T. companies will be offered a powerful inducement to give up or readjust their preferentials . The Interborough 's might well be wiped out in consideration of this escape from the shadow of bankruptcy on completion of the new city lines . But property-owners , rent-payers , part-time school children and all city dwellers will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that a real transit inquiry would doom the $300,000,000 debt amendment , the Transit Commission and their party superiors decided to hold the highly political performance that has been staged during the past summer . One may now hope that its possibilities for mischief have been immensely reduced by the report of an engineer who knows something , and says something . about transit . Some candidates arc elected to office because the home folks want to get rid of them for a while .                     