@@694318

txt Mr. Wyndham Lewis , who is to publish ( within a ( month or two his sec ? and work of fiction " ( not , unfortunately , a novel , but a volume of short stories ) , has had a curious career . He is best known as an artist , a n d his pictures are original and vivid ' pieces of personality . But some years ago he wrote a novel cameo " Tarr , " which was much admired by the younger men and women of its moment , and he has since then ventured into Shakespearean criticism , philosophy , and esthetics with characteristic confidence . He is a witty and able writer who mixes a great deal of nonsense with a great deal of wisdom , and although the new volume of stories is ominously prefaced by two essays in elucidation it should ? be well worth reading . Mr. Lewis is a friend and champion of the Sitwell family , is resident in Chelsea , is a very outspoken and , destructive critic of the established order and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' Ho is a ready talker and a ready writer , and his active mind gives him distinction even among his distinguished crowd of friends . He must not he confused with the Mr. Wyndham Lewis who writes facetious articles for the Daily Mail , for the other Mr. Wyndham Lewis , though his work is amusing and dexterous , is of a different order of being from the Mr. Wyndham Lewis who wrote " Tarr , " and who has now written for autumn publication the book of stories called " The Wild Body " and a new Life of Dean Swift with the lugubrious title " The Skull of Swift . " This reminds me that the modern llterarY and artistic world has several instances of men of the same name who have become prominent and who have caused confusion in the , minds of the innocent . There is a Mr. Arnold Bennett who is a singer . He , ' is no relation . There were two Loved . Frasers . One was the brilliant artist whose work has left itswark tipan the color schbrnes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalist who used to exhortiEngland week by week in capital letters and italics to look whero she was goAng . There are at least three well known men by the name of Harold Williams . One of these , again , is a singer , a second is the author of an exhaustive study of the English novel of modern times , the third is foreign , editor of the Times newspaper . It is this third Harold Williams who wrote some years ago a very fine and detailed book on Russia , and Who later collaborated with his wife in the writing of a novel concerning the bolshevilt regime . He is by birth a New Zealander , and in youth came to Europe , was educated at a German university , became a. journalist and representative of the Daily Chronicle in St. Petersburg . He is the most extraordinary linguist I have ever met ( I suppose he may even be superior to Mr. Maurice Baring , who is another marvel in this respect ) , and I have heard him carrying on a conversation in four languages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Maori tongue . Once , when he had returned from a hazardous trip through the Balkans from south Russia , I asked him how he managed with the languages of all these strange little states . Without the slightest boastfulness , but with a little smile , he said , " 0 , I talked them all . " One of these days Harold Williams will toll the story of his experiences ( including that of his flight from the bolsheylsts with a copy or " Nocturne " in his hand ) , and then we shall have a treat . Another great journalist , Alfred Spender , has just been setting him the example , and Mr. Spencer 's book promises well                     