@@692712

txt Farmers and business men of the Northwest , in their attitude toward the depression long affecting that region , have sharply differentiated themselves from those who have cried calamity in the Iowa corn belt . So far from backing such unconscionable raids on the federal treasury as the jiaugen bill , they are disposed to back themselves . R. F. Gunketinan , of Fargo , N. D. , vice chairman of the Northwest shippers ' advisory board , says the farmers of his state are fast solving the agricultural problem with a new program of diversification on cheap land . He dedares that they will not need to ask Congress for special legislation because they have ceased putting any surplus from a year 's crops into more land , they are using it to isnprove the land they have and to buy livestock . General business in the Northwest is not uniformly good , but it is at least better in spots . The Federal Reserve Bank for the ninth district finds the shrinkage in commercial transactions , as compared with last year , confined to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which doubtless more immediately reflect the financial condition of the rural population , business shows distinct gains . A smaller volume of outstanding bank loans results from the average farmer 's reduced dependence on bank assistance in preparing for this year 's crops . Included in the ninth reserve district are Montana , the two Dakotas , Minnesota , northwestern Wisconsin and northern Michigan . This represents a great province of the former empire of the radical politician , who was , and Probably still is , a wildcat economist . Following the reserve bank 's data , the district embraces 14 per cent . of the area of the United States and 5 per cent . of its population . It produces 10 per cent . of all crop values , one quarter of the flour mill and linseed oil production and owns 12 per cent . of the livestock on farms . This is far from a hopeless fundamental position and we have the testimony of farmers themselves that they arc successfully , even though slowly , building upon it a new material well-being . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet indeed to an adequate measure f real prosperity , but to the essential first condition of self-reliance. from which flow sound thinking and planning for the future .                     