@@685081

txt MR . MCADOO expresses a sentiment almost universal when he says that the taxes taken from the public " have an injurious effect on business . " They do , but more as the effect of the method of taxation than of the amount taken . The country could bear an even greater burden if it were better distributed , with a view to financing the Treasury rather than punishing wealth and political sections of the country against which the taxlayers had a grudge . The time is distant when the country could stand taxation better than now , when it is enriched by the war , and trade daily disappoints the prophets of reaction . The Federal Reserve some months ago said that foreign trade was evidently thriving , although the way in which it did so was puzzling . The same is now true of domestic trade . Commercial loans are expanding in a manner contrary to the policy of antagonism to inflation proclaimed on behalf of the Federal Reserve . And now comes Mr. MeApoo with a proposal to finance the Treasury by borrowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Liberty Bond sinking fund , by funding the interest on loans to foreign Governments which they can not conveniently pay , and by discontinuing purchase of Liberty bonds for retirement , which now involves the Treasury in floating debt to an embarrassing amount . Approval of making the taxes easier to bear can not extend to such methods . They are unworthy of a Government so rich as ours and particularly so when the successor of Secretary MCADOO ncently has given advice to foreign Treasuries in such singular contrast to this plan of substituting loans for taxes as a means of balancing the national budget . There is no particular fondness for the sinking fund , since it is likely to be as disappointing in its working as other sinking funds . But borrowing against a suspension of the sinking fund is a novelty . Borrowing against foreign interest payments not received is the same sort of finance . That method of turning unavailable debts into assets has been practiced by this city , which has issued bonds against taxes not collected and not collectible ; but nobody has paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city was never benefited thereby . The suspension of the purchases ( Liberty bonds would give them further sinking spells , and already they are too low for the Treasury 's comfort . These are objections in detail merely . Not even such finance could trouble the Treasury seriously . It is more important that trade should not be further inflated by new borrowings of billions at a time when deflation is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board . The Treasury and the Federal Reserve should co-operate . The world is neither producing nor distributing on the pre-war scale , and there is a famine of goods which explains the excess of demand over supply . Depreciation of currency in the various nations depends more on the creation of buying power by Government borrowing than any other one thing . When Governments issue currency , running printing presses to balance budgets , money loses its purchasing power to the extent illustrated in Russia at one extreme and the United States at the other , but in proportion to the watering of Government finance without exemption in any case . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as in the nations to which Secretary GLASS gave such virtuous advice . They accepted it with outward meekness , and already there is a proposal : that we should depart from it . Mr. is mistaken if he thinks that the country approves such proposals , or any proposals which would lead to such results . The way to improve our finances is ' rather to reduce our expenses than . to enlarge our borrowings , and to make ? our . taxes less burdensome but mole productive by better methods . Those . vuf , - ' ! thought that Secretary GLASS 'S advice to foreign nations was something less ? than sympathetic or appreciative of their difficulties think that it may be applied to ourselves without reserve . The language might be even more outspoken , so much more able than they are we to take the better path to financial sanity .                     