@@689429

txt With virtually one-fourth of the State heard from at 9:30 o'clock in returns from today 's balloting , it was evident that a constitutional amendment to open the way for the State Legislature to consider the official record of Governor J. C. Walton had won by the greatest majority ever recorded in an election in Oklahoma . On the basis of returns up to that hour compiled by four newspapers of the State , it was indicated that the measure would carry by approximately 250,000 majority . The vote stood 124,526 for and 32,702 against the legislative amendment when 1,109 precincts out of 2,837 had been tabulated from returns gathered by four Oklahoma newspapers . It is estimated that the total vote will be approximately 450,000 . Partial returns from thirty-eight out of seventy-seven counties in the State indicate that the measure had won in each . In two counties no votes were cast because election supplies did hot arrive . Governor T. C. Walton issued the following statement at 9:30 o'clock : " The fight on Invisible Empire has just started in Oklahoma . I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the State will remain unchanged , the Ex- , ecutive stated . Troops which had been held in reserve during the day for any emergency were not used , he said , and no requests for services of guardsmen were received . Declares Walton Is B , ePudlated ? In a statement issued tonight , Representative W. D. of Stephens County said that " such an overwhelming majority had repudiated Governor Walton 's Administration that it no longer can be representative ) but of a small portion of the people . " Representative is a leader in the imIpeachment movement against the Exec ! u tire . 11 " Governor Walton 's despotic methods and high-handed system of handling ! affairs during the few months he has been Governor , " he said , " have become so disgusting to the people that they have risen up at the first opportunity at the polls and by a possible 5 to 1 majority have given him such a rebuke that an ordinary man would not recover in years . " Oklahoma City , the Governor 's iodine town , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 6 to 1 to open the way for the Legislature to consider his record . The first fifty pre-1 cincts in the city returned 9,535 votes for the amendment and 1,533 against . Adverse Majority in One Precinct . Only one precinct in the State had returned a majority against the measure at 8 o'clock . That was at , in a coal-mining district . No returns had been received from rural districts , the Governor 's strength centres . The polls were never opened in Johnson County and in Delaware County they closed after an effort made by several business men to hold an election had ended in their arrest . Many voters . ' however , in Johnson County voted by affidavit and mailed their improvised ballots to the State Election Board in Oklahoma City . They acted in defiance of a force of 100 armed State police that last night took possession of all supplies . In Bryan County where Sheriff John - Conn had seized the boxes and supplies , R. L. Williams , United States District Judge and a former Governor of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters making their own ballots , which they deposited In buckets and wash tubs , an election was held . Cimarron and Harper Counties did not vote because supplies did not reach them . This , coupled with heavy rains that made roads virtually impassable , rendered the election effort futile . Governor Walton , from his residence where he kept in touch by telephone with the progress of the election. , announced late today that no assistance from outside Oklahoma was needed or desired in maintaining the present martial law.regime . The Governor expressed his attitude when informed that 100 members of the Ragen Athletic Club of Chicago were en route to the State to assist him in carrying out his program . Only financial aid , he said , is desired . The polls closed at 7 o'clock , with the citizens who had been deputized by regular authorities still maintaining their armed vigil that for twelve hours had been maintained in the face of scarcely the least sign of disorder . Arrests in connection with the election were made today at only three places in the State , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county seat of Delaware County ; at Coalgate , in Coal County . and at Tulsa. where two members of the Governor 's State police were charged with carrying concealed weapons . The arrests at Grove were made by a Deputy Sheriff and a jailer , who took into custody eight election officials who were trying to conduct the election . At Coalgate two men were arrested charged with interfering with the election . When Sheriffs throughout the State early yesterday started recruiting their forces it was announced that the ballot box guards would be maintained until the vote was Cast and counted and there was no relaxation in the vigilance of the citizen officers today or tonight . One estimate put their number at 10,000 . Unofficial reports from Tulsa stated that the legislative self-assembly question was winning by close to ten to one , and unofficial returns from ten out of nineteen precincts at Mqskogee gave this amendment a total of 1,228 for to 98 against . At Coalgate early figures gave 295 votes for the amendment and 37 against it . 10,000 Deputies Guard Polls . In Oklahoma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election officers , a woman , in whose home the ballot box for a township is placed , was warned by an unsigned letter to " get that box out of your house or something will happen . " A clash narrowly was averted at Tecumseh late last nfght when Sheriff Butler of Pottawatomie , County with 125 deputies went to the Court House to obtain the ballot boxes ' for delivery to election officials . He was met at the entrance by sixty armed men , said to have been acting under orders of the County Attorney , who declared they had instfuctions to shoot to kill any one who attempted to touch the election supplies . The Sheriff went immediately before District Judge Hal Johnson at Chandler and obtained an injunction restraining any interference with the election . Similar restraining orders were grant , ed on the petition of citizens and election officials at Tulsa , Oklahoma City , Enid , Ardmore , . Atoka , Bartlesville and Madill . In these and other cities where special deputies were on duty protecting the election it is estimated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Aldrich Blake , executive counselor , who has " been absent from triclahoma since the inception of State-Wide martial law , *returned today . He , declined to reveal where he had been or to Comment on the events that have transpired since his departure . " All I have to say . " he declared , " is that everywhere I have been I have heard nothing but commendation of Governor Wa ! ton . " My only regret is that I have missed a minute of this fight . " Blake added . " I am standing squarely behind the Governor . "                     