@@692021

txt Whatever " MussoLna 's immediate political purpose , his project for welding labor and capital into the corporate life of the nation contains possibilities of economic gain and also points to a constitutional development needed in all industrial countries . It is not merely among the Socialist unions of the Continent that labor has been dedicated to the class struggle . The unions of England and the United States ? " business " and " capitalist " unions  --  are as clearly and consciously arrayed against the employing class . By almost insensible degrees a power has raised itself within the nation which at any given time may largely paralyze its industry and which the nation has as yet found no effective means to control . MUSSOLINI and his aids have built up a system of Fascist unions which are now , together ? with the corresponding group of erne ployers , to be converted into an Integral and legalized department of the State . They promulgate the doctrine that the nation is sovereign over the federal groups that compose it and is in duty bound to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In striking contrast is the predicament in which England finds itself . Threatened by the workers in three basic industries , it has found no means of defense except an organization equally outside the law . In the transportation strike of 1019 and again in 1921 , when the Triple Alliance of workers in transport , mines and railways threatened united action , volunteers came forward to keep the wheels of industry turning . A movement started by the Middle Class Union has now led to the Organization for the Maintenance of Supplies . Its President is Lord HARDINGE of Penshurst , and prominent among the executives are Lord JELLICOE and the General who commanded in London during the war , Sir FRANCIS LLOYD . Meantime , the impulse toward national solidarity has resulted in the formation of local bands of English " Fascisti . " Of late the Home Secretary announced that , if need arise , the Government would consider It its duty to use all such means to maintain supplies , and would be glad to do so . The Daily News objected that nothing was more likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class war . " 11 ; . -m SAY MACDONALD declared that the Home Secretary 's statement only increased " despair of getting any redress or justice by. - constitutional methods . " MUSSOLINI 'S development of the Italian Constitution is as yet not precisely determined . The old socialistic " shop committees , " elected by secret vote , are to give way to committees appointed by Fascist union heads . " Industrial democracy " is to be modified by discriminating authority . A bill is to be presented in Parliament providing that all disputes between employer and employed shall be settled by " arbitration . " To this program the Fascist Trade Unions , numbering some two millions of workers , have pledged themselves , as has the Confederation of Industry , which represents almost the entire body of employers . Pure arbitration is often unsatisfactory , resulting in a mere compromise . The industrial administrative tribunal , as our own experience indicates , offers many knotty problems . But the Italian attempt may well result in a constitutional development of the first order .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       