@@686445

txt A warning that " the present truculent attitude of some railroad administrations toward the operatives and the unions was a great mistake , which may lead to disaster , " was expressed in a letter written by Haley Fiske , President of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , in reply to the statement of A : H. Smith , President of the New York Central Lines , that the conference between the railroad security . holders and the " Big Four " railroad brotherhoods was " unfortunate " and improper intervention . As a member of the sub-committee formed by the National Association of Owners of Railroad Securities , Mr. Fiske conferred with the heads of the brotherhoods on last Monday , despite the protests of Mr. Smith that the bondholders had no right to intervene in wage questions . Mr. Smith 's letter of protest was directed to S. Davies Warfield , President of the Security Holders ' Association , and on April 7 Mr. Fiske replied on behalf of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company . His letter was made public yesterday . Mr. Fiske said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York General  --  syitttat ) 1inetilitEtrtti-13275017 ; 0506 , - or " about 15 per cent , of our total investment in railroad securities , " and " our interest in your company is a vital one . " He added that he was disturbed by the attitude of the Directors in saying that they represented the stockholders " without any recognition of the superior obligations of the railroad companies , " and remarked that " it may very well be that as matters are now threatening the stock will become a rather negligible quantity ; the bonds will never become so . " Another view of tits ; right of the security holders to join in the discussion of the railroad problem was expressed in a letter written to President Harding by George E. Brock . President of the Home Savings Bank of Boston and President of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks , who said in his letter to the President that he believed " the time had arrived for plain talk and plain dealing . " He said that the brotherhood officials had shown ? ? a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter written by Mr. Fiske : Views of Mr. Fiske The Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. , New York City . Haley Fiske , President . April 7 , 1921 . A. H. Smith , Esq. , President of the New York Central Railroad . Dear Sir : When we read in the newspapers to which you sent it in advance of its receipt by the addressees your letter of March 31 to Mr. ' Warfield and Mr. Stone we were disposed to reply in as sharp a tone as that displayed by you . But it seemed better to take the matter under cool consideration . Now , after the lapse of a week , we feel that we should make protest . This company holds securities of your railroad and its subsidiaries to the amount of nearly $23.000,000 par value , and in addition has on its books loans and agreements to loan over . $9,000,000 or . bonds and mortgage upon real estate to finance your operations in the neighborhood of your terminal . Altogether our financial interest amounts to . $32,000,000 . This is about 15 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frankly , it disturbs us to have your Board of Directors say that they represent in their dealings with the present condition of affairs the stockholder , without any recognition of the superior obligations of the railroad companies . Itemay very well be that as matters are now threatening the stock will become a rather negligible quantity ; the bonds will never become so . Our interest in your company is a vital one . It is very disturbing to read that you are disposed to ignore this inter- est . It is even more disturbing to find yourself and the board resent any action on our part to protect our interests . AVe - have seen no disposition on your part to recognize our interests or to consult with those who in a sense own your property . On the contrary , we have seen in the past rather violent antagonism to our efforts to promote helpful - legislation , which , now that it has been passed , some of your people are taking credit for . None - of the railway managements has thought it wise to seek any counsel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which we find ourselves . On the other hand , you are objecting  --  if you will pardon us for saying so  --  In an offensive . not to say impertinent way , to , our endeavor to protect our own investments . We feel that we had a right to expect co-operation and help rather than opposition . Your aesumation that in seeking a conference with the labor representatives : the most important element in the present problem , we are pretending to represent you or your board was quite unwarranted . We very frankly put our real position before , these organizations and the public . We think the present truculent attitude of some railroad administrations toward the operatives and the unions a great mistake which may lead to disaster : and that it is time . that all concerned in the properties should show some conciliatory . disposition , at least to the extent of endeavoring - to get the point of view - of labor and to seek some method of negotiation to end the present impasse . And now that our conference is over . we feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that all of the interests  --  the investors , administrators and operatives  --  get together , and that it is not a time for recrimination . Respectfully yours . 7-IAT , T ; Y FISKE , President . The passage from the letter of Mr. Smith to ? which Mr. Fiske took exception follows : The Board of Directors of the New York Central Railroad Company has directed me to advise your association and you , as its President , that that board and the officers appointed by it represent the New York Central and - ta stockholders in all matters of manae , t , Including relations between the corporation and its employes whether these relations have to do with wages , working conditions or practices . The - board further directs me to say that ft regards as most unfortunate the attempt which you , and the association of which you . are President , are apparently making to intervene in ; present labor situation , and that it can not recognize any right or t.ropriety in your doing so . At Mr. Smith 's home in Chappaqua and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday that " he was Ort the road . " Mr. Brock in his letter to President Harding said : The savings banks of the country have 10,000,000 depositors , and the depositors own through the banks the investments which the banks hold for their benefit . The savings banks of the country own nearly $1.000,000,000 of railroad bonds . A long suspension on the payment of interest on these bonds would be manifestly very prejudicial to these institutions and their depbsitors . The same holds good with the trillions of citizens owning life insurance policies . Their companies are also mostly made mutual , though their in. vestments with their nearly $2,000,000 , 000 of railroad bonds are also held fer the protection of this great body of citizens . The railroads as a whole are not ; 7/liking their bond interest . so we sac- ' ings bank people are much concerned . A great many of the workers on the railroads are depositors In savings banks and many millions of them have what are known as industrial policies of insurance an their lives . We believe they realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is apart from the pay they receive from the railroad . I attended the conference held between the committee of the Securities Owners ' Association and the representatives of the four railroad brotherhoods and two other railroad men 's organizations . My consent to becoming a member of this ten -- amIttee was - because I believe the time has arrived for plain talk and plain dealing . 1 have no sympathy for those who have In their keeping the billions of securities belonging to the people we represent who do not interest themselves in a crisis like the present to the extent of knowing from first hand what is going on and what the trouble is . We have had , altogether too much red tape in procedure . There has been too much procedure in Chicago before the Labor Board . We now need cooperative suggestion and action . The attitude of those we met , who represented great numbers of railroad . employes was fair and showed a. desire to compromise and the distinct wish to prevent a catastrophe in the railroad world . Regional dtscuseena between railroad officals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this problem , for it will lead to regional boards created by the four groups of railroads which , have now been formed by the Interstate Conlme.n.20 Commission . This proposition Is a fair one . Such regional boards ' would not be used until after the railroad manager ' of each road sees the road employes . It would secure prompt action and enable disputed points to be promptly taken up . Those not settled shall then go to the labor board at Chicago . If the World War has taught us anything , it is that jt-e should recognize that all men have some rights , and we think there . - siould be recog- ' nition of this principle and spirit between the railroad managers and the people who work for them . The welfare of millions of people depends upon something being done , and being done immediately .                     