@@695664

txt Timely Letters to the Editor From Readers of The Times on Topics in the News INFLUX OF ALIENS RESTRICTS NATIVE POPULATION INCREASE Competition of the Foreign Born Lowers Our Standard of Living and Forces Down The Birth Rate To the Editor of The New York Times : We read in TELE TIMES of Nov. 27 that drastic action seeking to restrict immigration to the United States from Mexico , Canada , the West Indies , South and Central America and the Philippines , whose citizens are not covered by the present quota law , was taken at the convention of the American Federation of Labor . We are told that , alarmed by reports that more than a million immigrants are illegally resident in the United States , and concerned because of the vast influx of Mexicans and Canadians not subject to quota law , the delegates adopted the follow dec-laration : " We believe the restriction against entry of aliens into the United States should be more rigid in character , though tempered with human considerations , and applicable to all aliens . " Effect on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States suffers more from unrestricted immigration than does labor . This country has perhaps the highest standard of living the world has ever known . Immigrants come from countries with a lower standard of living . If immigration is unrestricted or a great number of aliens is allowed to come to this country , the American laborer is placed in an unfavorable position . If he tries to compete with the immigrant , he must be content with the wages which the alien asks , and this means that his standard of living must fall . When the wages of the laboring class fall , it means that the individual families in this class can not afford to have as many children as their fathers or grandfathers before them , and thus the American stock ultimately is replaced by rapidly breeding steerage immi2 , - r- ants from countries with a lower standard of living . Let us examine the figures of the United States Department of Commerce to see how far this process of replacement has gone in. some of our principal cities . In New York City 76.2 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20.7 native white of native parents . In Boston 73.3 per cent is foreign stock , compared with 24.3 native white of native parents . In Chicago the figures are 72.0 and 23.8 , respectively . In the United States 51.4 per cent of the total white population is urban , and of this 48 per cent is foreign white stock . Immigrants and their children make up 66 per cent of the population of cities whose populations are 500,000 or larger . In New York City 53.4 per cent of the male population over 21 years of age was actually foreign born in 1910 . In 1920 , 38.4 per cent of the total white population of the United States was foreign-born stock . Our Low Pre-War Birth Rate . After studying such figures as these , can we wonder that before the World War the United States had one of the lowest birth rates among nations ? It is the birth rate of a country that must stand the shocks of artificial population pressure caused by waves of mass inamig-ration . If we will study the curve of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1850 , we shall discover that the rate of increase of immigration has little or no effect upon the rate of increase of the general population . There is no evidence for the statement that our population is now larger than it would have been without immigration since 1850 . In fact , while the rate of immigration was rapidly increasing between 1850-60 and 1860-70 , the rate of increase of the general population steadily decreased . The same may be said of the period 1890-1900 to 1900-10 . Whether the rate of immigration increased or decreased , the rate of increase of the general population kept steadily to its course . While the rate of immigration increase has not disturbed the rate of increase of the general population , it has greatly disturbed the birth rate and natural increase of American people . If the rate of gain in immigratioa is augmented and the rate of gain of the general population does not increase , it means that the birth rate of the American people must have been depressed to take the shock of the increase in the rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our Southwestern States hold that Mexican labor is indispensable to their welfare . The fact is that as long as these States import cheap peon labor American labor will not migrate to these parts , because it can not compete without lowering its standard of living . Ultimately our great Southwest will be filled with a population no insignificant part of which is Indian . But if peon immigration is rigidly restricted , American labor will gradually filter into our Southwest , and American institutions and ideals will continue to be controlled by Americans . Unrestricted immigration is one of the worst habits a country can fall into . Washington , Franklin and Jefferson were against mass immigration , but immigration began gradually , until 1850 America found herself with an immigration problem . The more immigration the further sank the American birth rate , and more immigration was thought necessary to make up for the fall in the birth rate , which fell lower and lower at every wave of immigration . Registration of Aliens . To control immigration it is not only necessary to pass quota laws , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by aliens , it Is absolutely necessary that she have some method of keeping track of the foreign born . Why should aliens object to registration ? When an American is born he is registered . When an American votes , he is registered . Registration of aliens would not only protect the American people , but would protect the aliens who have come to this country through legal channels . Perhaps a word should be said about the quota law itself . As long as we have a quota law based on the number of foreign born in this country we shall not do justice to the American people . It does not matter I in principle whether the census of 1890 or 1920 is used . People who speak of the difficulty of analyzing the American population do not think of the injustice to the pioneer Araerican stock that prepared the way for the United States long before the American Revolution . Any one who knows very much about American history and institutions knows not only that the stocks from Great Britain and Northern Ireland founded the nation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country than any other stock . Yet Germany , will all - due respect to the German people , is allowed a much larger quota than England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland combined . A Revision of Quotas . Those who argue for the 1890 census against a later census basis for Immigration restriction use the national origins basis to support their arguments . Yet the same people will turn right around and try to make others believe that the origin of the American stock can not be successfully analyzed . These people seem to forget that this analysis does not have to be mathematically exact to do more justice to the American people than an immigration quota system based upon the number of foreign born in the census of 1890 . The margin of error in such an analysis when applied to immigration quotas is so small as to be practically negligible . The quotas of all other countries are relatively insignificant compared with those of Germany , the Irish Free State , and Great Britain and Northern Ireland . Yet it is concerning these three latter groups where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 164,667 foreign born allowed to all countries , Germany is allowed 51,227 , the Irish Free State 28,567 , and Great Britain and Northern Ireland 34,007 . Would it not be fairer to the American people to adopt the national origins quota system , which would allow Germany 24 , - 908 , the Irish Free State 17,427 , and England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . GUY IRVING BUSCH . New York , Nov. 19-26 . HOOVER TRIP SIGNIFICANT To the Editor of The New York Times : The significance of President-elect Hoover 's good-will journey to Latin America should be very evident . It should be viewed with a great deal of confidence . His trip , it appears , Is a sign of that recognition of a minority people that Mr. Hoover stands for , the principle one of the bases of which he made his recent campaign on . He is giving definite evidence that he is prepared to practme along the lines he advocated , waich were also fundamental of his , tire past experience . His " friendship call " on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests the most sympathetic interpretation . For he represents the United States ; he represents the factor that is guiding the destinies of this country . Mr. Hoover 's trip may mean more than just one of recognition . Its meaning may be decidedly stronger in the balance of an interest for the weaker countries and people , with that humane concern inspired by such solicitude . It may mean a proffer of some support needed by a minor that is making itself known . A most striking note in his address reported in TEE Times of Nov. 27 : " It is also my desire to /earn more of our common problems in the Western Hemisphere , that I may be better fitted for the task which lies before me ; and we are all of us in the West interested in one great common task . That task is the advancement of the welfare of the Deo , ples of our respective countries . " His speech continues to show proof in its presentation how most grateful we ought to be that Mr. Hoover , representing the ideals that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Every statement be makes stands out as a frank and sincere promise for a better relationship to come . Every meaning to be taken from his speech is an expression that completes what overture the trip In itself may have left unsaid . We must accept and believe this highest interpretation of the trip , sensing the fact that it was sponsored also by the highest authorities on human relationship in this country . There is no history back of any country portraying a finer major purpose than ours . No better promise of security can be offered the Latin countries than that of our nation extending its good-will and friendship , in the pledge offered in his speech by Mr. Hoover . He further goes on and says in his address : " We of the Western Hemisphere all of us believe in those principles with a devotion which has arisen from the proofs of our century of common experience " ; and in another paragraph of his speech he says : " The most precious possession of each of us is our love of country , of race , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech should be a revelation to the South Americans It should win their confidence as he has won ours , knowing that his is for the mutual benefit of all . HYMAN N. WEINBERG . Great Neck , N. Y. , Noy. 27 , 1928 . SPAIN 'S GREAT EXPOSITIONS Barcelona and Seville Exhibitions to Demonstrate Country 's Decade of Progress To the Editor of ** New York Times : The world is not generally aware of the tremendous strides that Spain has made during the last decade . Ten years of peace and prosperity , enterprise and effort in the world of arts and industry have resulted in an astonishing advancement in material wealth and power . Dynamic , restless , forward-looking , Spain 's estimated national wealth is $31,000 , - 000,000 . She has a balanced budget , internal peace and an extensive development of export trade , being besides a land of legend and romance , sunshine and roses ; a land of busy factories , busy docks and busy workshops . Her harbors are crowded with craft from all quarters of the globe . Her merchant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Great Lakes . Her imports from the United States annually total about $70,000,000 . The country has fertile fields , much mineral wealth , hydroelectric power and 750 textile mills in Catalonia alone . Her high regard for America and things American is shown in her quick adoption of American ideas and methods . She buys more from the United States than from any other country . Two Expositions Planned . That Spain 's future , that her twentieth century renaissance in art , industry and commerce , may be made known to the world , the Spanish Government and her leading industrialists have set aside millions of dollars toward the success of two great international exhibitions to be held next year in Barcelona and Seville , under the patronage of King Alfonso . On the commanding heights of Montjuich , overlooking Barcelona and the sea , magnificent palaces of marble and colored tile have been erected . Into their vast galleries and halls the world is pouring its treasures of art and science . On the outskirts of Seville , in the Park Maria Luisa , landscaped amid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , distinctive and richly beautiful . With work completed on the palaces and construction being rushed on several large new hotels , plans are under way for American week , the First International Light Fair , international industrial and professional congresses , international sports contests and Spanish festival celebrations . The exhibitions , world-wide in scope and universal in appeal , will omit no aspect of contemporary life or Spanish history . The great industrial zones will encompass the products of all nations , considerable space being devoted to the marvelous progress science has been making in business in recent years . In the Plaza Espanol a veritable farryland of light and beauty is being constructed , a luminous fountain , more colossal and beautiful than the famous fountain of Versailles , which will shower myriad rainbow lights into the square . In the immense exhibition stadium Spanish soccer will Vie with American football , American cowboys will vie with Spanish toreadors for the Queen 's prize , all known sports will be demonstrated by the world 's leading athletes . The primary purpose of the exhibitions is the friendly exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . American Pavilion to Remain . The American Government pavilion at Seville is one of the notable constructions and is of a permanent character . It will undoubtedly contain a very fine exhibit furnished by the various government departments . In the pavilions erected by all the other American republics similar exhibits from their own countries will be on display . This is the first time in history that Spain has united with all the other countries of Iberian origin in a manifestation of this kind , and it should be of particular interest to the North Americans , who are so closely allied with their IberoAmerican neighbors in business and other . matters . Seville has undergone a complete transformation in so far as hotels and transit facilities are concerned . The International Exposition of Barcelona will deal more directly with the commercial and industrial development , whereas the Seville exposition will more directly specialize on the arts . Very recently the government of Spain has appropriated over 800,000 , - 000 pesetas for the building of additional new hard-surfaced roads . This appropriation will be added to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The government 's interest in the construction of new industrial buildings , waterpower , harbors and naval bases is evidenced by the appropriation of almost one and three-quarter billion pesetas . Spain becomes again interesting to the exporters of the world , because her capacity to pay is evidenced by the fact that she is today second only to the United States in wealth on a per capita gold lDasis 1POMPOSA DE ESCANDON VILLA-VIEJO , New York , Nov. 26 , 1928 . A TEN-MILE DRIVE . To the 1:7 ( 77 ; or of The New Yoz lc Times : Apropos of THE TIMES editorial " A Ten-Mile Drive , " I took that drive nearly thirty years ago  --  in a buggy with another young man who was here for the Dewey celebration and the yacht races . It was in Fifty-fourth Street , I think , where we hired the buggy . The drive took us about four hours and it cost about $6 . It was a beautiful Autumn day , and the memory of the colored leaves in Lafayette Boulevard , although we were from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east drive through the park . Then on up to the Speedway , across to Lafayette Boulevard , and back by Riverside Drive and Broadway . WILLIAM . New York , Noe. 29 , 1928 . A YEARNING FOR COLOR . To the Editor of The New York Times : As an artist and illustrator with a desire to see more color in America , may I suggest that the new bridge over the Hudson remain painted the wonderful red ( lead ) which it now is , during construction . This red would create a thing of the most striking beauty . Gas tanks , ugly in themselves , are painted red for purposes of preservation . Why not retain this red and create something unexcelled , either in the present or past ? McCLELLAND BARCLAY . New York , Nov. 27 , 1928 . SHEFFIELD RETIREMENT LAID TO PESSIMISTIC STATEMENT State Department 's Comment , It Is Held , Made Ambassador 's Return to Mexico Impossible To the Editor of The New York Times : Probably without intending to do so , William F. Saunders raised a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which he dissented from observations made by Dr. Ernest Gruening in his book , " Mexico and Its Heritage , " upon the effectiveness of the work of a former United States Ambassador to Mexico , namely , to what extent are the press , writers and the public warranted in criticizing the official acts of a diplomat ? This , of course , Is entirely aside from the admitted right of any public official to defend himself , or for his friends to do so , from what they may regard as comment which is unwarranted by the facts . In some quarters , usually official , the idea persists that it is tantamount to being un-American and unpatriotic to publish or publicly utter anything , no matter how veracious it may be , which in any manner reflects censoriously upon the acts of diplomatic agents of plenipotentiary rank . This principle , as it has frequently been interpreted to me , is predicated upon the theory that such comments , especially if they gain circulation in the country to which their object is , or was , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Government and of the diplomatic service . An Implied Immunity . This implies , of course , that among their other and numerous traditional immunities , diplomats are entitled to exemption from being publicly called to account for their stewardship , especially when criticisms of their official failures or lapses are embodied in the printed word . Obviously the maintenance of this principle means the extension , to include diplomats by political accident or career , of the ancient theory that " the King can do no wrong . " Still , in diplomacy , as in other human activities , one either succeeds or fails . Results constitute the supreme test . So it may not be unfair to analyze by this yardstick the case of the diplomat mentioned by your correspondent , as diversely and objectively estimated by Dr. Gruening and by Mr. Saunders . Dr. Gruening says that the Ambassador failed in Mexico , that he was ineffective . Mr. Saunders says that his career there was a success and essays to prove it . Personally , the writer does not think that Mr. Saunders succeeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There may be much to say on both sides . But if we are to set up results as a standard by which to measure and weigh the Ambassador 's record of accomplishment in Mexico , this is what we are confronted with : The former Ambassador was in Mexico for three years . When his predecessor withdrew from participation in the diplomatic traffickings between the two governments and vacated the embassy , he publicly announced that all of the important issues pending between the United States and Mexico either had been adjusted or were on the road to settlement . This turned out not to be precisely an accurate description of the situation , as the new Ambassador speedily realized . If we go by the visible record of his encumbanay , his contacts with the Calles Government comprised a series of disappointments and official dissonances . This is merely stating the fact , without fixing or arguing the responsibility , or trying to do so . A Pessimistic Statement . When the Ambassador appeared on leave in Washington in the Summer of 1925 his presence there was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of I State , commenting in pessimistic terms upon international relations land Mexican domestic conditions and by implication forecasting possible withdrawal of recognition from the Calles Government , and also speculating lugubriously upon the chances of a fresh revolution overthrowing the then current regime . Whereupon the Ambassador 's usefulness in Mexico automatically and instantaneously ceased . Although the words of the statement were the words of Mr. Kellogg . unfortunately for the Ambassador no official in Mexico City , from the President down , nor any newspaper there would accept any conclusion other than that the thought , underlying belief and inspiration of the statement were the Ambassador 's . It made no difference , even though it was pointed out to them that the Ambassador hardly could hold these views , considering that before he departed for Mexico City , and later in Havana and New York , he had expressed himself in interviews in terms which implied that he was not dissatisfied with his work and conditions in Mexico or with his relations with the Canes Government . The conclusions held in Mexico may or may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurmountable barrier to any future reapprochment between the embassy and the National Palace and to the forwarding of more than per-1 functory exchanges between the embassy and the Foreign Office . The war was on and it raged until the Ambassador left . Record Is Open . From then until the resignation of the Ambassador in the Summer of 1927 , United States-Mexico relations were notoriously in the doldrums . Governments and peoples drifted further and further apart . Nothing was done ; overtly nothing useful or constructive was accomplished . From the nature of things , no improvement was possible so long as the Ambassador remained in Mexico . Whether he finally resigned or was withdrawn  --  another point upon which Mr. Saunders calls Dr. Gruening to account  --  is a detail of phraseology , wholly dissociated from the fact itself or from the causes which made the fact inevitable . One recalls , however , that in the diplomatic service withdrawals of agents , except for causes bred by wars or kindred grave frictions , are invariably glossed over for public consumption as resignations . To sum up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record of what he did or did not accomplish in making progress with his job is open for any one to scan . Mr. Morrow  --  the comparison is inevitable  --  succeeded him . He has been in Mexico now for about a year . Our relations with Mexico are on a more stable basis , so far as understanding and cooperation go , than they have been since 1910 . Mr. Morrow is getting things done which are of mutual advantage to both countries , in a practical manner and in an amicable ambient which , one rejoices to observe , apparently also embraces the chief executives , the chancelleries , the officials and the peoples of the United States and Mexico . ROBERT HAMMOND MURRAY . New York , Nov. 25 , 1928 . INSANITY TREATMENT IMPROVES Recognition of Mental Disorders as Major Health Problem Hailed as Encouraging To the Editor of The New York Ti  --  tes : The New York State Department of Mental Hygiene recently made public the results of a study of mental disease expectancy according to which approximately 41 , e per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " may be expected to succumb to mental disease of one form or another " and become patients in hospitals for the mentally afflicted . This means that one person out of each twenty-two of the population is a patient in a mental hospital some time during his or her lifetime . May I point out a significant aspect or two of these figures with regard to the national problem of mental morbidity ? Approximately 75,000 new patients are admitted to the mental hospitals of the country every year . At this rate we may expect , with all the assurance of a life insurance mortality table , that 1,000,000 men and women now going about life 's business will have become mental cases of more or less institutional severity in the next fifteen years . A Major Problem . These figures impress us all the more when we learn that there are as many patients in the mental hospitals of the country as in all other hospitals combined . It is not the question whether mental disease is actually on the increase but the fact that there are so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that mental disease is now recognized as a major health problem that should be dealt with as vigorously as tuberculosis , cancer or any other widespread disease . This is a victory for the mental-hygiene movement , which sensed the importance of the problem of mental disease twenty years ago and has labored ever since to bring it to the surface . The overcrowding of our State hospitals for mental disease is a tressing concern of State Governments throughout the nation , an in- dex of the seriousness of the problem , but it is also a hopeful sign . It is an indication that people are beginning to think about insanity in terms of disease amenable to treatment and in many cases just as curable as bodily disorders . We are adopting a more rational attitude toward the subject , with the result that there are now more known cases of mental morbidity than ' before . A More Beneficial View . The rapid multiplication of outpatient mental clinics , the development of psychiatric social service , and the extension of community organization and extra-institutional facilities for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healthy change in the public point of view toward a subject that used to be discussed in whispers . There is less disposition to keep secret the fact that there has been a mental breakdown in the family , and more of an inclination to seek advice and treatment in the early stages of mental disease . This is all to the good , even with mounting hospital admission rates , because we are bringing the problem out into the open where better provision can be made for dealing with it . The campaign of education is beginning to tell , and it is confidently hoped that in time we may bring mental diseases under control to a point comparable with the control of , say , tuberculosis , thanks to improved economic conditions and the work of the public health movement . The warfare against disease is being extended to include all the enemies of mankind , and it is the hope of the American Foundation for Mental Hygiene , which was recently organized to secure greater resources for the suppoprt of those who are fighting the battle against mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its place among those that have lost forever their power to darken human lives . ? PAUL O. KOMORA . WOMEN AND THE VOTE New York , Nov. tr , 1g28 . To the Editor of The New York ri711C3 ; It is nothing short of astounding to read the letters of women correspondents advocating the repeal of the Nineteenth Amendment . The thaught is revolting that a woman in , full possession of her senses would deliberately disparage her sex by attributing to it a total lack of intelligence and ability to cope with ordinary problems . One of these correspondents concedes that it took men " centuries to learn government " ; yet she refuses to give women a fraction of that time in which to orient themselves in the political field . Her attitude is much like that of employers , all of whom demand experienced help , totally ignoring the elementary fact that one is not exactly born with such an attribute , but needs must obtain it somewhere , somehow . Liberation from repression of any sort is always succeeded by more or less havoc , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of former restraint . My cry is : Give us a chance ! Just ea all women are not brainless idiots , neither can they all be expected to reach the plane of mental giants ; and although many of us have erred politically  --  and the same can be said of men  --  our mistakes were prompted by honest motives and purposes , not by corruption . Most women are not fitted for public office  --  neither are most men . It takes long training to qualify for public service . There is no royal road to public office if it is to be filled efficiently and judiciously . Merit and quality alone should prevail . The question is absolutely sexless . Political inexperience is excusable in women  --  it is the natural outcome of circumstance ; but complete sex disloyalty is unpardonable and unnatural , and the flagrant examples of it have done more to injure women than all their political errors combined . I yet have to hear of a man publicly denouncing the male species as a whole . A woman may know nothing about politics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SOPI-IIA L. C. BATTISTELLA . New York City , Nov. 28 , 1928 . DISCUSSING NAVAL NEEDS This Country 's Strong Position Held to Make Our Requirements Smaller Than Britain 's To the Editor of The New York Times : Apropos of my letter appearing in TELE TIMES of Nov. 27 , let me disclose what are the present naval needs of both Great Britain and the United States . First , with respect to the United States . To determine the naval needs of a country we must take into consideration not only the extent of its commerce and shipping , but also its peculiar position from a geographical as well as a strategical point of view . No other nation in the world is so ideally situated with respect to both Its geographical and strategical positions . The United States , geographically , lies between the Atlantic Ocean on the east and the Pacific on the west . This gives it a strategical position , from a naval point of view , unequaled by any other nation . Draw a straight line from Eastport , Me. , to Key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our Atlantic seaboard . Draw a straight line from Key West to Cape Town , Africa , and a second line from Eastport to Cape Town , and you have a triangle of which the base is the line from Eastport to Key West . This triangle represents the naval lines of operation , both defensive and offensive , for the United States , to the southern point of Africa . Draw another line from Key West to London and from Eastport to London , and you have a triangle representing the naval lines of operation for the United States to the capital of the British Isles . An . Ideal Position . Thus , the United States has a naval base , on its Atlantic seaboard , that makes its position strategically ideal to any point on the west coasts of the British Isles , Europe and Africa , and which admits of the greatest possible concentration of its navy . Draw a line from Seattle to San Diego , and you have the naval base of the Pacific seaboard of the United States . Draw a line from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hawaii , and you have a triangle , equally good , representing ideal naval lines of operation for the Western seaboard . Here its strategical advantages are even greater than on its Atlantic seaboard by reason of the greater distance of any enemy naval base . The United States , however , has a number of dependencies . In the Pacific Ocean is Alaska , Samoa , Guam , Hawaii and the Philippine Islands . In the Atlantic Ocean , Porto Rico and the Virgin Islands . These possessions are ideally situated . They may be protected either from the Atlantic or the Pacific naval base . The British Situation . Let us now contemplate the positions of the British Empire . The total area of the British possessions is 12,902,109 square miles , with a population of 485,179,801 in Europe , Africa , Asia , America and Australia . Geographically , Great Britain 's position is just the reverse of the United States . Strategically , it has 100 naval bases where the United States has but two . In naval warfare , as well as war upon land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrate and unify its forces . In respect , then , to its geographical and strategical positions , the United States is infinitely stronger than Great Britain . We have now determined two very vital points in the dispute between Great Britain and the United States with respect to their several naval needs in battleships , cruisers and guns . Naval Strength . With resreict to battleships , then , the United States has , undoubtedly , the very best of it today . Under the terms of the Washington Naval Treaty , the British Empire retained twenty-two capital ships of 580,450 tons displacement . The United States retained eighteen of 525,000 tons . The United States today could concentrate twelve battleships on either of its seaboards where it would be dangerous for Great Britain to concentrate six , without weakening the defense of its possessions . With respect to modern cruisers built or building , Great Britain has about sixty with a tonnage of 409,976 . In addition to this , it has about forty merchant vessels capable of being manned with six-inch guns . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building , with a tonnage of 146,000 . It has only two merchant vessels capable of carrying six-inch guns . This seemsto be . a greatdisparity. as between the two nations . Yet is it really so ? Does not the scattering possessions of Great Britain necessitate the number of cruisers it already has built or is building ? On the other hand , by reason of the position of the United States , does it really need more cruisers than it has built ? Is it not a fact that our battleships , together with our cruisers , submarines and destroyers , could wipe out any number of cruisers plying either the Atlantic or the Pacific Ocean ? If we fear a war with Great Britain , then , why do we not fortify our northern border from any possible invasion on the part of Canada ? By reason of Great Britain 's scattered possessions , would it be possible for her to concentrate , either on our Atlantic or our Pacific seaboard , more capital vessels than we could concentrate to successfully defend ourselves ? If it did so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open attack ? In view of the foregoing facts , I believe that the suggestion of THE Times could be successfully acted upon . Let Great Britain and the United States each appoint a representative to meet at London , Geneva or Washington , to discuss the ways and means of limiting the further building of warships . The people 's money should not be unnecessarily wasted ! F. LEOPOLD SCHMIDT . New York , Nov. 28 , 1928 . SAVING THE EAGLE To the Editor of The New York Times : The article on the American eagle , by Marie Kirkwood , which appeared recently in the Magazine Section of THE TIMES was very interesting and informative . It was stated that the extermination of the American eagle was nearly complete five years ago and evidently nothing has been done to guard against such a calamity . Is n't there some way to awaken popular interest in the situation and have measures taken to prevent our national emblem from becoming a myth ? There is , I believe , a $50 fine for killing a seagull , and it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to have this protection , at least . B. N. COOL . Schenectady , N. Y. , Nov. 19 , 1928 . FOUNTAIN PEN HINT . To the EcIftor of The Xcu : York Timcs : I have used fountain pens for many years , but have been often irritated to the point of desperation by failure of ink to flow when wanted , due to the carbonizing of the fluid on the penpoint . Recently I placed a piece of sponge about the size of a pencil rubber in the top of the fountain pen cap and saturated it with water . No more pen trouble . The ink flows at the first touch of penpoint to paper , the vapor in the cap preventing the ink from carbonizing when the pen is not in use . When refilling the pen with ink , also put a couple of drops of water ' 22 . ' Vat In.T.T.Z1 tarp . . D. E. HAFtTNETT . New York , Nov. 27 , 1928 . GRAHAM LAND WAS PALMER LAND To the Editor of The New York Times : THE TIMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antarctic , " in which , as a number of other articles on Antarctic exploration , reference was made to " Graham Land , " and it is this reference that prompts me to draw attention to the fact that this Antarctic continent was first discovered by an American , Captain Nathaniel Palmer of Stonington , Conn. , in 1821 , while on a voyage to the Antarctic for seals . This can be verified by reference to an article by Major Gen. A. W. Greely , entitled " How Palmer Land Became Graham Land , " in the National Geographic Magazine of March , 1912 . Further , Edwin Swift Balch , in his book " Antarctica , " very strongly advocates that the United States Government give credit of the discovery to whom it belongs . The original log of the Hero , in which Captain Palmer at the age of 21 years made the discovery of this land , is now in the Congressional Library at Washington , having been procured by Mr. Balch for the purpose of preserving it and for placing it in safe keeping . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , English explorer , gave Captain Palmer credit on his maps in 1822 . Russian and French Governments recognized Captain Palmer as the discoverer of Palmer Land . Palmer Land was renamed in 1831 by J. M. Biscoe , retired English naval officer , in honor of Sir James R. C. Graham , the First Lord of the Admiralty . The foregoing facts and information have been forwarded to Coramender Richard E. Byrd , with the hope that in recharting and mapping the territory he is exploring he will give credit to Captain Palmer by giving his name to the Antareftecouti nent . CHARLES H. SIMMONS . New York , Nov. 26 , 1928 . Charted by Powell . To the Editor of The New York Time* : THE TIMES states that " the Wilkins expedition is near Graham Land . " This should be Palmer Land . This portion of the Antarctic was discovered by Captain N. B. Palmer in 1820 , as shown on a chart by George Powell , published by R. H. Laurie of London , dated Nov. 1 , 1821 . This was ten years before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chart and other data are available here , which show without a doubt that Captain Palmer was the discoverer of this part of the Antarctic and was given due credt up to 1840 . Since that time Graham Land has been used on a number of charts . A. P. LOPER . Stonington , Conn. , Nov. 26 , In &; BUDDING VIOLINISTS RETARDED BY LACK OF FINE INSTRUMENTS Leopold Auer Suggests That Musicians of Merit Be Provided With Means to Develop Their Art To the Editor of The New York Timcs : I read with great interest the announcement by the National Music League , the Franz Schubert Memorial Organization and the Curtis Institute of Music in regard to their praiseworthy intention of launching young musicians upon their artistic careers . The aim of the organizations is to aid the aspirants in every possible way to be properly presented before the public , provided , of course , that they have attained sufficient skill and maturity in their playing to justify the demonstration of their gifts before a critical audience . The value of this project could hardly be overestimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handicaps and struggles and the long years of intensive study the youngsters have to go through before the realization of their most cherished desire to appear in public , to win the recognition of the press and masses , or mayhap meet with their indifference . The list of persons who are interested in this project includes the names of prominent musicians and wealthy patrons of art . This in itself is a guarantee of good faith and of the ultimate success of the plan . Violinists Need Facilities . A singer 's only requirement besides general musical education is a fine natural voice . Pianists have the free use of the choicest and best concert grands . But what about the poor violinist , viola player or ' cellist ? Who will furnish them with the indispensable instrument of superior quality for their concert appearances ? For scores of years collectors and amateurs were busy buying up most of the masterpieces , leaving on the market but a few examples fit for concertizing artists ; and those few at almost prohibitive figures . It is a well-known fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all when starting their public careers . It must be also noted that not all of the old Italian instruments made by Stradivarius , Guarnerius , Amati , Guadae gnini and many others are suitable for our large concert halls . There remained but a few of those masterpieces that were made some two hundred or two hundred and forty years ago which successfully withstood the ravages of two centuries unimpaired . Most of them lost the power and fullness of tone ; this unhappy circumstance is due partly to careless handling and partly to willful damaging through the course of years . When those instruments were built the makers had in mind the churches and palaces in which they were to be played , and therefore stressed quality instead of power of tone . All sovereign princes of Italy , France and Germany of those days maintained small string orchestras at their courts , the concerts taking place in the intimate circles of their palaces , An Era of Virtuosos . At the beginning of the nineteenth century , however , the era of great virtuosos was inaugurated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be used for concert purposes just as they have been ever since . Every modern virtuoso is the possessor of some very expensive Italian instrument more or less well preserved . From year to year the price of good violins soars higher and higher . A fairly well preserved Stradivarius or Guarnerius del Geste can not be bought nowadays for less than $15,000 , while one in first-class state of preservation costs from $30,000 to $40,000 , and even more . It seems strange to us that some sixty or seventy years ago one could buy in London a first-class Stradivarius for ? 300 . The question arises now : What could a young clibutant do to secure the necessary instrument if there is no wealthy friend to help buy one ? Musical history informs us that , with very few exceptions , all great cornposers and virtuosos come from poor parents . Their musical education was accomplished under the most difficult and discouraging circumstances . Thanks . toe/the Juilliard Musical Foundation of New York and the Curtis Institute of Music of Philadelphia , the difficulty of the impecunl. ous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been removed . Hundreds of meritorious and ambitious young Americans receive their tuition under recognized masters entirely free of charge at those institutes . And once more the question looms up in one 's mind : How can a suitable instrument be secured for the promising youngsters who start their careers ? Two Solutions Suggested . It seems to me that there are but two solutions to this problem : : Either that the above-mentioned two institutes purchase a few of the remaining first-class Italian string instruments , violins , violas and cellos to be had on the European and American markets and lend them to the debutants until they have the means to acquire their own , or else that these same institutes establish a workshop for the building of string instruments based on scientific and artistic principles under supervision of a committee of experienced artists . At the present time the making of new string instruments , with certain exceptions , is largely a commercial proposition . This has created mistrust among concert violinists , who , whether justly or unjustly , prefer a second or third rate Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , must be left to the future . It is my sincere wish and hope that this unfortunate condition will soon . be remedied , and that my timely suggestion will meet directly or indirectly with the approbation of my colleagues and earn the serious consideration of the Juilliard and Curtis musical institutions . LEOPOLD AUER . New York , Nov. 28 , 1928.                     