@@685197

txt Never before in the history of the American bill market have bankers ' acceptances enjoyed such a wide distribution . America has been struggling for the past several years to create a bill market along the lines of England 's discount market , and only now the local efforts appear to be bearing fruit . Bankers and dealers say that the present aggressive demand for prime bankers ' bills marks the turning point in the American discount market . Rates , they say , are now at a level where prime bills prove exceptionally attractive investments for corporations , savings banks , insurance companies and others . Prime 90-day bills now discount at about 63/4 . It is this attractive rate that tempts the aforementioned companies to invest in this liquid paper . In years past when the discount rates on bank acceptance were around the 4 and 5% levels , they failed to attract funds of these investors , as it was found more profitable to put funds into Government obligations . Now , however , with hills discounting at 6 ? 7 ; t and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is attracting a goodly part of the funds that would ordinarily find their way into Government offerings . Notwithstanding that the Government still clings to a 454% rate on certificates , it is the belief in banking circles that subsequent ' issues will carry 5% . Country . banks have recently been large buyers of bankers ' acceptances . This demand is increasing daily . The New York Federal Reserve Bank is selling large blocks of bills to these country institutions . During ? he year 1919 the New York Federal Reserve Bank sold about 68,199,947 in bankers ' bills to 36 country banks . Such purchases are made.f or member banks on their order , and . if desired , the Federal Reserve Bank retains custody of the paper bought : and either collects it for the member banks ' credit at maturity or makes such other disposition of it before maturity as may he desired . This service is rendered without Charge . The recent demand for acceptances has pretty well depleted the portfolios of leading dealers . It is said , however , that more hills are coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger import movements , particularly from South America and the Orient and increased commodity prices have resulted in very -- large dollar drawings from those markets . The increased price of cotton also has required much greater banking accommodation , which has largely taken bankers ' acceptance form , with the result that many new names have appeared in the New York market as acceptors , principally of banks located in the South and Southwest . ? The demand for acceptance among the country banks has brought about a marked contraction in the bill holdings of the New York Federal Reserve Bank . This item has been reduced nearly $60,000,000 since March 1 . As of February 27 , the bank held acceptances amounting to $231,257,309 . This item was reduced to $171,748,830 as of April 2 . Following is a table showing the liquidation in this item by weeks since February 27 :                     