@@689405

txt When delegation of New ' Yorkers today invited President Coolidge to attend a memorial service for President Harding , in New York on Nov. 2 . Mr. Harding 's birthday , the President asked its members to decide for.hitn whether he would - not best honor the memory of Mr. Harding by remaining in Washington and utilizing his time and endeavor to lay before Congress attempted solution of Pending questions in the light of 1-larding policies , than to lose the time that would he required in preparing an adequate memorial address and making the trip to New York . The members of the delegation told President Coolidge they felt obligated as Americans and as friends of Mr. Harding to say that in view of the tremendous importance to America and the world of a correct solution of the problems the President was facing . and view of the inestimable value of his time for administrative purposes . it would be more in the interest of the American people that he should remain In Washington and honor his predecessor by endeavoring to crystallize his policies into constructive legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York delegation called has a. deeper significance than appears on the surface . President Coolidge is attempting to adhere consistently to a decision to devote himself to public affairs without any material diversion . His purpose in taking this course is to make it clear that if he is to be a candidate for the . Republican nomination for President he will stand ? on a record of personal accomplishment. and devotion to the policies of President Harding . The new President Is , working hard , and there are indications That he feels the strain of his office , with the multiplicity of detail in connection with administrative affairs that he desires to master at the outset of his tenure . A lesser purpose which actnated President Coolidge in his attitude toward the invitation of the New York delegation is his desire to avoid delivering , any public addresses away from Washington until after he has communicated his views on important questions to Congress when it assembles in December . Once the ice is broken by his annual message to the Senate and the House the President will feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest and concern to , the country . The New York delegation was headed by John A. Stewart , who explained to the President that it represented a. committee formed originally to welcome President Harding on his expected arrival In New York from his extensive tour across the continent to Alaska and back by way of the Panama Canal , Forth Rico and the Virgin Islands . After Mr. Harding 's death the committee was reorganized as a memorial committee . President Coolidge was told that the committee was arranging to hold the memorial services in the largest available hall , that Bishop William F. Anderson of Cincinnati . a cicrse friend of President Harding , would offer prayer , and that a Baptist clergyman would deliver the benediction , Mayor Hylan , the delegation said , was the honorary head of the Memorial Committee . " No invitation which could be extended to me would have a stronger appeal . than that which comes from your committee asking me to be the speaker alt the Harding triemorial service in New York . " said President Coolidge to the delegation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poignancy that thane w h9 had planned to welcome President Holding on his arrival in New York should now be preparing to pay honor to his memory . " In conversing with the delegation President Coolidge said that if he were to crystallize constructively the policies of President Harding he would need all the time at his disposal between now and the convening of Congress . All that time . he said , must be spent in laborious work . He explained that he was working under great stress . Innumerable matters were demanding his earnest attention , and he was obliged to give close , careful consideration to the preparation of his forthcoming message to Congress and to constructive legislation relating to the first session of a new Congress . After the interview with the President the delegation gave out a statement in which it said : " The delegation wishes to say that it was the President 's earnest desire to accept the committee 's invitation , but ( that in view of the situation in Washington , in America and throughout the world , he reluctantly reached a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a letter to be read on the occasion of the memorial service on Nov. 2. in New York . to give expression to his love of the late President and evaluation of his character and great services to his fellow-men "                     