@@694576

txt THE Mr .. ES1-131=1.1 . ' S 2/LESSAG- . President COOLIDGE himself frankly expressed regret that his annual message to Congress was so long . All that can be done is to indicate his more important recommendations and policies . The tone of the whole is what we have been led to expect of Mr. COOLIDGE , and what the country has repeatedly approved ? cautious , conservative , prudent , unsensational . The old saying might be revised to read that the nation is happy whose Presidential messages are unexciting . First making a rapid survey of the industrial condition of the country and the state of public finances , the President does not draw a wholly rosy picture . It is , however , in accord with the known facts , which give ample ground for his expectation that " a comfortable prosperity will continue . " But he properly stresses the need of continuing also economy in Government expenditures , and of keeping a full Treas ! ury . Turning to the question of tax reduction , he states that he gives his " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All but one of these have already been rejected by the Ways and Means Committee , but its bill may be altered by Congress . On this whole subject , the sentiments expressed by Mr. COOLIDGE are sound and convincing . He would have the country keep on reducing the still huge war indebtedness , declaring . sententiously and truthfully , that " debt reduction is tax reduction . " And he would set his face like a flint against special and selfish interests which seek to secure for themselves exemption from taxation , without regard to the effect on needed revenue or the equality which Congress should always seek to observe in levying taxes . , One part of the message will be I eagerly scanned to see if it verifies ! the advance report that President COOLIDGE would favor an extensive ! program of navy enlargement . He does nothing of the kind . In this , as in everything else , he is for a " moderate " measure . Expressing his regret that the effort to get a threePower agreement at Geneva failed , he states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to face " a considerable building program . " There are obsolete ships to be replaced . There is the need of new types of cruisers to fulfill their functions in protecting foreign commerce . Just what the increase of the navy ought to be the President does not say . He pledges himself to no plan . But he makes it evident that he would not favor any plan open to the charge of either extravagance or belligerent competition . His present attitude is evidently that of waiting to see what Congress will propose , and what bill or bills it will be necessary for him either to approve or to veto . In the passage dealing with agriculture , Mr. COOLIDGE does little beyond restating positions which he has previously taken . He is dead against price-fixing for farm products , or any form of Government subsidy for farming . While saying again that he would favor " any " sound and workable proposal to " help the farmer , " he leaves it in no doubt that he regards nearly all the pending plans as both unsound and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared to go no further than the creation of a Federal Board to aid the cooperative movement in agriculture , with a revolving loan fund to provide the necessary financing . From all this it is evident that the sponsors of radical legislation in behalf of the farmers will get no countenance from President COOLIDGE . As often before , the President mentions proposals to lower tariff rates with a kind of shudder . His reference to prohibition is only perfunctory , reaffirming the intention of the Federal Government to enforce the law to the best of its ability . His full account of the Mississippi floods and the problems which they have put before th ' National Government leads up to the advice that Congress await the engineering report , and frame plans of relief and protection in a way to cover a seriqs of years . Concerning foreign relations , the President speaks hopefully of reaching an adjustment of our controversy with Mexico , believes that a wise settlement has been made in Nicaragua , and reaffirms the readiness of our Government to work with any " Government which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. COOLIDGE reasserts the determination of our Government to cooperate with other nations in seeking to establish peace everywhere . But he says nothing about specific plans or treaties . For him the sum of the whole matter is " in " doing good , in walking humbly , in " sustaining its own people , in min " istering to other nations . " In that way , according to the opinion of President COOLIDGE , " America will work out its own mighty destiny . "                     