@@696088

txt Mrs. Dolly Curtis Gann , sister of Vice President Curtis and designated by him as his " official hostess , " scored a complete triumph today in the social war over her brother 's contention that she is entitled to rank with him at social functions that have an official status . Gracefully and courteously , the diplomatic corps , as the result of a meeting at the British Embassy , capitulated to Mrs.- Gann . In an official communication to the Secretary of State , the envoys informed him that the Ambassadors and Ministers of foreign nations , in the desire of showing all , possible i courtesy to the Vice President " will with great pleasure accord to his sister , Mrs. Gann , at all official and ceremonious diplomatic entertainments until we can obtain . some definite ruling on this point from a constituted American authority , the precedence due to the wife of a Vice President of the United States . " In consequence of this attitude of the diplcmatic corps , .. will be the ranking- woman- ; west - ; a1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Senora Davila . It was made known tonight that Vice President Curtis and Mrs. Gann would attend the dinner . which is intended as a tribute to Pablo Ramirez , Finance Minister of Chile , Edward Everett Gann , Mrs. Gann 's husband , a Washington lawyer , will attend also , but without any other status than that of a plain American citizen . As no question as to his position in the official-social world of Washington was raised , the diplomatic corps had ho occasion to make any ruling with regard to him . Other Notable Guests Listed. , At the Chilean Embassy , it was said tonight that the embassy would not announce at this time the seating arrangements for tomorrow 's dinner , but that among those who would have places of honor would be Vice President Curtis and Mrs. Gann , Secretary Stimson , Dr. Herman Velarde. the Peruvian Ambassador ; Don Manuel C. Tellez , the Mexican Ambassador , and Senora Dona Emilia Benoit de Tellez ; Gurgel do Amaral , the Brazilian Ambassador , and Senor Don Orestes Ferrara , the Cuban Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was signed by its dean , Sir Esme Howard . the British Ambassador . The text was given to newspapers by the State Department this evening . While the attitude of the diplomatic corps , as set forth in the note , indicates that the recognition of Mrs. Gann as ranking every woman in official life here , except the wife of the President , is to stand only until " a constituted American authority " makes a definite ruling on the point of precedence involved , all the circumstances go to show that no such ruling is in sight . In the first place there is no " constituted American authority " to make the ruling , since the State Department made public disclosure that it washed its hands of the whole business of determining problems of official-social precedence . In addition , it is not seen how any such authority can be set up . Any effort to do so through Congress would be strongly resisted , chiefly on account of the reaction which the Curtis-Gann incident has produced , and it may be taken for granted that President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position taken by the diplomatic corps , it developed that some of its members are much exercised over the State Department 's abandonment of its supervision over social matters generally and there were private predictions in diplomatic circles that before long informal approaches will be made by diplomats to the department in an effort to have its stand softened . In recent years the practice has grown up of having the department arrange the seating of guests at private dinners at which those of official status had accepted invitations . The indications now are that the protocol division of the department will be instructed to refuse such accommodations . Howard 's Letter to Stimson . The letter of Sir Esme Howard to Secretary Stimson reads as follows : British Embassy , Washington . April 10 , 1929 . The Hon. Henry L. Stimson , Secretary of State of the United States . My dear Mr. Secretary of State : On behalf of my colleagues of the diplomatic corps and myself , I have to thank you for your courteous letter in reply to the memorandum which I handed to you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there exists no United States authority at present which can determine questions of precedence , and it appears from your letter that members of the diplomatic corps are expected to decide such matters for themselves in their own houses at their own discretion . You add that any courtesy which they may choose to show to the Vice President and to Mrs. Gann will be most agreeable to you . In these circumstances my colleagues and I , desirous , as already stated , of showing all possible courtesy to the Vice President , will with great pleasure accord to his sister , Mrs. Gann , at all official and ceremonious diplomatic entertainments until we can obtain some definite ruling on this point from a constituted American authority , the precedence due to the wife of a Vice President of the United States . In view of the fact , however , that this is not altogether in accordance with the custom which has prevailed during recent years . as you have yourself pointed out in your letter of yesterday to the Vice President . my colleagues and I wish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being without prejudice to any final arrangement . We ell sincerely hone that this solution will meet with general approval . Believe me , my dear Mr. Secreta ry , Very sincerely yours . ESME HOWARD . Prediction Made in Kansas . When Mr. Curtis was elected Vice President the understanding among friends of his and Mrs. Gann in Kansas was that Mrs. Gann would rank next to Mrs. Hoover , wife of the President . In a measure , today 's developments appear to carry out that claim advanced in Mrs. Gann 's behalf . She will rank all ss.her women guests at tomorrow 's dinner of the Chilean Ambassador and his wife . The wives of all foreign Ambassadors and all officers of the United States Government will sit below her at the dinner table . It is not doubted that at all functions given by American officials at which the Vice President and Mrs. Gann and the wives of the heads of foreign diplomatic missions are present she will be received with the same high honors and precedence that have been established . temporarily at least . by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culminated in today 's recognition of the social precedence of Mrs. Gann was begun when Vice President'Curtis asked the State Department to rule on his sister 's status as his " official hostess . " According to the Vice President he was urged by the then Secretary of State , Frank B. Kellogg , to request the department to make a ruling . Kellogg 's Note " Leaked . " According to the State Department some subordinates there may have made the suggestion , but confidence was expressed that it did not come from Secretary Kellogg , whose explanation is not obtainable as he is on his way to Europe . Just before retiring from the office Secretary Kellogg sent a note to Sir Esme Howard which was said to have informed him that Mrs. Gann did not have the status of the wife of a Vice President and therefore ranked below women ? of the diplomatic circles . This note was communicated by the dean of the diplomatic corps to his associates of the corps and news of it " leaked . " On April 3 Vice President Curtis issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department had published its ruling . In his statement the Vice President said that he would not accept the ruling of former Secretary Kellogg and had called on the present Secretary of State , Mr. Stimson , to reverse it . It was felt by the diplomatic corps that some more definite adjustment of the problem should be obtained and its dean yesterday left a courteously worded memorandum with the Secretary of State asking for a more definite determination of Mrs. Gann 's status . Responding to the memorandum . Secretary Stimson said that there had been no ruling in the matter by Mr. Kellogg . Mr. Kellogg 's communication on the subject to Sir Esme never has been published , so the statement of Secretary Stimson that no ruling was made stands as the public record . Many Are Still Uncertain . There is widespread opinion in Washington , however , that the course of the diplomatic corps has not settled the matter and that the upper stratum of Washington society can not avoid embarrassment in determining whom to invite to its social affairs if Vice President Curtis and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ministers at their meeting today reached what Sir Esme Howard termed an " agreement and not a decision . " He told newspaper representatives informally that the statement in his note to Secretary Stimson ? that the position of the corps with regard to Mrs. Gann was taken pending some definite ruling from a constituted American authority , did not have reference to anything to be done immediately , but meant merely that the diplomatic corps was taking its position in the absence of an authoritative ruling and that it would stand until terminated by such an authoritative ruling , if and when an authority should be established . The diplomatic corps , Sir Esme explained , did not . Intend to be the offic:el arbiter in zocial matters affecting American homes . The agreement of the corps , he said , was adopted as in line with Secretary Stimson 's attitude as expressed in his letter to Sir Esme yesterday , as the corps understood the letter , and he added : " We are very glad it is so . " In short , the Ambassador said . it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his note and the corps was only too glad to adopt it and go along with his views . Asked whether the diplomatic corps had or would appoint any committee to deal with questions of official social precedence as they might arise , the British Ambassador said that no such action had been taken and indicated that . when matters of the sort arose in the future they would be dealt with as special eases , unless too many were brought forward and forced some measure of a permanent character in dealing with them . Stimson Amplifies His Stand . One of the first consequences of Secretary Stimson 's decision . that the State Department would not act as social arbiter in Washington , will be the amendment : of the order which created the Division of Protocol in the department a year ago . The order stated that . the division would supervise action on all matters involving questions- of ceremonial and precedence . This will not be changed to prohibit action in social matters generally . Secretary Stimson , in announcing this today , amplified the views he expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' only proper function of the State Department in regard to precedence ; he explained , arises out of the fact that the department is the custodian of the dates and the papers which are filed by foreign representatives when they come here to be accredited to the government . Their seniority depends upon the date they are received by the President. - Since the department participates in the ceremony and keeps a record of dates and seniority , it was natural Mr. Stimson said , that the department was the one of which inquiry should he made as to relative rank of the diplomatic corps . That function will be continued , he added , but so far as the relative rank of American officials is concerned , there is no reason why the department should do anything . Balks at " Social Secretary . " Secretary Stimson said he had found that the State Department had been drawn gradually into becoming " social secretary " to almost any hostess in . Washington who was seeking information on the social precedence of persons who might be her guests and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As an example of what has been going on Mr. Stimson referred to a letter recently received by the Protocol Division . This requested officials of the division to seat the persons listed in the letter for dinner on a certain date and contained a similar request for a dinner on a later date . Enough of these letters were being received , Secretary Stimson added , to occupy altogether too much time of officials . Henceforth , he made known , Washington hostesses may obtain information of the precedence of Ambassadors and other members of the displomatic corps from the diplomatic list which is published monthly by the department but that is all the help that would be extended as far as the State Department was concerned . In taking this position Secretary Stimson said he did not feel that he was putting any greater burden upon Washington hostesses than Mrs. Stimson had been carrying in the Philippines during his term as Governor General . She had no State Department to tell her how to seat the officers of warships stopping there , and the question of precedence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manila . The Protocol Division , Secretary Stimson said . would . of course , continue to assist the ' White House in ceremonial and precedence questions , as in the past .                     