@@685963

txt It is one of the handicaps of popular government , one which can only be overcome by raising the standard of intelligence in the people governed , that the fool in office is even more costly than the rogue . The rogue knows how much he wants to steal and preserves a semblance of honesty elsewhere , while he is sometimes a competent executive . But the fool is costly not merely from his own folly but from the fact that he is used by irresponsible rogues outside his administration . Tammany , in the days of the Tweed ring , wasted fifty dollars in order that its friends might steal five . It will be found , as investigations proceed , that the Democratic Administration at Washington wasted in the same proportions for dubious reasons . There is no shadow of evidence that Mayor Hylan has ever accepted a crooked dollar or benefited personally by the destructive waste into which the city has been led since the competent Mitchel administration went out . Mr. Hylan is merely inadequate ' for the position he holds . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him when he is dealing with persons cleverer and more unscrupulous than himself . That he accepted , without test , the statements of the head of the grafting combine in building materials and especially limestone , and that he signed a letter drafted by the head of that ring and addressed it to the Board of Estimate , Mr. Hylton admits . It will be remembered that this is not the first occasion on which he has done the same thing . He allowed the representatives of Mr. Hearst , in ! the campaign for municipal ownership through bankruptcy of public utilities , to dictate another letter for which Mr. Hylan took the responsibility without disclosing its source . Not only is it necessary to protect citizens from Mr. Hylan but it is necessary to help him to protect himself . He can not undo the mischief he has done . He can not give a competent administration of the city of New York . because he does not know what that means . But he can give a simple pledge that when he writes letters in the future , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public press , he will give therein the exact source of his information . If he had told the Board of Estimate that the now notorious Hettrick had inspired his enthusiasm for limestone in - school buildings , by a promise of union votes like that Gompers gave to Cox , the Board of Estimate and the public press would have known exactly how to handle the situation in a way to save the taxpayer 's pocket . Will Mr. nylon and his friends believe that there is no imputation here upon lis , bcpgstpl ? This appeal is made to his common sense , as much for his own protection as for that of the city and its taxpayers . There is , of course , nothing anarchistic about setting off a bomb if you are a member of a labor union .                     