@@690470

txt Robert M. La Follette and Burton K. Wheeler today receeived a " personal and non-partisan " endorsement from the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor , which is holding its meeting here at the Hotel Ambassador . It was not , however , a commitment of the American Federation of Labor to the La Follette party as a whole . The principle enunciated by ' Samuel Gompers on Wednesday , namely , that no party was to be endorsed . was lived up to . It is understood that Democrats and Republicans will also figure in other endorsements that will be made known . The labor chiefs did not make public the text of the report which was passed favoring La Follette . The report will be given out tomorrow , they announced . They were not inclined to make known even the gist of the document . From unofficial sources It was learned positively , however , that the report " tends to favor La Follette and Wheeler . " The report , it was learned . is of about 3,000 words . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party he represents , and sets forth that last year it was responsible for the , election of 170 Democratic and Republican Congressmen and Senators who were found " acceptable " to the organization . This seems to indicate that the full weight of the Federation will not be thrown behind the entire third party , but that It will , in the coming campaign , again choose " acceptable candidates . ' for Congress and the Senate . It is understood that the report im1WI plies strongly that La Follette and heeler , more than any other of the candidates for President and Vice President , conform with the Labor platform adopted at the recent convention of the A. F. of L. at Montreal . This platform reads , in part , as follows . " To promote the highest material progress , which Is the basis for national effectiveness as well as an agency for national service , we urge that industry and commerce be freed from legislative prohibitions that restrict development in conformity to economic requirements . To this end we propose the repeal of anti-trust legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public interests and legalize economic organization as well as the constructive activities of trade associations . " All , that was said officially by the labor men was said by Matthew Woll , who has acted as President Gompers 's spokesman , and later by Mr. Gompers himself , making what he called his " first direct contact with newspaper men since his illness . " Copies Not Ready . " I want to give you quite frankly our situation , " said Mr. Gompers , talking to the reporters after the meeting . " We have devoted the entire day to a discussion of the report made by the National ' Committee of the American Federation of Labor on a non-partisan policy . Every angle of the political situation was gone into . There waa no hest. - tancy at clear speaking . " That report conforms to the practice in every political campaign since and including 1906 , national , State and local . " We , of course , have not our force here to get out the work as promptly as we could at our office in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report . Some little revision will be necessary . We will be glad to have the newspapers make it public , but we can not give you - 'notes of it today . " Besides , it is now 8 o'clock Saturday evening and many of the Sunday newspapers throughout the country are on the press . We believe the news- Papers will prefer to present the document just as it was adopted . We believe the people of the country would be glad to have its complete report as adopted rather than a sentence or two between Carter 's Little Liver Pills and the advertising of a soothing syrup. - There is no group of citizenship more vitally interested in the outcome of the campaign than the men and women of , labor , whether on the farm . in the field ' or in the factory . We will exercise every energy and whatever ability we have ' in furtnerance of the rights , interest ' and welfare of the common people . " Mr. Woll , who came out of the committee room before his chief , said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need of a little revision arid recopying and the report will not be given out until tomorrow . I can not say anything about the nature of the decision or the report . " Later , however , he did say that it would be found no party had been endorsed . To those inclined to read between the lines , one early event of the day at the headquarters was interpreted as prophetic of what was to come . The publicity department gave out copies of extracts from the report of the Committee on Resolutions of the last convention of the American Federation of Labor at Portland . These extracts related to the convention 's sense , as expressed by the Resolutions Committee , that it was destructive of the labor movement 's efficiency to act through " any form of fixed party scheme . " It was taken by those who heard of this move that the leaders were marshaling their precedents against any complete endorsement of the La Follette ticket . Since this expression was that of the last convention , it is regarded as the argument the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their having committed the federation wholeheartedly to the La Follette cause . It is regarded as quite likely such reaction will make itself felt , and that the council . anticipating It , hastened to put in an alibi in advance . From that viewpoint , the extracts are considered Interesting . Appended to them , as given out , was the following note : " Adopted by a vote of 25,066 . Opposed by 1.695 votes . " The extracts in part were as follows : Directs Political Power . " The records further demonstrate that the American Federation of Labor is not unmindful of the necessity . advisability or desirability of massing and guiding the potential political power of the wage earners and of all groups sympathetic to the cause of organized labor : first . to prevent the infringement upon the civil , economic and industrial rights of the wage earners , whether exercised individually or collectively ; secondly , to safeguard and promote the welfare and well-being of the wage earners and of all citizens and to ** Dowers of government being used by any group for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and direct this potential political power , the American trade-union movement deems it of primary importance that the economic organizations and power of labor shall in no way be impaired . Then , too , in our peculiar form of duality of government and tripartite divisions of the powers of government , experience has demonstrated that any attempt to mass and direct the potential and actual power of the wage earners through any form of fixed party scheme is to destroy that efficiency that comes from flexible mobility of power to meet whatever emergency may arise and from whatever source it may emanate . The policy and practices of the American Federation of Labor to be partisan to principles and not to be partisan to political parties has been fully justified by experience . " That weaknesses have developed in the application of this political policy is unquestioned . These weaknesses , instead of disproving the validity of this policy , emphasize its effectiveness and indicate a proficient method of improvement by extending this policy into all primary elections within political parties and by the enactment of open , liberal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came out of the meeting there was no evidence that a heated session had been held . It appeared that they had come to a conclusion with little difficulty on a question upon which they had had their minds pretty well made up when they arrived . At the end of the day , however , from unofficial expressions by those attending the meeting of the Federation it seems certain that the organization will go on record as unqualifiedly disapproving National Defense Day . It is expected that the council will Issue a statement declaring its stand after the Monday session .                     