@@691435

txt New York 's Public Schools . I am a New York City school principal , retired after fifty-five fears of teaching service . I am over SO years of age and since my retirement have visited nearly every school in Manhattan Island , and I can therefore speak from personal knowledge and experience . I confidently assert that the public ' schools of New York City are doing the wonderful work of amalgamating foreign immigration for the whole United States . Men and women are dragging their children by the hand across Southern Russia today to save them front those who wish to murder them . They then escape into Germany , arc helped on their way there , and In France embark in Atlantic steamers , reach our shores , land in New York City , are received by their confreres , are taken into our city homes and their children enter our public schools . There they learn to speak English from their teachers and fellow-pupils and , in turn , teach their parents . The other day I visited a public school In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly room I saw a class of more than forty boys drawn up in front of the piano . I learned afterward that they were recent immigrants , not one of whom could speak English . Between the piano and the principal 's desk stood a young lady teacher . The piano was covered with vegetables such as found in every grocery store . The teacher held up a banana and said slowly " Baena . na . " The class attempted to reply , but failed . She wrote the word " banana " on the blackboard , and again said " Ba-na-na. ? The class repeated the word this time , more distinctly . Then she began with Individuals , and repeated until nearly all of the boys could reply correctly . She used the same method with potatoes , beets and other vegetables . Thus these children were taught . She recorded each word thus taught in her memorandum book under that particular class register . This is only part of the great work our schools are doing . I visited a school at the morning assembly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform . A lady presided . Presently a boy stood up . The lady said : " Well , sir ! ' What is It : " The boy said : " May I ask a question ? " " Certainly ! What Is it ? " " Teacher , why a re trees green ? " She thought a moment and then replied : " The green of the trees and the blue of the sky are colors that never tire the eye . " That answer epitomized the whole New York public school system . Reading , writing and arithmetic are the means . The formation of character is the object . The whole school achieved a lesson that day . No creed was taught , nor even hinted at , in that reply , yet every child there will remember to his dying day that the world we live in was fitted for us . EDWARD H. BOYER . New York , April 16 , 1923.                     