@@688079

txt A conference of the merchants of New York City to consider the most practicable ways of meeting the coal crisis and to insure continued operation of the transit systems has been called by Acting Mayor Murray Hulbert . The meeting will be held in the Aldermanic Chain8er at City Hai'l tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock . Eugenics H. Outerbridge , Chairman of the Governor 's Advisory Committee , sent a telegram to the Federal Fuel Administrator at Washington , calling attention to the urgent need of clearing the way for shipments of bituminous coal , and another message to the Interstate Commerce Commission asking that the railroads be forbidden to confiscate shipments of anthracite coal , which bakers must have if they are to continue operating their plants . The State Fuel Administrator made public a statement appealing to householders to provide themselves , if possible , with bituminous coal at once , and warning Went not to waste a pound ' of fuel . Acting District Attorney I. J. D. Alderman of Bronx County subpoenaed the coal dealers of that borough to appear before the Grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best ways of meeting the coal shortage . The Real Estate Board of New York City , in view of the present emergency , says that when the Legislature meets tomorrow night to consider the coal problem , it should consider , among other things , the repeal or modification of " all punitive sumptuary legislation affecting landlordsyho fail to furnish heat in cold weather . " Cull Issued by Acting Mayor . The call to the merchants to confer on the coal situation was sent out last night through the National Retail Dry Goods Association by W. DeS . Trenholm , Secretary , who announced it was issued by Acting Mayor Hulbert . Mr. Trenholm made public the text of the following letter received from the Acting Mayor : " The crisis which it is feared may result from the shortage of coal has prompted me to call a conference at City Hall on Monday , Aug. 28 , at 10 A. M. The vital question to be discussed is preventive measures to avoid a possible breakdown in our transportation system , which I am sure you will agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Will you attend this meeting , which will be held in the Aldermanic Chamber ? " Mr. Outerbrldge 's telegram to H. B. Spencer , Federal Fuel Administrator at Washington , D. C. , follows : " New York will have to depend on bituminous. coal for all household purposes this Winter . It is , therefore , necessary that its movement be not restricted to bituminous which has passed over screens of four inches or larger openings . We need all the bituminous for household purposes we can get . As we can not get prepared bituminous , dealers are prepared to do their own screening . Will you kindly amend Section D , Class 2 , Priorities , as defined in Amendment 1 , Service Order 23 , dated Aug. 4 , in accordance with the above request ? " To the Interstate Commerce Commission Mr. Outerbridge sent the following telegram : " Bakers must have some anthracite coal . There is reported to be some pea , stove and chestnut coal in stock in the mining region which owners are unwilling to ship , fearing confiscation by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , absolutely forbidding confiscation of this coal so urgently , needed for this public purpose . " Early Purchases Ad. bird . ? In order that householders may gain early exrerieno ) in the use of bitui minous coal they are urged in a state ; ment by the State Fuel Administration Ito get their supplies of soft coal as ' soon as possible . They are also ad- wised to consider the use of gas and oil stoves for cooking and heating whenever possible .. Domestic consumers are urged to burn no anthracite before Winter . The statement in part follows : " There is no occasion for people to get nervous about coal for the household . There will he plenty of . it . but i ' wild be soft coal . " Remember , soft coal is always used for heating and for cooking by most of the people ' n the United States who live west of Pennsylvania . It is dirty to handle , but It will save the clay . However , we must learn how to use it , for it is different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get some in our cellars now and must begin to use it at once . " We do n't want the people of this State to be standing in a fuel line next ' Winter with a card calling for a ' bag of coal . It wo n't he necessary if- they are forehanded now . The householder and the dealer should lay In a supply now . Do n't wait for cold weather when ? everybody will want it at once . " Do n't burn a pound of anthracite till snow flies , even it you are lucky enough to have some . " Use gas stoves and oil stoves for cooking and heating water wherever possible . Use a portable oil heater for your homes . You can move it from room to room . .. " Get some soft coal immediately . You need not burn much of it now , but ' burn some now , enough to get acquainted with it . We do n't want a lot - of wild-eyed people rushing around the first really cold day next Winter saying that they ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families from freezing with the soft coal they have . Maybe they wo n't he able to keep them from freezing unless they have taken time by the forelock and learned how to burn it . " . The lime has now come for ! albite officials to take a hand in the coal situation , according to the Act , ng Prosecutor of Bronx County , who served the subpoenas , yesterday on large coal dealers . " All phases of the coal situation will be gone into , " he said . " and whatever steps are necessary will be taken to Insure the increased needs of coal for the population of , the Bronx . " Counsels . Strict Economy . The Real Estate Board in its statement said in part : " The duty of the Legislature , which will meet in special session to consider the coal question Monday night , Aug. 2.8 , is clear . - " There should be no unnecessary light or heat . Public utility companies should be given preference , and there should at all times be sufficient coal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity . Laws or ordinances which would prevent the use of bituminous coal should be suspended or repealed . During the period of the emergency the legislative bodies of municipalities should not be permitted to enact ordinances regulating the use of fuel nor should their exec- ' utives be permitted to enforce such ordinances previously adopted . " All punitive sumptuary legislation against the landlord for not furnishing heat or hot water should he modified or repealed during existing conditions . The ' tenant has ? an ample civil remedy , and no landlord should be put in jail for not doing impossible things . " In order to afford every possible aid in obtaining coal during the shortage , when any supply becomes available , a committee has been appointed , of which J. P. Lonergan , Chief Inspector of the Department of Health , is Chairman . The other members are ; Arthur C. Somers , representing the Department of Education ; J. L. Hernon , the Building Managers ' Association ; Edward P. Doyle of the Real Estate Board of.New York , and Witliam C. Bergen . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chairman of the Anthracite Producers ' Committee , and will have the active . assistance of the several city departments . " The use of fuel oil for general domestic ' heating , it is said . Is not encouraged- at present by the large oil companies because of the difficulty of delivery as well as of the Installation of  --  equipment . Some believe . however , that there is a wide field for the use of oil for boilers.                     