@@693834

txt The fate of the French aviators , Captain Charles Nungesser and Captain Francois Coli , remained in doubt at 5 o'clock this morning , seventy-seven hours after they left Le Bourget outside of Paris for New York . The coasts of New England were being combed for them by United States vessels , English ships searched over the English coast and French vessels hunted far out over the sea for traces of the airplane . In the meantime all vessels at sea . were warned to be on the lookout for the White Bird , in the hope that at least some trace of it might be found . The great difficulty in deciding where to look for them lay in the fact that there was no indication of where they might have come down , whether a few miles out from the Irish coast or near the foggy coast of Newfoundland . A. difficult international situation has arisen as the result of the failure of the French pilots to reach America . The false reports of their arrival roused the French people to wild enthusiasm , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to feel that they had been deluded by their newspapers . The charge that American weather reports had not been available also spread , and the feeling against Americans became so great that last night Ambassador Herrick in Paris sent word to the State Department that a flight by Americans at this time would be inadvisable . American Fliers Surprised . This message caused consternation in the camps of the two expeditions now planning a flight from this side . At Garden City , L. I. , Charles A. Levine , head of the Columbia Aircraft Corporation , am G. M. Bellanca , designer of the plane in which Clarence Chamberlin and Lloyd Bertaud planned to take off on Thursday , went into conference to decide what to do . After a long consideration of Ambassador Herrick 's message , during which the belief was expressed that antiAmerican feeling existed only among a few of the French people , it was decided by those directing the Bellanca flight that it should go on . The pilots . Clarence Chamberlin and Lloyd Bertaud , said unqualifiedly that they were in favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not ' wanted at Paris they could touch the airdrome with their wheels and fly on to England . The start will probably be made Saturday . Mr. Bellanca let it be known that , while he has every sympathy with the feelings of the French people , he also thinks their attitude is dictated partly , by disappointment as well as grief . " Nungesser and Coli are not only Frenchmen , " he said ; " they are also birdmen and belong to aviation . The progress of aviation must not end because of the unfortunate and sad loss of some of its great pioneers . " Commander Richard E. Byrd , who has also been planning a flight to Paris and whose plane is ready for testing , was astounded at the news from Paris . " Entirely aside from Ambassador Herrick 's warning , " he said , " nothing is further from my thoughts at pres. ent than a flight while the lives of two such - gallant aviators as Captain Nungesser and Captain Coli are still in doubt . My only thought is whether there might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of the region where they may be down , to aid in the search far them . That is the only thing I have in mind at present . It is distressing that their brave attempt should have met with such an end , and I can only hope that they are safe somewhere where we may not have been able to hear from them . " American Ships Start Search . While this situation was developing the United States Government was bending every effort toward locating some trace of the missing French fliers in the hope that they might be still afloat and alive . Secretary of the Navy Wilbur issued orders for the search , and naval vessels were sent out from Boston . The Coast Guard also sent cutters out from Boston to search north , and the ice patrol boats off Newfoundland will hunt over the area between Newfoundland and Sable Island . Two ships arriving at New York yes . terday reported that they had no news of the White Bird . They were the American Merchant of the American Merchant Line , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Minnesota reported his ship had experienced clear weather all day and night Saturday and had encountered no fog until off Nantucket . However , he was far south of the fliers ' course . Captain William Mitchell of the American Merchant reported that a constant watch had been kept but nothing had been seen of the airplane . Both received many messages asking for news . Two at sea were asked to keep a sharp lookout yesterday for the plane by the Independent Wireless Telegraph Company . They were the West Apaum , 971 miles east of Ambrose Light , and the Cameronia , which sailed Saturday . Messages from the Olympic and the Majestic were received by THE NEW YORK Tams . They read : S. S. Olympic , May 10 . Have not seen , have not heard of airplane . MARSHALL . Commander . Steamship Majestic , May 10 . Heard nothing of Nungesser . COMMANDER . Wants Planes to Search . A telegram was sent to Secretary of the Navy Wilbur yesterday by Major Gen. O'Ryan , President of the Colonial Air Transport , asking that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Atlantic over their route In the belief that the largest area could be covered in that way . There was more interest displayed in the fate of Captain Nungesser and Captain Coli by New Yorkers than in anything which ho occurred in a long time . On the street , in the subway , at dinner tables , the dramatic and tomantic attempt , and the mystery surrounding it , were the subject of conversation . The daring of the pilots , the great difficulties they had to encounter and the silence which had surrounded them since they left France appealed to the imagination of people and caused many words of regret over their end and the hope that such courage had not met complete disaster .                     