@@689771

txt While awaiting official 0. tifiCatiiin from the ReparatrOn creditor powers as to the resumption of the reparations parleys the German Government officials will continue to devote their efforts to the bringing of order into the nation 's finances . Germany herself has formulated no plan for resuming the contrersations , and neither Chancellor Marx . Foreign Minister Stresemann nor Finance Minister Luther lilts so . far received any intimation from the experts as to the manner in which the negotiations will be resumed . It is not known , either , whether the Reparation Commission , . accompanied by the consulting experts . will come to Berlin for formal plenary sessions . Official quarters here are assuming that the initial step in the inquiry , so far as Germany is concerned directly , will consist in the presentation of a questionnaire calling for precise details regarding the budget , currency conditions , the state of the Federal revenues and expenditures and the existing economic and social conditions in general . Records Open to Experts . Inquiry at the official quarters produced the information that the Ministers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Government 's records would be placed at the complete disposal of the Reparation Commission and its advisory members . " We have not yet been informed as to the procedure to be adopted in/connection with the forthcoming discussions , " said a leading Cabinet member , " but in any event we shall be prepared to accommodate the commission , in a comprehensive and loyal manner , with any and all the information it may require of us . " Official interest naturally centres in the activities of the consulting experts and whether they will come to Berlin for a personal survey . It was declared today that the Ger , man Government would be able to give the inquirers concrete evidence of a tangible and continued ? Improvement in the nation 's internal finances and that , barring untoward upsets , an actual budgetary equilibrium would probably be achieved by March 1 . This presupposes that the Government will be in a position to keep its currency . stabilized through the transitional medium of the rentenmark , or an early establishment of gold currency through the firmly founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Schacht , Federalw Currency Commissioner and head of the Reichsbank . The industrial leaders , who view the forthcoming reparations parleys with some degree of optimism , chiefly because of the participation of English and American economists and financial experts , exyress the hope that the consulting experts also will devote part of their investigation to personal study of conditions in the Ruhr and the other German industrial sectors , which , in the final analysis , they say , mast be restored to their former productive eanacities in order to enable Germany to employ her economic resources to the limit for the benefit of reparations . Such skepticism with respect to the ultimate results of the coming parleys as obtains in German official , industrial and financial circles ' is fed wholly on speculation as to the future French attitude toward the Ruhr . While the reparations program recently enunciated by Hugo Stinnes , and which is built mainly on the theory of deliveries in kind , meets the fundamental approval of those who have been generally critical of the magnates ' attitude , the ultimate fate of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , the . decisive factor in Germany 's ability to . iquidate her reparations obligations . Foreign Financial Aid Question . ? With the prospect of a foreign loan to help in the settlement of Germany 's obligations becoming fainter , the ques2 tion of financial aid from abroad in connection with the Government 's effort to rehabilitate ? the national cur- rency is again becoming acute . Such outside aid would - prove an important factor in the Government 's determination ' to hold the mark through the present stabilization process until itshas , a sufficient gold reserve in sight for the purpose of floating a gold-basis currency , in the opinion of Berlin banking circles . These circles estimate that a gold backing to a total - of 600,000,000 marks guaranteed abroad would enable the Government , with the aid of the Reichsbank 's present reserves , to ' launch safely an issue of 2,000,000,000 marks , which would have -a 50 per cent . covering . " The confidence of a group of foreign banks would prove a big boost in the direction of aiding us to solve our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He proposed that the shares of the newly founded bank or its reserve funds be held or deposited abroad where they would be immune from seizure . The moral effect of such restricted outside aid would also assert itself In Germany , this banker averred. in that uncounted amounts of hidden gold currencies . In dollars or otherwise . would be coaxed forth and placed at the disposal of the new national bank . Dr. Luther , the Minister of Finance , and Dr. Schacht , the new head of the Reichsbank , seem to be winning an increasing measure of confidence , the former because of his determination to effect the balancing of the nation 's budget on a gold basis , and the latter for his opposition to any and all schemes looking toward renewed inflation . Dr. Schacht also is opposed to the Reichsbank 's previous practice of extending unlimited private credit , . which he believed to-be the mainspring of inflation and inimical to the present functions of the rentenmark as a transitional currency . With the rentenmark proving an effective agency in the Government 's effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep it intact until the foundation for a regular gold currency is firmly /did . The Reichabank 's new head , furthermore , is declared to be set upon clearing its present directorate of the " inflation psychology " with which it is alleged to have been obscessed.                     