@@695058

txt Unqualified acceptance of the American peace proposal in principle , coupled with a suggestion that collateral or supplementary declarations regarding its interpretation be exchanged between the Governments concerned , will , it is understood here tonight , be the answer which Great Britain will present to Secretary Kellogg tomorrow . As far as Britain is concerned , this practically amounts to unconditional acceptance of the treaty . The collateral declarations suggested are largely as a face saving , or perhaps it would be kinder to say , a bridge-building expedient for France . France having followed the lead set her and accepted the treaty in principle , will find that the United States , Great Britain and Germany have been content in their collateral declarations to make no reservations at all or none that would really limit the main document . With such an example , it is thought that she would find it inexpedient to be too hesitant in her own ' qualifying declaration . That was the idea of the British Government in suggesting collateral declarations . After Secretary Kellogg 's recent pronouncement on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered here that there was nothing to prevent Britain from accepting it . Equally , ' it was argued , the treaty would be ' a failure unless France could . be brought to sign ' it . The first British bridge-building ' proposal was for a preliminary conference of jurists similar to that which preceded the Locarno compact . Since that proved unacceptable . the expedient of collateral declarations took its place . State Department to ( let Note Today . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , May ** British reply , to Secretary Kellogg 's proposal for a multilateral treaty renouncing war as an instrument of national policy will be delivered to the State Department tomorrow under arrangements providing for its publication Sunday . While no authoritative intimation of its contents was said ' to have been given the department , the expectation is that it will be favorable . Of the five Governments with which the United States has taken up the project , Germany has given complete approval , Italy has avoided a definite stand but has signified approval of the general idea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is regarded here as emasculating the Kellogg proposal to the point of ineffectiveness . Japan is to submit its reply soon and is expected to indicate at least a general acceptance of the Kellogg formula . Intimations have come from Lon ion and Paris that Great Britain may suggest an exchange of notes as a supplement to the treaty , confirmin ? in writing the position recently asserted by Secretary Kellogg . in an address before the American Society of International Law , that qualifying considerations raised by . France are unnecessary . ? state 1. ; partment Silent . The State Department declined to comment on the point , although officials admitted the possibility that a supplementary note might be possible , stating that the treaty was negotiated with due respect for the rights inherent ' in all treaties . The attitude of the department , however , con- tinned to be that the Kellogg draft proposal was sufficient and that no reservations were necessary . Officials declined to predict whether this position would be modified and stated that discussion of qualifications would be futile until definite suggestions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Special to The New York Times . PHILADELPHIA , May ** a message directed to President Coolidge and Secretary Kellogg by the Philadelphia yearly meeting of Friends at its closing session today gratitude was expressed for the Administration 's efforts toward abolishing war . The message sent to the President and Secretary of State reads in. part : " The yearly meeting at Fifteenth and Race Streets , Philadelphia , in session from the 14th to the 18th of ? ie fifth month , desires to express to thee its heartfelt gratitude for the proposal which has been made to the nations of the world . " We are appealing to the Society of Friends in Great Britain and to our sister churches on both sides of the sea to give their utmost support to the proposal and to the logically necessary reduction and limitation of armaments , without which , we are convinced , no proposal for pacific settlement can meet with permanent and entire success . "                     