@@694005

txt The first week of the tri-power conference may be said to have resulted in nothing so far as visible progress toward the limitation of naval armaments is concerned . The candidness , however , with which the delegates have talked to each other , and about each other , has been such that the second week may develop even more drama than the first  --  anything , in fact , from an accord to a rupture . Two big surprises mark the conference 's beginnings , first the British plan which would reopen the Washington treaty , and second the ability of the American delegation to hold its own with anybody , particularly the quality of its Chairman , Hugh S. Gibson . Heretofore at international meetings the bluff , hearty , masterful manner of leadership has been naturally assumed by the British . The Japanese have always been characterizes as seeing and hearing everything and saying nothing , but - mysteriously waiting , why no one seemed quite to understand , so - the Japanese were suspected  --  mildly or actively , as the situation seemed to warrant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all so rich that it did not much matter even to themselves whether they got their pockets picked . Gibson the Dominant Figure . Such an opinion reigned even in the glass room of the League Secretariat last Monday afternoon , when the smiling and soft-spoken Gibson called the conference to order . It continued through W. C. Bridgeman 's blunt speech and Admiral Saito 's involved proposals . which one person in attendance said required nine readings to understand . Almost overnight this idea changed . It is now recognized that Mr. Gibson is the dominant force of the conference . His suavity outmatches even the Oriental persuasiveness of the Japanese , and his rapid thrust and parry in debate  --  often anything but gentle  --  have for perhaps the first time in the history of conferences dealing with other powers placed the British on the defensive . Before the conference the wizeacres of Geneva wondered why President Coolidge had named one of his youngest diplomats , and one heretofore not widely known , as chief of the delegation instead of some one with a " name . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest problem the conference developed came at the outset  --  that is , the biggest problem for the Americans to solves  --  what was the reason the British launched their plan ? The answer given in some circles is this : First . Britain thought the Americans still a self sacrificial cult , as at Washington in 1921 , and they would get away with it . Failing this their capital ship proposals would serve as a smoke screen to convince the British taxpayers that their delegation was trying to save them money , omitting . of course , to mention that nothing under the Washington treaty can be done about capital ships until 1931 . Second . in the event of the Americans refusing to discuss the matter ? as is now quite evident  --  then the onus of moral turpitude would rest upon the American delegation long enough for Britain to launch her main proposals . New Proposals Expected This Week . There are now expected to be presented early this week and will probably constitute what Britain considers her overwhelming needs in cruiser strength  --  overwhelming as compared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates remember with great interest that the only point of the original proposals where Britain agreed to accept the 5-5-3 ratio was on cruisers of 10,000 tons with 8-inch guns and also according to the wording of their own proposals " this type will eventually disappear " after the proposed age limits expire . And so Britain approaches the crux of the conference both as regards herself and the United States  --  namely , the smaller type cruisers . The American delegation at the present moment has no more idea of how many of these shins Britain thinks she needs than it had of any of her proposals prior to last Monday , but the impression here is that the number suggested will be " enormous . " Fleets of small cruisers make one of the best propaganda arguments for the Overseas Dominions. which may explain why at the present conference New Zealand is represented by that eminent Scotsman . Lord Jellicoe of Scapa . It is argued here as unlikely that the British battle fleet will ever visit the Dominions except possibly to commemorate peace jubilees. but instead will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps need enlightenment on why small cruisers provide all the necessary protection . For between the Dominions lie the British commerce routes and naval bases . And back of these lie the British merchant marine and world supremacy in trade .                     