@@694871

txt Fa stman Kodak Co. has organized a subsidiary . known as the Recordak Corp . capitalized at $1,000,000 , and will file incorporation papers at Albany soon . TLe latest of Eastman 's subsidiaries will manufacture and market the Eastman Business Recordak for which a large demand has already developed although the machine has only recently been introduced . F. W. Lovejoy . vice president of Eastman Kodak . will be president of the new corporation , George I ... mcGartny , formerly vice president of the Empire Trust Co. , , the inventor and developer of the machine , has been elected vice-president and general manager . while L. B. Jones , vice president of Eastman Kodak will be treasurer . The machine was originally developed to protect banks against loss through fraud in drawing checks , but a wider field is apparent , numerous inquiries having been received from other lines of industry which are dependent upon keeping readily handy authentic copies of their correspondence . It is the intention of the Recordak Corp . to cater largely to banks for the present , sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of current production . Orders have been received from practically all the larger banks of New York City , including such institutions as National City Bank , Federal Reserve Bank of New York . Central Union Trust Co. , Corn Exchange Bank , Farmers Loan . f. - ; Trust Co. , Chase National Bank , New York Trust CO. and Empire Co . Machines On Rental Basis The machines are installed on a rental basis of $300 annually and film is supplied to the banks at a cost of $5 for each 200 feet . sufficient to photograph 16,000 checks . During the course of the current year it is expected at least 1.000 of the machines will be in operation ; and production will be increased as the demand develops . The device , which takes a continuous photographic record of the face of the check , can be synchronized with an adding machine . furnishing the bank with a permanent record without involving any additional labor on the part of the adding machine operator . Six hundred photographs a minute are possible . The Recordak will enable the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such evidence heretofore having been surrendered when the canceled check was returned to the depositor with the monthly statement . Many banks have been defrauded by the destruction of a canceled check and the submission of an affidavit by the depositor stating no such check was ever issued .. Among other advantages of the Invention are savings of labor in the boplckeeping depakixnent and savings of time in dealing ? aqth depositors ; savings of expensive storage apace and the ability to render unusual service to each depositor by being able to produce immediately a photographic copy of any check required . New Outlet for Eastman Film The machine is the result of five years experimenting on the part of George L. McCarthy while vice president of the Empire Trust Co . Mr. McCarthy started work on the invention believing that one of the weakest points in the American banking system is the practice of returning canceled checks to their drawers , thereby surrendering the only indisputable evidence that the checks were paid . During Mr. McCarthy 's experiments he was assisted by the Eastman Kodak Co , which worked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the invention . The new subsidiary is in line with Eastman 's policy of expanding its business by developing new uses for its products . In addition to profiting by the rentals of the machines , the demand for films is expected to prove a source of revenue to Eastman 's film manufacturing department .                     