@@694253

txt With work on the State 's projected thirtytwo-story office building which is to rise on the summit of Capitol Hill at a complete halt , the State Building Site Commission , charged by the Legislature with responsibility for its erection , will meet here tomorrow to consider revised plans for the foundation supplied by a special engineering board called in consultation several weeks ago , after it appeared that the original plan might not afford a sufficiently stable base for the huge structure . Governor Smith , who is Chairman of the commission , has called the meeting at the request of John Knight , President pro tern , and Republican leader of the Senate , who is one of the Republican members . The others are Speaker Joseph A. 11cGinnies of the Assembly ; Senator Charles J. Hewitt of Cayuga. head of the Finance Committee in the upper house , and Eberly Hutchinson of FultonHamilton , Chairman of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee . The Democratic members besides Governor Smith are Colonel Frederick Stuart Greene , Superintendent of Public Works , and Sullivan W. Jones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foundation and recently was relieved from supervision of construction work on the new building through an order issued by Colonel Greene . who directed Colonel William M. Acheson , Chief Engineer of the Public Works Department , to take over this work . If some Republicans occupying official positions of responsibility at the Capitol are to be believed , a lively time may be expected at the conference tomorrow . Republicans Blame Gov . Smith . The Building Site Commission is controlled by the Republicans , who consulting engineer of the Foundation Company ; F. A. Burdett , ; expert on foundation work , and Colonel H. 0 . Schermerhorn , principal bridge engineer in the Public Works Department . Today 's discussion has been largely in reference to a new retaining wall that is to be constructed at the west side of the excavation . May Brace Adjoining Building . This is intended to prevent the adjoining building of the Fort Orange Club from sliding into the big ' hole in the ground which as yet is all there is to show for many months of work on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers were about the excavation today . The block intervening between the Capitol Building and the Office Building site is occupied by a park . This has been surrounded with a tall wooden fence , the space within being piled high with - structural steel , stone , lumber and other building material , while thOusanda of tons more are being ' held in railroad yards here and in the vicinity . In the expectation that work on the building . would ' be pushed rapidly to completion , building material for the first ten stories had been rushed forward with great dispatch . How to store this , it was said tonight , will prove a problem of some magnitude to the contractors and the Department of Public Works . It was pointed out also that any such radical change in the design for the new structure - as has been proposed informally in Republican quarters today would result in much of the structural steel and other costly building material that has been fabriCated to fit the design being scrapped , with great financial loss to the State .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        