@@687668

txt Graduates From the Near East . To the Editor of the New York Times : Noting by this morning 's TIMES Mr. Cleveland H. Dodge 's recent gift of $165.000 to Robert College and the American University at Beirut , may I express my admiration for his generosity and give a word of testimony to the high value of these institutions as shown in the find quality of some of their graduates whom I have known intimately here in America ? In a home for foreign students conducted by my husband and myself in New York we had at " different times many of these youths , representing fifteen nationalities . Without exception they revealed character of an order only developed by the finest training ; a broad culture , width of view , courtesy ' of manner and humility of spirit truly admirable . ( I wish that some of our own over-aggressive young men might emulate then : ' . ) They often expressed warm affection for their American teachers and friends in those colleges , and made grateful acknowledgment i to them for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge gained of Occidental life , religion and customs , and for the impulse which brought them here admiring and enthusiastic students of American institutions : We were greatly impressed with the value of such schools as training centres for native national leaders and as links between Occident ' and Orient  --  interpreters of the New to the Old . BLANCHE WARD . New York , April 2 , 1022 . Delaware Robbery Law . To the Editor of The New York Times : If it were not so serious it would strike one as almost comical to see the efforts to stop the reign of violent crimes in New York City and elsewhere . No , - you do n't require more police , but you do . require the la 's of Delaware , and see that they are enforced . Have you observed when you pick . up your morning paper that all over the country you read , about " holdups , " but the reports do n't seem to mention Delaware ? In certain sections of Canada violent crimes " fell off " last year 65 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The following will do the trick : 4,716 , Sec. 20 . Robbery , defined : When committed on highway or in a dwelling house ; ' penalty ; when committed otherwise : penalty. : If any person shall feloniously take from the person of another by violence or by putting in fear , any money or other property , or thing , which may be the subject of larceny . he shall be deemed guilty of robbery and felony ; and , if such robbery be committed on or near the highway , or in a dwelling . house , he shall be fined not less than $500 , shall be ' whipped . at the County Jail with forty lashes , and ' shall be imprisoned not less than twenty years ; and , if such robbery , be committed in any Other place ? than on or near the highway , or in a dwelling house , such : person . shall be fined not less than $500 , shall be whipped at the County Jail with forty lashes , and ' shall be Imprisoned not less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mass. , April 18 , 1922 . WATCHMAN VS . AUDIMAN . Suggestions of Automatic Safety Devices in Buildings . To the Editor of The New-York Times : At present watchmen are being corrupted , injured , bound or even murdered in order that burglars may accomplish their - fiendish work . Offices and buildings are being desecrated or . ruined , safes offer security in name only , valuables are stolen , members of our police department are rightfully or unrightfully being subjected to blame , increased force ; vigilance , expense and worry are being shouldered- by all endeavoring to stein the present wave of crime . To remedy conditions , would not the following plan prove of value : - Have concealed in the ceiling of each office of every building for which protection is desired a sensitive diaphragm and a thermostat ; in some concealed position distant from the diaphragm locate a bell so secured that it can not be removed or the connections molested without much labor and time , As this bell and diaphragm would be used only after the building is closed for the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to the chart . Make the vestibule of each building convertible after closing hours into a well-lighted , comfortable booth having visible and vocal means of communication with any one passing inthe street . In the booth permanently station the watchman of the building . The watchman ' thus occupies no rentable space . Have at least one side wall of the booth made of glass comprising two layers , enclosing a space between , that will not even detract from its usefulness as a show window . So construct the layer of the glass window facing the booth that it may be raised a few inches from the bottom , permitting access to a telephone and switchboard by night that are by day securely housed by lowering and locking the shiftable window-pane . The switchboard will bear a Visible and ornamental row of contact points each one bearing the number of the room containing the diaphragm and bell with which it is connected . Have located in the ceiling of the booth a diaphragm electrically connected to every other diaphragm throughout the building and place a slight resistance coil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ceilings of the offices connected as by-passes to the bells so as to ring the latter in case of fire . Require the watchman to wear a telephonic head receiver in constant electrical connection with the diaphragm of his booth . Have every diaphragm substantially connected to the steel construction work of the building , securing thus the double use of sounding board and electric ground . Any suspicious sound made in the building will be conveyed to the audiman and he , by moving a slidable connection along the row of office contact points , will he able to locate by the intensity of sound the office in which the sounds are produced . To test the acoustic conditions of any office the audiman has but to make connection with the bell of such office and listen . Require the watchman ( or audiman ) to make , at certain variable selected intervals , aural rounds of the building , which may be recorded on the time clock . Thus would the watchman be relieved of much physical labor , no footstep would warn the transgressor and the ubiquitous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keyhole in the building . Watchman and roundsman , - required to salute and exchange passwords given out nightly by headquarters , would orally , visually and mentally insure mutual recognition and identification . At the time of salutation , require the audiman to acquaint the commanding officer at headquarters of the event , have the officer record the same on a time clock and notify the audiman Of its reception . Any irregularity in these notifications would excite investigation , thus offering protection not only to the audiman but also to every member of the patrol , department . The station official would at any time be able to communicate With any roundsman by telephoning to the audiman located in a building slightly ahead of the advancing patrolman . The present watchman would graduate , drop his title and old job , so laden with gloom , exertion , danger and loneliness , and assume the new and far more safe , useful and comfortable calling of audiman . Here the watchman 's perceptive powers could function undulled by fatigue and his work of watching , saluting , reporting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to banish all temptation to sleep at the switch . As the building is unoccupied . at night , the local telephonic system might also be employed by having the telephones in the offices placed in strong boxes with their receivers removed from the hooks of the.transmitters , which to get at them would necessitate extra noise that would reach the ever-listening ears of the audiman . No burglar would undertake any job that could not be carried out between the visits of the roundsman , as the latter would notify Police Headquarters of any injury to or absence of the audiman , and the latter in turn of any delay on the part of the roundsman . Watched while watching , guarded while guarding , the ' work of all would become less dangerous , more agreeable and effective . Thus every wall is made a watchman , every watchman watchful . C. C. FERGUSON , M. D. C'It , A Tyr-II 214 ? 1922 . Jury Fees . To the Editor of the New York Times : In today 's " Topics of the Times and in recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Lockwood committee 's " jury fee " bill : This situation , at least as far tus the future is concerned , Is taken care of by my bill , Assembly print No. 1,247 , introductory No. 732 , which became a law by approval of the Governor on April 6 , being Chapter 516 of the laws Of 1022 . This act does away with the piling up of jury fees in the Municipal Court . in rent cases or any other cases , by conforming the practice in that court to the practice in the Supreme . Court , where the jury fee is not Paid ' until the case actually comes on for trial . Thus , where there are , say , fifty tenants in a house contestkng the landlord 's demands , the tenants may all demand jury trials , but need pay no jury fees in advance of trial . When the cases come up for trial and one case is selected as a test , the others to abide  --  the result , only one jury fee need be paid , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JOHN J. O'CONNOR . , Albany , N. Y. , April 17 , 1922 . Cashing Payroll Checks .. To the Editor of The New York Times : If the proposal to pay employes by check instead of with cash is adopted , it will mean that a very large percentage of the checks will be cashed by trade men . Statistics will how that only a very small part of our population has checking-account facilities . Inasmuch as a man carrying cash to or from the bank can be guarded by , say , three men , whelher lie is carrying one dollar or a million , which is- easier  --  to guard one cornpaCk ? paymaster with the cash payroll or fifty grocers and butchers drawing cash to meet their customers ' checks ? A. Nv . ax . New York , April 19 , 1922.                     