@@688161

txt All the Americans who have returned to Constantinople from Smyrna depict the , situation as one of inconceivable horror . Nearly 200,000 distracted and cowering refugees . remain in the . city and environs , imploring to be saved . Their cries remain unanswered because there are no ships to rescue them . The American destroyers Edsall . Lawrence and Simpson are lying in the harbor , but their commanders must turn a deaf ear to the agonizing cries from shore , for their crews are needed on land to keep the situation from degenerating into an orgy of madness . and revolution . Thousands of Christians are being taken into the interior  --  by the Kemalists . Only Providence knows their fate . According to eye-witnesses suicide by drowning has become commonplace . Crazed mothers entreat the American bluejackets to take their babies , so they may be free - to drown themselves . Mingled among the inanimate masses of prostrate humanity on the quay are hundreds of dead horses , sheep and mules which fled maddened from the fire only to perish at the water 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hundreds of Christians who were slaughtered or who found death , at their own hands on the night of the fire have come to the surface of the harbor , giving the desolate city a more ghastly aspect . The Americans . French and Italians have urged the Turks to help remove the litter of bodies from the ruins , - but no heed has been paid to these requests . The Angora Government , through its representative here , has been notified by the ' allied Commissioners that the neutral ' zone as defined by the allied Governments must not be violated . An official note to this effect was handed to Haraid Bey - today by the Commissioners . Edward M. Fisher of Reading , Pa. , director of the Y. M. C. A. at Smyrna . who- was robbed and narrowly escaped death at the hands of0 Turkish irregulars a few days ago , has feturn'ed to Constantinople . He gave The Associated Press a vivid picture of the fire and terrible incidents which followed . Story of American Eyewitness . " The scene resembled Bulwer Lytton 's ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The fire ' started Tuesday afternoon . . and within . ten hours had spread . nearly two miles . The lamentations of the women and the piercing cries of the children- are still ringing in nly ears . It . seemed as if reason had fled and the fire and sword of the Turk had triumphed . " in an incredibly short time the quay was a .. seething mass of horrified humanity . The Christian population had alreadylived through a nightmare of intimidation and slaugitter by the . Turks ; it needed only - the fire to complete their frenzy . . Mobs of them surrouiulthi the American sailors doing pet , ol ( say . : Ind begged In the name of thc. : Saviour and America : that they be saved , but cur blnej , Ockets were helpless . I " The- heat of - the spreading flame , . ; was  - -  unendurable .. The refugees diDPed blankets into the water of the bay and wrapped them around their bodies . Others fled up side streets , goaded by the overpowering heat , ' only to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slay them . The harness of horses took fire and the infuriated animals dashed among the dens9 crowds on the pier , trampling many to death . " Massacred by Hundreds . Other Americans arriving here today from Smyrna gave graphic descriptions of the scenes they witne:zsed in that city during the great fire and attendant disorders . One , a resident of Smyrna for ten years , said the Turkish troops massacred hundreds of Christians and then deliberately set fire to the city to cover up their crime . Some of the inhabitants , driven insane by the reign of terror which ensued . rushed to the harbor and drowned themselves . A naturalized American citizen shot himself dead when the Kemalists seized his wife and sister . Other Americans were intimidated with pistols and robbed . Lieut . Commander John B. Rhodes , commander of the American destroyer Litchfield , with five bluejackets. saved six British civilians from death after the British forces evacuated the city . American sailors at the peril of their lives rescued thousands of refugees while the fire . was in progress , Chester Griswold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrorized Christians by his successful pleas with their would-be Turkish slayers . H. c . Jaequith of Darien , Conn. who was in Smyrna from the time of the invasion to the destruction of the city , told Tne Associated Press correspondent : . " The American people should be proud of the valor and intrepidity of their sailors , who showed reckless unconcern. for their own security , helping women and children to escape from the . holocaust .. They forced their way with bayonets through the densely congested crowds of crazed fugitives which extended for two miles along the quay , consoling and comforting the women and children . " Paris Doubts Turks Set Fires . PARIS ; Sept . IS ( Associated Press ) . ? The report that the Turks started the fire in Smyrna is seriously doubted in ' French official circles . The following comment on the burning of the destroyed city was made in official quarters : " The idea that the burning of Smyrna was cause , by the Turks is advanced by certain foreign newspapers . In well-informed official circles ' it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , on the contrary , such a possibility is considered quite unlikely . It is only natural to ask what interest the victorious Turks would have in destroying the city , the possession of which they valued so highly and which they had just retaken . It is proved besides that all ' news charging the Turks with the burning of Smyrna has come from London via Athens . " G.tdswold on n Business Trip . The relatives in. this city of Chester Griswold , American merchant , who is described in cable dispatches as having " performed almost superhuman work " in succoring the terrorized . Christians in Smyrna , explained that Mr. Griswold probably was enabled to do effective work because of his knowledge of the customs and peoples of the Near East , Mr. Griswold was marooned in Smyrna at the outbreak of the World War , according to his sister-in-law , Mrs. Le Grand Griswold. 5 East Eighty , fourth Street . He was then , as now , in the Near East on tt business trip . Mr. Griswold is an exporter and importer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start some shipments of tobacco and licorice . Mr. Griswold , according to Mrs. Le Grand Griswold , sailed from America last April , intending to be gone until Autumn . At present his wife is in Paris , where he wars expecting soon to join her . Mr. Griswold is 42 years old and is a graduate of Princeton ...                     