@@694799

txt The mayor and a number of other spokesmen for the city . have appeared before the state commerce commission requesting permi as l o n to straighten the river . The commission expects next to hear representatives of the railway comPanics and after that It may , or It may not , grant a permit . The straightening of the river Is a necessary Preliminary to a series of improvements of great Importance to the city . Until the river Is straightened , the loop must continue to be closed from the south , the construction of a new passenger terminal In the vicinity of Polk and State streets Is out of the question , electrification will be delayed and with ft the development of the air rights over the railway right of way will be postponed . Years have been spent In bringing about the agreement between the city and the railroad companies which Is embodied in the river straightening ordinance . Every clause of the contract has been gone over repeatedly by the parties to it . Millions of dollars in real estate values were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In themselves represent the importance of the contract to the railroads , which must have adequate terminal facilities if they are to enjoy efficient and economical operation , and to the city , which must provide for its own expansion . The negotiations were made more difficult by the fact that property values east of the river are higher than those to the west . Changing the course of the river will transpose tracts of lands from one side to the other . Considering . the difficulties inherent in negotiating an equitable adjustment of all the conflicting claims , it is scarcely remarkable that years were required for the task , and even then it was not until the help of a citizens ' committee was obtained that the work was brought to completion . Finally , the ordinance was drawn , accepted by the railroads , and approved by the city council . For a time the state commissioner of waterways withheld his consent . Now the state commerce commission has assumed the duty of passing upon the terms of the contract , with consequent delays . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for home rule for Chicago . Chicago is certainly more alive to its own interests , immediate and future , than any officials appointed from Springfield are likely to be . The city does not need , does not want , and resents the interference of the state government In presuming to pass upon the terms of a. contract between the city of Chicago and the railroads entering it regarding a matter that lies wholly within the territory of the city .                     