@@695956

txt Judging from the way in ? which visitors poured in late today and tonight , a record crowd will be on hand when Herbert- Hoover succeeds Calvin Coolidge . in the Presidency on Monday . Anticipating this , the- city has outdone itself in preparations and now has but one worry  --  the weather . The outlook for clear inaugural skies is not encouraging , according to the final forecast for tonight . Rain and perhaps snow , with falling temperature , may mar the brilliant pageantry* of the inaugural ceremonies . The forecast as issued at 10 o'clock tonight predicted fair weather for tomorrow , ' with rising temperature and increasing , cloudiness . " Probably rain Monday , " the report continued , " with a northwest wind , " I suggesting the need for overcoats . The storm that is threatening the ceremonies has been centring over North Dakota , but is scheduled to move eastward , arriving late tomorrow night . The ? thousands who arrived today from the East , West , North and South encountered freakish conditions . Last night there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At noon it began to snow and late in the day the sky cleared and sunshine drenched the city , while a Springlike breeze reanimated the dripping flags , bunting and other decorations . Innovations of Science . All details of the ceremonies were ironed out during the day , and reinforced battalions of workmen rushed to completion the stands and other structures required to stage what probably will be one of the most colorful inaugurations Washington has seen . In at least two respects , radio and aviation , the ceremonial will exceed those that have gone before . Plans called for the broadcasting of every step in the inauguration , a continuous flow of description , - reaching , all who care to tune in anywhere in the land ; lastinit from 10 A. M. until the last unit in the parade files by , which will - be at 4:30 P , M. The aerial display will be on a great scale , with more than 100 planes wheeling above the city in the wake lof the dirigible Los Angeles . Even in this , radio will play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send a I running narrative of the scene from the air . Courier Will Signal Parade Start . About 20,000 persons , with civilians predominating and the West Point Cadets and the Annapolis Middies absent , *ill participate in the inaugural parade . Mr. Hoover will not ride in the parade , nor . will President Coolidge . Immediately after the formal inauguration in tjle east portico of the Capitol , the retiring President will go to the train that is to bear him to his home in Northampton . Mr. Hoover will enter a motor car and be driven to the White House . He ' and Mrs. Hoover , together with members of the new Cabinet , will have luncheon and then , when the meal is over , a courier will ride down Pennsylvania Avenue to inform General Charles P. Summerall , Grand Marshall , to set the ? parade in motion .. President and . Mrs. Hoover will review the procession from a stand in front of- the White House . Coolidge and Hoover Keep ' Aloof . During all the hustle and bustle of the last-hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who are to play the principal parts remained untouched by the excitement . The President had a very busy day . He had before him for action more than 200 bills ? ground out by the slowing mills of the present Congress , shook hands with more than 500 callers and announced that tomorrow , his last day in his exalted office , he would attend service and remain quietly in the White House . The President-elect remained today in seclusion in his home in S Street , far away from the turmoil . Tomorrow he will attend the service in the Quaker Meeting House and again re ' tire to await the hour when , in accordance with the wish of the eke torate expressed so emphatically last November , he will go forth to become the first citizen . Hundreds of persons among the throngs that came today journeyed out to see the Hoover home in S Street and then joined the other visitors parading the streets , inspecting what has been done , and what was being done to bedeck the capital for the occasion . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city was fast filling up , came with the clearing skies . Prior to that the thousands had huddled pessimistically in the hotel lobbies , comparing this pre-inaugural day with others of the past . They recalled , for instance . that the weather ran the gamut in 1881 when Garfield was inaugurated . They remembered . also that 1909. when Taft became President , he and the ceremonies had been literally snowed under by a blizzard . If the lobby conversation could be taken as an index , not much was being hoped for at the approaching event . Capital City Transformed . The sunshine changed that , however . and when the visitors took heart and sallied forth , they found that things were not so bad after all . They found the streets spanking in banners . the lamp posts transformed to staffs . window fronts gay with pictures and souvenirs and the giant quadrennial task of the capital just about finished . A smooth-working committee was on duty at the Union Station . As fast as the special trains , bearing Governors and their staffs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faiths , arrived , the committee sped those who had hotel reservations on their way , and took care of those who had neglected to book rooms in advance . The present indications are that Washington will be able to handle all that come here , with comfort on both sides . Although all of the larger hotels have had their rooms under ** fwr weeks . La RA=6 cases six weeks , quarters are being found in smaller hotels . In addition , many Washingtonians have offered rooms for rent . There has been a slight increase in rates . in accordance with the custom of other inaugurations , but nowhere has there been any sign of profiteering . Plans to control traffic during the period of the ceremonies were announced today and will he put in effect at 6 A. M. on Monday . The entire route of the parade and other events will be heavily policed , scores of detectives from other cities have arrived to watch for pickpockets and for known crooks . These arrangements , which might he called the routine " mechanical " arrangements incidental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fuss . They received no attention from the visitors today as they strolled through the city . It was the outward symbols , the decorations and the stands and what they had done to this sedate town , that got the attention . Strollers down historic Pennsylvania Avenue . where the peace-time history of the nation is meths found that the thoroughfare had lost its stateliness under- gaping stretches of stands . Mile and a Half of Stands . Enough of the pine bleachers have been installed to give seats to 50.000 persons , and down at the Capitol itself , ranging out in row upon row from the East Portico . benches have been put in place . At least 10.000 persons will find accommodations there , where the nath of office will be administered to the Presidentelect by Chief Justice Taft and where Mr. Hoover will deliver his inaugural address of about 3.000 words . Starting from the Capitol and proceeding along Pennsylvania Avenue to Nineteenth Street , a distance of a mile and a half , the way has been lined with stands , a few official but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many of these structures in place for the inaugural ceremonies of Mr. Hoover as were installed for Mr. Coolidge , who. in keeping with his traditions and because he was merely succeeding himself , prescribed the utmost simplicity for his inauguration . Chairs are already in windows commanding a view of the route of the parade and an immense stand has been built at the Treasury . This stand was not completed until late today . gangs of carpenters having worked through the rain and anew in waterproofs . There were . times when the workmen were shedding water like ducks . The Court of Honor for the parade extends from Fifteenth to Nineteenth Street . passing . of course , in front the White House . Directly in front of the White House is a glass-enclosed stand from which the President and the members of his Cabinet will review the parade . The Court of Honor is decorated with evergreens and is gay with blue and gold hunting , the colors being those of California , the State of the incoming President . Twin stands connecting the glassshielded reviewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other distinguished guests . The twin stands also have been splashed with the colors of California . vivid striped awninngs driving the fact home to even the most casual observer . In fact , the California State colors have been used throughout the town almost as profusely as have the national colors in " dressing up " the city . Ceremonies in Senate Chamber . The program for Monday will open at noon in the Senate chamber when Vice President Charles G. Dawes yields to Senator Charles Curtis , the Vice President-elect . The oath of office will be administered by Mr. Dawes in the presence of the members of the upper and lower branches of Congress . The doors of the chamber will he opened at . 31 A. M. to those entitled to seats . The oath of office will also be administered to the new Senators , of whom there are more than thirty . After the oath has been administered by Mr. Dawes , he will deliver his address , adjourning the Senate sine die . The incoming Vice President will assume the chair . There with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Curtis will de , liver his inaugural speech : At the conclusion of the ceremonies in the Senate chamber President ' Coolidge. his successor . and the new and old Vice Presidents will be es ' corted to the east portico of the Capitol . It is expected that it will be 12:30 P. M. before Mr. Hoover and Mr. Curtis , with their predecessors , reach the inaugural platform . The ceremony and the delivery of the inaugural address are expected to take from thirty to forty minutes , so that it will be about 1 P. M. before the now President goes to take luncheon in the White House . Tentatively the ' parade is set to get under way at 2 P. M. Roster of the Parade . Back of General Summerall and his aides and staff will conic the Army band , which as it passes the Presidential reviewing stand , will play " Hail to the Chief . " The first division will consist of military and naval forces of the regular services , a battalion of the Coast Guard . National Guard , Naval Reserves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division will be a civilian one . led by Dr. Hubert Work , chairman of the Republican National Committee . Behind him will march members of the inaugural committee . Republican National Committee , the State chairmen and the Commissioners of the District of Columbia . The Governors of the States , escorted by their staffs . members of their respective Legislatures or National Guard detachments , will be in this division . Following them will come the distinguished guests , military colleges and schools , veterans and patriotic organizations and marching clubs . New York Marchers in Line . New York will be represented in the marching clubs section by the Lafayette Republican Club of Erie County . thirty members of the Martha Washington Republican Women 's Club Patrol , also of Erie County ; legionnaires from Queens County and the Queens County Banner Republican Club . While the parade is swinging up Pennsylvania Avenue , the air contingent will fly above it . It will fly in two divisions  --  lighter-than-air and heavier-than-air . Brig . Gen. Benjamin D. Fulois will be grand marshal of the planes , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dirigibles . The aerial display , of course . wilt rest entirely on weather conditions . The rain of last night and today 's snow have put Bolling Field in bad shape and pilots have been warned to exercise unusual care in landing . The parade in the air and on the avenue will end the official program , but at night a charity ball will be held in the Washington Auditorium . This will take the place of the inaugural ball , which at some inaugurations has been part of the official schedule . The charity ball promises to be one of the most brilliant social events of many Washington seasons .                     