@@689344

txt Three and a half per cent interest for six months on Argentine government treasury bonds is assuredly good business - for American investors , as that government can borrow at four per cent a year in Buenos Aires . But in the present condition of the New York foreign bond market . it is necessary to make the operation as attractive as possible , and the Argentines have no reason to complain of their bargain , since it is their axiom that foreign debt must always be paid at maturity by their foreign creditors . This loan is only a temporary accommodation to care for refunding of one short-term obligation of the floating debt , the total of which exceeds 800,000,000 pesos , about $261,500,000 at current rate of exchange . Consolidation of this must he provided for within the next six months , as the strain on local banks can not be measured by the unusually low dollar equivalent now prevailing . The banks are strong , but their resources consist of paper pesos , and the government debt which they are carrying is not diminished in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test of Argentina 's credit will therefore come early next year . By that time funds at the disposal of American investors will have been depleted by Japanese financing , and possibly even by guaranteed German bond issues . But the comparatively small sum of from sixty to a hundred and fifty million dollars which Argentina will probably seek to borrow in this market will doubtless be forthcoming on satisfactory terms if the government takes in the meantime needful precautions . Of prime ' importance is the curtailment of superfluous imports in order that a sufficiently large favorable balance of trade be recorded this year . It is unnecessary to urge increased stimulus for exports , as in this matter the Argentines have never been lax . To ask for release of the gold reserve for operation of exchange recovery is also needless , as the government has apparently made up its mind not to make this trenchant move . Careful expenditure and a balanced budget should , however , be the government 's constant preoccupation . Expenditure has increased thirty-three per cent in less than three years . This statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the avowed intention of the government to exceed . Grandiose schemes for development are in order when the wherewithal ' to pay for them is not pledged for debt service .                     