@@686027

txt TRADE WITH RUSSIA Evidence is not lacking of concerted ' agitation to force the opening of trade ' relations with Soviet Russia and the teecognition of the Soviet Government . In are enlisted not only all manner of judicial organizations , bringing their influence to bear upon labor as well as upon our intellectuals , but also a group of newspapers and journals . The same movement is being actively supported by at least . four United States Senators , Borah , Johnson , France and Norris . The activities of Raymond Robins in behalf of his friends Lenin and Trotzky are notorious . While professions of disinterested altruism and a high regard for the welfare : of the Russian people cover this movement , it is obvious that its activities are carried out at large expense , and the inference is unavoidable that those ssho are contributing so munificently are ' seeking an end not altogether unselfish . - To those who have followed closely the pronouncements of the Third Interna-tionale at Mpscow and the statement of the Krassin Mission in London . this purpose is reasonably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Government as a means of legalizing the seizures , confiscations and expropriations of he Soviet Government and the transactions by which they propose to realize ; on the property . The methods used are such as would awaken at once the suspicions of the public were not the whole subject so cleverly camouflaged under expressions of altruism and confused with finesounding but fallacious political and economic theories . Of these methods there are many illustrations . It is scarcely necessary to mention the story of Washington D. snderlip and his Siberian concessions billion-dollar contracts . This fairy le has already been sufficiently exsosed . One circumstance in connection with it , however , deserves notice . On Wednesday last , the Russian Financial , Commercial and Industrial Association in Paris cabled inquiries concerning Vanderlip and-his alleged deal , pointing out that the story was being used to influence European public opinion and to hasten British and French trade negotiations with Soviet Russia on the ground that America . was already doing business there . This cable and the reply sf the American-Russian Chamber of Commerce were published in THE TIMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man to whom cables have gone successfully both before and since , the cable company reported " addressee unknown . " This indicates the difficulties in the way of informing Europe concerning American affairs . A side-light is thrown on the forces ( which are agitating for the recognition 3f the Soviet Government , for which this trade proposal is a preparatory step , by . . he recent experiences of Russians in dealing with certain great English banks . Many large Russian companies . ad considerable amounts of money in ' ese banks and by proper power of at-ney authorized their representatives draw on these funds . Now some of trese banks are refusing further to honor these powers of attorney . Their argument is that the Soviet . Government will probably soon be recognized , and that this action wilt legalize the seizure and nationalization of these companies and their property . In this case the banks can hold the funds of these Russian companies as an offset to their claims against Russia . Nothing illustrates more clearly the fall in commercial morality that has taken place in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition as a means of enabling them to sequestrate the funds of companies deposited with them in good faith . Certain groups in America have been looking with envious eyes on the mines , forests , oil wells , factories and concessions of Russia . With them are associated individuals who , either by reason of official position or revolutionary associations , have close connections with the Bolshevist crowd at Moscow . These groups believe that through these connections , and by agreements that arc it- many cases presumably already made , they can purchase this property for a song . The only thing lacking is an Set that would legalize the transaction and safeguard them from any redress on the part of the rightful owners . That act is the recognition of the Soviet Government . The nature of this business is brought home with great clearness by recent transactions in London by which the Krassin Mission sold a lot of Chinese 5 per cent . gold bonds , looted from Russian banks , a transaction which , strangely enough , was authorized by the British Government . Suppose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American insurance emu " panics or other enterprises in Russia , should then turn around and undertake to dispose of this plunder in America . Possibly there might'be found merchants willing to accept the proceeds , but can America in honor take the step that . would give legal sanction to the transaction ? In dealing with this subject the current issue of The Weekly Review employs the suggestive title , " Fences ' for Soviet Loot . " The recognition of the Soviet Government would be an act undermining the very bases of our business morality , but it would be something more . It would be the recognition of an institution which is not a government in oursense of the word , but an organization internationarwarfare against our civilization . the Third Internationale . Surely it is unthinkable that we should lend our efforts to aiding . and abetting the very instrument which is being employed for our own destruettoa . . JEROsIE LANDFIELD.                     