@@691818

txt The Belgian Debt Commissioners held their first meeting today with the American World War Debt Commission and through their spokesman , Baron de Cartier , the Belgian Ambassador . declared that Belgium would honor all just obligations . Secretary Mellon. in replying for the American commission , said that this Government recognized the burdens imposed upon Belgium by the World War and that Belgium 's capacity to pay would be taken into consideration in the negotiations . Little cf a definite nature ' was accomplished at the meeting , but the representatives of the two nations will take up a detailed discussion of funding arrangements tomorrow . Members of the American commission seem confident that a definite agreement will be reached on terms for funding the ** debt . Their attitude today was that the real problem before the Commissioners was the rate of interest which it was within the capacity of Belgium to pay annually on her indebtedness , ' and whether it would be necessary to include in a funding agreement a provision which would-permit Belgium to defer all or part of the interest payments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belgium will seek to have included in any agreement a. clause which would not leave her legallybound to make payments on the terms now agreed to if it developed ' that economic conditions in future years gave her grounds to plead that she could not meet the conditions . Baron de Ca rtler 's Address . Baron de Cartier in his address said : " In delegating us to confer with you , the Belgian Government desires to meet an obligation the fulfillment of which will be made easier by the feelings of friendship existing between two nations which have fought i n common for the highest ideals of mankind . " Belgium has not forgotten  --  nor will she ever forget  --  the decisive aid of the American army in the final triumph of the Allies , which for Belgium meant the restoration of her liberty and her independence . Invaded and occupied ' by the enemy , Belgium has always been grateful for the efficient and powerful work of the Commission for Relief in succoring her helpless civilian population . We also know that the restoration of our country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the advances freely granted us by the United States in- the critical days which followed the armistice . " Belgium . who did her full duty on Aug. 3 , 1914 , will honor all her just obligations . She would have taken up earlier with you the problem of an equitable consolidation of her debts but for the non-fulfillment of many solemn pledges given to her people during the war . " The situation so created was made even mord critical by the fact that during four years of occupation Belgium was forced to pay Germany . under the form of war levies in cash and as a result of the imposed use of German currency , a tribute which now amounts to a loss of nearly $2,000,000,000 . We feel sure that you will appreciate this special situation . " You are also aware of the sums which we had to spend to rebuild our devastated regions and to restore our wantonly destroyed factories . We suc- ceeded in this great work , in spite of the many difficulties and bitter disappointments which confronted us , but which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . " The adoption and normal functioning of the Dawes plan , although it will give us only a small share of what we were entitled to , and the gradual curtailment of Government expenditures , give , however , Belgium reason to- hope that she will succeed in her persevering efforts to place her finances on a sound basis . " You know , gentlemen , that this hope was only fostered through the levying of crushing post-war taxes , which now so heavily weigh upon our national production . " Belgium glories in her resista &ce; to an unprovoked aggression forced bn her in spite of her love of peace and her scrupulous respect for all her international obligations . When her territory was invaded , in violation of long standing treaties , she did not hesitate , under the heroic leadership of her King , to engage all her resources for the defense of her liberty and for the triumph of right . We Belgians are justly proud of debts thus incurred in the fulfillment of our duty . " Confident in their moral position and relying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has given us so many proofs , the Belgian people have delegated us to seek with you an agreement inspired by the recollection of the nature and history of our debts , as well as by the just comprehension of our economic and financial difficulties createt : ' by an unjust war of which we were the innocent victims . " Secretary Mellon  --  g Reply . Secretary Mellon replied : " During the war we learned high admiration for the courage of Belgium , the nation which at risk of her destruction stood by her treaty obligations , and for the even greater courage of her citizens , a civilian population-under the military heel of occupation , steadfast in their patriotism . Feelings such as these do not change . Friends and allies we have been and will remain . " We sa wyour struggles in thee war . We know also that your problems did not end with the Peace Treaty , but that the years since the armistice have been for you difficult beyond anything in your experience . Your nation , living by trade , had first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might continue to exist before it could even take up questions with its neighbors . Nor are we unmindful that there remains much you will wish yet to do in the adjustment of your finances and the stabilization of your currency and that your future plans will be affected by any agreement which may be reached here . " On your part you will not undertake what you feel you can not fulfill . On our part we will not ask you to do the impossible . So you mayirest assured that with the feelings America has for you and the appreciation which we have of your difficulties your position will have the most sympathetic and friendly consideration ' by our commission " The funding of your debt to us within your capacity to pay means far more than the mere payment by you and the receipt by us of a certain number of dollars each year . It is a recognition of the integrity of international obligations and the settlement of a question v hich might disturb the long friendship , Jf our two nations . To accomplish these results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentlemen here Belgium has sent its representative men with power to negotiate . The question before us is of narrow compass . There are but two parties to our negotiations . Politics , local or international , are not involved . We sit here , reasonable men , around a table . Under- conditions we will soon learn each others ' viewpoints , determine the true facts governing the situation , and should reach an agreement fair to your country and to ours . "                     