@@686738

txt Premier Lloyd George acknowledged tonight in a telegram to Eamon de Valera his acceptance of the Government 's invitation to a conference . The Premier 's message said : ' ? I have received your letter of accept ? snce and shall be happy to see you and any colleagues whom you wish to bring with you at Downing Street any day this week . Please wire the date of your arrival in London . " Nothing , of course , is yet arranged , but it is expected that a preliminary meeting will take place In a. day or two . It is quite probable that members of the Government will meet representatives of Ulster and South Ireland separately before the critical conference of both sections of Irishmen with the British Government begins . It has been suggested that de Valera might bring Michael Collins , Commander-in-Chief of the Irish republican army , with him , but it is more likely that he would be content to be accompanied by Arthur Griffith . Lloyd George will probably have with him at the conference the able General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chancellor , the Home Secretary and other nu.mbers of the Cabinet . It is thought that Generil Smuts may be Deputy Chairman of tho conference . The Government has already taken slops to carry out the truce which begins officially tomorrow at noon . All recruiting for the military police in Ireland has already been suspended . A batch of recruits for the Royal Irish Constabulary who were to have crossed to Ireland today were stopped . There had been an influx of recruiting when the reserves were . demobilized last week . In nearly all the churches in Dublin and the South and West of Ireland today references were made to ' the truce and appeals were made for non-provocative conduct on all sides . Derby Gives Conservative View . An important nonouncement on the position likely to be taken by the old Conservative Party of England toward the Irish settlement has been made by Lord Derby . Speaking to Lancashire Unionists on Saturday evening , he ac , pepted the repeal of the Act of Union , and said he must now look upon the Irish question rather as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going on , " he said , " I am perfectly prepared , if necessity arises , to go very far in the way of concession . independence ' : No . Republic ? No . ( Cheers . ) Dominion ' Home Rule is a dangerous thing to mention , for you will not find two people to agree as to what is Dominion Home Rule . But what I feel now is that hav-1 ing , so to speak , put Ireland in a position where she must stand on her own legs , we should do everything possible to strengthen those legs . if it came to a question of giving to Ireland complete control subject to payment of her share of the national debt and payment for national services , such as the Army and Navy , I would give her full financial control . I should not be debarred by fear of custom duties , which I look upon as a bogey . " The great thing : vas , he added , that the Government should take a firm ' grip of . things and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared to face financial sacrifices in order to attain a settlement . The importance of this statement lies in the great influence Lord Derby wields Ina the ranks of the old Conservative Party . His visit to Ireland a few weeks ago under the pseudonym of " Mr. Edwards , " created 14. politleal eansation . The knowledge that he would support proposals for ** ? financial concessions to Ireland will go a long way toward strengthening the hand of the Irish question which is second ' in the Irish question , ? inci- is second in importance only to religious differences . Improved Outlook for recce . ? LONDON , July 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? The Irish struggle has been a long history of baffled hopes , otl erwise the present situation would be full of promise for a final ' peaceful settlement , but while past history does not afford food for overconfidence  --  a point emphasized in the way of warning by Mr. de Valera himself in a manifesto to the Irish people  --  there arc some aspects which differ entirely from any previous peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically willing to grant Ireland dominion. - status if Ireland is willing to drop the demand fora republic . Second  --  The Dominion Premiers now in London are ready to support , according to all indications . Ireland 's claim for dominion status , with fiscal autonomy and a voice in foreign affairs , the latter being an Important aspiration of the Dominions themselves . Such help from the outside as that afforded by a s esman of tht calibre of General Smote , e South African Premier , who admittedly has - much. influence over the Government policy , is an asset which Ireland has never before enjoyed . Third  --  This is the first time that Mr. Lloyd George in any peace negotiations has imposed no conditions whatever . His telegram to Mr. de Valera today , characterized as conceived in the happiest terms , permits the Irish republican leader to bring any colleagues he chooses . Finally , a truce has been arranged for an indefinite period . No date has been . fixed ? or hint of any notice required to denounce it . The whole surrounding circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sides are deeply earnest in desiring success . On the other side of the picture is the attitude of the extremists among both Sinn Feiners and Orangemen , and doubts are expressed as to how far they can be controlled by the leaders .. There is also what has up to the present been the irreconcilable attitude of Mr. de Valera and his colleagues against the partition of Ireland , and the apparently equal determination in Ulster that the present status of the six counties under the Home Rule act shall not be distrubed . Ulster is smarting under the serious trade boycott exercised by Southern Ireland , but hopes are still high that this and other difficulties will be smoothed out once the conference is in being . It is suggested as a compromise on the question of chairman for the conference that Mr. Lloyd George be chairman and General Smuts deputy chairman ; in which case General Smuts would preside over the earlier meetings . Eamon - de Valera , the Republican leader , sent a telegram Saturday night to the Politiken of Copenhagen , which an Exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel convinced that the Danish people , who know ' the inestimable value of national liberty , can not but understand and sympathize with our fixed determination to obtain a liberty which will enable us , in the same way it enabled the Danish people , fully to develop and realize our individual national life . " It is our hope that the hour for the fulfillment of our wishes is now . approaching . " BELFAST , July ** is a case of " hands off " with Orangemen on the Lloyd George-de Valera conference , declared John Gordon of the Ulster Ministry in a speech at Larne , County Antrim , today . Mr. Lloyd George might be prepared to enter into conference with de Valera to settle affairs in Ireland , said Mr. Gordon , but Orangemen had settled the affairs of Ulster , and to Messrs . Lloyd George and de Valera they said " hands ' off . '                     