@@688135

txt I read with great interest your account on " Future of Cotton , " being in the dry goods business and handling large quantitieseof cotton goods . I should like to visit theme cotton fields : ? May I ask yosu as to how they , can be seen to best advantage , what section - would be of greatest interest and at what time the fields are at their , beet ? ? E. A. U. Answer  --  If you wish to visit the cotton fields you should go at once , as a large percentage of the cotton is already open and picking is becoming general . However , you are still in time to see much of the , work of the weevil . You should travel from Texas to southeastern Virginia , because conditions vary in different states . If a shorter trip is necessary , journey from Memphis down through the Mississippi Delta to Greenville and Green City , then to Jackson , Miss . This will show you the best . Then go to northern Mississippi in the brown loam soil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton is grown on cut-over lands . One banking firm is paying an expert $5,000 a year for practically farming his own lands to demonstrate the possibilities of cotton raising on such lands . Then go to Columbus , Georgia . See the best Georgia is doing this year ; in the southern counties where 's good growth was obtained , but weevils are taking the latest . You can see this by going to Americus and motoring out one day . Motor up to Macon , and from there go te Eatonton in eastern Georgia . There you will see the state at its worst . The leading man is B. W. Hunt , president of Middle Georgia Bank . A few miles from the town is a government experiment station where they are trying to demonstrate what calcium arsenate will do with cotton raising . What you will see around Eatonton is a fair index of what will be seen an the eastern part of the state and the eastern half of South Carolina next year , as the farmers have suffered severely and are demoralized . Columbia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to view the state . Its future is pessimistic , but it has one bright spot . At Hartsville you will find It on the farm of David Coker. who is breeding thoroughbred types of cotton to resist the weevil . If a short trip is in your contemplation , So to the Delta district . There , the cotton problem is being worked out in a way that promises much for the future . Go direct to Memphis and interview Dr. E. R. Lloyd , Director of Bureau of Farm Development , in the Chamber of Commerce . He can put you in touch with the situation . Would advise you to take in Clarksdale , Miss. , by way of Illinois Central . Call on C. G. Steele , County Agent sf the Farm Bureau , in the Chamber of Commerce . It will also pay you to meet J. 0 . Lamkin , president of the Commercial Bank . There is also a prosperous planter there who is a native of your state , Mr. C. B. Morris , wko is well informed and very courteous . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county . Proprietor of Hotel Cowen is a large cotton planter and can give you much information . Be sure and go to Scott , about ten miles from Greenville . Here is the Delta &; Pipe Land Co. ' s plantation with 14,000 acres of cotton , J. W. Fox director in charge . A few miles from Greenville is ? the state experiment station at Stoneville , where many interesting-experiments in raising cotton are to be seen . Whatever else you see in different parts of the state will be practically a repetition of what you have already seen . except that the cotton in the Delta is long staple. the remainder of the state short staple . Outside of the Delta the best cotton will be found in the eastern third of the state and the poorest in the southwest .                     