@@693609

txt The handsome face of the dashing young President of the Republic of Albania , Ahmed Zogu Bey , appears on that country 's postage stamps . Now his initials have been superimposed on these stamps and a laurel crown added around his head . Foreign and native circles in Albania , according to Americans arriving from that tiny republic , are expecting to see the lasirel crown changed into a royal crown of gold at any time and to hear the Albanian Dictator proclaim the country a kingdom . The following summarizes the situation as found by these Americans : Everywhere it is believed that an Albanian royal crown already has been made in Italy and brought , with a sceptre , golden spurs and a golden sabre , with great secrecy by an Italian destroyer to the Albanian port of San Giovanni di Medua , where it was transported . at night under extraordinary heavy guard to Zogu 's palace at Durazzo . Signor Cortez , Secretary of the Italian Legation at Durazzo , is credited with supervising the affair . Plan Once Blocked by France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November , but the plan had to be postponed because the French , getting wind of the preparations , energetically . vetoed the kingdom , warning Zogu that neither ' France nor any of her allies would I recognize an Albanian monarchy . Negotiations are still going on in Paris ; and there are rumors that Zogu may himself go to France and also Italy . It is considered doubtful , however , whether he feels sufficiently secure to leave the country . With more insistence it is rumored that Zogu , encouraged by Italy , hopes to make a Princess of the royal Italian family his Queen . There is no foundation for recent reports that Zogu was engaged to a wealthy American or an Egyptian Princess . Zogu , however , is said to have been engaged for nearly three years to the daughter of the richest and most powerful Albanian landowner , Shefquet Bey Verlatzi . It would be difficult for Zogu to free himself without risking the dangerous enmity of the feudal lord Shefquet in a country where the personal vendetta rules . Zogu is already under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has had hanged . This accounts for the extraordinarily heavy bodyguard Zogu maintains , and the expense of such a bodyguard in turn helps to account for the financial and political hold Italy has secured in Albania under Zogu 's regime . Zogu 's salary as President is $90,000 . Zogu appears to be unpopular among most of his countrymen , as some estimate that 90 per cent . are against him , with a third of these actively gunning for him . His unpopularity is based on several grounds aside from blood vendettas . Above all , Albanian enemies accuse him of " selling out the country to Italy for personal profit . " His chief reason for signing the recent treaty by which Italy agrees to intervene to maintain the political status quo is said to be to assure himself by Italian financial and military aid greater protection against his own countrymen . Opponents criticize his regime es despotic and his Parliament as a mere sham . Zogu 's revival of an old unwritten Albanian law whereby every Albanian is required to work without pay one week yearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Italian Army engineers were able to build roads toward the Yugoslav frontier and also for much of Albanian discontent . This is augmented by the fact that pay due Albanian laborers employed on regular contracts is In arrears . Zogu has also incurred the enmity of many educated Albanians by discharging them from office and substituting Italians or Italophiles . Finally , the Albanians have never known military discipline and do not welcome Zogu 's energetic efforts to organize a modern army . Zogu 's friends picture him as modernizing Albania , fighting the revolutionary elements and seeking to bring order out of chaos . It is generally admitted that he is the strongest , most capable and shrewdest leader of Albania . His good looks and youth ? he is in the thirties ? help to surround him with romantic glamour . Zogu is said to keep in close contact not only with the Italian but the British Legation . Curiously enough , these two are the only legations which re ' main in the former capital of Durazzo , all the others having moved to the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Montenegro across the frontier , where the only two powers who have not sold their legation buildings in Cettinje , capital of the former Montenegrin kingdom , are also England and Italy . There seems little doubt that Montenegrin discontent and propaganda to re-establish an independent kingdom are being fostered from the Albanian side of the frontier . Italy has been said to have been encouraging the movement . Oil is one of the most important factors , but it is as difficult to establish the facts as with other elements of the situation . The general impression is that Albanian oil has so far been found neither in commercial quality nor quantity . The Anglo-Persian Company 's first three borings at Patos are reported to have produced the lowest grade oil at a depth of 582 meters , but that results near Ordenitza are more hopeful and a fifth attempt is to be made at Bouzmadh , northeast of Valona , which is the centre of the oil field . Italian concessionaires , It is generally accepted , have been more successful , especially at Penkova , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jealously guarded . At Penkova , oil found at a depth of 540 meters is said to contain little carburated hydrogen and a yield of ten tons each twenty-four hours is expected . Standard Oil , which has two concessions totaling about 130,000 acres , remains idle , apparently lacking faith in the possibilities of Albanian oil and awaiting ? as long as its concessions , which expire July 1 , 1028 , allow  --  the results of the British and Italian soundings before boring .                     