@@690615

txt Business of Corn Products Refining Co. in the third quarter has been running along practically at the levels of the preceding three months , with continuing improvement in the European outlook . Plant operations continue around 60% of capacity . Directors meet for regular quarterly dividend action September 26 . Earnings are expected to show some contraction due to the high price of corn and the accompanying low prices of sugar , the price of the latter commodity in large measure determining prices in the glucose market . The effect on earnings , however , will be less severe than was expected in some quarters . Price advances in manufactured goods attended the upward trend of corn prices , and large shipments of Argentine corn at prices from 10 to 20 cents under local market prices have been received for grinding at the Edgewater ( New York ) plant . Corn Products greatest earning capacity appeared at the time of high corn prices following the war period . However , the prosperity coinciding with the period of high prices was due in part to very rapidly expanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in common stock of Corn Products there has been more stability in market prices , with the general tendency downward during the last few months . Present prices around 3214 are less than a point above the low of the year , and represent a price of 161 for the old $100 par shares , which were active early this year around 180 . Considering the prospects for continued ' expansion abroad , company 's demonstrated earning power , and marked and steady growth since the prewar period , it appears that the recent conditions of comparative dulness have been overdiscounted by investors . For six months ended June 30 , 1924 , net after charges and depreciation totaled ** while preferred and common dividend requirements aggregated 53.375,000 , leaving a ? surplus for the period of $2,053,337 . Indications are regular dividends for the year will be earned nearly twice .                     