@@693115

txt It has been a long time since the general run of Wall Street observers have been as badly puzzled over a market as at present . Before the opening yesterday many were inclined to be moderately optimistic , and were advising the purchase of stocks on any minor setback , but later in the day , when most stocks were declining quite sharply following breaks in some of the recent speculative favorites , a switch to the bear side was made , and there were few exceptions in the list of those woo were advocating selling long holdings and waited for more favorable prices to replace stocks thus sold . Just when the entire Street appeared as pessimistic as at any time in months , the market started a recovery from the lowest of the day . Professional operators and floor traders were the leading sellers of stocks from the beginning . This element has been hammering at the market for six or seven days and finally reached stop-loss orders in certain issues in volume , so that sentiment on the entire market was unsettled for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered rather severe defines before sufficient support was encountered to halt the reactionary tendency , temporarily at least . Commission houses reported selling on balance and the odd-lot firms had more business on the selling side than in three months . Many ' outsiders who had been buying stocks recently apparently had become frightened by the action of the market and were selling their rung holdings . While the local Federal Reserve Bank made no change in its re-discount rate there was continued aelEnsaccompanied by talk of an advance in the near future , possibly next Thursday . Before the start of business , it was the popular impression in many quarters that the continuation of the reserve rate would be a disappointment to the bears and would cause a sharp advance in the general list . Instead , however , the selling continued and it was insisted that an upturn was merely postponed for the time being . Money market students continue to insist that there is no basic reason for an advance at this time , but this view is not shared in the Street . as it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be felt in earnest in the next few weeks , and funds also will be needed in large amounts for crop moving purposes . That the short interest in the market has been increased materially in the past week - goes without saying . but it is equally true that considerable liquidation has been in- progress and the lower prices for stocks have given many opportunities for covering short obligation . Those who still adhere to the optimistic side of the market are hoping for a demonstration against the shorts which could carry up stocks quite sharply . However , with the confidence that now prevails among the bears it is felt that the market will have to move forward for several days before a real covering movement is started , although some of the more timid shorts might be run . during a rallying period in the general list . Cudahy Packing is one of the issue : - that is being selected as a buying opportunity on any further reaction in the general industrial list , because some of the shrewdobservers contend that on its earnings and dividend return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Paying $7 a share annually and sel:ing but slightly above 100 , it is felt that the stock could be among the lenders in any recovery in the market . For several day s there hale been indications of accumelation in the e.eue , and this buying is considered quite important . Rumors of an early ' increase in the dividend have been circulated , but the more conservative interests do not look for such a devlopment in the near future . although they admit that of later the stockholders will receive a more liberal distribution which would be justified by the earnings . Those . who have not yet finally adanhoned the constructiie side of the market because they believe that the advance will be resumed , are urefing the greatest discrimination in selecting purchases and several have sent out advices on the stocks that should he purchased during further weakness . Among the rails are mentioned Nickel Plate . New ' York Central . Atchison , Norfolk &; Western and Baltimore S. Ohio , while the industrial list includes Allied Chemical . General Motors . Smelting , Reynolds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Brooklyn Edison among the high-priced stocks , and Howe Sound , Owens Bottle , Colorado Fuel , Bethlehem Steel , Loew 's , Realty . Business Machine and Timken among the lower-priced industrials . It is maintained that these stocks and sonic ethers have shown signs of resistance to pressure in the pest . Selling in International Combustion Engineering was most persistent , and the decline in this stock in the past few days has had considerable influence on market sentiment generally . It is contended that at least part of the r : they heavy supply came from sources that had been prominent on the buying side of the stock during recent strong periods , and market students expressed the opinion that this may represent forced selling because of an overcrowded long position in the issue . There have beer : several pools operating in the stock in the past 18 months . and it is possible that some of the most recent selling represented liquidation which could not be readily absorbed in the face of a declining market . INLAND STEEL Switching has become quite popular in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from some of the leading commission firms . The latest stock that is being recommended is Inland Steel on the theory that this issue , now paying $2.50 a share annually , is likely to get an increase to $3 a share per annum before many now anticipate , and switching from other issues into Inland is advocated . One point made in connection with the company is that in any independent steel merger Inland would be a factor because it is located in the Chicago distriez and would be a valuable addition to any large organization that may he planned in the future , The floating supply is considered relatively small , and control is closely held by the Block family and its associates .                     