@@696873

txt Two hundred million dollars , an ay . err/Fe of ** a year for ten years . will be folded to the total for employment and the general promo . Con of prosperity when the Chicago t ran .4 ; : ortation program is agreed Many agencies , Including the city I council , are eager to get the work started so " the thousands who are trouping the streets will have ern-I loyimat and avoid an empty Christmas siockima , " as Ald. Thomas J. me phrases It at the council meetin : - yesterday afternoon Ald. Arthur A:bert presented a resolution urging tin . eninpanies to build 250 miles of extension and equip the trackage . It was referred to the local transportation committee and Chairman Joseph It . . promised action at an early data . May Get lies Lines . " Every one favors more employment and the maintenance of good tvagea , " said , " and we will do our best to promote more work . If we can not get extensions perhaps We can get motor buses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation . " The council discussed the resolution for nearli , two hours , but that was because Albert appeared to some of the aldermen to be criticizing his colleagues because of the limited progress on transit matters . Ho accused the city and company lawyers of stall . Ing and protested vigorously against secret meetings . To which Ald. replied that the aldermen " have done everything , that Is humanly possible " to get a settlement . Inquiries were made yesterday as to the causes of the delay in the transit program and a better progress can be hastened . It was learned , first of all , that there has been no decision on a financial program , and without an acceptable plan for re . financing $260,010,000 in securities now outstanding and for obtaining about $200,000,000 In new money , there can not be and will not be any settlement with the present interests . It was said that there has not yet been an agreement between Harry Stuart . ' Frank 0 . Wetmore , and Albert H. Barris  --  the reorganization committee  - -  upon a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the lack of more progress Is the recent stock market slump . That is represented to have kept banks and investment houses exceedingly busy with their own knitting . It is hoped they will have a preliminary statement to make next week , although It has pot been definitely promised . It was asserted that It is an exceedingly difficult lob to formulate an acceptable plan which will be work ? able under the situation . For several years there have been comparatively few buyers of transit securities , even in a bull market . Now there are still fewer . The task is to turn Oct a ' workable financial plan that will be acceptable to holders of 27 different kinds of securities , Federal Judge W11. kerson , the city 's attorneys , the aldermen and mayor and the voters . While the exact attitude and progress of Messrs . Stuart , Wetmore and Harris is not available until they make a definite statement , it is Underrtood that their present position is that they will not father a plan which they believe will be unworkable over a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out a plan which will unreasonably Increase fares , nor one that will not Insure return of investment when duo . In addition , they will not sponsor a plan which will not permit the solo of now securities and the garnering in of $200,000,000 of new cash for improvements and extensions . It is said that experts have been calculating for several weeks and have accumulated a great mass of figures , but that an agreed combination of them has not been made . Russian flyers will join the search for Pilot Carl Ben Flielaon and his me. chanic , Earl Borland , In two planes brought to Providence bay aboard the soviet Ice breaker Litke , a radio to Gov , George W. Parks from J. II . An . Berson , signal corps man In charge of the Teller radio station , said today , They will search for the missing American flyers between Providence and Nolyntchin bays .                     