@@696057

txt With Representative Hamilton Fish of New York defending the action of Charles E. Mitchell , president of the National City Bank , in extending aid to the borrowers following last Tuesday 's break on the Stock Exchange , and with Senator Carter Glass reiterating his demand that Mr. Mitchell 's resigation as a Class A director of the New York reserve bank be requested by the Reserve Board , the controversy over speculative activities on the exchanges was reopened on Capitol Hill today with added vigor . Meanwhile , the members of the Federal Reserve Board and the governors of the twelve Federal Reserve banks continued separate conferences at which the credit situation and other phases of the Federal Reserve System 's operations were considered , but no announcement was made . If the governors complete their work tomorrow : it is probable that they will make a report to the Rcccrve Board before nightfall , and any announcement dealing with the credit problem or other matters will ba withheld at least until that time . For a part of the time the governorc mot with attorneys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session at least it was intimated that s- , . lbcats other than speculation and e effect upon the credit structure of the nation were discussed . Wo n't Talk About Bank Rate . Inquiries as to whether an increase in rediscount ates was to be expected following the regular meeting of the New York Reserve Bank on Thursday , or that of the directors of the Chicago Reserve Bank on Friday , fell on deaf ears . It is believed in some circles here that decision on this phase of the situation may be influenced to no small extent by the conclusions reached by the conferences , and there is a division of opinion as to what may happen . In some quarters the opinion is heard that the Reserve Board may be ccntent merely to follow out its present policy of holding a tight rein on the rediscount facilities of the Reserve banks , convinced that last Tuesday 's break on the , New York Stock Exchange , and the high money rate that has continued almost uninterruptedly since that time , is certain to force a liquidation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve banks hold firm . Fish Attacks Senator Glass . Mr. Fish 's defense of Mr. Mitchell ' Leek the form of a sharp attack upon the attitude of Senator Glass . He pictured the Senator as stepping out of his proper role in seeking to direct action by the Reserve Board , contended that Mr. Mitchell in fact had averted a panic , and added that Senator Glass should remember that the financial transactions in New York were larger in one week than those of the State of Virginia in a year . He endorsed a recommendation made by Mr. Mitchell 's bank for a rise in rediscount rates to 6 per cent , and expressed the belief that such a step would be sufficient to end excesses in the stock market . " The attack made by Senator Glass on Charles E. Mitchell , president of the National City Bank , for coming to the rescue of the market last week when the call money rate reached 20 per cent , " said Mr. Fish , " was not warranted by the facts . The spontaneous action of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have had a serious effect upon business generally and might have impaired the credit of the Federal Reserve System . " The quick thinking and acting on the part of Mr. Mitchell , who is the resident of the largest bank in the united States , should have been commended instead of condemned by the author of the Federal Reserve bill . " Senator Glass may have been one of the authors of the Federal Reserve bill , but he is not now responrible for its operation . " Makes Warm Retort . The reaction to the criticism by the i-ery-tempered Virginia Senator was naracteristic and he countered by picturing the huge weekly financial turnover in New York as the operations of gamblers , tying up credit which should be turned to more legitimate purposes , such as expansion of the nation 's business . In another statement Senator Glass answered a recent attack made by former Senator Robert L. Owen of Oklahoma , who had defended Mr. Mitchell . He declared the Federal Reserve Board had the power to remove Mr. Mitchell as a director of the Reserve Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privilee to those engaged in speculation . - Any one who questioned these powers ? Mr. Owen said that the Reserve Board was without authority to remove Mr. Mitchell  --  confessed to ignorance of the law , Senator Glass asserted . Still another angle was given to the controversy by Senator Fletcher of Florida , Democratic member of the Banking and Currency Committee , who endorsed a proposal by R. 0 . Brooks of New York City , described as former State Chemist of New Jersey , that Stock Exchange gambling be stopped by levying a tax of 100 per cent on all profits on the resale of stocks bought on margin . " It seems a reasonable proposal to me , " said Senator Fletcher . " I think there is a good deal of merit in Mr. Brooks 's suggestion . " Senator Fletcher said he doubted that there would be any legislation in the special se-anion which will ! convene April 15 , but that there might be action taken looking to an investigation of the whole subject by Congress . Asks Why Fish is Spokesman . " If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defend its own act and speak for itself , " Senator Glass declared , " it seems to me that Mr. Fish would have hesitated to make himself spokesman for the board . " For that matter I have no doubt that stock speculators on the New York Exchange whose transactions are now absorbing inconceivable credits and funds which should be properly applied to business interests throughout the country are perfectly able to speak for themselves . Nevertheless , Mr. Hamilton Fish Jr . seems to have constituted himself . a spokesman for these stock gamblers . " The boast that the stock gambling business in New York City exceeds in volume the legitimate business of the entire State of Virginia but accentuates the complaint made against this tremendous absorption of funds for speculative purposes . Perhaps if there were less stock gambling there would be a greater volume of legitimate business in Virginia and other States . Did Not Rush Into Print . " Moreover , I. did not heedlessly rush into print about this question . I was asked by two newspaper men who came to my office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Reserve Board and what I thought of the use of Federal Reserve Bank facilities for the promotion of stock speculation , and unhesitatingly declared that the use of Federal Reserve facilities for stock speculation was textually in violation of the law and that Mr. Mitchell , having aided and abetted such violation of the law and having flouted the authority of the Federal Reserve Board , should be properly disciplined . " I do not assume to be responsible for the operation of the Federal Reserve Board system , as Mr. Fish suggests , but I do assume to be responsible for any opinion that I may entertain on the subject , and I do not have to ask permission of Mr. Hamilton Fish to express such an opinion . " In connection with the reply made by Senator Glass to former Senator Owen , it was pointed out that Senator Owen contended that the National City Bank had a right to rediscount at the New York Federal Reserve Bank for stock speculative purposes ; that the Federal Reserve Board had no right to remove Mr. Mitchell and no ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His Reply to Owen Criticism . Senator Glass Was ? asked if he cared , in view of these statements , to modify or to amplify his own view of the situation . " Whether or not the Federal Reserve Board should have removed Charles A. Mitchell . a . Class A director of the New York Federal Reserve Bank , for his open defiance of the board 's authority and his avowed attempt to frustrate its administrative policy is , of course , a matter of opinion , " Mr. Glass said . " It was my conviction , and still is , that the board should have taken exactly that action . " This should have been done promptly , not so much , perhaps , for the offer by Mr. Mitchell 's bank of $25,000,000 to a dangerously extended speculative stock market which the board was conservatively trying to curb , as for his dramatic assertion of a superior obligation to the stock speculators over against his obligation to the Federal Reserve system , of which Mr. Mitchell is a sworn official . " He was well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board ; nevertheless he set out with apparent deliberation to thwart it and to bring the authority of the board into-contempt : - In this he slice ceeded . " The authority of the board to suspend or remove Mr. Mitchell or any other officer or director of the New York Federal Reserve Bank is not a - matter of opinion . It is so plain that denial of it betrays ignorance of the law . " There is no implied limitation on the procedure thus sanctioned . If there were any , it is inconceivable that it would relate to an offense involving a vitiation of the board 's vital administrative policies . " In scores of ways the act lodges with the central board at Washington supremacy of control . If the president of the National City Bank , who is also a Class A director of the New . York Federal Reserve Bank , can be persuaded to believe that the Federal Reserve act authorizes Reserve banks . to rediscount paper for stock speculative purposes he is too simple to hold either position . Of course Mr. Mitchell knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defiance of the Federal Reserve Board . He would have thrown his bank 's $25 , - 000,000 in the speculative swirl as a customary transaction . ? " This stock speculating with funds of Federal Reserve banks is by law ? precluded , as it was distinctly intended to be . To say Federal Reserve banks are not subject to the authority of the Federal Reserve Board in making loans is to betray ignorance of the law . "                     