@@690248

txt 0n Wednesday M. Deschamps w ; , , e ager of Georges Carpentier is said to have declared that his . boxyr would go into retirement and forbid the public entering his training con.p from Monday nest until the clay of the bout . On Thursday Trainer Gus Wilson intimated that the manager of the Frenchman did n't know what he was talking about and that there would be public training the first three days of the week , but that from and including Thursday to the day of the bout the camp would be dosed . Now Mr. Newman says the old barbed wire fence idea will go into effect on Monday . ! vs time for the Freschman 's party to get together and make up their minds Just what is what . The dear old public is getting the usual run around . Let 's have the Ina , no matter hole much it hurts. ? Editor 's note . We blew in on Georges Car . venter at his training camp at Long Beach during a driving rain storm this afternoon and got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ r rencninan mimed that the outdoor ring was waterlogged rind that he would not do soy boxing for the day . Sonie one in the party offered him the use of an indoor gym , but he spurned the offer . Thee another suggested that he could use the state armory , but once more he passed up the offer . The Frenchman was very Icy when we asked him what he weighed , and for a moment we thought that he was going to bite us . Finally he told us that he weighed 176 pounds , if anyone cares in the matter . Frenchman to Hide . Another thing . Carpentier and his cohorts have decided to put up the old bars on the public . No longer will those who pay the freight be allowed to gaze among the chalky features of the Frenchman ns he glides through his training stunts . His last appearance in public during his preparatory stunts Will happen on Sunday . Atter that it will be the old barbed wire business so popular with that gang when they were at Manhasset getting ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we gathered from those . around the camp that he has not boxed in three days . He looks drawn and far from being the same athlete that went down before Dempsey . At any rate , it does not look as if any of the boys here will be able to get a line on him . With the bars up there is n't a chance in the world to tell how good or bad he really , la . " , WelcOmed by Gibbons . Then we hastened over to Tom Obbons ' camp at Grand Beach , Mich . I , Was different there . Gibbons was attending strictly to business in an Indoor gym , with quite a gathering of Una in attendance . As usual Tom bolted great and boxed with an his waists:iled grace and skill . Sammy ' Mandell went two fast rounds with the St. Paul battler and then Time " Kid " Herman pranced through the same distance . Mrs. Gibbons and her three children occupied seats up close while the big boxer did his tricks . Charles S. Abbott . wealthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is working , wound up the show in a friendly bout and got a. lot out of it . Grand Beach Camp Open . Gibbons will continue his training for several more days before laying off and the public will be allowed in as often as they desire . Carpentier may go to Chicago tomorrow to appear at a show in the White City , although at this hour he was n't quite sure about It . It is surprising how Carpentier has mastered the English language since the last time he showed here while waiting to meet Dempsey . Gus Witson , his trainer , attempted to do some interpreting for the boxer , but Georges handled the lingo even better than Gus himself .                     