@@689281

txt A group of young Two Epochs women , camping Were in the wilds of in Collision . Northern Michigan , paid a visit to Mrs. HENRr Form , who happened to be ; in their vicinity with another camping party . That they should have been desirous of meeting the wife of a man more than well known is easily under'standable , and Mrs. Foal ) might have taken their coming as both a courtesy and a compliment . Instead , she chose ' to deliver a brief lecture on proper and ' improper dressing by women  --  a lecture which she must have known would receive wide publicity . She told . her visitors that the strongly disapproved of their overalls and their short stockings  --  that they were showing poor taste and worse judgment when they came into town thus garmented , that she did n't like to look at them and would not sign her name for them . What the young women said in reply is not recorded , but they might have said several things . They could have begun by admitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleased , according to the standards established and observed in the circles wherein she was born and trained . They could have admitted as readily her right to have her own opinion as to the taste and judgment shown by women whose standards of propriety were different from her own . Then they could have told her  --  very gently , of course ? that she had shown something less than the best of taste and propriety in assuming that to disagree with her was to be wrong , that she abused her privilege when she took it upon herself publicly to censure women who felt no need of her advice and over whose manners and customs she had no slightest claim to authority . They were responsible for what they did , not she , and if they did not express resentment of her condemnation , it must have been because of their possessing rather unusual powers of selfrestraint . Whether or not the A Question young women who Mostly met Mrs. FORD at . CongruityMichigamme were of dressed properly or improperly depends not on what she thought of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garments to the life they were living , and on the effect which those garments produced on the majority of the people who saw them . Certainly it would be at least injudicious , though far from criminal , for women to dress in overalls and short stockings  --  that is about as young men in a like environment and pursuing like activities would dress  --  if doing it excited an approach to general pain and indignation among the observers probably to be encountered . If no great issue is involved , sensible and courteous people do not offend even the sensibilities which they do not share . It is presumable , however , that these young women were following custom rather than defying it , and it is more than probable that of all whom they had met in the northern woods only Mrs. FORD had failed to see the congruity between their garments and their activities . If the latter were commendable , then the garments were equally .. so , and one can hope , young women being what they are , that they presented a spectacle entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conventions as to what women should and should not do . Mrs. FORD 'S disquisition on taste and judgment will not , and should not , make one young woman in this or any other country substitute skirts for breeches or prevent one from substituting breeches for skirts . It is not in this choice that taste and judgment lie , but in selecting with discretion the times and places for wearing the one or the other . Out in Steubenville , A Remedy Ohio , as everywhere as Bad as . else , the Ku Klux . DiseaseKlan , besides proving the attractive to a considerable number of misguided or vicious mon , has excited the strong disapprobation of at least as many more who prefer a government by law to the enforcement of private opinions in the secret conclaves of disguised and . Irresponsible judges . As a result , there . has been made in that part of the country a mistake hardly less grave than the one of which the members of the obnoxious and dangerous conspiracy have been guilty . Its critics , professing a- highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have proceeded to organize themselves - as " the Knights of the Blazing Ring , " which can be , itself , only another " clan or klan , " and is sure in time , if not at once , to become simply another instrument for the execution of private opinions by irresponsible judges . What the opponents of the Ku Klux Elan should do , in Ohio and elsewhere . is to proclaim their dependence on the police and the courts , and to see to It that officials of an sorts ' are elected who will justify that dependence . In a few desperate emergencies it may be necessary to fight the devil with his Dwn weapons , but even that is questionable , and there does not exist in this country  --  as yet  --  any emergency that is ' desperate enough to justify the Lynching of lynchers or to warrant the assumption by anybody that the country can be saved from such miserable enemies as the Ku Xlux Klammen only by resort to their own methods of coercion and punishment . With each day An Appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Assistance . will be found alive decreases , not because it is probable that the child will be subjected to intentional ill-treatment , but because its precarious health requires that It ' be fed with a special diet . Yet even that requirement may be known to the kidnapper , as it has been widely advertised . If the case were one involving a blackmail plot , the taking of proper precautions in the feeding of the baby for any length of time , if at all , would be Unlikely ; but as no demands for money have been made , the chances are that the theft was done by a woman obsessed by a yearning to have a little - child in her possession , and the distracted parents therefore can hope that the woman reads the papers and will be eager to follow the medical directions which they all have contained . The police are showing commendable activity and interest in the solution of this cruel mystery , and especially have they been wise in appealing for help to every woman in the city . ' Whoever sees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explaining is asked to make inquiries and promptly to notify headquarters of any suspicious circumstances . New York is so large , and so nearly everybody in it is a stranger to everybody else , that such Investigation is difficult , but something may come of the plan if the women will do their part .                     