@@687687

txt The news from Washington tnat a Democratic filibuster is planned to delay passage of the permanent tariff bill until the next session of congress leaves us more calm than filibusters usually do . The filibuster is bad in principle . It is a technical evasion of an issue , a refusal to allow a decision to be made upon Its merits . It is subterfuge . But the complications in the tariff bill now before the senate are such that a long debate would be certain at best , and if the filibustering senators really study the issues and say something in their speeches to clarify the measure an extended debate will not be an unmixed evil . Every hour 's study of the bill , even by a layman , reveals some point of such remarkable possibilities for evil and injustice as to cast doubt upon the value of the bill as a whole . The potash tariff , the wool schedule , and the sugar schedule have in them such potential backlashes . Aluminum provides a startling illustration . The bill provides a specific duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents a pound on sheets , bars , plates , etc . Other clauses would add a duty of 60 per cent to this specific rate , making a total duty of about 70 per cent on aluminum products . This protection is provided despite the fact that under the existing rates of 20.4 per cent , aluminum manufacturers have built up a tremendous and profitable business in this country with raw materials which can be produeed here probably more cheaply than any place in ' the world . With the 20.4 per cent duty our aluminum manufacturers have held foreign competition down to imports estimated at about three one-hundredths of home production . That should make it clear that an added duty of 50 per cent is not needed for protection , but can be used to enable the aluminum men to charge almost any price they wish for their products here . ft is a magnificent gift to the Industry , which will 30 taken out of the pockets of American consumers . Such features illustrate the log rolling methods iced In the preparation of this bill . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill danIcrous . They illustrate the need of formulating a ariff on broad nonpartisan lines , with scientific ? xactness which will differentiate between exploitaion of American consumers and protection of American industries . Let the filibuster take up the subject from this viewpoint and it will have popu ? ar support , even though it will have the opposition ) f aluminum makers , and potash makers , and beet sugar growers , and , others who have obtained nigh protective duties regardless of their effect soon consumers and upon American commerce .                     