@@691494

txt It was said at the Quai d'Orsay tonight that no debt , note earl been received from Washington and none was expected . It was added that Information obtained by Paris from Washington indicated that there had been exaggeration of the intentions of the American Government . However , the French Government realizes America would welcome proposals and that it would be to the interest of France to make them . Foreign Minister Briand and Finance Minister Caillaux were last week named by the Cabinet to work out plans looking to negotiations ; in a word , they form a French I c-bt Funding Commission which expects Bonner or later to open conversations with the American Debt Funding Commission . Within the next few weeks they will form front among the Foreign Office and Treasury experts and from among the Financial and Foreign Affairs Commissions of the Chamber and Senate a commission to help them in the work of examining the whole debt situation and reporting to them . On that report they will proceed to formulate their instructions to the commission , which will be sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove impassible for Washington to send a- comcn Paele ... That is as far as affairs have gone to date , and it may be added that it Is only the courtesy with which all discussion of the debt question hat ; been hitherto conducted by Ambassador Herrick and by the Government at Washington that has prevented the whole matter from being embittered by repeated false reports of reminder notes and summonses from the Debt Funding Commission . See Division Of Responsibility Here . One can not fail to notice the effect in the French capital of reports from Washington that the State Department in the conversations is now acting as transmitting agency for the Debt Funding Commission . This is something rather new for the French , who are accustomed to regard communications from a Foreign Office as representing the simple attitude of the government concerned , and the fact that the State Depa  --  tment seems to them to be sharing or avoiding responsibility hits them as significant . Of course , the French would prefer to deal solely with the State Department , leaving to the American Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent that there is lack of accord at Washington that development . may not help negotiations , for M. Briand would not be a diplomat if he did not seek to benefit by any split among those with whom he is dealing . And 3i . Briand is a diplomat , and a very good one . The idea emphasized in dispatches from Washington that the hand of President Coolidge and Secretary Kellogg is being forced by the Debt Funding , Commission and Congress makes little appeal to Frenchmen , whit retort that if the American Government , Pure of office for four years , may be swayed by Congress , what must be the care of the French Government , which may be thrown out in the ten minutes it takes the French Chamber to cast a s ore ? Therefore , they argue , French public opinion must have an important influence on whatever terms the French Ministers may draft . From a political point of view , it is unfortunate that the American action coincides - with the beginning of security negotiations , for inevitably the French see an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is doubtless far from the minds of members of the Debt Fund in g Commission . However . It is undoubtedly true that the past few months have brought a considerable change in the French attitude . They have spread the conviction that , after all . France can not expect cancellation and must make the best terms she can . with America and with England . French Face Many Difficulties . One thing that should be realized in America , and must be realized sooner or later . is that with all the good-will M the world , actual payment of the foreign debt by France presents enormous difficulties . Americans in many instances seem disposed to argue that France can raise in taxation a sum which at current exchange would meet the proper payments , and anyhow , does not England pay ? No real economist would place France and England In the same position in making foreign payments . England 's foreign investment . her far-flung trade interests and her gold production in South Africa , not to mention her general financial standing , place her in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign Investments left beyond those in Itussia , which are not collectable , a depreciated currency and a domestic debt larger than England , all things considered . Now , with her combined debt to Eng --  land and America , France owes abroad , some $7,000,000.000 gold , whereas the present value of payments Germany would make under the Dawes plan for reparations is estimated at *10.000,000. - 000 . So France the conqueror owes abroad for liquidation of the war 70 per cent . of what is owed by Germany , conquered and with twice the population . In addition , France , having expended nearly 100.000.000.000 Francs for reconstruction , can not get it ail back even If Germany pays the last cent due under the Dawes plan . While France carries a domestic debt burden of 300.000 , - 000.000 francs . Germany has wiped out her domestic debt . Therefore it should be apparent that if in the judgment of General Dawes and his colleagues it was essential to set up elaborate transfer machinery so German money could be transferred to the Allies , it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment , And It may be expected that France will ask America and England to be as kind to her as they advised her to be to Germany . This means France will ask that some plan be made by which , when she can raise francs to pay her foreign creditors , she will be helped to protect her fiscal position in delivering those francs for payment . The French believe that the universal recognition by bankers and economists that the centre of the whole Dawes scheme is the transfer system will help her in her plea for soft treatment .                     