@@685719

txt The shameful spectacle of sick and injured veterans of the A. E. P. being cared for on county poor farms , because the government has failed to Ole theta the consideration , care , and treatmert ohicli they need , is one which should stir every patriotic itIzen in the country to emphatic demand our immediate correction . Col. Abel Davis is to be thanks , / for calling attention to such a condition in the report of the hospitalization committee at week 's Illinois convention of the American Legion in Chicago . Thousands of ex-soldiers suffering from shell 1 , , ock and ' berder line ' mental sickness will be . tome permanently insane if the present methods are maintained . " said Col. Davis . " I give as my a.ithority Dr. Thomas W. Belden , the foremost ex 1 , ett on mental cases in the , country . Of 5,900 ) niental cases among veteransion June 9 , only 1,644 Isvere in government institutions . " After explaining that incapacitated service ! nen are being sent to county poor farms because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be removed from the atmosphere of charity and of grudging care for the poor and lowly . The public health service has been choked by the work thrown upon it , and it in turn is zhokit.g our men , " Men with health broken , - minds imperiled , and future ruined in the defense of their country are being cast . aside by the government which called them to battle . That the same convention of the legion which discloses this condition also returned report caning , fpr aggressive laws and prosecution to protect the country from the Reds proves beyond question the unswerving loyalty and paVictim a these men : Their ' - undivided loyalty le for their country . Their opposition is to the ad. ministration which has neglected their comrade : : , now In need . It might well be a political isiam , but it Li more than that . It is a disgrace to the nation , a on national honor which can not be wiped out by a repudiation at the polls of those guilty . First of all must come a rectification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been placed under the best and tenderest care available Ir . the country there will be time to brand indelibly those guilty of this great injustice . The American Legion has revealed conditions . The American Legionnaires won the war . Theirs was the great . task They lived up to it . Having accomplished this task , must they also take up the burden of providing for their shattered comrades ? IS it not time for the comfort loving ; home staying citizens who profited by the sacrifices of these men to take definite action which will assure them simple justice and decent care ?                     