@@685224

txt The first important break in the ranks of insurgent railroad employes in the Chicago Terminal district came today when railroad officers announced that groups of strikers on the Pennsylvania , the Soo Line and the Chicago , Rock Island &; Pacific had decided to return to work . Edward Corrigan , Vice President of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen , said englnemen on a number of roads had voted to go back tomorrow or Friday . Officers said groups of strikers at St. Louis , Mo. ; El Reno , Okla. ; Fort Worth , Texas , and Chickasha , Okla. , also had returned , and at Spokane , Wash. , ninety switchmen voted to go pack to work . While insurgent leaders continued to claim that ' the strike was growing , the General Managers ' Association . announced that more freight was moved in Chicago today than on any day since the strike started . The New York Central announced that its freight movement was 80 per cent . of normal . At the stock yards it was stated that although livestock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three hundred and sixteen cars were brought in today , the largest movement since the strike was called . The ' Chicago Yardmen 's Association today denied reports that W. W. leaders were behind the switchmen 's strike and declared that John Grunau , head of the outlaw organization , had not been deposed . " Our conduct . will speak for itself , " a statement said . " All meetings have been open and have been attended by Department of Justice men . " Reports from Central and Far Western States indicated a continued improvement in the strike situation . Railroad workers returned at several points and embargoes were lifted by railroads . Chicago railroad executives issued a statement saying : " The strike situation in Chicago showed a very material improvement today as indicated by the fact that the roads involved operated408 locomotives , as compared with 765 normally . " We look for further improvement tomorrow , which is predicated on the fact that switchmen on the Rock Island and Soo lines voted today to return to the service . Firemen on the Pennsylvania also returned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and firemen on other roads affected . " One hundred and fifty Rock Island employes in Chicago have returned to work , restoring normal conditions , the company announced . The industrial situation in Ohio and Michigan , however , reached a crisis today as a result of the stoppage of fuel supplies , and in the Far West , where a dozen passenger trains were reported stalled in Southern California , the situation became increasingly serious . Both insurgent leaders and Railroad brotherhood officials said the fight had evolved into a " lingering affair , " but the brotherhood men declared the insurgents gradually were losing strength . Government agents were taking a close check on the strike situation in various rail centres and at New Orleans six insurgent leaders arrested last night in a raid on a strikers ' meeting were held on Federal warrants charging interference with the mails.                     