@@693297

txt Under the lurid glare of the huge arc lights that surround the practice field On the plains up here , . the Cadets this afternoon started the final drive for the Midshipmen . As a special favor today , the members of the football squad were permitted to have their supper after the rest of the cadet corps this evening . Thus , for the first Monday of the season , Captain Biff Jones and his assistants were able to have a real practice . On Mondays , class work keeps the cadets until 4:30 and , hs a rule , they do not bother to change to football clothes because this would cost them valuable time . But today they were allowed to stay out longer , until after 6 ; so the boys changed to war togs and sailed into what it was planned would be the last really strenuous practice before the start for Chicago . Winter has desehnded in no uncertain terms on the Point and the day was practically gone by the time the boys reported . ' The big lights were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grounds into an eerie sort of day . In this footballs rolled and were tossed and booted by players , while along the rim of the light the blanketed figures of the coaches and trainers walked , looking for all the world like Indians gathering for a war powwow . The coaches and team were not alone tonight . The cadets came down for a time and made noises such as only cadets can Make . This Army-Navy game Is one where no silencing hand is held up by cheer leaders so that quarterbacks may make themselves heard . It is played in one continuous roar of cheers , and the cadets tonight gave their team some practice in it . Excitement on Plains . The excitement of the Army-Navy games , which grips its undergraduates as no other game of the season does , was evident everywhere about the campus . There was an almost exultant lilt to the stirring marching song the cadets have written to that rolling march from " The Vagabond King " as it roared out tonight ? " Forward ! Forward ! March to Victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other ) fficials , too . The big , good " natured Biff Jones was quick and terse in his movements today . " No , " he said , in reply to a question . " I am not making any predictions on the Army-Navy game . Nobody could . and keep a straight face doing it . The Navy has one of the best teams of the country this year . It has looked well in every game that it has played . Yes , I will make one prediction . I expect this to - be the closest and hardest fought Army-Navy game in the past ten years . " While there was hard work today there was no real scrimmage . Jones can not afford to take chances with injuries now . There was a good deal of dummy work , with the hard-worked scrubs again representing the Navy , and sending Navy players against the Army varsity . And there was a good deal of kicking and passing , both with an eye toward stopping Navy passing and toward perfecting Army 's aerial attack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing in their games this year , but they may surprise folks in the expensive gallery at Chicago . The team is in its best condition spice the Syracuse game . No one suffered any ill effects from the tight little contest against Ursinus Saturday , and all hands are ready fort the opening whistle at Chicago . There have been hurts and bruises through the ranks , but Frank Wandle , the veteran trainer , has them ready now so that Jones can pick and choose from about the entire squad . Line Is Selected . The line is pretty definitely settled . It has been settled pretty well all season and has been one of the best lines in the country this year . There are several backfield ' combinations that Jones can use . In the Ursinus game , for instance , he started Harding , Wilson , Cagle and Murrell behind ? the regular line . Then , after a while , he ran in Tiny Hewitt and Trapnell and one or two others . Harding is pretty certain to be starting querferback . The defeat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's morale at all . It was , naturally enough , a big disappointment . But the cadets went into that game with no illusions . They and their coaches knew that they were going up against a team that was very close to being the best in the country . The cadets suffered no bad defeat . Rockne 's great team had the fight of its life to stop them and the future officers came through in good shape physically . They did a good job in that game and the natural disappointment that followed was quickly forgotten and all hands turned toward the next objective . See Hard Battle . West Point undoubtedly has one of its finest teams this year and there is the probability that it will go into action Saturday as favorites . But the Army is not laying much stock in that . As one officer working with the team tonight said : " That means not a doggone thing to us . When you come to the Army-Navy game , there is no such animal as favorite . We know what we are running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have a , hard , mighty hard , job ahead of us and do n't you think that we do n't realize it . The papers may have it all doped out beforehand , but we know better than that . " The football forces , a party of about seventy , including handlers , coaches and managers , leave here Wednesday evening on two special cars which will be picked up that night in Albany by the Wolverine . The party will arrive in Chicago Thursday in time for a workout that afternoon , making its headquarters at the Cold Spring Country Club . Tomorrow night there will be another workout on the plains and Wednesday probably a light signal drill before boarding the train . And the football party , from Jones down to the lowliest sub , will head West looking for a real fight and ready for it , confident of giving their best .                     