@@694801

txt Sharp reactions occurred in the stock market yesterday . Persistent pressure from professionals on moderate advances in the early dealings finally dislodged long holdings to a greater extent than at any time in recent weeks and pronounced a-eakne.ss developed during the afternoon . Shorts were given many opportunities to cover at good profits on stocks put out only a few days ago , and while buying from this source came into the market in rather heavy volume , the selling more than took care of this demand . That stocks are liquidated readily when weakness develops as again shown conclusively by the amount of selling by outsiders . For some time conservative observers have endeavored to get clients out of the market . but without success . At best , the holders adopted the practice of using stop orders to give them protection , and these stops were uncovered in a majority of issues during yesterday 's break . Sentiment after the close continued pessimistic . It was argued various warnings against over-enthusiasm were given in recent weeks which were ignored and that any moderate rally on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The feeling continues widespread that stocks must get to lower levels before any good recovery can be anticipated . While it is probable that technical rallies may come from time to time , it is felt the general trend will continue downward until stocks have reached levels where they will be attractive for the beginning of a good sustained spring advance . Commission houses were large sellers on balance . The uncovering of stop loss orders brought outside liquidation into the market on a heavy scale . Some houses reported customers who have been out of the market put out short lines NA hen stocks scent through previous resistance levels . Professional operators and floor traders , because of extensive short covering in the late dealings , purchased on balance . This element sold stocks in the first hour . but this supply ea. more than offset by baying by shorts during the late decline . That there is a substantial short interest in the market is indicated by the amount of borroeing . In addition to transactions in the loan crowd , innumerable transactions are being consummated by private arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been in more than two months . Narrow movements . recorded in some stocks , have been the subject of considerable discussion and have presented profits for traders on ls , th sides in most instances . This is characteristic of a market such as has existed for the past few etc-eats . One espies:a:ton for many of the small movements is that liquidation in most issues has lean proceeding slowly and any tendency toward a real break has been checked quickly by support orders . Stocks thus bought for support sold immediately on the subsequent recovery . Similarly a large number of stocks have been running into an increased supply on moderate advances , and those a ho put out shorts at the upturns have rushed to cover on the next recession . This has kept price fluctuations within a rather narrow range , although reco ' . er:es in many case= fail to reach the previ , us highs . and new lows arc made on recessions . Therefore the trend has been downward . Because many stocks have broken through the theoreticed resistance levels there have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues be lightened on moderate recoveries . As in the past , outsiders , instead of taking advantage of the upturns , have been holding their stocks but have placed stop orders in them as a protection against any sharp reaction . These stops knee subsequently been uncovered and aided in bringing about an easier trend . Judging front comments and ndeices in leading commission houses . the railroad group Is ega.n growing favor . This is true paracu:ai'y of standard dividendpas me stocks that reported tar Is ? at. - faaory earnings Cer hat year and had a safe marean a ' eve dividend re , quirements . It is the =rotting belief that rail cenditions are turning for the better and that withal a few months there will be gains in car loadings and car Tangs over the corresponding periods of last sear . Several firms which eaten hate represented important railroad interests hate been among the buyers of leading rails on a scale during setbacks the past tee* weeks and this accumulation is viewed as important . u7 1 . S While the reduction in Mid-Continent crude by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eas the result of a desire to bring prices for oil below a0 gravity more in line with West Texas quotations , it is evident the action has not encouraged those who had hoped for a change for the better in the most distant future . Houses which were advocating accumulation of some of the oil stocks up to six aeeks ago have recessed their attitude and are now advising clients to switch from these stocks into others if they intend to maintain a long position in the market . Armour of Illinois preferred has been meeting better buying in recent sesisons because of statements in many quarters that the issue is far out of line with many others on its 7a dividend rate . Part of the demand has come through firms 1. % ith prominent Chicago connections , but there has also been buying by outsiders alto usually favor speculative investment issues . Part of the strength in General Refractories recently has been due to the opinion the company is likely to show ' good results in the coming months . Improvemerrt in the steel industry and increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reconstruction and relining of blast furnaces . General Refractories nuns ' hers U. S. Steel among its leading customers . Increased earnings for that leading industrial will probably bring larger demands for Refractories products . Decrease of $15,635,000 , or ** in brokers ' loans of the Federal Reserve bank had little effect on the market except to bring a moderate demand in the first few minutes of trading which was taken care of by offerings from professionals and others . Because of the reaction in the market and the reduced volume of dealings during the week ended last Wednesday ma.ny interests expected a larger drop in the loan total , which now stands at $3,819,385,000 , compared with the high record of $3,835,030,000 established a week ago . Conservative bankers have expressed the opinion that brokers ' loans must come down considerably before the situation will be viewed as satisfactory , and further decreases are anticipated in coming weeks . GOVERNMENT Some encouragement was obtained by bulls from the fact that the Federal Reserve Board 's reportshowed an increase of $7,100,000 in holdings of government securities . Sale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market , but it was contended that the small increase now reported is without particular significance . Some were predicting additional sales will be indicated in the coming %Necks . Statements have been made in several quartets that investment buying has been coming into the more rem esentaave stocks which have reacted sufficiently to mal.e the income yield a factor of support . Hoccever , this has not yet been shown clearly on the surface of the market , and it is not likely that if such buying has occurred it be reflected in any sharp advance in these stocks . Nevertheless , many investment issues might be aided in resisting any sharp break by scale investment buying , if further recessions develop . The profit taking a hich has come into Shattuck has been absorbed on a scale by interests alto have been peoninent in the stock on several occas:ons heretofore . Blancr s are insisting prospects for the current year are facoraale and that a good increase in earnings will be reported because of further expansion by the management . INTERNATIONAL When International Nickel broke through 90 it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movemenc-a There have been numerous reports recently of heavy bees rowing by a substantial short interest and this induced considerable speculative buying on the theory that a runera of shorts would he attempted . These longs have been getting out through sales " at the market " or stop loss orders which have been reached on reactions . Action of the U. S. Senate in putting the investigation of public utilities into the hands of the Federal Trade Commission ass considered a favorable move , for it . mill remove politics from the matter . Leading authorities in the public utility field are said to have expressed the opinion that the investigation will be satisfactory from the standpoint of the companies .                     