@@695549

txt ecretary ** actaress last evening was superior to any previous speech of his . This is true not only in respect of its substance but of its form . It is written with more vigor and fervor than anything ? which had come from him before . He chose a single theme and set it forth with a warmth of expression end sincerity of conviction which have not been customary with him . It is true that around his central subject he grouped a lot of the routine campaign flourishes about all our prosperity and happiness and virtue being due to the Republican Party . But these things may be dismissed with a tolerant smile as not essential . The one political belief which he advanced and argued with great force and feeling is what has always been held to be the true Jetfersonian doctrine . It was long the professed doctrine of the Democratic Party . In energetically adopting it for himself , Mr. HOOVER defines it in terms that carry one a long way back . The functions of the Government at Washington should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and nearly all Government undertakings are wretchedly managed . The great need in this country is a decentralized Government  --  local control of local affairs being left untouched wherever possible . Mr. HOOVER calls this " the American sz'stern , " and so it was for many years . From it there have been sad lapses in recent times . Eoth parties have wandered from the old paths , the Democrats just as widely as the Republicans . The chief significance of Mr. HooVER 's speech is that he would call them back . He wants all needless and futile Federal commissions abolished . He would have the Government keep its nose out of private affairs . What has made the glory and greatness of this country is individual initiative , personal enterprise , daring combinations of inventive ability and far-sighted planning . Whenever the hand of the Government is laid upon Lusiness of that kind , it is found to be a dead hand . A hateful bureaucracy is established which levels everything to a dull routine and penalizes instead of stimulating progress in new lines . Speaking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. HOOVER repudiates the whole system of paternalism and petty interference which has grown up in Washington . He sees it destroying leadership . It tends to cripple the mental energies of the people . It diminishes or extinguishes the opportunities before aspiring youth . The words which follow might just as well have been written by THOMAS JEFFERSON as by HERBERT HOOVER : I feel deeply on this subject because during the war I had some practical experience with governmental operation and control . I have witnessed not Only at home but abroad the many failtatcs of government in business . I have Seen its tyrannies , its injustices . its destructions of.self-government , its undermining of the very instincts which carry our people forward to progress . I have witnessed the lack of advance , the lowered standards of living , the depressed spirit of the people working- under much a syztem . My objection is , based not-upon theory or upon I a failure to recognize wrong or abuse , but I know the adoption of such methods would strike at the very roots of American life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this is seizing an old Democratic sword , Mr. HooVER at least turns it against modern Democratic proposals . He sees his opponents undertaking to put the Government into business in three vital matters : State control of the sale of liquor , relief of the farmers by buying up their surplus and the operation as well as the ownership of waterpower plants . This is effective campaigning . Mr. Hoovan as a convinced individualist is able to go strongly against some things which Governor SMITH has favored . But is he not at the same time going against what his own party has done ? It has , by prohibition legislation which it promises to maintain , laid the hand of the central Government upon American citizens in a way to dwarf all other oppressions and tyrannies . Mr. 14 OOVER is a sworn defender of the protective tariff , but by what other means did . any Government eaer more despotically thrust itself into private business ? These questions Mr. HOOVER must be left to discuss with his own party colleagues . We will rot here cavil about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struck out boldly for himself and proclaimed vices which are sound , even though neither political party accepts them , or at least lives up to them , today . Oldfashioned Democrats might well welcome Mr. HOOVER as a. recent convert to their faith . What reception it will have in the orthodoa Republican church , with all its paternalistic shrines , the future may reveal .                     