@@689369

txt Public interest demands that the " hobbles " be struck off the railroads , President Ralph Budd , of the Great Northern Railway declared here in an address before the annual convention of the American Association of Railroad Ticket Agents . President Budd recalled the remarkable development ' of railway transportation during the period prior to 1887 , when competition was at its height and there was no regulation except for state laws , and when railroad enterprise was on a strictly commercial basis . While not advocating this system for present-day conditions , he said that the ' country could net in any other manner have secured the great benefits which were so essential to its growth and development at that time . lie advocated regulation limited to the protection of the public interest , but giving such freedom as would permit the railroads to escape unnecessary costs and make earnings large enough to per- ' mit a reasonable profit to owners , for the security of in vestors and for the expansion vital to the growing trans. - ! portation reeds of the country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management than they did under government control , President Budd declared . He said that although it has been represented to railway employes that they are being paid lower wages than under government management , the truth is that their wages are higher under private management . And the public is paying less . instead of more as is incorrectly represented , under private management that it did under government control of operation , he said . This is apparent when account it taken of the deficit incurred during the Federal control period , he said . " The so-called service-at-cost principle , " President Rudd said , - which is established by the Transportation Art of Inn can only provide lower rates if the railroad managements are permitted ta produce transportation cheaper by being unhampered in conducting their business . " He asserted that service at cost does not mean there should be no allowance to the bwners for the use of their property and that the fair return intended by the Transportation Act is the least that could be allowed within the previsions of the Constitutions regardless of the Transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Buda said , have been poor . During the first si ) C months ef this year they were at the rate of only about ; 2 ; - an:IL:illy on the value of their properties . Such unsatisfactory earnings result from the fact that the roads serve largely an agricultural population and in an endeavor ? to alleviate the distress of the farmers in their territory , railroad rate . have been advanced les 's in the northwestern region than in other sections , only about 40,7 , , while in the eastern region rate level is SO'Ti. higher than ten years , ago . Mr. Budd regarded as a singular fact that where the railroads have centributed must to alleviating the conditions and where they themselves are suffering from the same trcubles as the farmers they are being bitterly attacked . Discussing valuation of railroads for rate making purposes , he said : " It should be understood and always kept in mind that the value which is being determined is that of the railroad property used for transportation purposes and has no relation whatsoever to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Press reports in the past 24 hours cite decisions of the interstate Commerce Commission in the case of two roads in which it is said certain important principles of valuation are : In- , ' flounced . But there is nothing in these reports to indicate that the commission has deported from the general lines which it has been pursuing . Of course there 1 , ill be disputed items as to the roads have every right to insist upon full censideration being given to every element of value , but ore thing is certain , and that is that the Interstate Commerce Commission could not so reduce rates as to depress the market value of steeks and then assign a low value because of such depression . "                     