@@687601

txt Police Commissioner Enright yesterday ordered out the ' police reserves as emergency attack on the alleged clime wave which he says does not exist . He also directed that the seventy-five motorcycle policemen , now chiefly engaged in running down speeding- automobiles , should patrol the streets continuously at night . Another anti-crime wave measure y'bsterday was the transfer of six automobiles used by Deputy Police Commis ; loners to the Detective Bureau and an appeal for volunteers to lend horses and automobiles to the Police Department . Commissioner Enright also said he would ask the Board of Aldermen today to purchase five liigh ' - power automobiles without delaying to advertise for bids The : equest for automobiles and horses from volunteers was addressed to the 5,000 police reserves which include many wealthy men , but it was said at Police Headquarters that loans of automobiles from any sources would be acceptable . To Increase Night Force . The police , reserves are wanted to increase the night forces of plain clothes men , it was announced . Most of them will be used at night when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day duty where they will relieve regular policemen and enable them to do night duty . The order calling out the reserves , it was announced , was contained in a conimunication from Police Commissioner Enright to Special Deputy Police Commissioner Rodman Wanamaker , who is in charge of the police reserves . There are 5,000 names on the nominal roll-call of police reserves , but the response to calls for duty always has been only a fraction of the enrollment . It was thought possible , however , that 1,000 men might be added to the department for several weeks by this order . Scattering Groups Report . At midnight last night it was reported that scattering groups of police nerves had appeared at precincts in upper Manhattan and the Bronx . The highest record was at the West 177th Street station , where it was said that thirty reserves had reported ' and several had been assigned to police duty . k Fifteen reserves appeared at the West 152d Street Station , and several were assigned to duty , it was said . At the West 100th Street station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty in the precinct in plain clothes , but had not yet reported at the station . At the headquarters of the police reserves in Greenwich Street . it was said last night that no one in authority had appeared , and that no figures regarding ' the reserves on . duty were available . It is believed that several days will be required to bring out a considerable force of citizen police . Instructions Are Lacking . No telephone instructions had been sent out from Police Headquarters to the precinct stations last night explaining the calling out of the reserves or giving instruction for their employment . In many precincts last night it was said that the local police reserve organization practically had gone out of existence , no drills or meetings having been held for months . In a few precints , on the other hand , the reserves were reported to have active and welldrilled organizations . The last call of such an emergency force was the appeal to the Women 's Police Reserve during - the milk strike last year , when several hundred women were used for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replace policemen needed to guard milk wagons . Major Jean Dean Barnes , one of the most active officers of the policewomen , said last night she had not been notified of the call , but that it would not affect the policewomen . The purchase of uniform and equipment of the police reserves was financed largely by the police games and was under attack by . the Meyer Committee and the value to the city of the organization as a whole was brought into question . The test of calling out the organization ? to perform duty in connection with the present crime wave is declared by far the most severe to which it has been put in the ' give years of its- existence . The ' reserves were formed as a war organization and- were continued both to increase protection to the city in emergency and to provide a training school for policemen . - The police reserves serve without pay . Thousands of them ; have been used to police public meetings and to relieve the regular police in other ways , but they have been called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The organization of a citizens ' board of investigation , to inquire into the crime wave and the causes of police inadequacy apparently was assured yesterday - by , a- letter . of Irving T. Bush , Chairman of the Executive Committee of . the Chamber of Commerce , to Gustsvug T. Kirby , President- of the WashinMOn Square Association . The associaN ? on had called on the Chamber of Commerce to .. tb.ke the lead in organizing such an Inquiry so that the people of New York City might learn from non-partisan sources who or what was to blame for the present condition and what was the most feasible remedy . Mr. Bush indicated that the suggested plan would probably be carried out by the chamber . Organizations have been formed rapidly , it was announced , for target practice on Governors Island . EmployeS of the Bankers ' Trust Company , the National Bank of Commerce and other organilations have formed classes which will begin shooting on Thursday afternoon . Groups of young women employed by banks and corporations will be among those engaged in revolver practise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Robert Lee Bullard , commanding the Second Corps area . said : " Whether there is a crime emergency or not , men entrusted with the responsibility of guarding money should be able to use revolvers accurately . In fact , every good American should know how to shoot and shoot well . Few sports are- " as attractive . " District Attorney Joab H. Banton announced that on ! Monday , April 17 , he would start the trial of 262 gunmen cases , as a move . to fight the crime wave . They include cases of robbery , burglary and pistol carrying .                     