@@694931

txt Bombers added the homes of United States Senator Charles S. Deneen and of Judge John A. Swanson to the record of political pineappling Monday night . Mr. Deneen had been in Chicago for some political business and for the funeral of Joe Esposito , his supporter , who was assas ? stunted last week . Re was on a Washington train when the bombers blew part of his house in . Miss Florence Deneen , the senator 's sister , was in the house . Judge Swanson had just returned from evening campaigning when the bomb exploded at his home . It may have been timed to get him . If that was the purpose , it failed by a few seconds . Swanson is the Deneen candidate for the Republican nomination for state 's attorney against State 's Attorney CrOWO . Senator Deneen is the highest official mark aimed at thus far by the bomb throwers and assassins . Charles Fitzmorris and Dr. Reid of the Thompson family have had the experience with front door explosions . The killing of Esposito was given an international news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and supporter of a United States senator . The news of the blowing up of the senator 's house less than e week after the murder is good for space in Europa and Asia , still more definitely establishing the reputation of Chicago . Mayor Thompson said that within sixty days after his return to office be would have the crooks chased out of Chicago . Instead of that there has been one criminal outrage after another , with motives which could be detected or easily surmised . Mr. Thompson says he has run George V. out of town . He Is known to have run a good superintendent of schools out of office , but or ? ganized crooks and terrorists never before had greater freedom and never showed less apprehension of law . Assassination sand bombing are being added definitely to the technique of politics , and the higher ups are being included as victim &; Chicago politics is being Caribbeanized . Thompson said he could handle the crooks . On his own statement he is responsible . If he had handled them they would not be shooting candi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials . Mr. Thompson has chased himself out of town several times after bombings . That enabled curious readers of Chicago news in Europe to observe that the state of terror here had officials fleeing for their lives . I It 's a question how much of this reputation Chicago can stand without material injury .                     