@@689772

txt With the franc at almost twenty-three to the dollar and over ninety-six to the pound and with Italian lire actually quoted over French francs . Paris is beginning to be seriously worried about the country 's financial position . After the closing of the Bourse francs continued , to fall . At 6:30 the dollar was being quoted at 23.27 and the pound at 98.20 . The selling of francs on the Paris Bourse showed a heavy increase today , purchases of dollars in the official session being 085,000 and sterling 466,000 . A special meeting of the Cabinet will ; 31e.4 ) 151,4 , , , , auatirow morning to take measures to meet the situation created by the fall of the franc . It is understood there may be an immediate curtailment of advances'for the reconstruction and reparation bill , adding 20 or 30 per . cent . more taxes . The Paris . Produce Exchange today announced cereals , oils and sugars would - nt'l be officially quoted until further notice , these commodities being at prices that generally accord with exchange . After conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the projected moves . There exists here a feeling of deep resentment over the exchange situation and most often one hears it said there is no fairness in the Italian lire being above the franc , since it is argued no economic reasons can justify that quotation . Press Plans Campaign . The French press plans to make a campaign against all purchases of foreign goods : The Matin in the morning will print a big ' three-column box saying : " The pound sterling against all reason mounted yesterday to ninety francs eleven and the dollar to twentytwo eighty . " No plausible material reason . no legitimate commercial operation can Justify these quotations . But what international finance wishes is to hurt confidence in France , to break her , morale and to force a panic on her . That 's how Germany actea the moment ' a the Verdun battle . France will hold out today as she did at Verdun . She knows she has n't a million and a quarter idle , she knows she is not threatened with strikes . " Let every , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign pressure by boycotting foreign goods at every opportunity . " Banks were sending out tonight to their customers letters urging them to use checks instead of cash , as is usual , to decrease demand for bank notes and lessen the- danger of inflation . The exchange rate is the one topic of discussion among all Frenchmen , from the heads of the Government to cafe waiters . It is becoming increasingly apparent that selling francs and franc se- , curities by Frenchmen is contributing to the fall of the francs , and nostwar experiences of other European countries have taught the French leaders how hard it is to stop a decline once started . - It is generally conceded that an elerrient of greatest danger lies in the fifty or sixty . billion franc. , ? ) f short term Treasury mites , . three , six and nine months and one year , which are failing due at a rate of six and one half billion francs a month . ' Since the Government embarked on this system , which some experts would call camouflage inflation , holders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them when they fell due . With the Treasury running more or less on a string , it is realized that a wholesale demand for payment in cash of these short-term securities creates a tremendous impulse to paper money inflation to avoid the other alternative . which , of course , no one seriously considers , of repudiating Government paper . While the increased ccost of living naturally calls for large ? circulation , it is considered here that this need , so far as one can see now , could easily be met by an increase in circulation , which would keep it within the present legal limit of 41,000,000.000 francs of Bank of France money . The circulation is now 39,000,000,000 francs . Wanted to Raise Taxes . Despite countrywide complaints of high taxation , it is understood that the Finance Minister has convinced his fellow-Cabinet members of the wisdotn of increasing by 30 per cent . all direct taxes , and this is one of the reasons , it is understood , why the Government wishes to advance the election date , Inasmuch as it is difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase in direct taxes would mean additional burden on the towns in France , since they pay most direct taxes . However , the French Republic has never developed politicians who would or could tax the agricultural wealth of France , which forms 02 per cent . of the country 's riches . It is not to be expected that the next Parliament will prove an exception . Inasmuch as the committee of experts now meeting are trying to pave the way for payment of reparations , it is worth while to point out that the present fiscal troubles of France are directly due to her expenditures for the reparation of war damage the Germans did . The ordinary budget of France balanced . That means France is meeting the ordinary running expenses of her Government . France 's foreign trade figures show a small and constantly decreasing unfavorable balance . France owes abroad commercial debts of twelve billion francs . She holds foreign securites in excess of that amount . Were the ordarY facto and th country 's es fiscal standing thers only face - tors in France 's situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be at their real value . But when France started on her reconstruction program the Government . with the slogan " Germany will pay , t ' inaugurated a " recoverable budget . " This was the budget which had on its debit side actual expenditures and on its credit side only Germany 's promise to pay . For the payment of the cost of the reconstruction of nine wrecked provinces and for the payment of pensions France has actually expended today one hundred and three billion francs . This money was raised by domestic loans which bear interest rates as high as 6% per , cent ... , ? It . is  - -  estimated there will be needed thirty-five billion-more francs trkoornplete the ? reconstruction . ' 4 Without arguing now the ' wisdom ' of this policy , . and the , world would never have excused . France if she- had ' let her devastated , regions remain ' desert . .. the fact:renaains that the French fiscal system . is struggling - in troubled. , waters with this millstone around its neck- . France 's problem is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which has-no war debt , while in her own - budget France is paying ' over . 10,000,000.000 francs a. year interest on the war debt . df she can not do this , if German escapes without paying , historians will have little difficulty in deciding who was really the big vi for in the World War , which . America helped fight and win .                     