@@693278

txt Thomas A. Edison believes that the building of skyscrapers in congested parts of New York and other cities will have to be prohibited in the future to avoid traffic strangulation . He expresses his views on traffic and other problems in an interview with Edward Marshall . Mr. Edison suggests that the city of the future will be tremendously affected by air travel . He believes that as soon as a practicable helicopter is designed so that airplanes may rise and descend vertically landings will be designed on the roofs of new buildings . Noise will increase with the growth of city congestion , according to Mr. Edison , who tells how deafness had been a boon to him in that it removed him from petty distraction and enabled him to engage in contemplative thought at the noisiest part of Broadway with a feeling of remoteness as if he had been in a jungle . He is ' of the opinion that the future city dweller 's hearing will be blunted by the increased noise , but he will be able to endure it without . suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in today 's issue of The Forum , holds that the traffic problem is the greatest to be solved in planning cities of the future . He says it is a problem that must be solved first by the mathematician and then worked out by the architect . After all , according to Mr. Edison , it is simply a question of figuring out the capacity of a bottle neck . He suggests that it would be astonishing if we really could know the actual cost of traffic congestion , and says that one may get an inkling of the enormous cost of congestion by estimating the cost of operating a big truck for a day , and computing the cost of several hours of enforced idleness when that truck gets caught in traffic tangles . He believes that it is more important , however , to devise a method of rapid transportation of passengers . He has come to the conclusion that traffic policemen should have scientific training . He has observed that traffic police as a rule permit traffic to flow in one direction and then another in too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sections and for longer distances , he believes . In discussing the probable necessity of prohibiting the building of new skyscrapers in sections of cities that are already overcrowded , Mr. Edison predicted disaster if the construction of buildings each housing the population of a small city were continued . When all the people in the skyscrapers start to flow out into the streets within half an hour , or try to get into the entrances of the buildings at the beginning of the day 's business , so great overcrowding would result , he said , that it would stop traffic and cost every individual involved part of his time . It is this loss of time , in Mr. Edison 's belief , that eventually will lead to a check on the erection of skyscrapers . This point will be reached , he indicated , when the congestion becomes so great that the practice of housing business in immense buildings will cost the business men and their empldyes time instead of saving it . The inventor contends that the grade crossing problem must be eliminated and that a system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of the busy corners would be solved , he suggests , if streets in one direction would be depressed and those running across them were elevated . Mr. Edison holds also that cities should choose Mayors and other administration officials without regard to politics , but on a basis of business fitness . Mr. Edison has been impressed with the management of cities in Germany , where politics have been eliminated and where he saw advertisements in newspapers for men who could prove their qualifications to act as mayors of cities and towns . He expressed belief in his interview that the elimination of politics from management of American municipalities would result in tax rates that would seem extremely low in comparison with those now paid . Mr. Edison expressed belief that , while humanity can not be standardized , it can be controlled and trained . Big business in America , in his opinion , is accustomed to meet problems quite as difficult as the management of police forces and meets them competently and scientifically . His belief is that when American cities go at the problem as their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after its problems of management most of the problems of the cities will vanish automatically ,                     