@@695877

txt A former employe : of a Blue Island factory has confessed the slaying of Miss Laura Buchholz. 28 years old , who was aubbed to death the night of Jan. 23 as she walked from the Rock Island railroad station to her home at 827 Itansen avenue , Blue Island , it was learned last night . The man is now held for observation in the Northern Indiana hospital at Logansport . Since his confession , ' It was reported . he has become violent . This information was obtained despito the apparent efforts of Blue Island police and Indiana authorities to suppress . it . The confession was obtained last Monday by Sheriff Thomas B. of La Porte , Ind . Former Wire Plant Worker , Howard Coleman , 31 years old , until recently a worker in the American Wire Fabric plant at 136th street and . Western avenue , Blue Island , is the man front whom Sheriff said he obtained the confession . Cole . man 's statement , according to the sheriff , tallies exactly with the circumstances of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacant lot near 335 West 1235 street , Blue Island . At that time , according to the sheriff , Coleman was working in the wire plant and boarding at a Blue Island rooming house . A few days later Coleman left the suburb and reappeared at the home of his parents , living on the outskirts of Le Forte . Last Monday . the sheriff said , Colemaa 's mother telephoned his office that her son had begun to act strangely . , Sheriff Mars Confession . Two deputies went to the Coleman home and took the man to the county ) ail . Within an hour , the sheriff declared , Coleman had voluntarily confessed to tile Buchholz slaying . The sheriff 's first suspicion that Coleman Mai have =been the slayer was proyoked , he said , when the man cried : , " I clubbed her . I clubbed her . " Coleman was held throughout Monday in the county Jail while the sheriff communicated with Police Chief George Fiedler of Blue Island . On Tuesday Chief Fiedler , his lieutenant , William Henke , and George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identify Miss Buchholz 's slayer , drove to La Porte and talked to Coleman . Coleman was tEen taken to the hoe . pltal at Logansport , but was entered Slain on Way to Home , Miss Buchholz , a stenographer for the Reliance Un.nufacturing company , 212 West Monroe street , Chicago , had been detained by en accumulation of Work the night she met death . She alighted , from a Rock Island suburban train at 122d street . Blue Island , about p. tn . The killer sprang from a thicket as she wasted down 123c1 street on the way to her home . An hour later Mortos , an independent contractor who unloads coal along the Rock Island tracks , was in his shanty when a man with bloody hands walked in and inquired when the next west bound freight train passed through the yards . The man washed his hands with coffee and left after declining a Job , Mortos there under the name of Coleman son , according to Dr. J. A. Lynch , the superintendent , The Indiana law pfotitbits extradition of mentally deranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been returned to Blue Island . During these developments the Blue Island ? weekly newspaper of last Thursday carried a guarded article on the Buchholz care , hinting that the investigation had entered a new phase and'that Chief Fiedler hoped to clear it up within a week . The article core tinned with a plea for pledges to in. crease the reward for the slayer b arrest , which now stands at 36,000 although none of the money has been actually posted .                     