@@684959

txt The playing of the piano in the apartment of Robert S. Hoxie , on tie third floor front of the six-story apartment house at 72 West Eighty-ninth Street , a minute from Central Park West , began along about 1 o'clock yesterday . As the lively music of fox trots and one-steps , resounded in the afternoon quiet of a quiet house on quiet ? street , occupants of other aparements knew that Renee Hoxie. 17 years old , was warding off loneliness  --  her father was at his work as an automobile mechanic : . and her mother was visiting in New Orleans . After half an hour or so , the lively airs ceased , and about ten minutes later , the neighbors thought , the girl played slowly through " Suwanee River . " Then the music stopped . Cheered up and Back at her housework , thought the neighbors , when no more music came from the Hoxie home . At 3 o'clock the cause of the silence was explained . A woman roomer in the Hoxie home returned at that hour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her head crushed apparently by a. single trelnendous blow , Renee was kneeling by. : bedsigeo her face resting , almost ' eosifi4itbly it seemed , on her arms folded ' on- the counterpane . No crime but murder had been attempted . and no clue of any sort had been left . Three Spaniards Sonkht . Confronted With another of the strange and savage crimes that appear periodically in the city 's always lengthening list of crime , William Lahey , Second Deputy Police Commissioner in charge of detectives , was personally leading the work of a big force of sleuths last night . Three Sapniards who had roomed at the Hoxie home for a few days , and who had been asked to leave , were being sought , the police said . Two months ago Robert Hoxie , his wife and the daughter came to this city from New Haven . Hoxie , a skilled mechanic , had been engaged in war work for several years in New Haven and when the armistice had curtailed work there he sought another place .. He finally took a job in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the six-room apartment near the Park . Then Mrs. Hoxie 's health caused anxiety and she was induced to go to New Orleans for the Winter months . Their apartment had been too big for their modest needs , and the departure of Mrs. Hoxie caused her husband to decide to rent out a few rooms . Mrs. Sarah Reeves , a school teacher , took a room , a man who was absent all day yesterday took another , and on Sunday Hoxie advertised for a lodger for the second room , as follows : 80TH ST. , 72 WEST  --  Beautiful front suite ; telephone , piano , steam ; refined surroundings . Hoxie . There were few responses in the morning , and it was not until about 2 o'clock that a man rang the bell of the janitress , Mrs. John O'Brien , and asked to be directed to the apartment where the room was to let . - Mrs . O'Brien told him where the Hoxie apartment was and the man went up the stairs . Wide Dark Spot on Hall Floor . Mrs. Reeves , absent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . too , climbed the stairs to the apartment . She let herself into the private hall that extends through the flat and started down the hall . She saw a wide , dark spot halfway down . She went close to it and discovered what it was . Screaming , Mrs. Reeves ran toward her room , the middle bearoom . She said she felt sick and fearing to faint wished to get a preventative . But at the bedside was the murdered girl , and her fright redoubled . Mrs. Reeves managed to get to . the janitress , who summoned the police . Following detectives from the West 100th Street station . Captain Arthur Carey , in charge of the Homicide Bureau , and Commissioner Lahey arrived . The detectives searched every inch of the apartment in an effort to find fingerprints . They refused to say whether their quest bad been successful . There There was no evidence of a struggle in I the apartment , money in a dresser was untouched , and the examination of Medical Examiner Norris , who declared that instant death had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl had been unharmed prior to the murder . According to the theory of the police , the girl . was summoned to the door by some one ringing the bill . They believe the caller managed to get into the hall , and that it was there the girl was struck down . The detectives said they thought the murderer then carried the body into the , bedroom and placed it by the bed . While the detectives were still conducting their investigation the telephone bell in the apartment rang . One of the detectives answered it . A man 's voice inquired for  --  Miss Hoxie , and then added that he had decided to take the room . I A few minutes ' questioning by the de1 , tective and then the telephone caller was asked to come up to the house . The man who had telephoned proved to be ErnestKnoch , an opera conductor , who was with the Chicago Opera Coinpany before it came here , and who isliving temporarily at the Hotel Navarre . He told the detectives that he had called at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 1:30 o'clock . He : said that he was shown to the room by the girl whom he described as very attractive and cultured . The room appealed to him , he told the police , and he informed Miss Hoxie that he would call at 4 o'clock and let her know whetner he would take it . " Tells of the Spaniards . The detectives said that Mr. Knoch told them Miss Hoxie had described the room as occupied up to last Wednesday by three Spaniards , who were out all night and in all day . The Spaniards , the girl said , had been requested to leave because they were too disorderly . Is soon as the opera conductor told of the Spaniards , the police began a hunt for them . Mr. Knoch was much upset by his experience , and speaking of it last night he said : " It is shocking and hardly believable . She was very attractive and cultured . I could n't imagine that such a thing could hive happened to such a fine girl and that there could be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his connection with the Chicago Opera Company Mr. Knoch was in New York , and in 1914 conducted at the opening of the Century Opera House . Central Park West and Sixty-second Street . The police said they believed the murder was done a'bout an hour after Mr. Knoch had departed . In the opinion of Assistant District Attorney Joyce , in charge of the District Attorney 's investigation , the murderer was probably a degenerate . The girl 's father did not learn of his daughter 's death until he returned from his work . He collapsed and was under the care of physicians last night .                     