@@687674

txt BLACK AND WHITE . Says Color Line Is Not Drawn Even Socially in Jamaica . - To the Editor of The New York Times : In the openink paragraph a an article headed " Amenities Largely Superficial " appearing on the editorial page of your issue . of today , you quote your - correspondent , who has returned to New York after a , stay of a few weeks in Jamaica. , as saying that " there - is no drawing of the color line , or almost none , and that the white and black races there live , work and play together in an amity strangely contrasting with the amenities that exist here . " III the concluding paragraph of .. the same article you state , " In matters really social the color line is drawn as firmly in the West Indies as it is here , though ' perhaps eyes there are not so sharp to see in a man or woman who ' looks white ' the faint signs of black blood . " - The two statements are- in conflict . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will grant me space to say that the impression of your correspondent is. correct , and that the latter statement does not represent the conditions as they exist . I have lived in Jamaica for forty-five years . I was born and educated there . I practiced law for eleven years and was Registrar of the Supreme Court for more than eleven years , and , I have had ample opportunity of forming an opinion on the subject of your article . Let me say that white men and women of culture , refinement and education voluntarily invite colored men and women to accept the hospitality of their homes ; that white men and women avail themselves of the skill and experience of medical men of color ; that colored clergymen minister to congregations which number among their members many white families , and that intermarriage of the colored and white is not infrequent . When I state these outstanding features of life as it exists in Jamaica I think I have presented convincing testimony in confirmation of your correspondent 's Impressions and in refutation of your statement In conclusion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colored people I have in mind are not those who " look white . " They are men ' and women whose features bear unmistakable evidence of ' their African origin , but that in no way detracts from their charm , their culture and their refinement , nor does their African origin lessen in any respect or in any degree the pleasure to be derived from their compan ionshiPIf space were available to me I could take you through every phase of life and furnish evidence of the intimate and equal relations of the blacks and whites . O'CONNOR DE CORDOVA . New York , May 2 , 1922.                     