@@696562

txt With a negro in Congress for the first time in many years , the political status of the race is coming in for a. great.deal of discussion . This Representative . Mr. DE PRIEST of Chicago , has been speaking in Harlem , where there are about 300,000 persons of his color . His advice is that negroes should vote solidly for a negro district leader against a white one in that Assembly district . Writing in The American Mercury for September , JAMES WELDON JOHNSON , long known as a wise counselor of his , people , sees a future for the negroes . only if they take every opportunity to divide politically . Solid voting by negroes in primaries and conventions , in his opinion , merely ' defers the complete winning of civil rights . The difference between the two negro spokesmen is not absolute , for Mr. JOHNSON was dealing with a general situation , Mr. DE PRIEST with a specific one . The latter would probably not challenge the course urged by the other as applied to political conditions in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would advocate negro solidarity in voting at all times . A negro " bloc " would be dangerous to public order and would bring harmful reactions upon the negroes themselves . Mr. JOHNSON , tracing the long- fight of the Southern - negro for the right to participate in Southern primaries and elections , believes that the struggle will eventually be won . Rejection by the Supreme Court of the Texas effort to exclude by State law negroes , as negroes , from Democratic primaries strikes him as the beginning of the end of the Southern effort to keep negroes out of . those Democratic primaries which are equivalent to election . He counsels his people to note their steady advance toward voting rights and urges them to be patient with what must necessarily be a. tedious process . But when their entry in - Democratic primaries can no Jonger be checked , Mr. JOHNSON urges them to participate , saying that it is of far more concern to them . who shall be their Governor , county judge or Sheriff than whether they can vote for a Republican whom the East and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Mercury writer estimates that one-tenth of our population is negro , with at least 6,000,000 votes . At present , such of them as are permitted go largely for the Republican party . There is an earnest school of American thought , sympathetic with the negro and friendly to his aspirations , which believes that when he splits his vote in the South he will cease to receive there even the small consideration he now enjoys . With neither party dependent upon him in any way , the inclination of the white man to disregard the negro will be without the - slightest check , in the opinion of these reasoners . To some extent Mr. DE PRIEST seems to agree with this viewpoint Certainly the growth of lily-white leadership in the Republican party - would seem to strengthen the contention . It is a discussion which is certain . to grow in intensity within the next few years . No statesman or social thinker is wise enough to mark out what is to prove the wiser course . Meanwhile , there is a great responsibility on Mr. DE PRIEST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to guide their millions cautiously and slowly . High explosive lies on the route of the negro to the civil rights to which , - if this democracy means what it pretends , he is , entitled .                     