@@691581

txt In a discussion of federal inheritance taxes by the former Commissioner of Internal Revenue , Mr. Roper misses the vital objection to such levies , whether by states or federal government His suggestion that " the American people at large are not in sympathy with a movement to do away with ' death duties ' " is highly questionable , but it is safe to say they will favor abolition or careful restriction of all taxation on inheritances when they understand their real nature and effect . Certainly it is incorrect to say that " there is no source of tax that bears more lightly upon the people at large and on industry than ' death duties . ' " If taxation of this class bore only upon the heirs of decedent persons , the taking of accumulated private capital for general revenue purposes , of states or of federal government , would still be wrong in principle . The fortunes of individuals are the capital of communities or of society at large . Society can not use its accumulated savings for current living expenses any more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political temptation to shift the cost of government to the comparatively few who inherit property or securities . It means a temptation to extravagance or wastefulness in public expenditure which only a comparatively few voters will have a direct incentive to oppose . The fact remains that such levies mean eating the seed corn to avoid the exertion of raising a crop . They bring with them , moreover , the incidental but serious evil of enforced sales to raise cash for tax payment , which may be and often are disturbing to the processes of industry . Federal inheritance taxes have so far been light but may not remain so unless the danger is recognized ; inheritance levies have already become onerous in many states . ? Only if the proceeds of such taxes are limited in use to ends which in private business are described as capital purposes can the evils involved be softened , if at all . The taking of a part of the individual 's accumulations by the state after his death , meaning the enforced withdrawal of capital from productive-use , may be theoretically justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of permanent and economically useful public works . Even then the prevention Of indirect and unobserved diverlion of capital funds into cFrent expenditure would present difficulties of legislation and administration . It is to be feared that Mr. Roper and those who think as he does still harbor the erroneous conception of modern wealth as a secret hoard of gold , jewels , idle lands and motor cars .                     