@@688236

txt No expects , . Lion exists on the part of the United States Government that It will receive any minim on its war loans to its former European allies , except in the case of Great Britain , until those nations readjust their finances and through a process of rehabilitation place themselves in a position to pay their obligations . This was made clear today in a high official quarter . On its face this statement appears to be encouraging to the apparent disposition of continental governments to bring about an indefinite postponement of a refunding of their American war debts , with , perhaps , the hope of ultimate agreement of the United States to cancel its allied indebtedness . But tie real significance of the statement lice in what seems to be the fact , that it contemplates a policy on the part of this Government by which an embargo will be plucekl on further American loans to certain European powers . That there should be no more loans by this Government directly to any of our former allies had already been determined . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial interests arc also likely to be tabooed . The political situation In Europe has ashmed such a phase that , in the opinion of some of those having great Influence in the councils of the Harding Administration , it would be the Part or American and international folly to permit such conditions to continue if it is within the power of the United States Government to provent them through cutting off the American source of financial supply . American Observers Dissatisfied . Dissatisfaction user the political situation in Continental Europe has been expressed by many American observers recently returned from European tours , mai particularly by members of the Senate . Certain European governments , heavily In debt to the United States , are maintaining large military establishments  --  keeping themselves on a warfooting , in fact  --  and making no real effort to reduce expenditures in an attempt to balance their budgets and otherwise seeking to put themselves in a position to meet their obligations . That the United States would be derelict in its duty not only to its own people but toward . civilization in permitting debtor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears to have become the conviction of men high in the Administration , judged from what was said today in informed quarters . Some time ago the Administration adopted the ? policy of supervising loans of private American banking interests to foreign Governments and loans of any considerable magnitude to foreign business interests . To carry out this policy required the voluntary co-operation of the banking interests . They responded In a wholehearted way , much to the gratification of the Government , and since then they have advised with the State Department whenever they were approached by foreign Governments or business interests with reference to extending financial help . It is now inferred that the Government will not look with favor on loans by American bankers to foreign Governments or foreign business interests which are to be utilized in keeping certain nations on a war footing . , Efforts on the part of American financiers and business men to assist In the economic rehabilitation of Europe are regarded with approval , however . In connection with this statement it was indicated that It was quite possible that a condition would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of organizations in the United States may have had a considerable Influence on the political attitude of Europe , and it was added that it was believed to be Inevitable that expression would be given to influence of this character . Our Debt Policy Depends on Allies . At the same time , according to the explanation " obtained today , this Government regards its allied debt policy as dependent upon the efforts of Europe to rehabilitate herself . There was no direct hint that if the debtor nations of Europh balanced their budgets by reducing their large armies and otherwise undertaking measures of attempting to live within-their means , the United States would be disposed to be len. - lent in its term of loan repayment , but the inference was drawn that as long as some European countries continue on their present extravagant policy they can expect no assurance from this country of a willingness to make the terms of settlement as attractive as possible from the standpoint of the debtors . All this tends to support the- , belief that while the Government is bound in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creating the World War Debt Commission . it has in mind insisting that debtor nations make earnest endeavors to balance their budgets as a means to a lenient policy , by the United States . . The expectation exists that if the British Debt Commission , which is about to sail for this country , should conclude an arrangement with the American Debt Commission for the liquidation of the British debt to America , - the British and American Governments would join in representations to the continental debtor nations that they must r4uce their large - military establishments , and take other measures to place themselves on sound economic footing as an earnest , of intention to meet their obligations to Great Britain and America . The Administration has no intention of Permitting European governments to float private loans in the United States while still leaving their obligations to this government unattended to . An illustration in case was the recent protest of the American State Department ' to the government of Rumania , which was about to float a loan of $175,000,000 , partly in the United States . without having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt to the United States Government of approximately $40,000,000 . This problem had been thoroughly discussed by the debt Funding Commission before the representations of the State Department went forward . No Debt Conference in London . Copyright . 1922 , by The New York Times Company . By . Wireless to THE NEW YORK TWEE . LONDON , Oct. ** is known in official circles here of a proposal to issue invitations for an International Financial Conference in London . When M. Poincar6 was hers in August there was a suggestion that there should be some such gathering in Brussels , but the Near Eastern crisis has pushed it into the background . Meanwhile ' the British Government has not changed its intention of sending over Sir Robert Home and other experts to take up negotiations concerning the British debt . Owing to the uncertainty in the political situation , however , his departure , which was scheduled for next week , has been postponed .                     