@@695713

txt Further readjustment occurred in the stock market yesterday . Stocks were Irregular dux ng moat of the day , but toward the close a firmer tone developed in several directions , with advances being led by U. S. Steel and some of the motor issues . It is still evident that outsiders are not anxious to purchase stocks except at recessions . Advances did not attract the public following that was met several weeks ago when stocks were strong . Instead there was considerable profit-taking up to the beginning of the last hour whenever the market moved ahead . Short covering halted the earlier recessions . A. public short interest has been created as a result of the change in sentiment , but when stocks work downward these outsiders start covering , indicating they are not as confident of their position as the traders who have maintained their short lines . Money was easy again , but failed to have influence . because of the reiteration of predictions that there will be more stringency later in the week with higher rates for call funds . This influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they occurred . Sentiment is unchanged . Conservative interests are advising customers to take profits during upturns so they can replace their holdings at more reasonable levels during reactions . They also favor the use of stop orders by those who are inclined to hold to their long position , because this will give them protection during any further decline . Those identified with pools which have been active in the past are in favor of accumulating stocks on reactions for the next advance which they believe will start some time before the middle of January . Trading COMMISSI011. houses sold on balance . However , some firms reported customers who had taken profits at higher levels were repurchasing small lots during setbacks . This is the first time such buying has been in evidence in more than a week . Professionals and floor traders , because of short covering , again purchased on balance . In the last half-hour when certain stocks were advancing , this element was selling . Investment Buying It is probable that any sharp reaction which may develop in the market in the next two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally a period of heavy distribution of interest and dividends and many are inclined to pick up investment issues during reactions prior to such dates in anticipation of the funds they are to receive . This investment demand may become a factor if the market develops weakness . e Tax Selling Considerable tax selling should come into the market . Before the end of the year it is possible that a supply will be met in the issues which have been rather weak in recent months as traders and others establish tax losses to be computed in their income returns for the current year . During January there may be selling for tax purposes in the stocks which have been strong , because holders of such shares usually are not inclined to take their profits until the new year starts as the result of the trade then is not a taxable factor for 1928 incomes . Rediscount Rate Because of the advance in the bid price for bankers ' acceptances for all maturities late last week , there is a growing feeling in several quarters that an early advance in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the factors to be considered in the general market situation . Some conservative bankers admit that there may be a rise in the rediscount rate . but they do not expect such action , if it is taken , until late next month . Professionals believe this is too far away for the possibility to have any serious market influence at present . Pool Operations Pool operations have been carried on during the past week in a number of stocks , but in most of these it has developed that a public following is difficult to attract at present . Reports have been heard that a number of groups had agreed to wind up their activities before the end of the year , and some of the operations may have been for the purpose of facilitating the completion of the agreements . The Short Interest Several commission houses report that , judging from the telephone requests from borrowers , there is a substantial short interest in the market . Many outsiders have been putting out lines . This is true particularly of those who had taken their profits on long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lt atiers also have been taking the short side on all the recent rallies . While many believe the short interest has become over-extended in some stocks , there is a feeling that many of the so-called courageous traders have adopted that side of the market and these are not likely to rush to cover as quickly as outsiders during moderate advances . It was covering which halted minor selling waves during the latter days of last week . Weak Spots That there are still weak spots in the general market is the view of conservative observers . It is maintained by these interests that such conditions in over-exploited issues will have to be eliminated before the present readjustment can be considered completed . Traders have been testing various stocks recently in their efforts to uncover the " air pockets " and are expected to continue such activities . Rails Rails are looked upon as attractive purchases if the market suffers another sinking spell . Car loadings and earnings are expected to continue to make favorable comparisons and with a more liberal yield on most of the dividend payers it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a factor . Another influence in the coming weeks will be the much discussed O'Fallon case . Should the decision of the Supreme Court be in favor of the company it would have a bearing on railroad rates and might bring good buying into many of the non-dividend paying stocks which would benefit from a favorable verdict . Coppers The copper industry wilt enter 1929 with better underlying conditions than have existed at any time since the World War . Leading companies are increasing their earnings because of the good production and satisfactory price prevailing for the metal . The results next year will be much better than 1928 , if present conditions are maintained , because the companies did not get the advantages of the favorable price range for the entire 12 months just closing . Kennecott Long-pull buying is said to have been corning into Kennecott . Some of the demand was through houses which were active in International Nickel when that issue was selling at much lower levels . Kennecott is looked upon both as an operating and a holding company and a purchase of the stock represents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anaconda directors - meet next Monday and Wall Street is confident that more liberal treatment will be accorded stockholders as to dividends . The increase in distributions by company in which Anaconda has substantial holdings has expanded that company 's earnings . In addition , its own producing and manufacturing operations have been more profitable than in many years . Some trade authorities estimate that the increases in affiliated companies , if maintained during 1929 , will mean $3 a share more for Anaconda stock alone . Sears-Roebuck Interests in Chicago are said to bold the opinion that Sears-Roebuck is far behind Montgomery Ward . and some middle western buying has come into the stock on recent reactions . The company , because of its standing , is in a position to reflect accurately the increased purchasing power of the country . This already has been shown by the sales for the 11 months ended with November , which amounted to approximately $304,500,000 , an increase of 17.8% over the corresponding period of 1927 . It is the natural deduction that net earnings this year will show proportionate growth and estimates are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Texas Gulf It is noted that several commission houses are discussing the favorable position of Texas Gulf Sulphur and arc in favor of accumulating the stock during the setbacks in the general market . Third quarter earnings established a new high record and estimates are that around $5.75 a share will be shown for the year . Importance is attached to the expectation that the company will close this year with more cash on hand than at the end of 1927 , despite the fact that large expenditures were made out of earnings for the develop . meat of new sulphur properites during the current 12 months . Mohawk Carpet The action of Mohawk Carpet during the recent decline in the market has been attracting considerable interest to the stock . Buying has come through several houses , but one prominent firm with New England connections has been active In recommending the issue at times . This has been reflected by a public demand which has carried the issue forward while other stocks have been quiet and even reactionary . Indian Motocycle Indian Motocycle is another issue which has enjoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' price of the issue has brought public buying into the stock . Also , a new group was formed in the issue several weeks ago . One rumor in connection with the strength is that the company is working on a new type of air-cooled airplane motor .                     