@@688956

txt Notification having reached the Argentine Polo Association that the Hurlingham Club of London has informed the American Polo Association that it desires to challenge for the International Polo Challenge Cup in a tournament to be held in the United States in 1924 , the Argentine organization has asked the American association whether the cup conditions are likely to be altered So as to , permit of the participation In the tournament of an Argentine four . Adviqes received from the Hurlingham Club are to the effect that the American and British associations are now taking up the queStion between them . The present rules regarding competition for the cup confine the games to British and American players . If these rules are changed , Argentina surely will challenge for the trophy , according to an announcement made today . Possible participation by Argentina in the Anglo-American polo classic was discussed informally last year when the Argentine four eon laurels both in EngQand and the United States . The present correspondence , however , constitutes the first official step taken by the - South Americans . Albert J. Hinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondence with Louis A. Stoddard of the American " Big Four " and has received some encouragement from him . Mr. Stoddard , in a letter , said the American idea was that the cup should be open to competition between teams from all the world under certain welldefined conditions . Mr Stoddard added that be believed for the present Argentina was the only country , aide from Great Britain , which could send a team capable of playing for the trophy . He indicated that the Americans were agreeable to Argentina 's participation if British opinion was the same . The Argentine polo authOrities are anxious to learn what the final decision in the matter is . If it is favorable , they will be required to purchase and train ponies for early shipment to the Utytted States in order to have them acclimated by the time set for the tournament . Argentina 's challenging team , said Mr. Hinds today , probably would be the same quartet as played in the United States last year  --  Captain Luis Lacey , Jack Nelson , D. Miles and J. Miles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lacey , although Canadian born . - had no intention of accepting the reported invitation to play with the British , as he was permanently located in Argentina .                     