@@694340

txt Paul von Hindenburg , leader of Germany 's armies in war and President of the German Republic in peace , was acclaimed today on his eightieth birthday by vast multitudes of his fellow-Germans with a spontaneous enthusiasm and a whole-hearted fervor of affection such as have fallen to the lot of few individuals in the whole course of the world 's history . It was not von Hindenburg the General whom Germany acclaimed today , and it was not von Hindenburg the President . It was von Hindenburg the man , the demigod , the national idol , whom his fellow-citizens cheered today . It was for von Hindenburg the man that they stood in line through hours of weary waiting , it was to von Hindenburg the man that they swung thei- ' hats and wave I their handkerchiefs and canes and for whom they roared themselves hoarse while tears of joy ran down their cheeks . All Differences Obliterated . It will be a task for future psychologists to determine the why and wherefore of von Hindenburg 's hold on the masses of his fellow-countrymen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wake of its delirious birthday greetings to its hero , one can simply chronicle the events of a day which turned the German metropolis topsy-turvy , which poured hundreds of thousands of its inhabitants into the streets to rub elbows with other thousands who had trekked into town from homes often many miles away , and which made people , sundered by political rancor , bury the hatchet and join with all sincerity in the tremendous demonstration of admiration and affection for the grim old giant of the Wilhelmstrasse . To find the counterpart for what happened in Berlin today one must go back to the most splendid spectacles of the old imperial days , the Kaiser 's birthday and the like , and on those , it must be remembered , the crowds were really acclaiming the imperial rank with which the Kaiser was clothed , not the individual who happened to be Kaiser . Festivities Begin at 8 A. M. Today it was far different . It was no puppet in the imperial purple for whom the crowds waited and cheered . It was an individual , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming a symbol and a legend before the very eyes of his contemporaries instead of years after his death . The round of birthday festivities began for von Hindenburg at 8 o'clock this morning , when a concert was given in front of his Wilhelmstrasse palace by military bands . Already , despite the early hour , the street before the palace was packed with people . Next von Hindenburg went to church and then he received the diplomats and generals . After a short pause for lunch came the culminating feature of . the whole great day , his drive in a motor car along five miles of closely packed , wildly cheering crowds to Berlin 's great stadium on the outskirts of the city where a huge concourse , including 40,000 schoolboys and schoolgirls , gave him a rapturous greeting as he slowly drove past them , his glossy black hat held out before him , nodding his big grizzled head to the right al ? 1 left as thunders of applause swept over him . 100,040 Packed in Stadium . The celebration at the stadium was the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conservative estimate , were packed into the enclosure , and the streets leading to it along which von Hindenburg passed were lined by a full half million more . After his drive to the stadium , the ceremonies there and his drive back , Germany 's demigod was allowed to partake of a quiet evening meal in the bosom of his family , his arduous duties over for the day . Every one who saw him go through his strenuous birthday program is wishing the stern old octogenarian a good night 's rest . And a look in his face makes it a foregone conclusion that he will sleep long and well tonight . From earliest morning Berlin 's streets presented a gay and colorful spectacle . Along Wilhelmstrasse , Unter den Linden , the treeshaded avenues of the Tiergarten and the broad streets between the centre of the city and the stadium , the crowds began to mass soon after dawn and kept pouring into position until at vantage points such as Charlottenburger Chausee , which intersects the Tiergarten , around the Brandenburg gate , before the Presidential palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solid masses long before the hour scheduled for the President 's appearance . Veterans and Peasants There . The crowds included squads of war veterans covered with medals and bearing regimental banners of every color of the rainbow , and students ' corps in their picturesque , manyhued costumae , an unvarying feature of which were their big jack-boots reaching to the knee . There were big delegations representing the Stahl Helm , the Jung Leutsch and other reactionary organizations . Officers of the old German army in full gala uniforms and even wearing the old spiked helmets of the Hohenzollern days were interspersed with light-hearted peasant men and women in genuine peasant garb who had come all the way from Bavaria . Suabia and other far-away regions to pay homage to their national hero . Everywhere the police had turned out in force to keep order , and they did so with the usual Prussian severity . But except for one clash there really was no need for the drastic policing ; the crowd was good-humored throughout and intent only on acclaiming von Hindenburg , content during the long waits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vouchsafed of him , to joke and sing and realm irreverent comments on those driving in vehicles between the packed ranks of the populace . Police Charge and Seize Reds . The disorder occurred when 500 Communists attacked the ranks of the Stahl Helm marching home from the celebration . The Stahl Helms drew their pistols and opened fire , jai-el-nig twenty-three Reds . The police immediately charged into the fray and arrested 300 Communists , marching them to police headquarters , where most of them were held pending investigation . President von Hindenburg started from his palace for the stadium at 3:30 o'clock in the afternoon and completed the triumphal progress there soon after 4 . Long before his arrival at the stadium everything was ready for giving him a reusing recepticn . Massed on the great stretch of grass in the centre of the huge area , which is used for track meets and other such events , were about 6,000 schoolboys and schoolgirls . Around the track , fringing the green central expanse , were lines of schoolgirls with bouquets and hundreds of other girls and boys holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Long lines of little girls in white divided the grass area into big squares , and in the centre of each square was another squad of schoolgirls garbed in white , pink , blue or red dresses , which , with the profusion of flags and bunting draped all over the big structure and waved by the crowds of children and grown-ups packed into stands , made an unforgettable picture of bewildering colorfulness . Among those awaiting von Hindenburg at the stadium were the most famous war leaders of the German Army , including General von Kluck , who led the march toward Paris , and Marshal von Mackensen , who , under von Hindenburg , fought and won mighty battles on the Eastern front . Von Mackensen wore the uniform of the famous Death 's Head Hussars , the high fur-lined headgear of which . with its white death 's head insignia , made him one of the picturesque marks in the huge concourse . In front of the massed school children were high platforms embowered in green boughs from which teachers shouted directions to the children through megaphones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge crowd . " He 's coming , " people shouted , and all stood and craned their necks . Trumpeters in their field gray uniforms and trench helmets blew a blood-stirring fanfare , the mass of children stood rigidly to attention , like little soldiers , and , amid the fusillade of cheering , the great Presidential car leaped into the stadium and the massive figure of von Hindenburg , with Chancellor Marx on his left , became visible . Stadium Throng Goes Mad . The crowd went wild ; the whole stadium rocked to their salvos of applause as the car drove slowly around the track , each section of the crowd taking up the cheering as von Hindenburg came before them , hat in hand , a stern though pleased expression on his dour old face . At the end of the triumphal circuit he was helped from his automobile ( he moved very slowly and seemed very old and weary ) , and then he installed himself in the box of honor , halting on the way to greet friends , including von Mackensen . Von Hindenburg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous ovation . Then a teacher on a green-fringed platform in command of the massed school children raised his baton and 5,500 fresh young voices burst into the old German choral , " Praise Be to the Lord , the Mighty King , " to which von Hindenburg and all around him listened in reverent silence . Then came an old song sung by 2,000 schoolgirls , followed by " Song of the Fatherland " given by about 3,000 boy singers . Next 1,500 singers of the higher Berlin schools sang a number . This was followed by the superb , swinging words and music of ' Deutschland Ueber Alles , " which , started by a chorus of thousands of schoolboys and schoolgirls , wee soon swelled by the voices of tens of thousands of grown-up volunteer singers till the air shook with the volume of the sound and the notes by the big band of musicians stationed in front of the President 's box were almost completely drowned . Children Almost Mob Him . Then von Hindenburg left his box , again speaking with von Mackensen on the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same bursts of cheering . But now there was a new and unrehearsed feature . Berlin 's massed school children , who had been standing on the big grass plot for hours , as obedient to discipline as soldiers , were suddenly overcome by the youthful spirits within them -- end , breaking their ranks , they scampered in delighted hundreds across the grass to where they could get I Ione more glimpse of von Hindenburg , and then back to the other side as his car approached the starting point , until finally , wriggling ithrough the lines of police and other adults , they fairly encircled the Presidential car . They ran alongside it , reaching up their hands to von Hindenburg , barring his way as they tumbled in front of his car despite the honks of the chauffeur and the shouts of policemen  --  little girls with their hair flying , little boys in an ecstasy of boyish hero worship . Amid it all von Hindenburg 's grim , old eyes twinkled as he looked benignly at the excited and delighted little groups eddying around him . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amid a parting cheer it swept out of the stadium to speed back to the Wilhelmstrasse Palace . He Makes Political Remarks . Politics came into the big birthday celebration when the President , in reply to greetings extended by Chancellor Marx in behalf of the Government , said : " My deepest thoughts at this hour are devoted to our compatriots in the Rhineland districts who , to our regret , have not been relieved from foreign occupation . I greet them with a sad heart , and the wish and hope that the land on the Rhine may soon regain its liberty . To accomplish this will be the foremost purpose of Germany policy . " President von Hindenburg also expressed it as his earnest desire to see the nation perfectly united . Aside from these remarks , political subjects were especially conspicuous by their absence . Immediately after the greeting by the Government and the higher Government officials , the diplomatic corps , headed by its Dean , Mgr . Pacelli , Papal Nuntius , called at the German White House . Though a large number of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including Marshal von Mackensen and Generals von Kluck , von Einem , von Gallwitz and von Francois , and Count Bothmer , no representative of the former ruling families called on the President or attended the festival at the stadium . Last night , at a banquet given to the President by the Officers ' League , he wore the uniform of a Field Marshal and all his thirtynine decorations except the Grand Order of the Black Eagle . Noticing a number of his comrades with the wide gold ribbon of this decoration over their shoulders , he explained that his omission of it had no significance except that he had forgotten to put it on , and he asked to be forgiven . Eschew Part in Celebration . General Ludendorff 's " Tannenberg Bund " announced yesterday that its members would not participate in today 's f ? te , since President von Hindenburg had allowed Chancellor Marx to stand with him on the tribune on the occasion of the unveiling of the Tannenberg monument a fortnight ago . The Reichsbanner , a strong Republican organization numbering about 3,000,000 members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that too much prominence was being given to von Hindenburg the warrior and not sufficient to the man as President of the Republic . All the Red counter-demonstrations failed completely and the only disorder was the clash between the Stahl Helm and the Communists . Reports from Munich , Cologne , Hamburg , Hanover and other cities and towns throughout the Reich show that celebrations of the President 's birthday were general and in enthusiasm second only to that of Berlin , which was honored by the presence of the great man . Today was significant in the lively warfare going on in Germany concerning what flag is really the national flag , the black , red and gold , whicheis the official republican colors , or the black , red and white of old imperial Germany . There is no doubt in the minds of onlookers that if the matter were left to the Berlin crowds , the old imperial colors would win in a walk . Thousands of black , white and red flags were draped and flown today from private houses , and in the hands of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colors . They far outnumbered the republican flags along the line of von Hindenburg 's progress to the stadium . Amusing Efforts to Please . All the public buildings , schools and the like , naturally displayed the official republican colors , but these were swamped in the mass of black , white and red . Many hotels compromised out of deference to the varying political sympathies of their patrons by displaying both monarchical and republican flags , while some substituted the Prussian banner of black and white for the old German flag or else the new commercial flag , which , though it is of the old imperial colors , displays also the republican colors in the upper left-hand corner . Another method of compromise was to display the banners of various German States . Bavaria , Wurttemberg , Saxony , Baden , &c.,; instead of either the old or new German flags . One amusing instance of trying to please every one was the course adopted by a leading restaurant man who has scores of places scattered ' I throughout Berlin . Over his places in the aristocratic parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in the quarters inhabited primarily by the proletarians the republican flag flew in lonely splendor over the humble folk partaking of his steaming sausages and sauerkraut . Imperial Uniform a Feature . President von Hindenburg 's birthday will go down in history as a day of high hats and tail coats . Entire large delegations of Berlin and outof-town organizations were attired in long black coats and high black hats , some obviously of forgotten vintage , snatched from their well-earned rest in attics where they have been interred years ago with mothballs for tombstones . Another striking feature of the birthday celebration was the large number of uniforms , uniforms recalling the pre-war days of the imperial Germany . There were spiked helmets on every hand , the light blue coats of the Kaiser 's old army , the flattopped headgear of the vanished Uhlan regiments and the long , light gray overcoats which in the days of Hohenzollern glory gave a touch of special severity to the Kaiser 's generals . It was a field day for medals . Every kind of medal ever awarded in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the ceremony had whole strings of such decorations across their coats , in striking contrast to von Hindenburg himself , who left his entire stock of medals at home .                     