@@695197

txt From the tip of the Aleutian landbridge across which . man first entered the North American Continent from Asia comes the story of a find unquestionably rich in drama and carrying the possibilities of a rare . contribution to science . The Morrissey expedition , under the leadership of HAROLD MCCRACKEN , has unearthed , in a burial ground on top of an almost inaccessible rock islet , a sarcophagus containing the mummies of three adults and a child . In the construction of the coffin and the elaborate integuments of one of the mummies a high degree of technique is revealed . The McCrackenStoll expedition of the American Museum of Natural History set sail from Seattle last April in the hope of discovering , as Mr. MCCRACKEN then wrote , mummies older than those preserved in the Pyramids of Egypt . His dispatch in yesterday 's TIMES does not assert definite antiquity for the remains , though there is no doubt that they are of the Stone Age . The authoritative story , as he properly points out , must be written here at the Museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relative meaning . As the historic records ' go back it is obvious that the prehistoric period T recedes . On the American Continent , where the historic monuments are far briefer than in the Old World , the prehistoric period lies closer to our own times . Similarly , the Stone Age does not describe a chronological but a cultural status . For some areas in Europe it may go back 10,000 years , but there are races now living in their own Stone Age . This continent has no human remains dating back to an antiquity comparable with the primitive human or pre-human types of Europe , Asia or Africa , around which centres such a vast speculation relating to the origins of man . Such American finds as from time to time have been assumed to rank with Neanderthal and Piltdown have always been demonstrated to be of the same human type as that of the present or recent inhabitants of the region . That is why Dr. CLARK WISSLER Of the Museum of Natural History - speaks of the Aleutian discovery , on the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from previous Eskimo and Aleutian discoveries but from " anything else . " Until the archaeological value of the evidence is fully determined the dramatic nature of the find suffices . If the tenants of the lonely Aleutian grave are not members of an ancient race en route from Asia to North America , we must think of the powerful motives of loyalty or religious faith which spurred a people of the present cultural status of the Eskimos or Aleutian Indians to the tremendous labor of transporting timber 600 miles for coffin-building and of interring its dead on the crest of a precipitous cliff .                     