@@691932

txt The Assembly of the League of Nations is bringing into bold relief the fundamental conflict among the nations of the world on the basic issue of compulsory arbitration of international disputes . The nations members of the League , and in fact all the nations in the world , are divided into two camps . One camp , led by France , favors world-wide and universal agreements to submit to arbitration any differences arising between nations , while the other camp , led by the British Empire and including Italy and Japan , refuses a program of universal arbitration . To an important degree the position-of Great Britain is the same as that of the United States . namely . certain issues affecting vital questions of national interests prevent submission to arbitration . Of course , all the small nations favor general arbitration , believing that it would protect them against abuse of power by a greater nation , and this leads the majority of the members of the League to take the stand that England 's attitude is really : " We prefer to trust ki @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have at Gena ; b : , A. repetition of that conflict between nationalism and internationalism which kept America out of the League . Interesting enough , we see the British Empire within the League ' supporting the same foreign policy as ' that of the Washington Government outside the League , namely , an attitude against definite general commitments and reservations of the right to treat e- ' h issue as it comes along . While it is true England is backing the proposed Rhineland treaty embodying arbitration , one would get a distorted impression to forget that it is proposed to arbitrate all issues between France and Germany but not an issues between England and the other parties to the proposed treaties . Just as England holds out against universal jurisdiction for the World Court , so she stands out against a prior agreement to arbitrate all issues . reserving the right to use her military and naval power in cases in which . as she says , her vital interests are at stake : in cases . others say , in which she would fear right was on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hears It said that just as America proposed the League for others and refused it for herself , so Britain advocates arbitration for others but retains the right to use her fleet to settle her own disputes . Chamberlain States British Position . To this fundamental conflict Austen Chamberlain made a notable contribution today in a remarkable speech in which . just as last March , on behalf of the British Government . he torpedoed the Geneva protocol drafted by last year 's Assembly , this year he declared Britain 's unwillingness to accept for herself any general plan all-embracing and without exceptions for handling disputes in which Britain may become involved with other nations . The effect , of course , was immensely discouraging to those League of Nations leaders who still hope to set up a world system by which any nation which refuses to arbitrate its differences with other nations shall be open to general condemnation and punishment . Mr. Chamberlain admitted that this was logical . but submitted that the British Empire was not run on logic but expediency . Strikingly enough . the British Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who made an eloquent plea for general arbitration as the only system which gives small nations a fair deal in disputes with more powerful countries . Mr. Chamberlain , who , it may be stated , represented less his personal view than that of the majority of the British Cabinetand this is said advisedly  --  was merciless toward the project which the small nations in the League and France regarded as a proper basis for the establishment of world peace . After saying that his presence at Geneva showed the importance which London attached to the League , Mr. Chamberlain pointed to the work of the League in the Mosul dispute as an instance of the good it could do and the confidence Britain had in it . Then recalling that he was the man who pronounced Britain 's refusal to adhere to the protocol , he asked permission to expound further the attitude which actuated his Government . He said that while all the members of the League had the same object of world peace , there were basic differences in their ideas of the means of attaining it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schemes like that of the protocol for punishing international crime . " Punishment of international crime , " he said " may be . and indeed is , as nee- , essary as punishment of individual crime . But the object which all legislators should have before them is not , to punish a criminal but to prevent commission of an oftense . It seemed to my Government that this principle was lost sight of in framing the protocol last year . We telt that the additions the protocol made to the ebverant in some sort changed the spirit of the covenant and obscured the original purpose which inspired the creation of the League . Murmurs Bring Retort . This brought some murmurs from the galleries and from the floor , in response to  --  which Mr. Chamberlain retorted : " Fresh emphasis laid upon sanctions , new occasions discovered for their employment and the elaboration of military procedure insensibly suggest the idea that the vital business of the League is not so much to promote friendly cooperation and reasoned harmony in the management of international affairs.as to preserve peace by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest scale . " Mr. Chamberlain then said that the League represented a multitude of nations in all parts of the world with divergent political institutions and different idcars and that it was impossible to frame a general proctocol which would satisfy all or deal with all their Problems . " R is as if some enterprdsing but idealistic tailor undertook to fit all the Personages of this great assembly with a common suit of clothes ' he illustrated . es/ . Repeating that it was impossible for Britain to accept the Protocol or any such all-embracing plan , Mr. Chamberlain continued : " It is natural for the Latin mind first to fix certain abstract principles to . a settle general rules and proceed to apply them in detailed cases . Our history has taken a different course and has indelibly impressed its mark ( en our outlook on public affairs . We are prone to eschew the general : we are fearful of these logical conclusions pushed to extremes , because in fact , human nature being what it is , logic playa but a small part in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affection , by prejudice , by moments of emotion and sentiment , and we seldom face any great problem guided by the stern logic of the philosopher . " Look at the history of my country . We have had no revolutionary disturbance for 250 years . Immense changes have taken place in every aspect of our life . At no single moment have we formulated general principles with logical precision : on the contrary , nearly every vital decision that we have taken has been illogical and for that reason all the more adapted to reconcile conflicting interests and to find a middle path . " What was the protocol ? Something like a single code of law , a single constitation , for all the States represented in this great assembly . In the British Empire we have more than once considered putting in black and white our Constitution and every time the representatives of our different Governments have decided that in the very elasticity which our want of logic and want of precise definition afforded us lay the secret of our unity and concord . " If these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least you can see that this historical development of the British Constitution and of the British Phnpire must influence the outlook of the representatives who speak in her name . It has been our practice to avoid attempting to define e.e , aetly what should be done and how it Filould be done in every possible contingency we can contemplate , knowing as we do that even if we provided satisfactorily for every contingency we could contern ' plate , as likely as not the event which would actually happen would not conform in exact detail to any of those things which we had anticipated . We have been content to deal at any one moment with the evil of the day and provide the remedy which that evil required . " Approves Regional , Agreements . Mr. Chambhlain then turned to the proposals for a substitute for the protocol system , namely , regional agreements . Dealing with the proposed Rhine compact , he said : " It seemed to my Government that the greatest contribution we could make was to seek in that region with which we are most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the origin and theatre of war  --  to secure in the first place by mutual agreement among all those whose interests are immediately affected a guarantee for peace : and that if we could achieve that we would have made no small contribution to the peace of the world .. " Our Abject la to supplement the cove-. nant by making special arrangements to meet special needs . That these arrangements should be purely defensive in character and that they should be framed in the spirit of the covenant , working in close harmony with the working with the League and under its guidance , is manifest and in the opinion of His Majesty 's Government these objects can best be attained by icnitting together the nations most immediately concerned , and whose differences might lead to a renewal of strife , by means of treaties framed with the sole object of maintaining between themselves unbroken peace . " We seek no fresh alliance directed against some other party , we seek not to continue the suspicions , passions and animosities of the past . Our object is to bring rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we succeed by such mutual- agreements  --  not confined . I hope , to one narrow region , but finding in suitable form their application to other menaced spots  --  then , indeed , I hope we shall have the sympathy and approval of the League of Nations , for we shall bring great support to the League , a great increase in its authority and influence and the largest contribution that it is in our power to make to the preservation of the peace of the world . " Stresemann Invited to Meet Allies . It Is understood that Foreign Minister Briand of France sent to Berlin tonight a note to the German Government suggesting the advisability of a meeti  --  Ig between the Allied and German Foreign Ministers . Out of respect fo ? German unwillingness to come to Geneva , M. Briand said , the Allied Ministers would be glad to meet the Germans at the conclusion of the League Assembly . The purpose of the meeting would be to consider further the tentative drafts of the Rhine compact made by the allied and German experts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be held next month in London or Brussels . It is said M. Briand suggested no definite time or place for the meeting to Dr. Stresemann , but it is rumored that the meeting probably will take place about Oct. 1 at Lake Como . Italy . Mr. Chamberlain is leaving for London tomorrow but is willing to return to the Continent to meet Dr. Stresemann if tonight 's invitation is accepted by the German Foreign Minister . A dispatch from THE NEW Yonm Truss Berlin correspondent last Tuesday said that the allied Governments through diplomatic channels had suggested Sept. 29 as the date and Como , Italy , as the place of their contemplated meeting with the representatives of the Reich.l.                     