@@695171

txt Reports from . Houston seem to indicate that Senator Reed of Missouri hag shot hits bolt at the nomination and missed it by a mile , and that the attempt to bead off Al Smith has only made the New Yorker the stronger . Reed has been as wet as Smith .  - -  His objection to the abuse of the ' Ionstitution by the eighteenth ' amendment has been as well known as the , protests of Smith , and his statement of his position has been even more vigorous and better argued . But for , political expediency Peed receded . He did not deny his conviction . but he was willing to give the southern prohibitionists anything they wanted if they would . unite behind him to defeat his fellow wet . It Wag a reasonable bid if the south had any real intention of dodging the New York governor , who has not sidestepped from his principles very much thus far . Ho has a little , with the usual talk of law enforcement , but he has not thrown away his banner to grab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the southern politicians could not sea him as a winner in th'o election , and there is nothing important to them except a winner . The southern Democrat has had his dish full of principles for nearly eight years , and he has an appetite for something else . He is Used of having a northern Republican making* the federal appointments , and he seems now tai be willing to take his chances with the wrath of the southern churches . Therefore the virtual recantation of Senator Reed was unimpressive and unimportant . The political reporters and observers in Houston accept it as certain that Smith will be nominated . The opposition has tried its preliminary maneuvers and has failed to gain ground . The prejudices and doctrines appealed to In the region whare they are supposed to be strongest have not ' operated as they were expected to . The uncom ? promising south is ready to compromise . If this happens , if events this week prove the forecasts accurate , it is difficult to see how the south ever - again can . announce its devotion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country to accept it as ' sincere . , The footnote to any declaration of principles issued at Houston will be that the nomination was accepted contrary to the principles of the very region essential not only for the nomination but for the election , and that it was accepted because It represented the one chance of winning back political patronage , position , and preferment.                     