@@693013

txt In an address before the Putnam County Republican Committee just after it had indorsed him for renomination here today , Representative laamilton Fish Jr . declared that the Republican Party in the State could not continue to be divided against itself and advocated the inclusion in the ' Republican State platform of an adequate enforcement plan . " Republicans In New York State , " he said , " must be wholly for enforcement or against President Coolidge and the Republican national platform , which reads : ' We must have enforcement of the law . The very existence of the Government depends on that . ' " The address of Mr. Fish follows In full : " Many Republican men and women from this county and throughout the Congressional district have been writing to inform me that they intend to vote against Senator Wadsworth and threaten to bolt the entire ticket if the county organization endorses him . " With this situation in view , I have made a careful survey of the sentiment among the enrolled Republican voters in my district and find that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . The dry Republicans are up in arms , and are backed this year by a great number of law-abiding Republicans who are neither wet nor dry but believe in law enforcement . " Fully 40 per cent . of the women and 25 per cent . of the men among the enrolled Republicans up-State , outside of some of the larger cities , will openly oppose the re-election of Senator Wadsworth . The opposition is rampant and not limited to any class . It includes the farmers , veterans of the World War , organized and unorganized labor , lawyers , business men , politicians , clergymen , school teachers and a large percentage of women . Sitting on a . Seething Volcano . " In my experience in politics I have never seen such a political revolt as is now going on within the party . The Republican State organization is sitting on a seething volcano which has had no opportunity to let off steam through a primary , and the pent-up dissatisfaction is bound to burst forth oil election day . There are approximately a million Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million are certain to vote for Cristman , the Independent Republican candidate for Senator . " There is no doubt but that Senator Wadsworth will be re-nominated , and then the question arises as to whether it is advisable to jeopardize the election of the entire State ticket and numerous minor Republican candidates by repudiating those Republicans who openly oppose Wadsworth , and thus losing their votes for the rest of the ticket , or by taking a neutral course retain these votes for the balance of the Republican ticket . It is obvious that any attempt to cajole , threaten or drive these Republicans would be unavailing , as they are not the type that can be influenced or controlled . From the reports presented to me , over 75 per cent . of the Methodists , Baptists , Presbyterians , Congregationalists and Lutherans have lost faith in the dripping wet Republican leadership and blame the party for going in ' with Tammany to submit the nullification referendum . " The wet and dry issue is one on which the people of New York have a. right to be heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vote on the question of the repeal of the Eightecntn Amendment . The referendum to he sub:mitten on election clay providing for State-wide local option is altogether futile and if passed would not have any effect on Congress . It does , however , constitute a bold attempt to nullify the Federal Constitution through a vicious and fake referendum imposed upon the people by a combination of Tammany Democrats and a handful of Republicans for purely selfish political purposes . " This nullification referendum , carried to its logical conclusion , would set up forty-eight different standards for non-intoxicating beverages and make the alcoholic content of liquor a perpetual political issue within all the States . The real issue . however . is uphold the Constitution against the attacks of those who would nullify , .. te Eighteenth Amendment in utter defiance of the procedure prescribed oy the Constitution to alter or repeal : AA , . amendment thereof . Enforcement the Main Issue . " There is a great deal of justification in the claim of the drys that ' . he issue this year is that of loyalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They resent all the.politi ? and hypocritical talk about repeali.ug the Eighteenth Amendment , whin every thinking man and woman knows to be utterly impossible in our day and generation , for it takes only I. ' r teen States to block any el , peal in a constitutional amendment , and there are only six wet States and six doubtful , the thirty-six others being consistently dry . " The main issue in New York State is that of enforcement , and it must be met sq'iarcly by the Repe'ilican Pa ty at the State Convention . It can not ee shunted aside or evaded . If the ra , - ? rendum is voted up or down the enactment of a State-wide enforcement code is equally necessary . The Republican Party cannee continue its policy of pussyfooting . " There is only one way out of the dilemma , and it may be too late even now , and that is to come out squarely ' for a State enforcement code in the Republican State platform . The Republican voters up-State are disgusted that a handful of wet Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voting with Tammany . They know that prohibition enforcement has been in the hands of its enemies , and they appreciate that 200 prohibition agents in New York State make enforcement a farce and a traycsty of the law . There are only three , States that have no State enforcement act  --  Nevada , Maryland and New York . " The opponents of the Eighteenth Amendment are the ones responsible ' for the repeal of the Mullan-Gage law and for the defeat of the Wales-Jenksj bill in the last session of the Legislature . They are responsible for the failure of the Empire State to use its coordinate powers in support of the Fed- ' eral Constitution . The Republican national platform reads : ' We must have enforcement of the law . The very existence of the Government depends on this . ' " The five Assemblymen and the two State Senators from this Congressional District voted for a Statewide enforcement act and are to be commended . As long as the Eighteenth Amendment is in . the Constitution , no matter what you and I may think of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and New York State must keep step with the rest of the nation and help enforce the law . Can not Continue Divided . " There are no two ways , as far as the Republican Party is concerned . Some of us may favor modification within the scope of the Constitution , but , with the rest of the Republicans in the land , we must stand for the enforcement of alt our taws , just as we have always done . The Republican Party was founded on the issue of loyalty to the Constitution and law enforcement , as opposed to nullification and the States ' rights doctrine of determining the Constitution each for itself . " We can not as a part continue divided against ourselves . We must wholly for enforcement in the State or be against President Coolidge and the Republican National Platform . Any attempt to deviate or sidestep a clearcut law enforcement plank will lose the support of many thousands of lawabiding citizens who in the past have been supporting the Republican ticket . " We can not expect to play the Tammany same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the avowed champion of the liquor interests and proud of it . It is the height of folly to try to compete with Tammany for wet votes ; it 's like carrying coal to Newcastle . There is evidently a great deal of pulling and hauling going on among Republican politicians in the State to commit the party to adopting a policy of avoiding and ignoring the enforcement issue in order to curry favor with the wets , but the only result such action will have will ? be to prevent hundreds of thousands of good Republicans this Fall front supporting the party candidates . " The protest vote against the Republican candidate in New York State this Fall will be large enough without encouraging a widespread revolt whereby innocent and guilty will alike suffer , because of the selfishness and downright stupidity of the Republican leaders in opposing the enforcement of the law and defying the law-abiding elements within ' the Republican Party . " As for myself , I. have never been a professed prohibitionist and through n , o action or activity of mine did the Eighteenth Amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it remains therein it is the duty of every law-abiding citizen to respect and to uphold it , together with all the laws of our country , " Others endorsed for the renomination by the County Committee were State Senator J. Griswold Webb , Assemblyman D. Mallory Stephens and County Clerk Edward S. Agor . Representative Fish . former State Senator James E. Towner , Mrs. Ed. ward S. Agor and County Judge J. Bennett Southard were chosen as delegates to the State convention . Rhinelander Waldo was named alternate .                     