@@689589

txt Premier Poincar6 proclaimed today a new security policy 1 when in a speech at Neuilly he anlnounced that henceforth it should be considered that the occupied territories would be held by France not only to obItaln fulfillment of the reparation terms 1 I of the Versailles Treaty , but of all the ether terms . By this ire meant that in addition to intending to stay in the Ruhr until Germany had paid in full what she owes the French for reconstruction , the French intend to stay there so long as France is not sure Germany has not greater military strength than is allowed by the treaty . Which is to say , that even after Germany shall have paid up 1 all she owes , the French would consider themselves entitled to remain in the Ruhr if Germany had more than 100.000 troops . TheT French departure therefore assures that for a quarter of a century Germany shall not become a military menace to France , or that if she does the French will hold on to the Ruhr and Rhineland to make sure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement of this new policy ! today on the eve of the meeting of the Conference of Ambassadors , when final derision is to be taken as to whether or . , nona , EKWAad and France shall stand together in acting against Germany 's attempt to throw off the coils of allied military control , is thought perhaps to foreshadow certain concessions by the ' French Premier tomorrow to meet the British point of view . Marshal Fuch has always warned the French Government that the system of military supervision laid down by the I treaty would never work and as far back as the Paris Peace Conference advised the French to seize the Rhine and not worry about what Germany did to the cast of it . And so if now M. Poincare should make slight concessions he wOuld in return be able to point out to the military leaders that France anyhow had placed a mortgage on the Rhine . What Britain Will Propose . It is understood that the British will I ropose. formally tomorrow that instead of sending an ultimatum to Germany containing a threat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resumption of military control . Iteilln be asked to guarantee the safety of allied control officers wherever General Nollet , head of the Interallied Mission of Control , may wish to send them , leaving a great deal to the discretion of the French General . It would be understood between Paris and London . according to this plan , that if Germany did not agree to the compromise a further note would be sent providing penalties . lii fact , it does not seem that this cornprom 's , . would represent a great deal of sacrifice on the part of the French , whereas it would be exceedingly convenient for Mr. Baldwin , since it would at least delay the allied crisis until after the British elections on Dec. 6 , which Is his desire . It is understood that M. Poincar6 did not intend to make a pronouncement of this new French policy for some days , and that the French Government was pressed today to lay emphasis on the desirability of maintaining accord with i England . The Temps saying . " France can not afford to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , the Government papers understand that if France accepts the British compromise London will be expected not to protest against the new French Ruhr policy , which in effect Is equivalent to saying that if the Germans try to beat France again they have got to do it without the Ruhr factories and mines , and also do their fighting on German soil . Poincare 's Sunday " Sermon . " In his Sunday sermon at Neuilly today , M. Poincar6 followed his ritual of telling first , what the Germans did In the war ; second , how they tried to escape retribution , and third , what must be done about it . After giving a fervid sketch of the French war struggles he saki : " Poor France , dear France ! How she has suffered , and with what difficulty she is curing the wounds she received ! On the morrow of a long and painful effort to defend herself , which left her inhabitants decimated and her territory devastated , it seems as though she had a right to the sweetness of tranquillity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from her sorrows and repose from her exertions as a consolation for the harshness of fate . It seemed as though sne had a right to : est awhile and not pick up immediately the tools she aropped to pick up the rifle . " But these ? emptations appealed only to a few flighty souls . The immense majority of the country rushed back to work . Farmers . industrialists , merchants and workers rivaled one another in zeal . Our fields were covered with harvests , our factory heels were turn Ina again , and all our citizens understood that , faced by their innaense task , the first commandment of patriotism Was not to fold their arms . " Saying that France today was one of the few staple countries in the world . he declared that if her late enemies had been actuated by the same noble sentiments there would be a different talc to tell . " And now when France demands execution of the promises made her she encounters not only the resistance of Germany but the indifference if not the sullen hostility of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her of attaching too much importance to the text , of suffering from superstition of the written letter , of injecting a mean spirit into diplomatic affairs and ' of confounding international acts with private . contracts . Defending Rights of All the Allies . " Nothing can be more unjust than these daily reproaches . if France insists on the pure and simple observance or treaties , it is because scrupulous respect of pledges has always been in her eyes an elemental principle of honesty . It is also because a/I the conventions made at Versailles , Saint Germain , Trianon and NeuiBy form in reality one edifice each of whose Parts depend on the others and which can not be wealtened at one point without being shaken ell over . " In defending our rights we defend equally the rights of our allies  --  Italy , Czechoslovakia . Poland , Rumania and Tugoslavia . It is the status of the world Which it is at stake . We intend to remain its guardians . Open breaches of the Treaty of Versailles are already too numerous . How many concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have we not endured ? How many proofs of patience and long suffering did we not give before we seized guarantees ? And the day we , with Belgium , took guarantees we did not even have the good fortune to be approved by all our arses. and the resistance Germany has opposed to us for so long has certainly found regrettable encouragement in this public disapproval . " But events have shown we were tight Germany . who counted on the one hand on our supineness or on divisions among Frenchmen . or on the other hand on foreign interventions , finally saw she was wrong . She yielded , and if she had yielded sooner she would have spared herself vain expenses , painful disillusions and dangerous disorders . But if she finds herself in these troubles she must not blame us . We warned her . She knew we would not give way . She should have given us sooner and with better will the collaboration we asked . Surrendered Through ' Necessity Only . " Even with cessation of resistance she began to equivocate and chest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more we showed we were firm , and so little by little she yields to the inevitable . The great industrialists who have the habit of ruling Germany have understood in spite of the new credit of 100,000,000 gold marks the Reich gave them yesterday that the time has come to consent to deliveries . They tried to throw upon their workmen the coat of their surrender . But we would not take part in any such egotistic combination and one after another most of the princes of German industry came , or are coming , to terms . Deliveries in kind are on the point of resuming their regular course . " M. Poincare then told what he thought of the Experts ' Committee propeera I. stating frankly that he never thought much of the idea . and accepted it only as a bid for the approval of the British and American public opinion . " Recently there was proposed to us again . " went on M. Poineare. " this conference of experts , which from time to time makes its reappearance in the speeches of statesmen and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Commission on Renaratir.ns is totally surrounded by numerous commissions of experts . and each time it judges suitable to consider Germany 's capacity for payment the commission is free to make use of all competent persons whose advice it desires . And so at first glance the Government of the republic did not see the usefulness of a new conference . " However , out of regard for our allies . we consented that the experts should meet provided they did not trample on the rights of th ? commission and that the inquiry take place under the conditions laid down by the treaty . At the same time we asked that they should ? deal with all the present fortune of Germany , which is to say not only with the resources which exist inside the Reich but those which the German industrial-1 ists and bankers exported , with the I property which they hid abroad . with the wealth placed in England , America , : Holland , Switzerland and everywhere : else . Good Faith or Some Doubted , " Our proposition was found too narrow in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germany by the present : but I am not sure some did not find it a little too large in scope and that our intention to seek German wealth where it is did not disturb certain persons . And above all , when it e : was seen that we would not accept any indirect reduction of the German debt . the zeal first shown for the conference ? of experts was immediately chilled . " We can console ourselves because of this abortion . We would have been very happy to reach an understanding With our allies , but on condition of not having once more to bear all the expenses of this happy accord . Now we have only to go back to the treaty . The Reparation Commi , sion will hear the Germans , will name the experts it Pleases , will estimate the capacity of Payment of Germany today , and again tomorrow , then later , and each time it thinks necessary . It will fix the figures it judges fair , and , with the guarantees we hold and which we will surrender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcing Germany to acquit her debt . " We do not despair of convicing our friends that our method is the best . Facts have already largely done this . Facts will enable us to complete the task . " In any case . certain of succeeding , we shall pursue our path peacefully , without worrying and without weakening . " Question of France 's Security . At the end of his speech M. Poincard made his declaration on security , which received prolonged applause . " Much as we stand by reparations , just so much we stand by our security , " he said . " For some time Germany has ' been taking liberties with the stipulations guaranteeing our security . She i has paralyzed the action of the interallied commission of control . She has tried to rebuild her armament in the dark and reconstitute the military formations forbidden by the treaty . At the same time she has authorized to reenter Germany the heir to the imperiol throne , he whose name is written at the top of the list of war criminals . he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the war . " Those things mean on the part of the German Government audacious defiance of the Allies , violent attacks on the treaty , insolent attempts against peace . Penalties are necessary . We shall impose them if we do not obtain satisfaction . Furthermore , we are resolved not to evacuate the territories occupied by virtue of the treaty before all the clauses signed at Versailles are completely executed , and we are solidly prepared against all new possibilities of agerression . " We do not wish the sacrifices of our dead to remain in vain . The blood they ehed cries for justice . Justice they shall have . We shall not leave their work un-finished , "                     