@@692313

txt For the decision to build a new Metropolitan Opera House there are several good reasons . The old house is in some ways obsolete and was never all it should have been . It appears evident that the new opera house will be built in West Fiftyseventh Street by the Opera Company , and that the Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company will realize on its valuable holdings In Broadway and retire with its profits . There will probably be practical advantage in uniting the ownership of the house and the operatic management in the same hands . The operagoing public is keenly interested in the new site and In the kind of opera house that Will be built on it . No doubt many people can suggest volubly better sites than the one Mr. KAHN has selected ; but to " assemble " a plot , at prices within reason , and to offer it ready for construction , is what nobody else thought of doing . The Fifty-seventh Street location has certain disadvantages . It is perhaps within audible distance of the elevated railroad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which to east-siders partakes more or less of the nature of a slum . But it is , after all , only a few minutes by motor from Fifth Avenue . There are trolley , elevated and subway lines within easy reach . Fifty-seventh Street is wide and unencumbered by trolley tracks . The building will go through to Fifty-sixth Street and can be given access on all four sides , with probably as great convenience to all visitors as can easily be expected in New York . One proposal is for a " Babylonian " structure with an opera house in its core , surmounted by indefinite numbers of studios and offices piled up in " cloud-capt towers . " This sort of thing , it is explained , is considered to be the finest contribution of America to architecture , in dignity and impressiveness . More worldly people than the idealists behind the project will see also the advantage of deriving the largest amount of rental from the investment in ground space . The most optimistic may even hope that the income may be applied to reducing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ style of architecture is the size and quality of the stage and its technical fittings , and of the auditorium . It may be assumed that , this time , New York 's opera house will be built by an architect who has seen the inside of a theatre and knows all the intricate requirements of a modern stage . Many will have grave doubts of the wisdom of making the new house hold from 500 to 1,000 more auditors than the present one , even though this be achieved by the miracle of not enlarging the actual space occupied . Will it mean a future contraction of the seats and the loss of the old luxury of space , such as HEINRICH CONR/ED instituted at the Metropolitan the moment he got control of it ? The auditorium of the present opera house is too large fez ' most operas . It will do for Wagner , for " Aida , " for " La tiestale , " for other such works planned on the most lavish scale ; but there is a definite loss in many others of essential values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " atmosphere , " of intelligibility ? in the vast spaces where such things evaporate . There is , to be sure , the beneficent prospect of giving the pleasure and profit of hearing opera to a greater public . The more worldly here , again , will think of the larger receipts made possible . The cheering assurance is given that the acoustics of the new house are " certain to be good " ; acoustics , we are told , are today a matter of mathematics and not a " gamble " ; " dead spots " can not occur in the new building . If all can see and all can hear , as they can not in the old building , there will be general rejoicing . In the midst of it . some will wonder why lauditoriums are still built In which the hearing is bad ; and will hope that mathematics will continue to be an exact science , at least till the new house is done . There is the difficult and dangerous question of reducing the number of parterre boxes from thirty-five to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disquietudes that rent New York society forty-odd years ago over the question of parterre boxes , and that resulted in the abandonment of an old opert , house and the building of a new . Great issues hang thereupon ; it would be rash to intrude . Who is better qualified to judge of the needs and rightful claims of New York society in opera boxes than the backers of the new opera house ? We leave it to them , confident that the right will prevail .                     