@@696217

txt The federal reserve board announced today that automobile production In the United States reached the highest level in history in the first three months of 1929 , and that the demand for automobiles had not been sufficient to absorb the output . This production , the board said in its monthly bulletin , was the chief factor in the rise ? of industrial production to its present record level of 10 per cent more than in the same period of last year . The board found that the automobile output ' had increased the demand for other ma ? terials , chiefly iron and steel , textilest and rubber . The production of tires was said to have exceeded the demand and stocks were larger than they were a year ago . " Output of automobiles , " the board said , " was more than 50 per cent larger than in the ' first quarter of 1928 and more than 25 per cent larger than In the first quarter of any earlier year . Production in ' March was pro . ceeding ytt a rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever reached in the industry . " Demand for automobiles by consumers , which throughout 1929 had kept pace with the output , has con . Untied to be large , but appears not to have been sufficient to absorb currently the larger production of the early months of this year , and there has been some increase in the stocks of cars held by dealers . An increase In the last fifteen months in the for ? eign demand for American cars , which now absorbs somewhat more than 11 per cent of the total output , has been a factor of some Importance to the industry . " J. J. O'Brien Made Head of Philadelphia Company John J. O'Brien , president of the Standard Gas and Electric company , was today elected president of the Philadelphia company , to succeed A. W. Robertson , who some months ago was elected chairman of the hoard of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing company . Mr. O'Brien will remain at the bead of the Standard and other Byllesby companies . Sinclair Ua for Re-election as Oil Firm Director New York , May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now serving a Jail sentence for contempt of the - .... : 11nIted States senate , is up for re9lection as a director of the Sinclair Consolidated Oil corporation at the stockholders ' annual meeting here tomorrow . Sinclair now Is chairman of the board .                     