@@686731

txt Is there anything in the affairs or manage'Trent of Northern Pacific that would lead One to believe it is likely to become a second St. Paul or New Haven ? My recollection is that these two latter companies got in. bad by making unprofitable outside investments . In the case of St. Paul it was the Puget Sound extension , with the extensive electrification of some of the mountain divisions . In the case of the New Haven . it was heavy investment in trolley lines and coastwise steamship systems ; also unprofitable real estate ventures . If I am correctly informed , Northiern Pacific has not - made any unprofitable outside - investments or unprofitable extensions or improvements on its own line , but the depression in this stock is due entirely to local conditions , such as the depression in the lumber and copper industry , and socialistic conditions in the Dakotas . If I am correct about the matter , then the affairs of Northern Pacific ought to right themselves as soon . as business along that line recovers to a normal condition . Will you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter ?  - -  H. 111 . C. Answer  --  You have hit directly ' upon-illiie causes of price depression of Northern Pacific . The poor gross earnings showing of recent months appears to be largely a temporary condition . Northern Pacific has cut down considerably on maintenance , possibly in greater proportion than the decrease in traffic warrants , and it is fair to assume that later these deferred expenditures will be made . Nevertheless , a revival of traffic , such as can be reasonably expected in the Northwest within a reasonable time , will place that road in position to continue its 7% dividend . There is nothing inherently wrong in the company 's affairs that will refuse to be righted by restoration of normal business conditions . Northern Pacific has made no recent outlays of capital comparable with St. Paul 's coast extension or New Haven 's unprofitable outside purchases . The former will no doubt become profitable in time , but has been a burden upon the company . It should not be forgotten that the consequences of Federal control greatly reduced the earnings of practically all railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directors , in declaring " a dividend " of 5%. has a very important bearing on Northern Pacific futdre position . If it is decided that Burlington shall pay to the northern lines 10% a year hereafter , Northern Pacific . will be in a slightly better position to continue its 7% dividend than it was before , so far as the Burlington refunding is concernedAfter the readjustment that is now going on has been completed , it will be able to develop earnings without handicap from that source .                     