@@693738

txt A new political alignment between Duvall and William IL Armitage has been evident the last few weeks , politicians declare , although they were formerly political enemies . A transcript of the testimony heard by the 1926 fall jury which adjourned without returning Indictments , was turned over to the present jury by Judge Collins on March 15 . The name of Mayor Duvall is mid to have figured prominently in the investigation and it is mid that the jury has spent most of its time in investigating accusations that Duvall , prior to his elec- tion , made certain political promises . One of the outstanding assertions investigated by the former jury was the allegation by Thomas H. Adams . chairman of the probe committee of the Indiana Republican Editors ' arao ? elation , that Duvall entered into a contract with D. C. Stephenson , former Klan dragon , now In prison , whereby it was alleged Stephenson was to make certain important appointments in case Duvall was elected . Duvall denied the charge and said the document exhibited by Adams , which purported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgery . ? The autumn grand jury spent more than three months In the investigation . Although the jury failed to return indictments , it strongly recommended that the investigation be con-tinned. 3 Months ' . Old Baby Delays Mother 's Trial for Frauds Mrs. Grace Greenberg 's three month old baby yesterday saved her from going to trial at this time on a charge of having cashed 2r checks with forged indorsements . Judge William V. Brothers continued the case until the June term , not to deprive the baby of a mother 's care now . The judge refused to consider probation because of the number of checks involved . Mrs. Greenberg lives at 1921 North Winchester avenue . Friend of Slain Drucci Named in Rum Warrant Henry Irinkeistein , cabaret owner and companion of Schemer Drucci at the time the gangster was killed by Detective Daniel Healy , was named in a warrant issued yesterday by United States Commissioner Henry C. Bottler . Finkelstein is charged with the ownership of six bottles of liquor alleged to have been found in his room at the Bellaire hotel , 420 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shooting . Dry Agents ' Civil Service Test Will Be Held Here The United States civil service commission announced yesterday that Chicago will be one of the cities at which examinations will be held for appoint . meat to the prohibition department . Persons desiring to take the examinations must file their applications with the civil service commission at Washington not later than May 9 , It was announced . The prohibition department will employ 2,500 persons through these examinations .                     