@@694251

txt H. G. WELLS , in his article in Sunday 's TIMES , says that Labor Day will come to be " a quaint and interesting anniversary , " like fireworks in November or " beating the bounds " of some old English borough . This last used to mean marching around the borders in order to keep the inhabitants mindful of what they had to defend . So the time will come when it will not be necessary to go beating the bounds of labor as if they needed to be defended against some capitalistic enemy . In the language of Mr. WELLS , labor is " soaking away to " ward absorption in a modern me " che.nicalized community of a mid " dle-class type " in - wnicn every activity is labor . Labor Day , now a sort of universal epilogue of the holiday season , has become also the prologue of the school year . Its opening day should be publicly celebrated because of its import in the calendar of democracy . No other day so changes the whole current of life in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the home and sends them to school . If they could be marshaled in one host , they would make a column three abreast reaching from the Battery to Albany . Their teaching acquaints them with the elementary wisdoms of the race which they are to defend and pass on to the next generation , enlarged if possible . In the House of Commons a few weeks ago Sir JOHN SIMON , speaking of the bill proposing to raise the age at which the boy or girl might leave school to go to work , said , quoting Field Marshal Sir W. ROBERTSON , that two preliminary bombardments in the Ypres sector had cost as much as England 's whole year 's expenditure on education . When asked what connection there was between war expenditure and that for education , Sir JOHN retorted that education was " the preliminary bombardment of the battle of life . " Whatever is essential for that is not a wasteful outlay . How large the outlay is Controller BERRY 'S recent analysis of the city 's budget shows  --  for current expenses alone $115,000,000 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , $20 , - 000,000 for buildings and equipment . For the coming year the amount is likely to go $25,000,000 beyond the total for this year . The Public Education Association has recently published a volume , " New York at School , " which suggests not only the size of the system but also its variety of activities . There are more pupils ; , man in Chicago , St. Louis , Detroit , Boston and Baltimore combined , and the teaching force itself is larger than the entire population in more than two-thirds of the cities of this State . In lower Manhattan , where there are several thousand children in a school , many of whom have never seen a cow , a live chicken or a pig , every available corner accommodates a child ; while in the Bronx there is by contrast a new building with less than 400 pupils where in season " children may pick violets on " the school lawn and eat luncheon " under the trees . " The magnitude of the undertaking is suggested even more impressively by what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work outlined for a normal child : There are the crippled children , the blind and the deaf , the partially blind and deaf , the tubercular , the undernourished , the cardiac cases . In addition , there are the mentally defective , the subnormals , the abnormals , the neurotic , the children of unstable temperaments . There are children whose homes totally unfit them for giving attention to school work . There are children whom poverty shadows and frightens . There are children bedridden ; others held in detention homes , perhaps through no fault of their own . All children , however , and therefore in the province of the educators . Altogether , it is quite the most extensive and expensive single undertaking of the community and save for the protection of life and health the most important . But it is the price of democracy .                     