@@686420

txt Both sides . stood firm today in the second day of the great coal strike , and neither made approaches to the other or any attempt to discover or explore avenues toward peace . A compromise at the moment , indeed , seems out of the question , although when Parliament meets on Monday there are sure to be many suggestions as to how the great calamity may be brought to an end . Everyone is now watching to see what the railway men and transport workers will do when the Triple Alliance executives meet next week . The suggestion that has been made of a refusal on the part of the railway and transport men to handle coal , so as to nullify the advantage the coal owners possess in the existence of large stocks , is not accepted by those in the closest touch with the situation . - The railwaymen , they say , will do nothing or everything . They will either leave the miners to fight their own battles or they will come out themselves . As to whether the latter is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The railway men are fairly satisfied , although uneasy over the numerous discharges that have occurred lately through depression of trade , and they have accepted the recent decline in wager , as a result of the fall in the cost of living , according to their sliding Scale bargain . J. H. Thomas , ' too , Is expected home tonight from the Continent , and his influence is counted- on for peace . Leaders More Radical Than MenBut conclusions ' drawn from the ' attitude of the men and the entire absence of excitement in their general demeanor are vitiated by the fact that next week 's decisions must be taken , not by the men at large , but by their organization leaders . These are far more extreme in their view than the rank and file , and are much more likely to be influenced by the argument that now , if ever , all trade unions must insist on the principle of a national standard of wages . They might be led into extreme measures by the belief that they might just as well strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the question would then arise as to their power ' to ? enforce discipline among their followers , and to keep their ranks from defection in case of a prolonged strike . Meanwhile the Government 's representatives declare that , whatever happens , it is prepared and , however far the strike may spreall , it can defeat it . " Attempt to Intimidate " Ministers . Sir Robert Horne at the Board of Trade today issued a statement about the ? coal strike , in the course of which he said : " The stoppage in the coal fields is an attempt to intimidate the Government into granting a subsidy to the coal trade and to impose upon it a bastard form of nationalization which would kill all incentive in industry . But not only have the mines stopped ; the Miners ' Federation for the first time in their existance have issued instructions to withdraw pumpmen and enginemen from various districts and leave the mines to their fate . This action canrot have been intended to destroy their own means of livelihood ; it can only have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack upon the community that the Government would be bound immediately to give way and deliver the subsidy that the miners demand . A community which gave way to such a menace would be always in peril . " On the other side J. - Sexton , M. P. , secretary of the Dockers ' Union , and a man with a reputation for being a cautious and moderate trade unionist , said : " The , coming week is fraught with grave sues for industrial peace . I would not be at all surprised if in sheer desperation the fiery cross of the Triple Alliance  --  miners , railwaymen and transport workers ? is raised for the first time in defense of the common cause . " ? 1,000,000 Damages ha Staffordshire . Reports from the coal fields indicate that disastrous consequences have already followed the withdrawing of labor from the pumps . In six collieries in Staffordshire and , one in the Forest of Dean the water has gained the upper hand . The loss in Strafforclshire is put at ? 1,000,000 . In the Scottish districts the flooding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the safety men are on duty or volunteers are gallantly trying to keep the water down . Although the railwaymen and transport workers are believed to be in favor of supporting the miners . the Triple Alliance executive , before proceeding to call for sympathetic action , will seek an interview with the Government . The latter is watching the situation and taking the necessary precautions to protect the public safety and.lood supplies . Lord Londonderry , one of the largest Coal owners of the country , in an interview today said : " The strike which took place in November of last year was the most disastrous I have ever known in the history of the trade , whether viewed from the standpoint of owners , men or community . The effect of it was to destroy our export trade , and to throw that valuable avenue of profit into the hands of our competitors . The Continent of Europe is today full of . American coal , and there are large contracts with America for coal to be delivered for a year or two ahead . The men gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in wages would not cover the loss in wages during a three weeks ' stoppage . " . The present trouble is even more unjustifiable . It was obvious that a reduction in wages must take place , and the men were quite prepared for it . The main difference between the men and their leaders and the owners is on the question of national as against local settlement . The men 's leaders demanded a national wage basis with a pool . This would mean the destruction of trade and would be against the best interests of the men themselves . " During the two years succeeding the war the country has lost great opportunities through labor disputes . When the armistice was signed we were the only nation except America which had the power of production , and the demand for everything which we could supply was great and insistent . But , instead of taking advantage of that opportunity , extremist labor has kept the country in a state of turmoil and agitation and robbed us of the prosperity which we should have enjoyed . " In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage reductions are not for the purpose of increasing profits , but in order to enable industry to recover its normal stability , in which the mines have a vital interest . The present situation not only defers that recovery in the coal trade , but the recovery of our export trade , upon which the general welfare of the country as well as of the miner depends . " Uglier Temper in South ! Vales . LONDON . April 2 ( Associated Press ) . ? No serious disorders have occurred as yet in the great mining strike , although a number of the coal mines have been left by the pump men and engineers to be flooded , and the men are said to be displaying an uglier temper , especially in South Wales . Fears are expressed that there may be a much wider withdrawal of the engine men and pump men , and the Government is taking all necessary precautions . It is expected that on Monday orders will be issued for the drastic rationing of coal for lighting purposes , householuers being reduced to 100-weight weekly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of their normal consumption . Food supplies are ample for the present , according to the Board of Trade . and there is . no anxiety on this score unless a breakdown in transport occurs . Long statements were sent out today for publication by the new Chancellor of the Exchequer , Sir Robert Stevenson Horne , in behalf of the Government , and by Arthur Henderson and Frank Hodges for the miners , justifying- the opposing attitudea . The miners ' representatives accuse the Government of heedlessly precipitating the crisis by premature removal of control over the industry . Alfred Bigland , Coalition Unionist for Birkenhead , who was a member of the Grand Committee of the House of Commons on the " De-control " bill , makes the suggestion that the right solution for the dispute is to rescind this bill and make the . time limit for control May 30 , instead of March 31 . He infers that the committee agreed to the earlier date because the Government seemed persuaded that the mine owners would suggest a scale of wages acceptable to the miners . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country f10,000,000 , but ; considers this necessary in order to give more ample time for discussion and arrangement of the wages question and the education of the miners to the real industrial . position at home and abroad . This suggestion from a Unionist who is free from suspicion of undue sympathy with the miners is regarded as significant . The first case of intimidation reported in connection with the strike was reported today from a South Wales district . The miners at Rhymney , after a prolonged meeting , proceeded to Pontlottyn and told the officials who were working the pumps and doing other maintenance work that unless they ceased this they would be forced to do so . The management thereupon ordered the mine ponies brought to the surface . At a mass meeting of the miners at : Leath it was complained that nonunionists were working in a certain colliery , and it was decided to hold demonstrations at the colliery on Monday to make the men cease work . In order to meet the industrial crisis brought on by the coal strike the organization formed among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a volunteer service to assist the authorities in maintaining supplies of food and essential . commodities .. BOOM IN COAL EXPORTS . Inquiries Here Have Increased too , 000 Tons in Last Few Days . British consumers are turning to the American coal market for fuel because of the national strike of miners in Great Britain , according to a statement made yesterday at the Tidewater Coal Exchange , to the effect that inquiries for export coal had increased 100,000 tons in the last few days . As fast as the orders are placed the coal will be shipped abroad , as there Is an ample supply , and plenty of ships are available for the transportation . More than 130,000 tons of export coal are now at tidewater ready to be shipped , and thousands of additional tons are arriving daily . " We have a sufficient supply on hand , " said an official of the Exchange , " to meet any emergency demand , and will have no trouble in supplying the British market . We expect a rapid increase of orders if the striae lasts a week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British fuel will come from Belgium and France . " Practically all ships sailing for British ports yesterday carried a sufficient supply of coal in their bunkers for the round trip . Coal exporters said that the prospect of increased export orders had not yet affected prices , but a slight advance was not unexpected if the demand continued .                     