@@695971

txt As the days grow longer the hockey season steadily becomes shorter . Indeed , the regular schedule is approaching the vanishing point , with the last game here listed for Sunday , March 17 , between the Rangers and Pittsburgh . This game was S origmauy scneauiea to be played in Pittsburgh on March 12 , but the switch to New York was decided upon yesterday , the club officials making use of a final Sunday in the Garden before the league playToffs . Incidentally , the contest will formally bring the schedule for the league to a close . However , the end of the routine schedule is not the end of hockey , and an elaborate system of play-offs must be completed before the winner of the Stanley Cup , emblematic of the world 's championship , is known . A number of changes have been made in the play-offs this season , all intended to expedite the procedure . Many fans on this side of the border are clamoring for a more radical revision of the rules , so as to provide something similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a post-season merry-go-round of games in which the teams that finish in the first three places all have a chance to capture the trophy . Ratings Are Puzzling . Some fans can not reconcile themselves to seeing a team cantering home in third place and then rating on virtually equal terms with another team that has kept in the forefront over the entire schedule . With the end of the regular season in sight , the official description of the new play-off system is appended so that the enthusiasts who may be a bit ** as they contemplate the impending post-season games may study the ramifications . The Stanley Cup conditions are as follows : A. The club at the head of the regular league standing in the American section shall play with the club nt the , hpsid of the regular league standing in the International section a series of best three out of five games , the first two games in 1929 to be played on the home ice of the club leading the American section and the subsequent games on the ice of the club leading the International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ league standing in the American section shall play home and home games with the club finishing second in the regular league standing in the International section , majority of goals to count , the first game to be played on the ice of the club of the International section . Third-Place Teams to Compete . C. . The club finishing third in the regular league standing in the American section shall play a series of home and home games with the club finishing third in the regular league standing in the International section , majority of goals to count , the first game to be played on the home ice of the club of the American section , unless such arrangement shall be prevented by occupation of the ice by a club playing in Series A , in which event the first game shall be played on the home ice of the club of the International section . Of the games played in B and C the first shall continue for sixty minutes . If the total score is tied at the end of the regulation period in the second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in overtime play . D. The winner in Series B shall then play the winner in Series C a series of best two out of three games , choice of ice for the first ( and third , if necessary ) to be at the discretion of the club finishing highest in the combined league standings . E. Winner of Series D shall then play a final series with the winner of Series A , best two out of three games . Winner of Series A shall have choice of ice for first and third games . Each game shall be played to a finish .                     