@@686041

txt President Wilson has replied to Paul Hyrna.ns , president of the council of the league of nations , that he will accept the request to mediate in the affairs of Armenia in an endeavor to end the horrors of attacks by the Turks and Kurds and will This is , we believe , another phase of the accord of Mr. Wilson and the principal European governments In an endeavor to involve the United States in Asia Minor against its will . It has the advantage of approaching the United States in a fashion which may appeal to a moral sense of international obligation and which may not threaten to get the nation Into an entanglement. - A request that a government offer its good offices to bring about an understanding is seldom refused if there is any possibility of getting the results desired , but Armenia does not need the efforts of the United States . It needs merely some honesty of purpose and effort on the part of the nations which are dividing up the rich lands of the Turks In Asia Minor . Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the quadruple alliance , Germany , precisely what must be done under the treaty and they have been able to enforce obedience . They have forced the giving up of pistols and guns held by German citizens . They have forced the surrender or destruction of the fleet and of war machines . They have . policed elections in territory which had been German . They have been fully competent to obtain from Germany what they want Germany to give . With tho weakeist members of the hostile alHance they have been futile , helpless and hand tied or have pretended to be They are in virtual posseSsion of the . Turkish . capital . They have taken Mesopotamia , Syria , Anatolia , Thrace . and other provinces . They are able to handle their former allies , the now rebellious Arabs . They have divided Asia Minor up , into four parts and have distributed parts to Italy and Greece . Armenia they will not have . They will not control the Turks there and it is the only part of the Turkish empire to which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which they say they are helpless . They can reach agreements regarding every other part , but not that . They can coerce the Turks everywhere else but not there . There they want the United States to Intervene . Inconsiderate of the fact that the Unitpd States Is at the other end of the world , while they have their forces close by . They have a leverage . on the Turks . We have none . Of all the absurdities of Europe under the pence treaty none equals this Armenian proposal which Is Incessantly thrown at the United States . Tho American people have said , through the senate j and in an election , that they will not do it . Now , I in spite of every refusal we find that the camel has inserted his nose within the tent . With that I warm we 'll soon see the rest of hint .                     