@@693880

txt AMERICA UNDER PROHIBITION . The drinking of liquor which is called American Prohibition is presenting impressive exhibits . At the Washington cc:invention of the American Medical association Dr. Matthlea Nichol ! Jr. , New York health commissioner , told the state health officers that there had been a 300 per cent increase In deaths from alcoholism under the Volstead act . Ills proposal for a survey of the situation was approved . Some of the increase may be accounted for by poisoned liquor , for which the government furnisher ' the poisons . Prohibition follows a social theory that the indiscreet , weak willed , and imprudent shall be restrained from doing themselves and others the Injury they would do if alcoholic drinks were available to people who , can be depended upon to discipline and control themselves and to people who can and will do neither . Volstead seeks to Protect the weak from themselves by sacrificing the balanced people to their necessities . The increase in deaths from alcoholism asks It to prove that It is doing this . it has interfered fairly offso tually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selves , but the incompetents still find it possible to go their way and even disciplined people stand the chance of misplaced confidence or a bad analysts . Chicago reports indicate that prohibited drinking is increasing the mental disorders which keep in ? stitutions full and that the places for the treatment of alcoholism are busier than ever . The Kt ' teley Institutes are being increased throughout the country , the cure having done 20 per cent more business last year than It did in 1913 . Prohibition is not prohibiting . It is interfering with the lives of people competent to make . their own decisions and doing nothing much else except to increase crimes of violence and the physical and moral penalties of drinking . AFTER THE FLIGHT . Apparently French and American relations are more cordial at the present moment than they have been since the war . The warm hearted admiration the French have given Lindbergh has had a response in the United States and everybody seems to be a bit more amiable because a brave young American had the skill , endurance and good fortune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are composed or volatile elements and powerful forces can be released by episodes and Incidents , fortunately or unfortunately . Wise men try to work with these elements and sometimes fail . Unwise men ignore them and sometimes succeed in making a lot of trouble . Tho game of making friends to check enemies is played in every fashion by diplomacy , but the cons ? ? consequences of Lindbergh 's flight on international cordiality were largely unexpected and without premeditation . Another incident can destroy what this one has created , but it has not done any harm to have the air cleared for a while . A few details of the'flight may be stated-and they contain their own comment . Lindbergh was in Paris 33 hours and 29 minutes after he started from New York . After he had a night 's sleep he talked to his mother in Detroit by telephone and Monday morning pictures of his reception in Paris were printed in THE TRIBUNE and other American newspapers . While he was flying the world was nformed ; accurately or inaccurately , of his progress through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this generation speculated on he men from Mars . They are here . RUSSIAN NEWS : An editorial in the Toronto Daily Star question ! the accuracy of a recent dispatch to Tun TrunuNt from Donald Day , its correspondent . at Riga , Lat via . The dispatch told of the well organized dem onstrations before the headquarters of the Britist mission In Moscow in retaliation for the raid or the Russian mission in London . The editorial raises the question of how a correspondent so far away from Moscow as Riga could hope to know what took place in Moscow . THE TRIBUNE has no correspondent of its own in Russia . The Russian government has insisted upon the right to censor news dispatches and so long as that censorship is exerted True TRIBUNE will not place a correspondent in the country . Tug TRIBUNE does maintain a secret organization in Russia for obtaining news and this organization has functioned well . Some of the material it has obtained has been forwarded to the world through MT . riny Tho Star says : " If Canadians are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of the United States , the press of this country must , like the presS of England , cease to swallow whole all the propaganda that is sent them from every old world center of political activity . " In this connection it might be noted that True TarnUNE has the word of officials of the British foreign office that they place more reliance upon the Rus ? scan news obtained by THE TRIBUNE than upon the information obtained from any other source . THE TRACTION BILLS . Tne traction bills are coming under discussion . In Saturday 's TRIBUNE Mr. Instill , for whom they were prepared and introduced , related some of the proceedings which were preliminary to them and explained something of their source and purpose . In the same issue Mr. Harlan , attorney represent ? ing the Lisman traction proposal to the Dever ad ? ministration , said the bills were full of Insulated jokers . Mr. ' Harlan 's statements were natural to his associations and Mr. Insult 's to his . There never has been a traction proposal in Chicago in thirty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the back door without ringing the bell . Usually all the fire bells are rung . That probably will be the procedure in this case . When the discussion starts the objections will arise and the modifications will be made . That is proper . Out of it there may come legislation and ordinances , with the city well protected and its transportation development made possible . The proponents of the bills hardly can think of them as other than material for consideration , the final terms to be indicated when there is a general agreement that they are fair .                     