@@693232

txt A crude bomb made of raw dynamite was found on a window sill of the County Court House , in City Hall Park . yesterday morning . Detectives last night were still racking their brains for a reason for its being left there . and finally concluded that it had been destined for some other point and dropped there when those bearing it became afraid to carry it any further . The . bomb contained eighteen pounds of  --  dynamite , uncompressed and packed in a wooden box in a papier-mache suitcase , in such a way that it had ? listqle4P5iit power . It was amissAerie " be set al by some mech. nism or acid contained in a tin box within the wooden box . Lieutenant William Reynolds , in charge of the Police Bomb Squad . examined everybody who had seen the bomb , and questioned every person in the Court house building who might nave received a threatening letter , in the hope of finding some clue , but without success . The suitcase did not have a single ? mark on it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of boards for the purpose . Woman Finds the Bomb : The bomb was seen first by Rose Conley , a cleaner in the building , about 5:45 o'clock in the morning . She opened the window of the clerk 's room on the ground floor , the sill of which is about four feet from the ground , and saw the suitcase . It was on the sill of the first window to the left as one leaves the Court House by the east door on the ground floor . She called John , superintendent of the building , and took the suitcase inside . He was puzzled as to what might be in it , and went looking for a chisel and hammer , after vainly trying to open , the lock . He could not find anything , however . About three hours later it occurred to him that Ile thing might be a bomb , so he telephoned to the Bureau of Combustibles of the Fire Department . Three members of the bureau , James A. Callahan , Emanuel Mojorietca and Joseph Carson , hurried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to open the suitcase . Inside they found a box divided into two compartments . I In one of these was a tin shoe polish box , through the centre of which ran I an eighth of an inch of copper wire , the ends of which rested in the centre I partition and on one of the sides of I the box . Under and around the tin box and in the other compartment was a mass of crude dynamite , reddish in color . The dynamite used in this part of the country is usually a light tan color , and the red color suggested to an expert of the du Pone Powder Company that it had been brought from the Far West or South , Mystery to the Pollee . Lieutenant Reynolds , was notified *I the discovery about 9 ' o'clock . After an all-day investigation he said the whole thing was a mystery to him . " I am inclined to believe that those who made it intended to take it ' somewhere else , an ' left It on the window sill when they began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " They might have been carrying it about for some time . I could not find that any one in the building , Judges or others , had received any threatening letters . If the thing had gone off , I doubt if it would have done much damage , because it was not packed in a way that would have caused an explosion of much force . Dynamite will burn as well see explode . " The tin box was removed from the wooden box , but was not opened for fear it might contain some mechanism or explosive . With the loose dynamite it was placed on the tug Vreeland , belonging to the Du Pont Powder Company , and sent to the Du Pont laboratories at South Amboy , N. J. , where it will be extmined to determine if possible what it contained and where it came from . Hehry Hine , in charge of the Bureau of Combustibles , said he hoped to have a report today or tomorrow . The discovery of the bomb disrupted business in the Court House . Reserves from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the corridors . There was almost a. riot when a newspaper camera man was barely prevented from taking a flashlight picture of the bomb . One part of the Supreme Court , which holds sessions in a room directly above the one in which the bomb was found , did not conduct its usual morning business , and a trial in another room on the east end of the building was moved to another courtroom . Deputy Attorney General Israel M. Lerner , who has been investigating food monopolies in New York , particularly the alleged egg combination , said he was sure the bomb was intended for him . He said he was to have held a hearing today in a room over that in which the Bowl ; was found , but at the last moment was asked to take another room . Because of the excitement the hearing was postponed .                     