@@696701

txt Argentin public opinion is watching closely the progress of the Hooverqzmacq#Donald conversations , as it recognizes that they undoubtedly will prove historically important even if they fail to bring about naval disarmament . Leading newspapers are printing daily several columns of Washington dispatnes. including long artichs from special correspondents in Washington and New York . South American correspondents are writing at length on the difficulto confront any disarmament plan , thereby confirming editorials in Buenos Aires papers . which are inclined to doubt that there will he a successful outcome . While - s:veral Buenos Aires newspapers are openly ridiculing naval disarmament and are referring to the conversations as a bluff , La Nadon devotes a long editorial to the historical importance of the Hooverqzmacq#Dneld meeting regardless of its outcome , Holds Parley Most Important . " Premier 's trip to the United States , " La Nacion says , " has produced an effect of the utmost importance on future AngloAmerican relations  --  that is , that both American and British newspape ? s are publishing unanimously favorable opinions regarding the future relations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread creation of public opinion by important newspapers is even more important sometimes than international treaties in creating lasting good-will between nations . " Even though Premier 's visit to Washington had no other object than a friendly gesto ? e or on occasion for pronouncing cordial words of friendship , it mum he recognized as historically important . " After reviewing the progress of disarmament efforts since 1921 , Nacicn says that any difference of opinion between America and Great Britain is due to opposing circumstances , not to opposing policies , and that both countries are anxious to reduce their navies if at the same time they can protect their worldwide interests . " President Hoover and Premier are conversing over a problem for which a solution is not impossible , " says La Nacion. " and it is logical to believe that they had already agreed . upon some mutually acceptable principle before Mr. sailed . At any rate , Mr. 's trip and the cordial reception accorded him emphasize again the historical friendship which has always characterized international relations between the two great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the American Revolution America and Britain have been frequently called upon to discuss Innumerable differences of opinion , some of which bordered on becoming crake . Yet the diplomatic policies of the two countries have always been characterized by an earnest desire to find mutually acceptable and peaceful solutions . Below those differences of opinion which give individuality to Americans and Englishmen , there is always the consciousness of racial , political , social and religious relationships which are often forgotten by others who predict imaginary wars between Americans and British . " No one should expect an AngloAmerican alliance to result from the conversations . Nor will they end the economic competition which at the moment characterizes the relations of Great Thsitain and the United States . But the meeting of President Hoover and Premier in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia symbolizes a between the tions , which mutual desire peace . "                     