@@691939

txt While Chinese representing the warring On Leong and Hip Sing Tongs were signing a peace compact at the Chinese Consulate , ** Place , last night . Federal agents and New York detectives seized , in a city-wide round-up , 430 of their countrymen , 100 of whom were held for further examination . The treaty was signed after hours of conference in the presence of the Chinese Consul General , Ziang Ling- Chang , after Acting Captain John Archipoli of the gangster squad had warned officers of oth tongs that it was for their best interests to sign , and sign quickly . It was close to midnight , however , before emissaries hurried from the Chinese Consulate to telegraph offices with the following message to be sent to tong lodges in all parts of the country : " Peace has been signed at Chinese Consul General 's office at midnight . All relations friendly . Notify all members . I Letters of confirmation will follow . " Two Theatres Raided . The agreement was not reached , however . before the largest round-up of Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Detectives and police in uniform placed a cordon around ' Chinatown and then detectives and Fed ! eral agents , acting together , gathered them in . They stopped Chinese on the streets of Chinatown , on the Bowery and at other points in the city . Those who could show immediately credentials that permitted them a residence or a prolonged stay in the " United States were let go . The others were placed in Patrol wagons and sent to the Federal Building , where as fast as possible they were taken before United States Commissioner Garrett W. totter for immediate hearings . Commissioner Cotter ' began the hearings about midnight and before he adjourned the proceedings 100 Chinese had been held for further exam ' Motion and possible deportation . The raids were conducted without disorder . Detectives went into Chinese resorts in the Bowery , East Broadway , Allen Street and Division Street . besides covering every house in Mott . Dover and I Pell Streets . It was estimated that 1.000 were e-eamined altogether . Two theatres were raided , the old London . now called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the boards , and the Thalia , where a Chinese company was presenpng a play . Police and Federal agents surrounded the theatres and then detectives went inside and ordered the audience to get up and march out . Many , especially at the opera , had come from distant cities to hear the music and see the acting of their native land . Performances Keep On , They obeyed the police orders , however . without creating a disturbance . Most of these were able to show credentials , but the raid emptied both of the theatres . In spite of this the performers stuck to their lines . Managers vouched for the appearance of the actors if they should be called upon for examination and they were not disturbed the raiders . Apparently they were little disturbed by the inroads on their audiences . At the Chinese Theatre , where a long opera had packed the house , the raids did not stop either the music or the acting . Before the show was over the house was empty , but even that did not deter the artists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the end . . A detective who had spent years in Chinatown explained that that was the custom of the Chinese . These artists , he said , were under contract to give the performance on this night in this theatre and , living up to the Chinese tradition of good faith , they continued to the end , audience or no audience . Buckner to Keep tp Drive . Last night 's round-up , was the most extensive made since the Federal officials decided last week to bring an end to the war between the tongs by deporting undesirable Chinese . Chief Joseph Palmer of the Secret Service , and fifteen agents : with a number of detectives , had conferred earlier in the day with United States District Attorney Emory R. Buckner . It was the belief of the authorities that the recent outbreak between the tongs was partly aggravated by the presence here of Chinese who had either deserted from ships crews or had been smuggled in . The cooperation of the Federal authorities with immediate action under the immigration laws it was felt would eliminate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the search for aliens who had come into this country fraudulently would be continued . despite the signing of the peace treaty last night . The fact that they had killed a chicken as part of the peace rite before the conference , he said , - would not deter his department from pressing the search . " If the Hip Sings and the On Leonge are going to ge talong without killing , well and good , " be said , " but the Immigration law is the Immigration law , and the killing of a white rooster for peace purposes does notmeananything to us . The Chinese unlawfully in this country are subject to deportation , whether there is or is not a tong war in progress . Those found unlawfully here will be deported . It developed during &he; peace conference that one of the chief points at issue had been the shifting from one tong to another of members . Rival membership drives had led to violence in more than one centre . Ender the agreement signed before the Consul General , it was said after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become a member of the On Leong without endangering himself or his affairs in any way . When such change was to be made , however , according to the agreement as reported , the secretaries of the tongs involved must exchange official notifications of the transfer before it became valid . Also all transfers of memberships must be made public in some Chinese paper or magazine before it was valid . Leaders of the tongs said that the settlement of this exchange of membership problem would in their opinion prevent future differences of a serious nature . The end of tong wars had come , they said .                     