@@693580

txt The first fighting in the immediate vicinity of Shanghai has occurred between troops Of the supposed northern allies . Friction developed between the newly arrived troops of Chang Chung , - chang Ind the troops of Sun Chuan-fang holding the arsenal and defenses on the south side of the city . Today General Pi , commander of the Shantung Brigade , formally asked General Lih to turn over the arsenal and all munitions , but he met with a flat refusal . Later a skirmish occurred between small details of their troops outside the western district near the concessions boundary . The result is unknown . It was admitted today that the reason for the sudden foreign occupation of outlying Chinese territory was because Marshal Chang 's troops have the worst reputation in China for looting and rapine : therefore their presence causes more uneasiness than the imminence of the Cantonese . The Japanese deny sending marines to help man the outside defensive front , but they intend to participate later . Latest reports indicate that Sun Chuan-fang 's troops are hard pressed at Sunkiang , where there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Cantonese . The situation in Shanghai , however , is easier . The volunteers and special police have been relieved of duty . The assertion that the Japanese will join in the occupation of a large area outside the concessions by the British , Italian and French forces , without waiting for the formal consent of the several treaty powers , including America , is said here to indicate a far wider and deeper purpose tha merely . assuring the safety of Shanghai . Doubts Cantonese Caused Firing . There seems to be much propaganda ta America and Europe intended to obeouru and exaggerate conditions biere An example Is the story alleging that the Cantonese paid the crews of the Chinese gunboats to fire purposely into th2 concessions , trying to provoke the foreigners to fire back . An analysis of all the factors shows that the firing works in every way advers , ly to the Cantonese . They are very unlikely to incite shooting . On the other hand , the incident serves the purposes of local ( foreign interests seeking an excuse to extend the defensi -- e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cantonese . That accusation seems to be without valid evidence and also improbable , for the Cantonese are anxious to create a good advance impression and allay unI easiness over their coming here . The real cause of the shooting is still obscure , but it probably was done by mutineers who were panicky and fired wildly . Luckily the damage was trivial . More importance is attachable to evidence that Japan 's influence caused the northern war lords to dispatch forces to the south , which brings new factors and gives a different complexion to the international balance of power . Observers believe that Japan has decided to support the northern action because she is convinced that Britain intends to inaugurate an aggressive policy in South and Cen/ tre China . and Japan plans to prevent a British hegemony in that region by bringing in Chinese militarists under Japan 's influence . Having made that move , it is said that Japan now is willing to cooperate with Britain to hold back Russia , whose eastern pressure threatens Manchuria . See Move to Eliminate America . Private diplomatic talk here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminate the influence of America in China and bring a reversion to the old balance of power and interests in Eastern Asia . These conjectures are speculative , but the feeling prevails that a complete reorientation of the important powers relate ing to China is taking place . The election of two Japanese to the Shanghai International Municipal Council is thought significant . The appearance of northern troops in Nanking and Shanghai is believed to eliminate Marshal Sun Chuan-fang , who is reported ill at Nanking . Al-1 though the local Chinese dislike Sun , , they abhor Chent. /Chung-chano , whose , troops compose the northern forces , and their arrival propels Chinese sympathy to the Cantonese . Stragglers from Sun 's defeated army are appearing here and the entire army may retreat from Sunkiang at any time .                     