@@690103

txt A majority of retail automobile dealers along New York 's automobile row see no signs of falling off in retail buying that would cause apprehension . While it is admitted that business is harder to get this year than in 1923 , it is also pointed out that retail deliveries have to date continued to run ahead of the corresponding period last year Figures giving registrations of new cars in the five boroughs of the metropolitan district show approximately 13.000 cars registered in the first three months against less than 11.300 in 1923 which established a high record . In the low priced field , practically all dealers have made substantially larger deliveries , whereas in the medium and higher priced fields the gain is not proportionately as great with some of the more prominent makes showing fewer deliveries . According to good opinion , there is nothing significant in this as reflecting the state of the trade , but it is ascribed to conditions peculiar to tha make of car affected . For instance . one prominent make which received tremendous sales impetu- in the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows some falling off . whereas another , which advanced prices in the fall of last year , took a large quantity of business at the old prices which is at present reflected in retail deliveries . A prominent dealer discussing the situation says : " We expected a more strenuous struggle for business this year and laid down plans accordingly Ia-t fall . We have practically doubled our sales force and did extensive advertising with the result that our business so far is nearly 30 ? - i-  greater than in the corresponding period of last year . A remarkable feature of ' this business is that less than of it represents trades involving used cars . 1 doubt that a ' similar condition exits throughout the trade as the amount of replacement bu.iness probal13. - averages around There has been no general -. lowing up in the business that can he traced to any other source than unseasonable weather and we all feel that figures will show this spring the heaviest hu.ing sea ? on on record . Stocks of non cars are somewhat larger than last year as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in former year there have nr " . er been sufficient ears to meet the demand . There is no question that present stock can be moved rapidly .                     