@@694094

txt Crouched over a sofa in a room of the Morcelia apartment hotel , 4047 Kenmore avenue , the body of Harvey Foxton , 24 years old , known to police as a burglar , was discovered last night . Ho had been shot through the heart and the murder had been committed at least two days before , in the opinion of Coroner 's Physician Joseph Springer . Police were unable to find any clew to the slayer . A table laid for three was in the room . Two persons had consumed meals , but there was an untouched breakfast at the third place . Residents in the hotel told of hearing a shot last Wednesday night , but did not know the other occupants of the room . A week ago a young man giving the name of James Britt registered at the hotel . fie was given the apartment in which the dead man was found . A few days later a man came to live with him , and It was this man who was found slain . Search was started for Britt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heep to Room . Britt kept to his room , and his cornpardon was even more secretive . Then the shot was heard Wednesday night by Mrs. Bertha Fischer , who occupies ag adjoining apartment . She thought it was an automobile backfiring and paid no attention to the sound . Last night Mrs. Margaret Van Neuhyse , a hotel employd , went to the room to change the bed linen . After knocking , she entered and found the body in a kneeling position before the couch . On a chair , three feet away , was a .38 caliber revolver from which one shot had been fired . When Britt registered he said that he was expecting his wife . Police theorized that the third place at the breakfast table was laid for this wornan and that the men may have guar . reled about her . Shot Through Heart . Foxton bad been shot under the left breast . The bullet pierced the heart , came out his back , ricocheted against a wall , and fell to the floor in a corner . The only sign of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Foxton was Identified by Miss Mary Dusanic , 2146 Rice street , whose telephone number was found on the dead man . She said he was a friend of her brother , George . Later George Dusanic and James Curtin , 7944 South Loomis street , with two girls , Babe Grady and Lillian Wallen , 22 East Chicago avenue , were taken into custody at Fox ? ton 's flat , 148 Goethe street , for questioning . They said they could throw no light on the murder . Fingerprints taken from the dead man also showed that he had a record at the bureau of identification . lie served a sentence in Pontiac in 1922 for burglary and another short term in the House of Correction in 1926.                     