@@696472

txt For severe/ years the National league had figures to show that games in that circuit were played faster than contests in the American league , but it is doubtful If the complete statistics this season win show the older outfit to be snappier in the matter of doing their work and haying it over with . National league umpires do far more barking at players to get them to hasten through their exercises than do the American league officials , but there are certain things that tend to prolong National league games which are not tolerated in the American league . A National league partisan might argue there is much more hitting in the parent circuit , and hitting , of course , slows up a game . Taken by and large , however , it is not probable that this phase of the matter is greatly different in the two majors . Difference Is Apparent . To one switching from the observation of a half season play in one league to regular attendance of games in the other league , the difference is apparent . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many minutes in a National and an American league game is the practice in the National league of throwing the ball around the infield after each putout and frequently after a new ball is put in the game . In the American league , this bit of horseplay is not tolerated . There are catchers who throw to the third baseman after a strikeout , but the third baseman tosses it to the pitcher and the game is resumed . Another big difference is found in the practice of National league batters who seek to annoy the pitchers by jumping out of the batters ' box repeatedly , ostensibly to rub dust on their bats . This is not tolerated In the American league . A batter is not allowed to step from the box except for legitimate reasons , such as to re ? move a flying particle from the eye , to permit a mate to touch up after a foul or some similar ' reason not intended to upset an anxious pitcher . Swarming Annoys Bush . Players in both leagues beseech pitchers who are In trouble to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in. stances seems justified . Guy Hum leaning pitener or the Chicago Cubs , says that it annoys him to have the infield swarm about him In an effort to slow him up , but there are many pitchers who are helped by this interference from their mates . Pat Malone , another Cub star , is of the type that breaks out in a rash when he 's In trouble and scarcely can wait to get his hands on the ball after each pitch .                     