@@696811

txt Something like a revolution appears to be taking place in the Republican party , in the view of a considerable number of politicians and political observers here . If certain discerning Republican workers see the situation correctly , part of the electorate in every section envisages the party as disorganized and is beginning to look askance at its claim to being a model of business efficiency which brings prosperity to the country anc may be ? depended - on to run the no tion 's affairs in the most satisfs.ctoi : . way . - Certain Republicans are contendie that the substantial Democratic vi tory in Tuesday 's election in Virgin was partly due to a hesitation on tl part of . many Democrats who ha voted the  --  Republican national ticlis last year to align thcrhselves nently with the Republican party While the return of Virginia to tali ditional Democratic allegiance it : generally yegarded as having been due chiefly to other causes , considetable influence in bringing about the change is being ascribed to a feeling on the part . of many of those termed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not being maintained . Effect of Senate Split . They are credited with seeing an analogy between the condition of the Republican party now and the situation in the Democratic party in 1924 , as indicated by the turmoil that prevailed in the Madison Square Garden convention . Politicians adhere to the belief that the confusion there drove large numbers of Democrats to vote the Republican national ticket that year . Feeling that the Republican party as a national entity is badly disorganized arises from the situation in the Senate , with the Republican regulars helpless in the face of the combination of Democrats and insurgent Republicans which is ' dominating consideration of the tariff bill . The appearance of party disintegration in the Senate is looked upon by a good many politicians as having an influence on . the electorate , which , it is being said , is asking what has become of Republican leadership and is wondering if the Tegular organization has dwindled to a minority . Democratic. - Hopes While Presidents Hoover is keeping his counsel , it is not doubted that he is considerably perturbed over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason than the danger that threatens the party and his own political fortunes in the Presidential campaign of 1932 . That the Democrats have a good chance of making gains in next year 's elections of Senators had been contended by some political observers . ' even before the split in the Senate . Since these difficulties have been intensified there is a more widespread disposition to suggest , at least , ' that Democratic chances of electing candidates for the Senate have vastly improved in New Jersey , Massachusetts , West Virginia , Delaware , Rhode Island , Colorado , ? Oklahoma , Kentucky and Iowa , where seats now held by Republicans will be contested next year . Optimistic Democrats go so far as to see a turnover that would give the Democrats a clear majority of the Senate . Borah Now in Command . The prominence Senator Borah of Idaho has assumed in the opposition to the tariff rates proposed by the regulars is a marked feature - in discussions of how party prospects have been and may be influenced by the complete collapse of regular leadership of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have taken on the responsibility of a real leader . Heretofore , even when he has attained a foremost position in legislative battles , he has declined to accept authority to lead . But in the current instance he not only has the power to determine what course the coalition shall take , but has become militant in exercising his command . In the Presidential campaign last year Senator Borah was a tower of strength to the Hoover cause . There are many who accord to him the chief credit for bringing about the massive victory which came to the Republican national ticket . In that campaign Senator Borah assembled . a large personal following , especially in those States of the West and South in which he spoke in behalf of Mr. Hoover 's candidacy . The assertion is made that his influcnee still holds among those who heard his eloquence or followed the coarse of his campaign tours . even among politicians there is a disposition to ask whether his pregent , attitune of opposition to his party 's tariff policy is not causing large contingents of Republicans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their party if he has quitted its breastworks . In the eyes of some political Observers here Senator Borah has become the most logical prospective leader of any new national movement that may arise from the revolt in the Republican ranks over . the tariff situation . Ills Leadership a . riroblem . Whether he will assume any such leadership it- probTenidtical for , ade cording to his critics , Mr. Borah 's chief trouble is that lie " never strikes twelve " in his demonstrations of party independence . ' That is to say , in all his protests against patty policies or tendencies he never takes himself quite outside party alignment . and usually le - fennel snowing A , marked degree of regularity in pout , . ical campaigns . It is a striking feature of his present commanding position , however , that when the . Senate takes up a tariff rate Mr. Borah has only to raise his voice in favor of or in opposition to it , and the coalition follows his lead . The argument might be ? advaneed that he , In taking issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate and House , is in accord with President Hoover 's repeated call for " limited " tariff reBut Mr. Borah has taken direct issue with the President on the farm export debenture plan end  --  the P ? csident 's app eel that COneress continue the autnoriLy vested in the executive to raise or lower tariff rates if the necessity for a change is shown by the Tariff . Commission . 1-leinie Interest Aroused . Generally in political circles here the feeling exists that the country , except in sporadic , sectional instance . is not particularly interested in the detail : ; of the tariff debate . But with that npinion goes the assertion that the people are greatly interested in - the exposition of Republican inability , to put through the tariff revision drafted by its leading members it i the Senate arid in the contention of the Dattiocrats and the insurgent Republican group that the rates proposed . by the regulars ? are bad for the wage-earning class . Moreover , the country at large is credited with being aroused rarer the testimony of Joseph R. Grundy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Senate Lobby Committee , the ease . of Senator Bingham of Connecticut and Senator Moses 's reference to the Republican insurgents . as . " sons of the wild jackass . ' These incidents are eandittg Worry to leaders who are afraid that they have not improved prospects in the West . The situation is complex . and it is evident that - some : of the : regtilata regard it as ? furnishing the most se- ? rious threat to party solidarity since the La Follette defection of five years ago .                     