@@685242

txt missing page whose apartment at 4555 Grand boideyard had been robbed of $6,000 worth of diamonds , next approached , the burglar . " Did n't you hear our dog barking ? " he asked . " Sure . " The Dangerous Watch Dog . " Were n't you afraid to go in ? " " No . " " What did the dog do when you got in there ? " " He wagged his tail and I yetted him . " Before Harvey ended his ingenuous testimony , the aristocratic ones had received a good lesson in the first principles of crookery . The burglar informed Robert S. Maxey , another unfortunate , that Rogers had gone to Omaha and lured hint and his wife and sister-in-law to Chicago without ntet:oning the object . " I sold my auto and came hez to get my wife medical attention , " he'lgaid . " I left two children in Omaha , not dreaming what I would be doing . Then one day Rogers asked me how I 'd lice to make some easy money , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Harvey Calls Himself Lookout . Harvey said he was an apprentice at the game . His duty consisted in standing at the back door while his chief did the burgling. if any one approached , Harvey% business was to give the warning . Among those who sought to recover lose valuables was A. Goldsmith , - 1036 Hyde Park boulevard . He recognized RogerS ' suit and Overcoat as ones stolen from hint . Ho had the samples in his pocket to prove his ownership ! " Here , take it off , " he demanded . " Well , what ant I going to wear ? " Rogers asked . ? Suggests Overalls for Burglar . " Send out and get a pair of overalls , They 're all the rage ffow , " was the reply , Rogers was permitted to retain the , clothes , however . The victims began to disappear . The Criminal Court building , which had resembled a fashionable church with the mass of autos which had crowded the curb , once more began to resume tts usual appearance . The robbers were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I do n't believe the women were directly implicated , " Mr. Lowery said . " I believe they were brought along to lend respectability to the gang and were more or less innocent . They were probably used to dispose of some of the female lingerie . " The robber band , which had come from Omaha two weeks ago because Chicago " was an easy town , " was captured in the Hotel Morrison early yesterday morning by Lieut . Loftus and his men . Detectives at the bureau were unable to make them talk , so they were turned over to the , state 's c attorney 's office . There the onfessions developed . Last night Assistant State 's Attorney James C. O'Brien and Detective Sergeant Walter Healey left for Omaha to recover nine loot sent there .                     