@@695761

txt Leaders of the forces in the coming contest over the Kellogg anti-war pact and the fifteen-cruiser bill have reached an agreement whereby , it was confidently expected tonight , the treaty will receive parliamentary right of way tomorrow and will hold that position until disposed of by the Senate . . Senator Borah , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , and Senator Hale , chairman of the Naval Committee , have agreed that Mr. Hale will make a comparatively short explanatory speech on the naval bill tomorrow , at the close of which Mr. Borah will move to take up the treaty in open executive session . It was understood , further , that Senator Norris , a hearty supporter of the treaty , and an equally strong opponent of the cruiser bill , has agreed not to filibuster against the cruiser program if Mr. Hale will permit the treaty to be disposed of without trying to displace it with the naval plan . Reed Not Likely to Interfere . Possible fears that Senator Reed of Missouri , a vigorous foe of the treaty , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of Senator-elect Vare tomorrow , were largely dissipated when it became known that he would almost certainly postpone such a move until after the Reed investigating committee meets on Friday to consider the Vare case . The Vare case is generally conceded to be a matter of sufficiently high privilege to displace other business of the Senate . Certainty that the Senate would vote tomorrow to take up the treaty was expressed by Mr. Borah , though he added that he had not canvassed the potential vote . It is believed that there will be not more than seven to ten votes against such a course . Mr. Hale also said he was sure the Senate would agree to Mr. Borah 's motion . Mr. Borah would not estimate how long it would take the Senate to dispose of the treaty . He said it might be a few days , or it might be two weeks , but he was as confident as ever that the pact would be eventually ratified , without reservations and virtually without a comma changed . ' Hale Warns Against Long Debate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and agreeable to the new arrangement , with the one qualification that he would not consent to the treaty debate being drawn out to great length . In this event , he said quite plainly that he would move to bring up the naval bill . Debate on the treaty will begin at once if , as is now believed , it is put into position tomorrow afternoon . Mr. Borah will make an opening speech , which is likely to afford opportunity for many interruptions . Proponents and opponents alike will doubtless participate . At the end of the day Mr. Borah may move that the Senate take a recess , a Parliamentary procedure designated to call the treaty up again as soon as the Senate meets on Friday . Mr. Borah said today that he believed the customary " morning hour " would be dispensed with , for a few days at least , in order to give all the time to the treaty . Under an agreement reached when the Senate recessed for the holidays , the naval bill is the unfinished business in legislative session and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Settle Issue in One Hour . The question of which measure is to be taken up first will be decided at 2 o'clock tomorrow afternoon . At that time Mr. Hale will speak and Mr. Borah will then offer his motion . According to Mr. Borah , the business of putting the treaty in preferred position should be completed by 3 o'clock . Mr. Hale 's remarks , it was said tonight , would be devoted almost exclusively to the needs of the navy and a contention that ratification of the Kellogg treaty would in no way conflict with this country 's primary right to an adequate defense program . He will argue against any proposal to cut the number of cruisers below fifteen and will insist that the bill must retain the time limit within which the ships must be constructed . Any agreement by Mr. Norris not to filibuster against the naval bill does not preclude ' what he and his adherents term a " legitimate " fight . The Nebraska Senator and also Senator King of Utah are expected at the outset to attempt a reduction to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work to eliminate the time limit . But , it was stated tonight , Senator Norris is now apparently willing to permit the naval bill to come to a vote after he has exhausted all " legitimate " efforts to amend it . It was not said that Senator King took the same position . Confidence in Both Measures . That both the treaty and the naval bill will be approved by the Senate , if they come to a vote , is not doubted here . Opposition to each , while determined , is confined to a few men , and it is now said that the outcome depends upon how much of a fight these small groups can make . Treaty advocates are positive , however , in asserting themselves the real masters of the situation and said tonight that the Hale-Borah agreement was based on this realization by the respective factions . The possible result of the coming general elections in Great Britain may be used as a basis of argument by opponents of the naval bill . Republican and Democratic Progressives , it was said , intend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarged proportion of Laborites in the British Parliament , and will contend also that this might reverse the present British naval policy . In this connection , Progressives stated that some prominent Britons lately had been using their influence in the United States against the cruiser bill . The name of Sir Henry Simpson Lunn , editor of The Review of Churches , was mentioned . Sir Henry , who appeared before the House Naval Committee at hearings on the cruiser bill , is said to be cooperating with the Federal Council of Churches against the measure . Mrs. Charles Haas , State president of the New York Chapter of the American War Mothers , with headquarters at 510 West 110th Street , New York City , ? has sent the following telegram in behalf of her organization to Senators Wagner and Copeland at Washington : " The New York State Chapter , American ' War Mothers , than whom no one has a better right to demand protection and safety for the sons who may have to rally to the colors again , ask that you support the cruiser bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not . " HOUSE INVESTIGATION SOUGHT Tinkham Links Treaty ' Propaganda ' With League and Fight on Cruisers . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Jan. ** first direct , open attack in Congress on the multilateral treaty renouncing war will be made tomorrow when Representative George Holden Tinkham , Republican , of Massachusetts , will offer a resolution for a House investigation of alleged international activities in behalf of the treaty by the use of large sums of money . " These nefarious practices obtain in the United States and should be exposed , " said Mr. Tinkham today . Mr. Tinkham declared that " a net work of expensive , organized propaganda and intrigue to influence the foreign policies of the United States would be revealed by an investigation . " He alleged that international bankers and business organizations in this country and their legal representatives and foreign interests were systematically engaged in this effort . The resolution to be offered by Mr.1 Tinkham as Congress reassembles after the holiday recess provides for the creation of a select committee of five members of the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the investigation . Text of Tinkham Resolution . The text of Mr. Tinkham 's resolution is as follows : Resolved , That a select committee is hereby created to consist of five members , to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives , to investigate the payment and expenditure of any money by international bankers , United States international business organizations and their legal representatives , and foreign interests , and from any other source , to create a public opinion in the United States favorable to the United States joining the League of Nations , adhering ? to the Permanent Court of International Justice of the League of Nations , and to the acceptance of the multilateral treaty by the United States ; And said committe is authorized to send for persons and papers , to compel the attendance of and to administer oaths to witnesses , to conduct such inquiries at such times and places as the committee may deem necessary , and to report its findings and recommendations to the House of Representatives at the earliest practicable date . With apparently little . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an out-and-out isolationist and foe of American participation in the League of Nations and the World Court , will use it , he indicated , as a basis of discussion designed to create public sentiment against the Kellogg pact which would lead to its defeat in the Senate , where it will be brought forward for discussion tomorrow . In commenting on his resolution , the Massachusetts Representative linked the alleged propaganda at which it is aimed with the opposition of certain organizations to the pending bill authorizing the construction of fifteen cruisers , although he did not mention the cruiser hill specifically . ' There is pending in the House a resolution by Representative Maas , Republican , of Minnesota , to investigate alleged propagandist activities of pacifist organizations against the cruiser bill . But according to House leaders , there is no prospect that this resolution will get consideration soon . Seed Action Hailed in Europe . Mr. Tinkham in his comment said , in part : " The proposal of the multilateral treaty by the United States was hailed at once at Geneva and in Europe generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and particularly European politics . It was declared that , through this treaty , the United States would be called upon to speak its mind , to express its opinion and to take sides in the disputes of Europe and in defense of Its treaty . " Even more than this , it was said to mean United States support of the policies of the League of Nations and the maintenance of the status quo in Europe . " Mr. Tinkham argued that the antiwar pact had been practically nullified by " exceptions " made by various governments . " The exception made by Great Britain , " he said , " allows her to make war anywhere in the world , since the zones in which she claims the right to make war are wholly undetermined except that they shall be of ' special and vital interest ' for her ' peace and safety ' as she may determine . There are no geographical limitations ; ? - " The multilateral treaty ; as qualified by these exceptions , not only constitutes no renunciation of war , but , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all wars mentioned in the exceptions , the most ' solemn sanction for specific wars that has ever been given to the world . " The acceptance of the multilateral treaty means that the United States is subject to League- policies without participating in league decisions ; it means membership in the League 's court , which means eventual full membership in the League of Nations itself . " But of even more peril to us is the fact that the . treaty , if ratified , will inevitably lead to the destruction of our navy , while other nations are armed or arming . If we should maintain an adequate navy for defense we should be charged with bad faith . Already these charges are being made . Deprived of an adequate navy , one of the great auxiliaries to diplomacy , we should be impotent in world affairs and should have no decisive influence in a world crisis . " ?                     