@@692932

txt Two of the General Motors divisions , the Oakland and Oldsmobile companies , have brought out new models and , with the exception of minor advances on the de luxe models in the Oldsmobile line , no change is made in prices . It is understood the corporation is planning to bring out during the next few weeks various new and improved models in other lines . The announcements already made by Oldsmobile and Oakland are considered in the trade as indicative of General Motors price policies for the new season . Instead of competing for business strictly on . a price basis and cheapening its product to attract volume , it is understood the corporation intends to develop its business on the , policy of greater quality and that pacer on other models will be unchanged . Among other improvements greater value has been put into bodies through finer upholstery and other attractive features . The Oakland company was the first of the divisions to embark on this policy . The new models embody 77 different refinements , the most important of which is the rubrter-silenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vibration from the engine and the chassis . Although several costly improvements are added to the cars , no change in prices was made . Oldsmobile also made many improvements on its new models without a price change except on the de luxe coach and sedan which were advanced $10 each . The fact that the leading corporation in the motor industry ? seems to be preparing to emphasize quality rather than price in its new offerings should have a stabilizing influence on the automobile price structure and eliminate some of the dangers of cutthroat competition which loomed up as many manufacturers were apparently becoming obsessed with the price appeal idea to the exclusion of all others . It has been recognized that considerations of style up-to-date engineering and improvement of the product have become increasingly important recently as merchandising factors and the policy of " better cars  --  not cheaper cars " is in line with this trend .                     