@@686427

txt With something like a patriotic . flourish the Washington dispatches speak of the great firmness with which the State Department is maintaining all American rights entire . It has notified Japan , it has given notice to European nations , it has declared to all and sundry , that the United States was a victor in the war against Germany and will insist upon every resulting benefit . Our rights arising Under the armistice of 1918 are to be sedulously preserved and defended . Every-right accruing to us from the Treaty of Versailles will likewise be jealously guarded . I ? To American right consequent upon our triumph in the war will be permitted to suffer impairment by so much as the crossing of a " t " or the dotting 9f an " 1 . " All this is proper and gratifying , but it raises more questions than it answers . How are we going to enforce as against Germany any lapsed rights whether under the armistice or the Treaty ? If she is recalcitrant , there is obviously but one way . This would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After making hastily a separate peace - with her , we thus might find ourselves , under this new plan , forced to make a separate war upon Germany ? at least an economic war . It is explained , however , that the principal American rights involved are those which we have in common with the Allies In the settlement of the war . But these are written in the Versailles Treaty . And they were satisfactorily and securely written there , according to fiat high authority on Americanism , Senator LODGE . He declared in the Senate that there was no objection , from the American standpoint , to the terms imposed on Germany . But when we speak now of our rights arising under that Treaty , what do we mean ? So far as the United States is concerned , the Treaty is , legally , as if it never existed . At the most , we could claim from it no more than inchoate rights . The natural way to make them actual and put them into effect would be to ratify the Treaty . Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet the assumption appears to be that she is bound to us though we are not in the slightest degree to her The plain truth is " that a mere assertion " of American rights gets us , nowhere at all . To make the assertion effectual , some transaction , some negotiation , some agreement is necessary . This Is. at once perceived by the Governments of the Allies , whose spokesmen express their pleasure at the prospect of soon being again at work together with the United States in the adjustment . of questions connected with the war- . That would be the next step normally to take after strongly asserting our rights . Such an assertion will remain no more than a fulmination unless it is followed up by the diplomatic work required to give it body and binding force . And this is the work to which , in the nature of the case , Secretary HUGHES must now be giving his days and nights .                     