@@695082

txt By a vote of795 to 116 the members of the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday-decided to widen the scope of their grain dealing activities to include trading.in stocks , bonds , and other securities . No announcement was made of When the new trading will be initiated , but it was Indicated that It can be started as soon as . rules and regulations are drafted by the directors of the grain exchange and adopted by the members . Under the rules of the city 's stock ' Bxchange members are forbidden to be affiliated with any similar organization dealing in stocks and bonds within the state . There are no such rules , however , governing the activities of Board of Trade members . See Conflict of Interests . But some of the largest security concerns in Chicago are connected with both organizations and thus are confronted , it was pointed out , with The choice of giving up membership in the Stock Exchange or the Board of Trade . Moro than seventy firms are connected with both institutions and several also are affiliated.with ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . unable to state what course these concerns would pursue , since it , has been predicted that the stock exchange will not qualify the rule restraining members from affiliation with tho grain market . No statement was forthcoming from officers of the former . organization as to what course it would be likely to fol .. low . Telephone hale Cited . . Still another rule of the Chicago Stock exchange , if enforced , would prohibit members from telephoning quotations to the security market In the Board of Trade , One possible way out of the difficulty was sdggested last night by traders interested in both markets . This , it was said , would be the formation of a sub. - sidiary organization to do businev in the grain exchange while the parent , concern carries on its trading in the local stock market . One concern was said to be considering such a plan . Another factor which adds to the cernplexities of the situation is the Chicago curb market , which has just been organized and is not yet operating . Its status in the light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments . Add New Trading Bales . The board members adopted two amondmends to the rules  --  one changing the wording in rule 203 to require the execution of all future delivery orders on change in the open market . A member is prohibited from taking such 3rderi directly or indirectly for his own account except in case of error when he Is required to Make a report In writing to the secretary and submit the name of the member in the clearing transaction . Rule 207 ! was repealed and a substitute adopted providing that no member shall act as principal and agent in the same transaction either in cash or futures , and no member shall divulge any order or key information concerning any order he may have in his possession prior to its execution .                     