@@690522

txt Before a large and colorful gathering of long-time friends and supporters and national and sectional party leaders , Governor Charles W. Bryan tonight formally accepted the nomination for Vice President by the Democratic Party and laid down in unmistakable terms the principles and issues upon which he would go before the pe'dple for victory at the polls . In the centre of the football field at the University . of Nebraska memorial stadium Governor Bryan delivered his speech of acceptance , following the lead of his party 's standard-bearer , John W. Davis , who a week ago chose the outdoors for launching the Democratic campaign at Clarksburg , W. Va . Governor Bryan definitely opeped his campaign ' with a promise to the progressive farmers and wage earners that the Democratic Party would stand as a unit in seeking a solution of their difficulties . SenatorHarrhon of MisSiSsippi , who delivered the notification address , also acclaimed the Democratic organisation as the only one to which the progressive elements could look for direction and leadership , and asserted that the Presidential race would be between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stadium , about 35,000 in all , persons in all parts Of the country had an opportunity to hear the speeches by radio . A telephone wire transmitted them to Chicago , where they were broadcast by The Chicago Daily News Station WMAQ . Stations WFAV , University of Nebraska ; WOAW , Omaha , and KFKX , Hastings , Neb. , also sent out the exercises . Mrs. Emily Newell Blair of Joplin , Democratic National Conunittecwonna from Missouri , presided , after being ntroduced by Clem L. Shaver , the party field marshal . The latter had been scheduled as the presiding officer , but declined on arrival here today in favor of Mrs. Blair . Upon Senator Harrison 's reference to the Administration of Woodrow Wilson the crowd interrupted him with a twominute demonstration . Governor for Equality . In his acceptance speech Governor Bryan praised the party platform as broad , strong and progressive enough to satisfy the principle of " equality before the law , " and a fit instrument through which farmers and wageearners might work their will without dividing strength and making possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John W. Davis , the rresidential nominee , and himself were termed " in harmony with the platform upon which we have been nominated . " The Democratic Party stands as a unit , " without the interv.ntion of faction , bloc or section , " he declared , " free from obligation to either individuals or interests that would prevent it from being used to restore confidence in Government and economic justice to the nation . " His selection as " one from the heart of The great Middle West " as the Vice Presidential candidate Governor Bryan haled as the Democratic Party 's recognition of " the importance of agriculture as one of the basic industries of the nation . " Political unrest and discontent throughout the country are a protest against the inaction of those in public office , he asserted , coupling the statement with an accusation that " failure of the Republican Administration to enforce the law against conspiracies in restraint of trade and illegal combinations of business which stifle competition has unnecessarily , unfairly and dishonestly increased the cost of living and permitted the profiteer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Entrance of some States alto ? . : o field of commerce , in which he and the . State of Nebraska were among the leaders , Governor Bryan in hip address attributed to " the failure of the National Republican Administration to enforce the law against private monopoly . " Although , he continued , millions of dollars a year were saved to the people in their coal , gasoline and oil bills , he did not favor such municipal or State competition except when " Government officials become corrupt and the Federal Government fails to function for the protection of the masses . The alterhative result would be I. W. WS. , Bolsheriki and anarchy in the community and State , " he declared . Governor Bryan ; in discussing what he termed " a few of Cie outstanding sues uppermost In the minds of the .1 ) e0 : ? pie of the ' - great agricultural Stittes , " , , included . " women 's worth and equality , . 0161 Welfare , the ' llgumeratie intUrest ? , ip support:Irk:41*AV* needs of the agriculturist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , " In Harmony With Platform . . He referred to his connection for more than twenty years With the publication of The Commoner , issued by him and his brother , William Jennings BrPill , as having given " an opportunity to apply the principles of ' equal rights to all and special privileges to none . ' " " As a business man who has been endeavoring to apply business principles to government and not as an experienced platform speaker , I will give all the support to pur national leader that ray ability will permit , " Governor Bryan said . The *Democratic platform , Governor Bryan asserted , upholds the ideals of America , demands a. return the honesty and equality in government , and out ; lines the legislative arid administrative requirements for such restoration . t is the most progressive platform ever promulgated , " he declared. - He paid a tribute to his running mate . Baying the spirit of unity rose and reason triumphed in the nomination of " that able lawyer , that trained diplomat , that experienced statesman , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressive Democrat , John W. Davis . " " The buying of immunities , issuing of permits , hoisting of tariff schedules and the granting of Government oil ' leases in- return for campaign contributione Must be uprooted and destroyed if this . Government is to endure , " he asserted , 9 adding that men must be selected for public positions because of honesty and ability rather than social qualities or Political strategy . " Labor must be degit with humanly , " asserted Governor Bryan . - Ali legislation for the benefit of the Wage earners rests on the first sentence of our platform 's labor plank , ' Labor if ; hot a commodity ; it is human , ' - he said . " The ' captains of industry ' have their place and should be protected in their rights , but those whom they employ and whose labor they direct have rights as sacred and essential as their employers to industrial welfare and our political progress . " He termed the Republican Administration 's attitude toward labor unfair and said recent - action regarding railway mail pay was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Democratic Party 's pledge of ? all Its energies toward outlawing vier could not be stronger and express the sentiment of a large majority of the Amer ! , can people . " Governor Bryan declared . ' War propaganda and mobilization demonstrations are untmeessarily inflammatory andmisleading , " he asserted . The nominee criticized the Republican Party for its attitude toward agriculture , holding it to blame for depreciation of land prices , legislation which changed the farmers ' conditions from prosperity to adversity and for spreading industrial depression and unemployment . Harrison Arraigns Opponents . Senator Harrison of Mississippi , who delivered the notification address , said the Democratic Party was the only party toward which progressive elements could look for direction and lead-ership , Omitting any direct reference to a third ticket in the field , Senator Harrison , who WII. ? Temporary Chairman of the Democratic National Convention , declared the national campaign must be contested between a " reactionary " Republican organization and a " progressive " Democratic ticket . " Whatever Independence one may possess and however nonpartisan one may be , " Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming November election either the Democratic or Republican ticket will triumph . The American people themselves must decide between the Republican and the Democratic Party as to which will control the Governuient for ; he next tour years . " The Republicani -- Partv , he continued . La reactionary " because  - -  reactionary leadership controls it , dominates it , directa it . ' W. J. Bryan Speaks . At the end of Governor Bryan 's address . W. J. Bryan was applauded as he entered upon a brief talk , " I could n't deny myself attending this notification ceremony , " he said . " as I have been so accustomed to notification exercises here in Lincoln . I feel so grateful to the Democratic Party for honoring , as it has , a member of my family . and for that reason 1 am here to pronounce a benediction , so to speak . " I will return during the campaign , " Mr. Bryan asserted , " to renew acquaintance among the people with whom I have lived ' for so many years and have known to love . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nebraska and ttie Great Northwest  --  the knowledge of the facts that the world never needed the leadership of the United States more than it does today and that the nation likewise needs the leadership of the Democratic Party . The Democratic Party deserves the confidence and support of the common people . " Concluding , Mr. Bryan said that on his return to Nebraska he would go into greater detail on political issues . Here the crowd interrupted him with cries of " more , " " more " and " go ahead , " but he waved them down with a gesture aria thanked them for their- attention and then declared ; " I hereby relinquish the voluntary support of my native friends to my brother . " The Rev. Dr. Brooks then pronounced the benediction.                     