@@695028

txt President WILSON almost took away the breath of members of Congress when , in one of his early addresses at a joint session , he called them his " colleagues " in the work of legislation . This quiet assumption that he had a function in the making of laws has , of course , clear warrant in the Constitution . It prescribes that " every bill " which shall have passed Congress must be sent to the President for his signature before becoming a law . There is also the broad provision that " if " he approve , he shall sign it , but if " not , he shall return it , with his " objections , to that House in which " it shall have originated . " This at once confers a great power and imposes a high duty . Everything is left to the conscientious decision of the President The Constitution does not- say that he must approve , or veto , for specified and narrow reasons . It is entirely for him , in the exercise of his best judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation , to determine-whether- a bill ought or ought not to be ' made law . A safeguard against . any merely arbitrary action : by the . President is Found in the constitutional provision that by a two-thirds . Majority Congress may pass bills over a Presidential veto , which shall then become law just as if he had signed . But the original grant of-this right to pass upon proposed measures of legislation is made in : absolute terms , and undoubtedly constitutes the President an essential part of the law-making power . Ordinarily , in quiet times and with an ease-loving President in the White House , this conception , of the Chief Executive as a legislator is not ' given prominende in the public mind But at times , especially in any kind of crisis , it comes to the front . Perhaps it has never done so more strikingly than in what is now going on between committees of Congress and the President of the United States . Mr. COOLIDGE is not a dominating personality . He does not indulge in bluster or in threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has definitely let it be known that he thinks that two measures which lave passed both houses of Congress and are now in conference ought not to be made laws as they stand . One is the flood relief bill , the other the farm relief bill . Their advocates have been thrown into a flutter by the President 's opposition . They have held back their own expected action . Instead of voting to accept the conference reports without more ado , they have asked a delay , and have gone in their trouble direct to the White House . The whole is really an instructive , almost an amazing , sight . The leading members of committees of Congress who have worked over these bills for months now go anxiously to the President to ask him to point out their mistakes . It is as if he were himself the Chairman of the most influential committee in either the Senate or- the House . The lawmakers go on their knees to the Executive . Admittedly , the case is extraordinary . Champions of the bills in question are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a veto by Mr. Ccouvar . Hence their first a. , 1-21-ly is- to z ,  --  ; t it to s ' .. ! : , Gcst changes which may gain his a proval . In other words , they virt ally ask him to make the law whi he is to sign . This is not so mu a surrender of the privileges of Co gress as it Is a political appeal . B the effect is , just the same , to e hance and emphasize the cowman ing position which , in an emergent the President of the United Stat holds in respect to legislation .                     