@@688433

txt To handle the great crowds that gathered yesterday at the funeral of Mrs. Jennie Becker , Bronx pit murder victim , required police reserves from the Fifth Street Station in the lower east side , where the cortege started . and also from the Morrisania Station in the Bronx where Mrs. Becker had lived and where her body was found . The throng that packed streets in ithe Bronx to catch a glimpse of the hearse as it slowly wound its way north on Southern Boulevard to 140th Street was said to have been the largest that ever assembled on such an occasion in the Borough . The police estimated that fully 50,000 men , women and children were in the gathering . There was no real disorder anywher along the funeral route , although the thin blue line of patrolmen was in difficulties again and again . At the Congregation Dikin Cholin , corner of . Fox Street and Prospect Avenue , the Bronx , of which Mrs. Becker had been a member , the massed mob broke the police lines and surrounded the hearse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these were refused . Then the police , in riot formation , forced way through the crowd . and the limousines in line followed slowly after . The cortege started shortly before noon from the Israel Orphan Asylum , 280 Second Street , where Celia and Sarah , the 3-year-old twin daughters of Mrs. Becker , have had a home since last August . Hero open air services were held prior to the funeral trip to Riverside Cemetery , near Hackensack , N. J. City Court Justice Gustave Hartman , President of the asylum , presided . Forty Felice at Funera.1 Long before the hour set for the services the crowds *gan to gather , until , as the cortege arrived from a funeral chapel at 141 East 110th Street , the streets in that neighborhood were so jammed that Captain Peter Tighe of the Fifth : , treet Station called out forty patrolmen to maintain order . With the opening hymn the police lines were established , herding about 5,001 ) persons on Second Street . between Avenues C and D , while another 5,000 were crowded north and south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke in a clear voice which could be heard all along the block on Second Street . He pledged that the " Becker children shall never want for food , shelter or education , " and that " they shall be brought up in the Jewish faith and as true Americans . " Prayers were offered by Rabbis Louis Finkelstein of the Kehillath Israel Congregation , and by Benjamin Levy of Congregation Ahawath Abraham . Hebrew Memorial selections were given by several cantors . As the cortege moved into the Bronx the crowds became even greater than those at the services . Sidewalks , fireescapes , roofs and windows were packed with persons of all ages , while thousands and thousands of others were kept back on side streets by the throng and were unable to even see the cortege . At the corner of Southern Boulevard and 140th Street the funeral stopped because of the massed crowds that even the police failed to stir . This is where the murders pit was located , and as the cortege paused a man in the crowd called out : " We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you the finest funeral the Jewry of New York can give one of its own . " Open Air Service Held . The police finally got the funeral moving again and the procession rolled slowly on past the former home of the deceased to the Congregation Dikin Cholin. where another halt was made . Open air services were held here , among the speakers being Justice Hartman and Benjamin Antln , State Senator-elect . Pledges to care for the children of Mrs. Becker were renewed . The chanting here , led by Cantor Harry Jacowitz , could be heard for blocks . intermingled with the sobs and hysterical shrieks of the thousands of men and women'in the crowd . When the procession started again , the number of automobiles had been augmented from about a dozen to more than forty . The throng on the sidewalks and in the streets before , among and behind the machines moved along with the vehicles , a great surging mass on Southern Boulevard . Gradually the automobiles forced their way through the pedestrians , proceeded to tile Willis Avenue Bridge and thence across town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abraham Becker , Mrs. Becker 's husband , who is charged with murdering her and placing her body in the boiler pit on Southern Boulevard and 140th Street . will begin this morning in the Bronx County Court before Judge Louis D. Gibbs . Dr. Menas S. Gregory ; lead of the psychopathic ward at Bellevue , representing the State , and Dr. Max E. Schlaap , for the defense , examined Becker in the Bronx County jail yesterday to determine his sanity . Neither physician would make a statement , Dr. Gregory referring all queries to Mr. Cohn . Ready for Murder Trial . " The State is ' ready to proceed with Becker 's trial tomorrow . " was all that Mr. Cohn would say when asked to corninent on Dr. Gregory 's report . The trial of Becker ? is not expected to last more than three days , according Ito Mr. Cohn , who will conduct the prosecution . He says the State will have twenty to thirty witnesses . The first witness for the State will be Dr. ? Karl ' Kennard , Assistant Medical Examiner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Becker from ' the boiler pit and was present at the autopsy . Selection of a jury is expected to oetupy all of this morning 's session and perhaps part of I the afternoon session . Attorneys for Becker have not indicated what the de , withwill be . Reuben Norkin , who is also charged , with murder , will go to trial on Dec. 18 . The body of Mrs. Becker was found on Nov. 29 , Becker was charged with her murder on Dec. 1 , and an Indictment , charging both Norkin and Becker with murder was returned by the Bronx Grand Jury on Dec. 5.                     