@@688310

txt The Englishman who has remained unknown as to name and good as to income as the " Gentleman With the Duster , " who did the " Mirrors of Downing Street , " has written some terrifying things about the United States . This country with great resources but no coordination of industries , with all the gold in the world and great trepidation about it , with no conscience but many bills due against Europe , is a reed which bends to every wind which Great Britain withstands as a rock . As a multiple tongued country we have no.cohesion . We have resources but no completeness in them . We almost make a thing but then need an import . Wo almost make a nation but a foreign element destroys it . Wo quiver , therefore , as a reed in the wind . This is a dune , something which the wind and the water change . We shall go down , gulping and strangling . All of which is not so good . The gentleman with the duster refers to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference from him . To anyone to whom the United States appears as they , the United States , IT , is doomed of necessity . The United States is in the comprehension of its citizens IT . The most offensive title which can be given to this country is the States . What jelly formation can people imagine this nation has ? It has states . They challenge each other with their beauty and their diversity and we hope they always will , from the Maine woods to the cane brakes of Mississippi , from the bayou to the lakes of Wisconsin , from the woods of Minnesota to - the Ozarks , from the water front of New York to the harbor of San Francisco . We hope that from the redwoods to the big pines and from the fat hog of the stockyards to the razor back of Virginia , from the pickerel caught through the ice to the tarpon caught in the warm waters this country will retain Its diversity , but when Europe thinks it is bending as a weed it should consult a man filling a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should go to the wall of the Mersey at Scacombe opposite Liverpool and listen to the talk of the children who swarm up as the tide chases them he could not understand their language . No aristocrat or cockney couldl Possibly understand the language of , the Lancaster children who have come over to the Cheshire side .. That after a ' thousand years ! of an established tongue . This United States , Whin is and Is not are , can take a boy out of the hills of Italy and 1 in two years make him speak an American tongue which is as understandable in the Everglades as it is on Catalina island . If the United States are , they are broken reeds ' In the wind , but it happens that they are not are , but IS , and as such will test its faults against any wind which blows .                     