@@695119

txt Almost an hour ahead of their schedule the New York State delegation to the Republican convention arrived here tonight at 8:35 . Leaving their special train , the 200 delegates and those who accompanied them went directly to their hotels . Two days aboard the special train saw the proposal for an organization , fight by the New York State sympathizers of the Presidential candidacy of Secretary Hoover leap to prominence and then collapse . Brought to task by some of their own followers , the New York State leaders of the Hoover movement this afternoon renounced their plan to battle Charles D. Hilles for re-election to the Republican National Committee . Advised in no uncertain terms of the peaceful inclinations of many of the delegates tentatively enrolled on the Hoover list , the State leaders came to the conclusion that not only would they be unable to muster the strength to challenge Mr. Hilles but that they must reconcile themselves to seeing the great bulk of the State vote go to President Coolidge unless the President should more clearly indicate he was not available as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the : - hope to bring out the full Hoover strength . Hill Revises His Figures . A little sadly , William H. Hill , Binghamton delegate and Hoover chief , and who yesterday had asserted that he could rely on fortynine of the ninety delegates to oppose Mr. Hilles if he should persist in the " evasive " tactics of " drafting Coolidge , " admitted today that on such an issue the Hoover votes would not exceed twenty-seven . He will call for a poll of the delegation at the meeting tomorrow , but both he and organization leaders are convinced that without further sign from the President it will serve only to label the hitherto unpledged group as -a Coolidge delegation . Mr. Hill 's disillusionment came at a conference late last night in one of the drawing rooms of the train when he was visited by Miss Florence Wardwell , delegate at large , and Colonel Theodore Roosevelt and John D. Clarke of Fraser , both delegates . All of them avowed supporters of Secretary Hoover 's candidacy , they told Mr. Hill plainly that they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble in the organization . Feeling certain that the President had made himself no longer available as a candidate , they were willing to vote for Hoover on the very first ballot , they said , but they would not fight Mr. Hines over his own elective position because he still urged the President 's name or any one else 's . " You could not muster a handful of delegates against Mr. Hilles , " Colonel Roosevelt said . The others were of the opinion also . that in a poll many of the forty-nine sympathizers claimed for the Hoover cause would give their first vote to the President . Abandons Original Plans . Faced with this revolt , Mr. Hill abandoned most of his original intentions . His plan for a poll of the delegation is entirely acceptable to the organization leaders on the train , and fits nicely into their own scheme to urge upon Mr. Hines and State Chairman George K. Morris , that the delegation come out openly and definitely for the renomination of President Coolidge . The fact ; . hat the New York special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they consider a general sentiment for his re-election encourages them to hope , as one of them phrased it , " that Mr. Coolidge will still find it his duty to run . " When a test of the Hoover strength is asked at the delegation meeting , it is the desire of the organization to suggest that the President can still be drafted . On that issue it is the consensus of their opinion that not more than twenty-five delegates would insist the move was an evasion and maintain their preference for Hoover . That such a definite institution of a " draft Coolidge " campaign might bring some objection from him they are aware , but they point out that failing such sign the way might be paved for his renomination . Boom Fish for Second Place . The ground work of at least one Vice Presidential candidacy was laid on the train among a small group of delegates who hope to give it more substance tomorrow . The name of Representative Hamilton Fish of Putnam County will be placed before the delegation at its meeting by Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Daniel J. Gleason , delegate from the Twenty-sixth District , and Louis De Hoyos of the Twenty-seventh District . They will urge . that the delegation espouse Mr. Fish 's candidacy on the understanding that it not be pushed ' unless his nomination is- compatible with the choice made for President . " His ' supporters Baal the Congressman has twelve delegates now who wish to voice support of him . His status as an ex-service man who has handled much legislation for former soldiers is reckoned as one of his prime assets . Colonel Roosevelt has also been mentioned as a candidate for the Vice Presidency in case of the nomination of a Westerner , but he will allow no such movement for him to be made as Mr. Fish contemplates . " Let 's get the President first before thinking about the Vice President , " the Colonel said today , dismissing the subject . Some New Yorkers for Borah . After Senator Borah had announced tonight that he had not taken himself out of the Presidential race , it was reported that the Senator , as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several delegates from New York City . Influential members of the Manhattan and Brooklyn delegations were said to be ready to support Borah as a method of stopping Hoover , even though the Senator is a dry and might not be regarded as acceptable to the financial interests . Those sponsoring the New York movement for Senator Borah said frankly that they were suggesting it merely because they preferred Borah to Hoover and believed that Borah could be nominated and elected . They believed that all of the antiHoover groups could unite upon Borah.                     