@@691079

txt The pathway to success In American Jour ' nelism lies in the avoidance of propaganda , the separation of news policies from business motives , and continued appeal to the idealism of the American people , President Coolidge declared tonight In speaking to the American Society . o f Newspaper Editors . Avoiding for the most part referPRESIDENT ence to govern ? COOLIDGE. mental problems , wanner Photo.1 Mr. Coolidge talked shop with the editors , speaking from the viewpoint of one who has watched the growth and development of the American press . This growth , he declared , had given the United States , " the best newspapers in the world . " No Fear of Capitalism . Mr. Coolidge made it plain that he entertains no tears as to the influences of what is sometimes called a " capitalistic press . " " Some people feel concerned about the commercialism of the press , " he Bald . " .. Whey note 014 great newspa ! , pars are great builne:ss enterprises earning large profits and controlled by men of wealth . So they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support the private interests of those who own the papers , rather than the general interest of the whole people . " It seems to me , however , that the real test is not whether the newspapers are controlled by men of wealth , but whethe : they are sincerely trying to serve the public Interests , There will be Mils occasion to worry about who owns a newspaper so long as its attitudes on public questions are such as to promote the general welfare . " Keep idealism Alive . Advising the editors as to their greatest opportunity for aiding the government , the President said he unhesitatingly placed it in the direction of keeping alive American Idealism . " It is only those who do not under . stand our people , who believe that our national life is entirely absorbed by material motives , " he added . " We make no concealment of the fact that we want wealth , but there are many other things that we want very much more . We want peace and honor , and that charity which is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief ideal of the American people is idealism . I can not repeat too often Lhat America is a nation of Idealism . I can not repeat too often that America is a nation of idealists . " No newspaper can be a success which fails to appeal to that element of our national life . It is in this direction that the public press can lend its strongest support to our government . " I could not truly criticize the vast importance of the counting room , but my ultimate faith I would place in the high idealism of the editorial room of the American newspaper . " Unhampered Press Needed . A public press unhampered is a true instrument under a republic for true representation and sound and logical Interpretation of the truth , he con. tended . " The public press under an autocracy is necessarily a true agency of propaganda , " he continued . " Under a free government it must be the very reverse . " Discussing the old question of " what is news , " the President said it seemed to him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly reeurre that it give a photographic . presentation of everything that happens in th 3 community . " Draws a ' Parallel . The proper presentation of the news , on the other hand . " bears about the same relation to the whole field of happenings that a. painting does to a photograph , " explainin ; that a photograph might give the more accurate presentation of details , but pi so doing It ; might sacrifice the opportunity to delineate character . The President , attar describing American newspapers as the best in the world , continued his commendation by saying : " I believe that they print more real news and more reliable and characteristic news than an , " other newspapers . I believe their editorial opinions are less colored in influence by mere partisanship or selfish interest than are those of any , other country . "                     