@@692193

txt Comment both Her Judgments commendatory and Were condemnatory , i n Far From Final . about equal division and somewhat surprising amount , has been excited by quotations printed in this column from letters in which an American visitor to London and Paris gave the impressions made on her by what she had seen of the British and the French and their ways of living . Nobody seems to have noticed that the traveler 's opinions were offered with full realization that their basis was too small to justify anything like broad generalizations . The chances are that they meant nothing except that the American had been luckier in France than in EngI land as to the people with whom she came in contact . Each of those countries , like every other , is well supplied with both courteous and discourteous inhabitants , and a stranger in either may run across either kind Without learning anything of real importance as to the relative sizes of the two groups . As a rule , the French are more approachable than the British , but probably a well-intentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , and the manners that so please him at first in France are apt to grow irksome later to anybody whose emotional reactions are less prompt and do not go as far . Proper introductions are more demanded as the qualification for acquaintance in England than in France . But when one has them , they will take him further in the former . country . it is more than rare for the alien to get access to the intimacies of French family life . ' Englishmen themA Britisher selves not infreSees quently have coalthe Difference . pared their own manners with those of the French , to the disadvantage of their own race . For instance . A. C. GARDINER , who speaks with the authority derived from much knowledge of both peoples , wrote on the subject in Earper 's Magazine not long ago . In the course of his article he said : There Is a certain type of Englishman ? unfortunately , the example we chiefly export  --  who is more than a little insufferable . It is often said , I think with some truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resentful of the English manner  --  the manner not of the People but of our feudal remnant now Incarnated in our public school system . That discrimination ' between your mind and our manner Is part of the price we pay for the community ? of speech and civilization . If Americans and English vete alien to each other , this source of Irritation would not exist . The romantic attachment of Americans to France is the fruit of an eternal dissimilarity , which conceals from America a national pride and superiority beside which our attitude is that of a " whispering humbleness , " That is shrewd criticism and exposition . " Eternal dissimilarity " does count for a. lot , and in judging literature as well as peoples . That is why , to most readers of French as a second language , almost all French writers seem to show a skill and eloquence possessed only by our really superior authors . Those of us who know I Another Florida only as it was ' View some years ago and from of Florida . brief visits to it then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excitements in that State  --  the wild rush of thousands and thousands of people to it and the grotesquely high prices that Florida land seems to command . Considered simply as " nature , " Florida Is a , peculiarly uninteresting part of the country . Rising but a few feet above the sea , its soil little more than white sand , it is quite without " seenery , " . and either walking or riding in it is tiresome , It has , to be sure , a Winter climate enjoyable to people Who are afraid of cold weather , but the new immigration is not supposed to be composed largely of invalids . The life in the big Florida hotels has attractions for folk who rant what thou hotels offer and can afford to pay the Prices charged for it . Others would be as happy waiting in a railway station for a belated train . There Is scone real sea fishing off the Florida coast , and that . does form an understandable attraction ; so do certain so-called clubhouses where the ingenuous can lose large sums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The many prophets who are predicting the collapse of the boom in Florida . real estate are as incautious as have been those who for four or five years have known that the Soviet Government in Russia , could not possibly last beyond next Thursday , or next Friday at latest . The boom continues to boom , regardless of the prophets . Latest of Central Park All Right invasions to be proposed Except is the invention of our in the Bark . Buddhists ? of w h 0 m most people did n't know that we had any except the occasional mystic of more or less dubious sanctity who comes over here to brood and talk in the back parlors of rich houses . It seems , however , thee-the city contains a considerable group of Buddhists and that the followers of that gentle cult want to Put a statue of their Divine Man in the park . There arc statues of men for whom less could be said already there , and a really good statue of 331moHA. would be an ornament anywhere , but it is hinted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devotion , " whatever that may be , and it is not obviously desirable that the followers of any religion , as such , should make the park the scene of " services " in any way regular . That is nota. " park purpose , " and " entering wedges " are highly unpopular except for those who yearn to insert them ' wherever they can find a crevice in the park 's guard .                     