@@686666

txt The Civil Service Reform association started after the state and city administration yesterday . The association says it has learned from Its investigators that " political assessments recently have been made and collected from employes of the classified service of the city and Lincoln park . " It requested Attorney Goners Brundage " to institute criminal pre ceedings to bring to justice the partie guilty of these violations of the km which we are informed have bee : gross ; repeated , and open . " Assessments " Insolently Open . " The organization was formed b Its letter to the attorney genera continues : We do not recall , and our record : fail to disclose , any time since iSS : when such gross violations of the civi service law have been committed a ! these which we are now calling P. ) our attention , for our Informatiot indicates that these assessments foi political purposes were undertaker pursuant to a comprehensive plan and were persistent , mandatory , and at insolently open and notorious as to cause extensive comment in the press and very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service of the city and the park system . " Soon after Tian ** May Is ? printed recitals of its representatives who attended two gatherings of employes where the collector garnered in the cash , Ald. Maypole presented a resolution to the city council asking for an investigation . It was referred to the civil service committee . A subcommittee was appointed to investigate . It went to sleep immediately thereafter and is still slumbering . " Based on a Fixed Scale . " Russell Whitman , president of the civil service association apparently has no confidence that the committee will get the results he desires . The letter to the attorney general continues : " According to our information these assessments were based upon a fixed scale or percentage of the salaries of the employes , and were exacted in a large number of cases . They were solicited by officers Or employes of the city and parks , and also in many instances solicited in rooms and buildings occupied by the offending officers or employes . " These assessments usually took the guise of subscriptions . to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Thompson-Lundin political machine , and of subscriptions to tickets to the Thompson-Lundin political picnic to be held at Riverview park July 28 . Carries Jail Punishment . " They are , therefore , in our opinion , assessments made for party and political purposes , within the meaning of the civil service laws . " The soliciting of these assessments constitutes a violation of said act and is punishable by a fine of not less than $50 and not exceeding $1,000 or by im. nrisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding si : ; months , or both such fine and imprisonment . " West Park Board May Improve Park Drives The west park commissioners discussed the straightening of West End drive in Garfield park and the improvement of North Oakley boulevard between Washington boulevard and West North avenue at its meeting yes . terciay.                     