@@687672

txt WORK AND PLAY . Parks and Recreation Grounds in Relation to Laborer . To the Editor of The New York Times : In your issue of April 28 an editorial entitled " More Playgrounds " clearly set out the function and value of play in our Western civilization . During the latter months of the great war I was a member of a small and relatively independent commission created in the Department Of Labor at Washington , merely to have a place to head in , but charged with the duty of speeding up the production of war materials by attention to the living conditions of war workers . This commission promptly found that wages , shelter and food would not alone suffice in obtaining maximum or spirited production ; recreation was a vital essential . So in the nation 's greatest emergency the relation of recreation to production was quite clearly established . No less in the times of peace is recreation essential . It needs to be provided locally in the cities and nation'ally in the great areas usually of unique quality as to scenery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there is another aspect to which it seems worth while to ask your attention . The community can provide , if it is wise enough , one acre of available play space for every hundred of its population , and if this is well distributed so as to be accessible at no more ' than a half mile distance from every inhabitant of the community , the local need will be served . Near New York a wise system of county parks has provided the second adjunct in the recreation program . The Essex County parks db for that section of New Jersey what the communities composing it could not do for themselves . Near New York is the yet more important item in the recreation program to Which I wish ' to ask your attention . Palisades Interstate Park takes up the duty of the States in this most important matter and provides a superb example of how the greater areas can be made available for uses not possible to be served by either the State or the county . Tens of thousands , yes millions , of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parks , who can not be accommodated in the State or county parks , should come to find the broader areas , the pleasant camping places , the economic Summer , vacation opportunities IniState parks , of which Palisades Interstate Park is a notable example . It happens that there is forthcoming a meeting at which emphasis will be laid upon the duty of other States than New Yor , k and New Jersey in the provision of State and interstate parks . The Second National . Conference on State Parks has been called to meet at the Bear Mountain Inn in the Palisades Interstate Park during the week beginning May 22 , under the Chairmanship of the Hon. John Barton Payne , Chairman of the American Red Cross . and recently Secretary of the Interior . At this conference a State park will be seen in action , for the delegates and guests will use the facilities ordinarily available to the public and will be shown the various utilities and activities of the organization . ? The American Civic Association has , since its formation in 1904 , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look after the development of our national parks and their protection against the selfish assaults of those who can always see something utilitarian for their own benefit in the public property . Colonel Henry W. Jaries . To the Editor of The New York Times : ' In your Magazine issueof THE TIMES , Sunday . April 23 , in naming-the officers of General Grant 's staff the officer referred to as " unidentified " was Colonel Henry W. Janes . He was on Grant 's staff all through the . Civil War , and was also a personal friend of the General . LAURA D. OSBORNE ' . Brooklyn , April 25 , 152 . Y.                     