@@688126

txt Attorney Genet eral Daugherty , refusing to make any concession to criticism of the temporary injunction he obtained against the striking railway shopmen ten days ago , will personally appear tomorrow before Judge James H. Wilkerson in the Federal Cottle here , determined to stick to his guns in a fight to have the drastic restraining order made permanent . This unqualified forecast was made tonight by one closely in touch with the Government 's plan of campaign to put a curb on railway strike activities . The prediction came in direct repudiation of press dispatches from Washington last week reporting that the Attorney General had Intimated he would recommend that provisions of the injunction , interpreted as placing a ban on free speech , free press end free assemblage , be toned down , If not eliminated . In support of the Attorney General 's plea , reports indicated , the Government will introduce a mass of docementary and other evidence of an allege I centpaign of terrorism instituted by the striking shopmen , and will endeavor tO prove conspiracy to cripple transporttetion . Available exhibits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implements of destruction alleged to have been seized from strike sympathizers ; in various porta of the country , lit addition there are thousands Of 7t610-grams , letters , photographs , bluekinia and books , together Nv.ith transcripts of statements of 17,000 persons Interrogated by Federal officials . Government Investigators who have been working on the case for weeks will be on hand to testify . Hearings on the motion to make permanent the injunction may extend through several da'ys , it was said , affording Federal antherRies adequate opportunity to establish any need for stern measures . Daugherty Arrives With Gunrd . Guarded by a cordon of Secret Service men and eccompamed by what is said to be the most formidable legal force the Government has ever thrown into one court action , Mr. Daugherty arrived in Chicago early today . His party repaired at once to the Drake Hotel , where headquarters were established . Throughout the clay and late into the night Mr. Daugherty presided at a series of conferences attended by several astilsta.nte to the Attorney General and Charles F. Clyne , United States District Attorney in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government 's ease at these sessions the union leaders were equally engaged in perfecting their defense . 13 . M. Jewell , President of the Railway Employes ' Department of the American Federation of Labor , and his Executive Commnttee were closeted much of the day at the organization 's headquarters , 4,750 Broadway . Members of the shop crafts ' General Policy Committee of Ninety , which ill scheduled to convene here tomorrow to consider proposals of some railroads for settlement ' of the strike cti their linos through separate agreene nts , heel all arri ? ed tonight . It was predicted , however , that their Interest well be so centered in the Federal court proceedings that they would not he likely to take any action before tomorrow on the peace offers , Daugherty Tells of Conference . Attorney General Daugherty issued a brief statement late in the afternoon , and Donald Itichberg , who will appear in court as attorney for the defendant union chiefs , did likewise . Both were noncommittal . Mr. Daugherty 's statement was : " I arrived in Chlcagb this morning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington , who are associated with me in the strike injunction proceedings now pending . " Those who were with me are . John W. H. Grim , Assistant Attorney ( leneral ; Blackburn Esterline , assistant to the Solicitor General , and C. J. , attorney . " James A. Fowler , special assistant to tile Attorney General , in charge of anti-trust prosecutions ; Oliver E. Pagan , ' special assistant to the Attorney General , and A. A. , special assistant to the Attorney General and . also representing the Itallroad lAdminiae tration , met me in Chicago . . " We had a conference at the hotel this afternoon . I shall have no statement to make with respect to the injunction proceedings until after such proceedings iltiVe taken place in court at 10:30 tomorrow morning . e We are ready , so far as the Government is concerned , to proceed Ith the hearing of the , ease . Requeete have been made for modification of the restraining order in some respects . We veil , of course , consider them In ' due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court . " - rhe Attorney General 's ' assurance that ' requests for modification of the restraining order , will be " aidered " was not construed as binding the Government to any concession In this connection . Just what the order of tomorrow 's court . procedure will be was not anliounced , but it is expected , the motion on the - temporary injunction will - be heard first . Then , according to forecasts , the Government N4111 submit its " truck loads " of documentary evidence Purporting to show that . the strikers have waged'na campaign of . murder and sabotage , which has included the wrecking of trains , burning of bridges and other illegal acts which have interfered with operation of mail , passenger and freight trains . May ' Prosecute Some Leaders . There have been hints that the Government would seek to prosecute criminally some of the strike leaders . These reports seemed to gain ' weight when , preceding Mr. Daugherty , Special Assistant Attorney General Pagan arrived here on Saturday . Mr. Pagan . is the Government 's indictment expert . Concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said tonight : The position of the shoperafts regarding vandalism or any acts of violence in connection with their strike has been repeatedly stated from time to ? time since the inception of ' the walk-out . ' " The railway unions have not only agreed that perpetrators of any violence In connection with the strike should be harshly punished , but they also have sought to co-operate with the proper authorities to prevent any illegal acts . The union leaders have time and again warned the membership against any lawlessness . " Referring to the injunction proceedings , Mr. Richberg said : " It is beyond me to forecast what steps the unions might take if the re ' straining order is permanently entered . Attorney General Daugherty has intimated that he would recommend modifications . We must wait to see what comes of this prospect . " President Jewell and other union chiefs said tonight that they had received no court summons and they did not expect to appear . It was reported at a late hour that S. Davies Warfield , Eastern financier . said to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Ohio Railway in peace negotiations . had arrived in Chicago and that Mr. Willard is due to return tomorrow . Mr. - arfield could not be reached . CHICAGO , Sept. 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? Two Federal agents were stationed tonight at the home of Judge Wilkerson to prevent any outbreaks against him . The Judge , it was said , has received several threatening letters .                     