@@691116

txt To enable the promotion of fifteen firemen , whose eligibility would have expired at midnight , to lieutenancies , Mayor John F. Hylan last night removed from office Fire Commissioner Thomas 3- Drennan , absent from the city , and appointed Deputy Commissioner Joseph H. Hannon to succeed him and make the promotions . Other promotions made by Commissioner Hannon immediately upon taking his new office included one Assistant Chief , four Battalion Chiefs and five Captains . With the list of firemen eligible for promotion to lieutenant , considered the most difficult step in the department , expiring at midnight the departure of Commissioner Drennan for Palm Beach on vacation a week ago was taken as an indication that he did not intend to make the promotions . The situation caused considerable gossip in the department during the last week . Only Drennan Could Act . As the Commissioner Is the only person empowered to make promotions , his absence caused much consternation among the members of the department who were due for advancement . A week ago a committee composed of the wives and friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor and pleaded with him to have the eligible candidates given an opportunity forireward for their long and faithful service . They told the Mayor that in many cases firemen had been on the eligible list for three and four years and that it would be a great hardship for them to be denied opportunity for promotion merely because , of the absence of the Commissioner . Mayor Hylan promised to investigate . and asked the committee to return to him on January 22 . The Mayor consulted Corporation Counsel George P. Nicholson , and the latter rendered an opinion that under the city charter the Fire Commissioner tads the only person authorized to make promotions and that this power could not be delegated to a Deputy Commissioner . Last Thur. ' sday , when the committee made its second call at City Hall , the Mayor is reported to have told them that he would see that justice was done and that all vacancies in the department , to be filled ' by promotions , would be filled before the expiration of the eligible list . Commissioner Delayed on Train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Drennan over the Jong distance telephone on Saturday and directed him to return to the city so that he might make the promotions . Yesterday the Mayor received a telegram from Mr. Drennan , dated from a town in Georgia , stating that the latter had been delayed by railroad washouts and that it would be impossible for him to get back to the city in time . The Mayor , upon further consultation with the Corporation Counsel , decided to remove Mr. Drennan and appoint Mr. Hannon Commissioner . The promotions were made last evening immediately after the new Commissioner took office . It is understood that those who received promotion will assume their new duties on Feb. 1 . The fifteen firemen promoted to the rank of lieutenant by the Mayor 's action follow : John Sherer , Peter Boertleis , Leo J. Dasop , Michael . J. Duffy , genry Gardner , George Abendschein , James P. Hopkins , Michael A. Lukas , William A. Fraser , Charles H. Hutchinson , Edward Fox , Michael J. Stevens , Peter S. Walsh . James A. Gannon and James P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George L. to the office of Assistant Chief to succeed the late Joseph L. Crawley . The four new Battalion Chiefs are former Captains Daniel L. Carlock , Edwin A. A. Quinn . John J. Callahan and Timothy Donovan . The five lieutenants promoted to captaincies are . John J. Ryan , Francis E. Sullivan , Francis X Ryan , Louis P. Reimiller and William H. Stack . Whether the removal of Mr. Drennan was to be permanent could not be ascertained definitelY last night . Persons having knowledge of the situation declined to discuss that phase of it , but the general impression Was that Mr. Drennan might have some difficulty in regaining the Commissionership . Thomas J. Drennan was on , of Mayor HyIan 's original appointees when the Mayor first took office on Jan. 1 . 1918 . At that time Mr. Drennan was Deputy County Cleric of Kings County . He had previously been Deputy Tat Commissioner under Mayor McClellan and Secretary of the Board of Assessors during the Administration of Mayor Gaynor .. Mr. Drennan had long been active in Democratic politics in Brooklyn and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfactory to John H. McCooey , the Brooklyn Democratic leader . and to Charles F. Murphy , then leader Of Tammany Hall . Mr. Drennan was generally believed to have got along well with Mayor Hylan , with whom be was credited with being on terms of personal friendship , although Deputy Controller Frank J. Pried ' in the course of an inquiry into the expense accounts of Commissioner of Accounts David Hirshfield 's investigators asserted that the Fire Department had been under investigation by Commissioner Hirst/field for some months . Mr. Hannon was appointed Deputy Fire Commissioner in March , 1920 , to succeed Charles W. Culkin , Tammany leader of the Fifth Assembly District , who resigned . Mr. Hannon was at one time Clerk of the First District Municipal Court and several years ago was Alderman from the Greenwich Village section .                     