@@691294

txt Though Governor Westchester Smelt , when he made , Heard a speech Friday Advice . eve-Good ning to the Chambers of Commerce from Westchester County . talked a good deal more about the elimination of grade crossings than he did about the new charter which that county is to have ? unless its old-time politicians can prevent it.  - -  - stlll , he did say something on I the subject , and it had the sense and vigor which are characteristic of him . He admitted that he was not familiar with all the details of the proposed charter , but he had seen in it one feature which he considered both admirable and important The particular feature was the putting of much responsibility on one man . and he energetically exhorted his hearers to see to it that the man had powers equal to the responsibility . It is both curious and significant , that at this very concentration of responsibility is directed practically all of the adverse criticism which the charter has received , but there is nothing mysterious about the Governor 's liking for it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reorganization and simplification of the State Government upon which Governor S3.121-1 'S mind and heart are sce earnestly fixed . His approval , therefore . is entirely natural , and it is to be noted that , though many of his auditors  --  coming from Westcheaterwere Republicans , they gave him applause as hearty when he discussed county affairs as they did while he dealt with the broader matter of grade-crossing elimination . As for Hie new Two Groups charter proposed for Oppose Westchester County , Charter . a part of the opposi-the tion to It is easily explicable . The changes to be made by it would interfere seriously with the long-settled habits of the county politicians of both parties . It would do away with a considerable number of offices which are not the less valued by their holders and distributers because they are needless divisions of power or duplications of effort . There may be a little honest anxiety as to the likelihood of finding just the right sort of man to carry the undoubtedly heavy responsibilities to be imposed on the County President That the charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but as Governor SMITH , said of like aspirations which he is accused by careless orators of'having. that is " ail bunk . " It would be merely a clear division of administrative and legislative activities , and that , as he also said . is what those who have been exercising both  --  the Supervisors in the case of the county and the legislators in the case of the State  --  disJike or hate .. There is , however , some antagonism to the new charter that really is mysterious . The League of Women Voters proclaim undying hostility to the proposed limovations , and they object to the concentration of power in one man 's hands . It is difficult or impossible to avoid something between a suspicion and a belief that these estimable , but politically unsophisticated , ladies have been subjected to subtle suggestions from masculine politicians . They fear that the charter will go through , and they know that the faults ascribed to if are really its merits , but they are eager to kill it by indirection if they can . If the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while it the women fail the men will not incur the humiliation of having backed a losing horse . Anybody with some Of Course time for which no Lying Is really profitable emWrong , but ? employment can be found might see a fairly interesting use for it in discussing whether or not The Daily Graphic of London was justified in printing for the exclusive perusal of Marquess CURZON a single copy , of its Thursday issue , containing an article about him , his condition and his prospects of recovery that was In direct contradiction of the I kndwn truth . The expectation , or rather the hope . was that the sick man , when he read this false report would be encouraged and so get one more chance for his life . The intention was kindly , but the benefit sought was to come from deception ? from a lie , to be explicit  --  and there be those who argue that evil never should be done , no matter how meritorious the end in view . It is an old problem , and one that often arises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truth may be to hasten or even to cause their death ; to tell them the opposite of the truth may nave them by arousing anew the hope and the will to live . By hypothesis , however , " the truth " may be only a fallible judgment , and the duty to speak it therefore is not clear . On the other hand , the course of events may turn the deception into truth , and then it never has been deception . It is all very complicated  --  on thoughtful analysis . In practice It is simple enough , and next to nobody would hesitate for a moment to tell any number of such " lies . " So The Graphic was all right , and very kind , too , for the making of that single paper different from the rest of the edition was a lot of bother . But the Marquess never saw it , for he died before it reached his house ! More heresy from What Will The Villager ! And Colleges terribly shocking Say to This ? heresy this time I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its conviction that the continued existence of the present soda ; structure depends on getting everybody , or as many people as possible , to buy ever more and more things , including many not needed at all , it now says that Industry and the College have become allies . cornra.des and collaborators . Industry gives to the Colleges great sums of money , and in turn the Colleges are abandoning their former task of giving education and have turned to that of training the youth of the land to support Industry by buying greater and greater numbers of Industry 's products . Here is the startling way in which The Villager puts its contention : It is because so many kodaks are sold that the College enlarges its Philosophy Department , and pays the astronomy professor , a living wage . It le because the cigarette business , the pig iron and sweet chocolate business , do so well that the College can build new laboratories . On the other hand , captains of Indust ry would not make these generous bequests to the College it the College t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women like to read the same book more than once : they like to ramble and reflect ; they prefer simple pleasures ; they are , it not actual enemies , at least no assistants to the manufacturers of silk undergarments and cosmetics and highpriced care .                     