@@689641

txt President Coolidge will become- an active candidate for the Republican nomination for President within two weeks , and his contest for delegates will be carried into every State . but will be directed especially to the nineteen States having primary elections . Announcement of his campaign manager . who probably will be W. M. Butler of Massachusetts , is expected to be made a few days after the meeting of the Republican National Committee here next week . The present plans being worked out by his friends contemplate six regional managers who will work under the direction of the central committee . Headquarters will be established at Chicago , New York . San Francisco , Denver , Boston and some Southern city . Each regional manager will be in charge of a group of States and the direction of the necessary work will be left to the regional managers following the policies and plan of campaign mapped out by the central committee . This central committee will consist of active business men and practical politicians from each of the regional sections . Charles D. Hilles will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the campaign in some Way , although he may not be a member of the central committee . Obliged to Fight for Nomination . Conditions compel those supporting the President to be more aggressive than had been originally planned owing to the activities of Senator Johnson and the expected entrance into the fight of Governor Pinchot and Senator La Follette . The fight will be for a showdown among the several aspirants , and the voters will be asked to make a choice rather than allow their State delegates to go to the convention uninstructed , as has been the policy in times past when the Republican organization was cohesive and in the hands of a few so-called bosses , The Republican Party hi the country is now without an outstanding leader . The death of Senator Penrose removed the last of those marshals who could manipulate things in conventions . The situation existing in Congress today ie seen in the party 's councils in the country . Therefore it is incumbent upon the President , his advisers say , to submit his candidacy frankly to the electorate rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the one-time power of the machine . This course will be pursued although the President has refused to listen to some of his advisers who have urged him to make a few rpeeches In Stater that r ? a.y be pivotal . In no way will he openly participate in the campaign , it is said at the White House , and very few speeches will be made of any nature during the progress of the campaign . The President 's plea for the nomination will be blazoned in his message and the course he employs to influence Congress to enact the legislation recommended in this his first message to the country . Th.3 opinion of his intimate advisers is that the message , characterized as approaching all of the vital questions in a sane and businesslike way , will have a very strong effect on public opinion which in some sections of the country has been swayed by radical and impracticable doctrines . While domestic matters will be considered by the President as his chief concern , it is believed that his foreign Policy will be just as positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The biggest question of his Administration will be the reduction of taxes . This is nation-wide , reaching all interests , although undoubtedly Congress will divide on the way to bring about reductions . Message Ells Platform . As soon as the country has digested and absorbed the recommendations in this message  --  the President 's platform for the nomination  --  the campaign will be ready to be started . It is planned to make it a campaign of education on foreign and domestic matters and the newspapers will be used largely to teach the voters the advantages of the Mellon tax reductions plan and other features of this Administration 's legislative program . The nineteen States having primaries have an aggregate of 318 delegates in the Republican Convention , according to the new apportionment , and this number Is exactly half . of the total number . 1,036 . Indications at present are that both Johnson and Coolidge will n.ake hard fights to get the Southern delegates . Frank H. Hitchcock , campaign manager for the former , is skilled in this field , while President Coolidge will have an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary , C. Bascom Slemp , equally familiar with the ways of winning Southern dele1 gates as the manager for Senator Johnson . The States having primaries are Cali ! fornia . Illinois , Indiana . Maryland . Masi sachusetts , Michigan , Montana . New 1 Rpm/mil/re , Nebraska , North garoLina. lien er sti.y . North Dakota . Oregon . Pcnnsyl-anil South D Lkota Vermont West and N ? isconsin . Florida a n.1 Texiis also hay , primary laws . but the ? . do not appiy to any party polling less than : 17i I.er cent . of total vote in ce'nt'ral election cvhi : . ? ii . s he Republic , n Party in Lb es. ? ; w o States and lea . es its delegates to be chosen by convention .                     