@@694059

txt The prospects of legislation favorable to western agriculture are not going to be brightened by some of the fireworks let off at St. Paul . One of the handicaps the cause of agriculture suffers is fastened upon the farmer by the professional farmer 's friend of the Broolthart type . The vociferous quack who is permitted to hold forth as a leader ? of farming opinion turns eastern opinion against . the appeal of the farmer and convinces the nonagricultural voter that the farmer does n't know what ails him but is looking only for quack remedies . The sane and sincere voices among farmers and able leaders of agriculture interest are drowned out by the shouting of the radicals and noisy ignoramuses . Take for example Brookhart 's prescription : " Credit laws should be amended to enable the farmers to derive the fullest benefit , railroad securities should be condemned and consolidated at the market value , the rate of return for all public utilities should be redUced to the average of all . capital and the rate of return of corporations in interstate commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is. senator from the great agricultural state of Iowa and it is natural that his views should be taken by the rest of the country its representative of the intelligence of the farming middle west . In the degree that it is taken as representative , the west 's agricultural interests can not expect a very sympathetic reception for their demands . Broolchart 's Ignorant and vicious ideas , which are more like those of a Russian communist than of - an American citizen , are not unnaturally taken as evidence that the midwest farmer is out to smash American business because he ca n't have what would be bad for him and hates everybody else for that reason . This is an unjust reaction . The best judgment and spirit of the west arc not expressed by Brookhart , and the east should not be prejudiced against the real needs of the west , its just demands for sound and favorable legislation , the splendid qualities of its people and the vital interest of the whole nation in their welfare . The real interests of both sections , of business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's and the agrarian professional radical should not be permitted to mislead either section or class or prevent them from working together for their common good .                     