@@685451

txt Ex-Secretary of the Treasury Williard G. definitely announced yester ? day that he was not a candidate for the Democratic nomination for President and refused to permit his name to be presented to the convention . He said that " this decision is irrevOolt ? ble , " recalled his previous statement on the subject , expressed gratitude to the friends who had been advocating his nomination , and regretted that he waif compelled to disappoint them . The announcement came in the form of a reply to Jouett Shouse , Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , who telegraphed to him from Washington asking him to permit the presentation of his name to the convention . Mr. Shouse 's telegram read : Washington , D. C. , June 17 , 1920 . W. G. , 120 Broadway . New York . Sentiment throughout the country is tglibidly crystallizing in favor of your honitnation . I know you have consistently stated that you are not candidate and that you will not seek the nomination . Your many friends would like to have you reconsider your attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be presented to the convention . We are certain 3,011 can be nominated and elected . J 0 LIErr SHOUSS . Text of Mr. 's Telegram , Mr. telegraphed in reply g New York , June 18 , 1924 Hon. Jouett Shouse , Washington , D. C. Your telegram of June 17th requires an explicit and immediate answer . I am profoundly grateful to you and ' my other generous friends , who with such spontaneity and unselfishness have without my solicitation advocated my nomination . To cause them p disappointment distresses me deeply , but I am unable to reconsider the position I have consistently maintained , namely , that I would not seek the - nomination for the Presidency . I can not , therefore , permit my name to go before the convention ; this decision is irrevocable , as the path of duty seems to one clear and unmistakable . The considerations which compelled me to resign as Secretary of the Treasury and Director General orRailroads , after the armistice in 1918 , in large measure still prevail . I must have a reasonable , opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for my family which , in time of peace , is at once the sacred duty and the cherished desire of every right-thinking man . Having been out of office less than eighteen months , I have not yet been able to accomplish these objects . Moreover , a Presidential campaign ' imposes upon the candidate Unavoidable expenses which I am unable to ' assume and which I do not want nay friends to assume . The record of the recent Republican Congress and the platform and candidates of the Republican National Convention make Democratic victory is the next election , almost certain . Victory will be certain if the Democrats adopt a straightforward , unequivocal ; unevasive , honest and liberal platform and put forward candidates who will command public confidence . We must stand squarely for ratification of the League of Nations without debilitating reservations , and we must be direct and explicit on the important domestic issues . The times are not propitious for equivocation or for appeals to blind passion or to doctrines of hate , or for reactionaries , and those who would shut their ears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cries aloud for the restoration of peace and good will at home and in the world and for the opportunity to live in an atmosphere of justice , progress and prosperity . I feel sure that my friends will appreciate the sincerity and propriety of my position and that they will do everything in their power at San Francisco to assure the continuation ' of the enlightened principles and liberal policies of Democracy . These are more than ever essential to the security ? s , ncl well-being of the American people . W. G. . Firmer Than in February Letter . ? On Feb. 17 Mr. , writing to Miller S. Bell of " Milledgeville , Ga. , indicated a similar attitude , but that message contained these sentences : L In a democracy like ours the oblige , /bona of good citizenship are supreme , and I should , therefore , regard it as the imperative duty of any man to accept a nomination if it should come to Ildm unsolicited . I say thisiat the risk of being charged with harboring a caneidacy notwithstanding the explicit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the whole , I shall not be misunderstood . " Because of these phrases the Milledgeville letter was not considered as removing Mr. from the list of candidates , but the telegram to Mr. house is held to settle the question . Byron R. Newton , Collector of the Port , and other friends of Mr. In this city have frequently expressed doubt of the many statements that ? he was a candidate . They explained that he was without means and that he had determined . to devote the coming years to earning money in his profession at ; lawyer to the end that he might make proper provision for his family . It was said that his finances had been so limited during the last few years that he had been obliged to retrench in every 11ossIble way . ? means Impaired in Cabinet Term . One of Mr. 's friends , who asked that his narrie be withheld , said : " Mr. very quickly learned that there was no financial profit in high office . When he was Secretary of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money from banks , a privilege enjoyed by every other man of similar standing . He noted the fact that President Wilson was worth approximately $200,000 when he was nominated at the Baltimore conVention , and that he is now , in all probability , without any money at all , that is comparatively speaking . " While Mr. was a member of the Cabinet there occurred occasional disagreements between him and the President , but that was not the cause of his withdrawal , which was due solely to the pressing necessity of re-establishing himself In his profession and of earning the money necessary to meet his needs . The nation-wide pollrecently taken by The Literary Digest showed that Mr. was far in the lead of all of the other Democratic Presidential favorites. lie received 102,719 votes , leading President Wilson by 33,131 votes , Governor E. I. Edwards by 41.326 , William J. Dryan ? by 50,271 and Governor Cox by 70 , - 870.                     