@@684960

txt The visitor was a man about 50 years old , solemn , worried . " I am George L. Bradshaw , prest ' dent of the Glenn Inn Catering company , " he said . " I live at , 7608 Sheridan road . I think I 've wrecked a woman 's life . " The lawyer , Charles E. Erbstein , looked at him quickly . " Married man ? " he said . " Yes . On Nov. 25 last year I married the prettiest girl in Chicago , sparkling , young , very young-23 . I think that 's what 's the matter . She was Mona Hermann . I believe there Is some one else  --  some younger man that . ? well , maybe he would have made her happier . " " We 'll find out , " said Erbstein . Learn of Youthful Romance . In the days when Mona Hermann was growing up , when she lived at : 3927 North Spaulding avenue , young Ray Kerwin was her steady beau . Ker win and his brothers run an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 3939 Ravenswood avenue . Ray and his brothers went to war , and the romance was lorgotten by the neighbors . Then Mona was crowned " Queen of Beauty " at Riverview , and there were scores of suitors . David S. Groh of 68 West ' Washington boulevard , formerly with the department of justice , learned these and ether things concerning Mona . And Groh 's operatives thought it might lead to something if they shad. owed Kerwin . Followed to lintel . They tapped a telepkne wire . And so when Ray and Mon met at Clark , and Randolph streets last night Bradshaw , his brother , G. W. Bradshaw . and Groh observed them . They saw the couple enter the Chandler hotel , 500 North Clark street , looked at the register , saw the entry Mr. and Mrs. J. Conley , and went to the room . " Never mind , Mona , " Kerwin said an he held Bradshaw 's wife In his arms . " Never mind , I 'll protect you . " Bradshaw wept and said nothing until the'party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney Erbstein . " I seem to be in the way , " was what he said then . " You better get me a divorce . " All Is Arranged . " And I 'll marry her , " said Kerwin . " It 's no use wrecking a life . " Bradshaw continued . " Well , we 've got the evidence , " said Erbstein . " You knew Kerwin , did you ? " " Yes , " Bradshaw replied . " I know the whole Runny . It was his sister . Rose , who introduced me to Mona . I knew Ray when he was a little child . " Then he furnished bond for both . of them and had Groh take them to their homes in his machine .                     