@@694126

txt Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti will not die in the electric chair on the date set . Neither will they be pardoned . Further reprieve pending steps by the Massachusetts Legislature looking to a new trial was indicated at the State House today as the solution of the historic case of the Italian radicals , which Governor Fuller will place before the Executive Council when it meets tomorrow . The Governor will make known the decision tomorrow night . Commutation to life imprisonment Is one alternative that has been discussed , but those who know Governor Fuller are certain that this straddle will not appeal to the State 's Chief Executive . New and overwhelming eleventhhour evidence is the only factor likely to change the plan for a further reprieve and an appeal to the Legislature for a new trial . Late tonight , while the Governor and his advisers worked on the report to be laid before the Council tomorrow , the defense was more cheerful than it has been since the Governor 's investigation began . This optimism is not shared by Sacco , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike at Charlestown State Prison . Vanzetti is feeling better and partaking of a little food . He is buoyed up by the news that his sister has sailed from France and is due here on Aug. 10 . That is the day set for the execution under the terms of the sentence of the two men . Every sign today pointed to the fact that Governor Fuller , despite his exhaustive and exhausting inquiry , had not made up his mind on certain phases of the case of the men convicted for the murder of a paymaster and his guard on April 15 , 1920 . Interviews Last of Witnesses . This afternoon Governor Fuller saw the last . of the long line of witnesses who have filed . into his office for three months , and he then closed the inquiry . He continued- his , work on the case after lunch away from his office at 5 o'clock . When he returned he gave every indication of being in a comfortable frame of mind . At 9:10 tonight Sacco and Vanzetti and Celestino Madeiros , facing execution for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two radicals by his " confession " seeking to exonerate them , were transferred from the Cherry Hill section of the State Prison to the death house , about 100 yards away . The transfer was effected without incident . The removal of the men has no significance , being a routine procedure . Men condemned to die in the electric chair are , according to law , removed to the death house ten days before execution . Until a few days ago those at the State House who have followed the Governor 's inquiry , as well as members of the Sacco-Vanzetti Defense Committee , felt that the result would be clear , cut and uncompromising . The defense hoped for an outright pardon . State House sources were of the opinion that the Governor would take no action and permit the death penalty to be imposed . The tide apparently turned with the latest visit of Superior Court Judge Webster Thayer , who presided at the joint trial as well as at the previous trial of Vanzetti , convicted of an attempted hold-up and sentenced to from twelve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight applications for a new trial , saw the Governor yesterday , and it was reported afterward that the latter indicated to him the nature of his report . The stress placed on the meeting of the Council tomorrow is emphasized by the Defense Committee as a certain sign that the Governor could not have made up his mind to send the men to the electric chair . There are eight Councilors from widely separated parts of the State and their bearing on the case is apparent from the following provision in the State Constitution : " The power of pardoning offenses , except such as persons may be convicted of before the Senate by an impeachment of the House , shall be in the Governor , by and with the advice of the Council . Since yesterday the idea of a further reprieve and action by the Legis- lature in January has gained ground , according to information available in authentic quarters . No details are revealed , but the meager news that has leaked out is to the effect that Governor Fuller will propose to the Council that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new trial for the condemned men . In the meantime , they would be reprieved . The Council 's concurrence with Governor Fuller 's decision is not doubted . Seven of the eight members are expected to attend the meeting . A majority vote will be necessary to carry the Governor 's proposal . Would Be Politically Expedient . Governor Fuller is at odds with the Legislature . State House sources are responsible for the prediction that the Legislature will reject the proposal and declare in no uncertain terms that it resents having " the buck passed " to it on possibly the most troublesome case that has ever been laid on a State Executive 's doorstep . Political expediency would dictate passing the case on to the Legislature . However , those who know Governor Fuller say that even . if he passes the case to the Legislature , it will not be as an act of political expediency , but of sincere conviction that that is the only way to handle it . Even his enemies concede that political expediency has counted little in Governor Fuller 's career . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expediency and conviction meet . It was pointed out here today that to pardon Sacco and Vanzetti would likely put an end to the Governor 's political future . He is reputed to be hopeful about being the successor to Ambassador Herrick . To send the men to the electric chair over the world-wide clamor for their liberation would evoke another blast of criticism against Massachusetts and its judicial procedure . Nevertheless , there are still those who are confident that the Governor will permit the death sentence to stand . These persons are of the opinion that the Governor 's advisory committee , consisting of President Lowell of Harvard , President Stratton of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and former Probate Judge Robert Grant , were unanimous in their recommendation of the death sentence . This afternoon other reports were just as positive that Presidents Lowell and Stratton favored leniency , Judge Grant dissenting . Eels Seen as Vanzetti Alibi . If Vanzetti is spared , he may owe his life to a barrel of eels . Governor Fuller saw members of the Defense Committee yesterday , and is understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sold eels on the day he was convicted of having taken part in the Bridgewater hold-up on Dec. 21 , 1919 , nobody had proved it . This morning Herbert B. Ehrma-nn , associate counsel for the defense , and Aldino Felicani of the Defense Committee combed the fish concerns on Atlantic Avenue , Boston , for record of a shipment of eels to Vanzetti . At the wholesale fish market of the Corso &; Gambino Company , 112 Atlantic Avenue , they searched through some boxes of old papers and found an American Railway Express receipt showing the purchase and dispatch of a barrel of eels to Vanzetti on Dec. 20 , 1919 . He is said to have received the eels two days later , prepared them for sale ( they are an Italian Christmas Eve delicacy ) , and sold them the day before Christmas , when be was alleged to have taken part in the hold-up in Bridgewater . The defense was jubilant and rushed the receipt to the Governor . Until this afternoon , the Defense Committee was discouraged over the prospect of continued life for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used . by the Chief Executive in investigating the case . The Governor heard witnesses often without counsel for either side being present . He called many witnesses who had not testified at the trial . The defense objected to this procedure as not likely to result in disclosure of the true facts , since the Governor was not a lawyer . One night he took home with him a copy of " The Rules of Evidence " and is assumed to have spent some time on it . Then again , the Governor 's method of suddenly turning on a witness and demanding , " What do you know about this case ? " was objected to as not the best way of obtaining the truth . Many witnesses left the Governor 's room quite puzzled by the character of their reception . District Attorney Seems Disturbed . Some of those fighting the battle for the two condemned radicals were inclined to criticize the Governor for not calling Fred H. Moore of California , who defended the men at the original trial at Dedham . He has been regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could point out many phases of the trial that would otherwise escape Governor Fuller . So far as is known the Governor did not ask for the files of the Department of Justice . This is a point that has been hammered again and again as the friends of Sacco and Vanzetti declare the files hold valuable material on the case . Half an hour after Governor Fuller arrived at the State House this morning , he sent for Dudley P. Ranney , Assistant District Attorney of Norfolk County . Governor Fuller was in his private office conferring with his personal counsel , Joseph Wiggin. when Mr. Ranney was ushered in . Mr. Ranney remained in the Governor 's office about forty minutes . As he came out of the inner office , he appeared very much agitated . He refused to tell the reporters what had transpired at the conference with the Governor , but said the latter had asked certain questions as to the State 's case . Mr. Ranney said he told the Governor he would like to take the rest of the day and asked for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had more witnesses . Mr. Ranney then left , but returned in about an hour and conferred with Mr. Wiggin . William H. Daly of Randolph , Mass. , a one-legged witness , was before the Governor for a half an hour . He refused to discuss his testimony , except to say that he had not testified at the trial of the two men at Dedham . Adolph J. Post , a civil engineer employed by the city of Boston , was another witness . He spent about fifteen minutes in the Governor 's private office , and told the reporters he had been called in to answer some purely technical questions . Governor Works on Decision at Night A cablegram for clemency from Chambery , France , reading , " Hope clemency , Underwood Johnson , former Ambassador , Italy , " was made public at the State House . This appeal is understood to be from Robert , Underwood Johnson , former edit* of the Century Magazine , who was Ambassador to Italy in 1920 and 1921 . For the first time in more than a week the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out soon after 1 P. M. and did not return until late in the afternoon . He remained in his office but a few minutes , and with a briefcase full of papers left for his hotel in Boston . It was said on his departure that Governor Fuller would probably be up most of the night drafting his decision . While the Governor was examining witnesses , William G. Thompson , chief of counsel for Sacco and Vanzetti , went to Charlestown , where he conferred with the prisoners for nearly two hours . On leaving the Cherry Hill section of the State Prison , Mr. Thompson said that Sacco , on the eighteenth day of his hunger strike , was growing perceptibly weaker . He said that Vanzetti had partaken of the regular prison fare . Mr. Thompson denied published reports that either of his clients had been placed in strait jackets or removed to padded cells . A tabloid newspaper in Boston had published a report that Sacco 's mind had given way and that he had to be put in a special cell to prevent self-destruction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston , his Summer home at Rye , N. H. , has been under guard for several days . Two State troopers are on constant duty there and strangers passing the place are carefully scrutinized . State troopers were also detailed today to guard the homes of Judge Thayer and of Chief Justice Arthur P. Rugg of the State Supreme Court in Worcester . News was received here that Luiggia Vanzetti , sister of Bartolomeo Vanzetti , left Turin , Italy , today for Boulogne , from where she sails tomorrow on the steamship Volendam for New York . The brother and sister have been corresponding since Vanzetti 's imprisonment . The young woman can not arrive In New York before Aug. 10 . She is coming to this country at the request of her brother and her cable to him here bade him be of good cheer . Friends of the condemned men are optimistic concerning the outcome of a new trial . They said there was little doubt , if a new trial is granted , that Sacco and Vanzetti will be set free . The Rev. Roland D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , announced today that at the next session he would initiate impeachment proceedings against Judge Thayer unless in the meantime the Judge successfully refuted charges made against him of bias in connection with the Sacco-Vanzetti case . Although the decision in the case is due in less than twenty-four hours , Sacco and Vanzetti sympathizers are still active in their work in behalf of the two radicals . They plan protest meetings in case the men are . kept in prison and celebration in the event they are set free .                     