@@689351

txt Under the supervision of the British and American Embassies the first foreign refugees left Tokio this Morning . They were taken to Yokohama by destroyers and there transferred to liners . /Others detained by business connecions have gone up the country or into the devastated areas in search of news of missing relatives , but there are still many foreigners in Tokio , uncertain what steps to take owing to ? the complete inability to foresee developments . It is now reported that the Government may remove temporarily to Kyoto . On the outskirts of Tokio a gruesome task is being discharged in the burning of heaps of dead , after saturation with kerosene . Food distribution to the natives continues in the face of difficulties . This morning green vegetables were added to the ration and the water supply is improving . There has been some trouble with the Koreans , but reports spread in the city were much exaggerated , causing needless alarm . The scare resulted in measures being taken by unauthorized persons against individuals , either In fact Japanese or entirely innocent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cairn , but gverY ' hour produces stories more harrowing than the last . All day anti half the night the streets are trodden by hungry , weary seekers for relatives . These carry small banners bearing the names of their missing friends , parents or children , or they cry out the names until their voices crack , in hope of awaking a response from among the famishing multitude . Night a Time of Terror . The night has special terror . Every rumor is then multiplied a hundredfold , but the endless procession goes on . Every pilgrim carries a Japanese paper lantern and staff , and in the vague grayness of the night the moving throng gives , the impression of a fantastic drama without words . Strong winds blow clouds of white , choking dust , and hundreds march with handkerchiefs tied over ? their faces . To many their destiny is an unanswered question . At present there are no definite plans for rebuilding Tokio . Salvage work will occupy a long period , giving opportunity to formulate wise schemes to prevent future catastrophes . Baron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . the Home Minister , and General Tanaka , the War Minister , are collaborating to reconstruct communications and transport . Electric light is available in places . A two weeks ' moratorium has been proclaimed . At least one outcome of the disaster is likely to be a movement toward a keener consciousness of individuals in the share of each in his country 's affairs , leading , possibly , later to a movement to secure expression for views now germinating . One of the worst horrors of the week of terror was in the Yoshiwara. district , where hundreds of people fleeing from the fire leaped into a pond , only to be scalded to death . Foreigners in Rags and Dirt . Shocks of a minor sort continue at intervals , and many people make their meals in the briefest time possible , fearing to be long under a roof . The days are spent in searching for the bodies of relatives in the ruins , discussing the possibility of a threatened typhoon , or watching pilgrims . Almost every hour news comes that this or , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a coast resort . living on charity , or otherwise . At night many Europeans still camp in hotel court yards or inside porches , whence they can easily reach a place of safety in case of another earthquake . In addition to the native lvting-ermarchers in the streets , many foreigners are seen pushing handcarts , carrying salved belongings to places of safety . In this and other strange occupations , clothes long unwashed grow dirtier and more ragged , but most of us n6w man , age to shave . Conversation , despite the best efforts , never gets far from the events of the last six days . With the waning excitement and titter strangeness of our present mode of life , nervous ennui is setting in , sharpening one common desire to get clear of a country subject to natural disturbances more terrifying than the worst horrors of War . Among the remaining foreigners outside of the embassy staffs are Mr. Denny of the Associated Press . Mr. Dubose of the United Press , Mr. Stock Johnson of The Philadelphia Public Ledger and myself . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last news from the outside world received here was that the Italians had occupied Corfu . I was engaged in writing an article on the Greco-Italian situation on the strength of that news on gaturday when the earthquake ended my journalistic activities for the time . Six hours later fire entirely demolished the street in which was my office . One of the hardships from which we suffer is the intense heat.which hinders rescue and salving operations . We look in stupor on all this activity . the amazing selflessness , indescribable , suffering and supreme efforts of the Japanese to " come back , " wondering - what may be the next calamity , but cheering Ourselves with reminiscences of happier days , in the faith that the present ? is so bad that the future must be better . Owners Stake Out Locations . The first sign of reconstruction in Tokio consists in the erection of notice boards on ' the sites of shops and dweuing by homeless hueksters or tenants . These are small white Planks ineeribed in Japanese characters , and are the only clean things visible in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a battlefield graircyard . ' Thousands of dead in the slum areas are yet unburied . A tour of the stricken area reveals the vagaries of the earthquake and fires . There are small , isolated areas , untouched in the Centre of the waste of burned-out factories , shops and houses , where only an occasional chimney stack or a crumbling - titan is the evidence of the busy life of a ' week . egoThe departure of . foreigners continues , but the feeling Is ' general that when rebuilding begins Much trade will be created . Hence some business men have removed only a short distance outside the city . The centre of foreign life is the Imperial Hotel . where three meals are served daily , thanks to Its large stock of food . The scene there resembles a barracks or a relief centre during the war . The men 's costumes are grotesque to a degree . and the average diner takes his onion soup while wearing the trousers he slept In for a week , and probably frith a borrowed shirt . The earthquakes continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : * driving many who had gone back to their houses into the open . The great event today has been the arrival of American relief , tinned goods , apples , flour and beans . These are sent to the- distributing centres by motor lorries and everybody gives a hand in unloading . Among the Japanese the poorest - .. - talesman of foodstuffs from the country never attempts to profiteer . Indeed , it 1 mig-ht be said that the street corner salesmen in this calamity are giving a lesson to the merchants of the world . We are greatly cheered these days by the sight of British and American naval uniforms in the city . We are now threatened with a typhoon to add to our misfortunes . Normal Life Forgotten . This message is being written on the 1 porch of- the - Imperial Hotel , the common haven of foreigners . A tropical sun shines from a cloudless sky , and 1 all about toe are cars requisitioned for relief . Lorries are bringing stores and piles of baggage a*aiting transport . Just inside the building are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreigners . hang about , some in Bond Street attire , some in a variety of borrowed clothes . In a cloud of white dust , which never leaves the main street , homeless wanderers pass in crowds , seeking what aid they can find or seeking a habitation in the country . Ambulances and medical corps motors thread their way through the pilgrims . A few ricksha men do sonic business . Lorries rumble by , . packed with soldiers going to their posts . It seems as if Tokio had ever been thus . Normal life is a dream , peen through the red haze of fire . Yokohama stinks to heaven , a dreadful pyre , and there the foreign death roll is theheaviesL I make a daily journey to my house to ascertain if all there is well , and I am inevitably greeted with the utmost cheeriness by servants who , typical of their race , never blench . The Japanese servants in this crisis have made no difference in their treatment of the native and foreign employers . Many saved their einplOyers ' belongings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We ask ourselves , what will be the political outeothe of this catastrophe ? One can see the end for many years of emigration and naval questions , partly . on account of the depopulation and financial loss , partly because it is inevitable that Japan must concentrate for years on her reconstruction. , requiring foreign capital to support it . Singapore . Where the naval base contention has been a red rag to some extremists . has sent some welcome relisf , as also has Australia .                     