@@696893

txt The Court of Appeals heard arguments and read briefs for two hours today on the appeal from the Chancery ' Court 's decision freeing Mayor Hague of Jersey City from a charge of contempt of the State Legislature . The contempt proceedings were based on the Mayor 's refusal to answer ten questions regarding the source of his wealth . Russell Watson argued for the IRgizle.ture and former Vice Chancellor Merritt Lane for Mayor Hague . They were ordered at the end of the hearing to submit additional briefs by next Thursday while the case Is under consideration . In demanding that Mayor Hague be remanded " in the interest of honest and efficient government , " Mr. Watson cited the Sinclair case . He argued that a public official can not claim the same immunity from legislative interrogation that would be accorded to a private citizen . The outstanding arguments of Mr. Lane were that . the legislative investiga : n was for political purposes " tiorn beginning to end " ; and that the Legislature , in seeking information concerning the commission of an alleged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand jury . Mr. Watson admitted that the legislative committee investigating affairs in Hudson County had adduced no evidence to prove that Mayor Hague had profited personally from certain municipal transactions . Chief Justice Gummere interrupted to ask Mr. Watson if the ten questions contemplated by the Legislature were intended to get Mayor Hague to say that he was guilty of corruption . Counsel answered that . the questions would have aided in bringing about " remedial legislation . " Justice Questions Watson . " What do you mean , remedial legislation ? " asked the Chief . Justice . " Were you trying to get him to tell you that he had been guilty of corruption in taking these moneys ; that the crux of the investigation had been to ascertain if Mayor Hague and others had corrupt ly applied the funds of Hudson County and of Jersey City ? " " I did n't mean to say that , " said Mr. Watson , " hut if the committee knew how he had profited the Legislature would then know how to legislate properly . " I come back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If Mayer Hague and his associates had mif:appropriated several hundred thousand dollars would you want them to go on and tell something which might . result in his being put in the electric chair , perhaps ? " " Oh . no . " " Then where would you stop ? " " The Legislature was not a. prosecuting agency , " replied Mr. Watson . He started to rite the Sinclair case , for the fifth time , but the court interrupted . ' Holds Sinclair Case Not Pertinent .. The brief submitted by counsel for Mayor Hague maintained that Mr. Watson 's reference to the Sinclair case was without point since Mr Sinclair was convicted of a crime ; that the questions asked of Mr. Sinclair did not merely concern his private affairs , but had to do with questions concerning valuable government lands . Mr. Lane argued that the Hague ease now involves a moot question . He held that the resolution . of the Legislature provided only for the arrest of Mayor Hague and his incarceration until he should show willingness to answer questions put to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this session adjourned sine die and , therefore . if the arrest should be upheld by the Court of Errors . the present Legislature , its joint session ended , would have no power to arrest him . On this ground Mr. Lane asked for dismissal of the case . His opponent asked for time to answer the dismissal argument and was ordered to submit his brief by next Thursday . The Court was reduced to twelve members for the hearing . Judge John White was ill , Judge Clarence Case and Judge Joseph A. Dear withdrew because they were connected with the inquiry into Hudson County affairs and Chancellor E. R. Walker was ineligible because the appeal was from a decision of his court .                     