@@687833

txt Declaring that the American people are facing a critical ettuation , Matthew Well , a vice president of the American Federation of Labor , today on the convention floor read the report of . the special committee appointed to invent ' . gate recent United MATZO Supreme court deciaions affecting labor cases . The report recommended four amendments to the constitution and three laws . : Ono of the latter is the repeal of theDherman anti-trust law . The report ' declares that the very existence of the American people as a democracy is at stake and asserts that a judicial oligarchy is threatening to set itself above the elected legislators and above the people themselves . War Apathy Gets Blame . " Profiting by unsettled conditions of the country and the political apathy of the people which followed upon the conclusion of the world war , " the report continues , " forces of privilege and reaction have embarked upors .. a concerted and determined campaign to deprive the citizens of their constitutional liberties , to break down the standards of life which the American workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to emasculate or destroy their most effective weapon of resistance and defense  --  labor unions . " The four amendments to the constitution recommended in the special committee 's report are , in brief , an follows : An amendment prohibiting the labor of children under 16 and conferring on congress the power to raise the minimum age . Weapon for Union Labor . An amendment prohibiting the enactment of any law , or the making of judicial determination which would deny the right of workers to organize , to deal collectively with employers , to collectively withhold their labor and patronage and induce others to do so . An amendment providing that if the Supreme court decides that an act of &Ingres,"; Is unconstitutional , or by interpretation asserts a public policy at variance with the statutory declaration of congress , then if congress by a two-thirds majority repasdes , the law it shall become the law of lihe land . To make the constitution ! more flexible to meet the needs of the People , an amendment providing for easier amendments of tile same . - The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A child labor law to overcome objections raised by the Supreme court to previous laws . B. A law which will make more definite and effective the intention of congress in enacting sections 13 .. 197. and 20 of the Clayton act , overridden by the court .                     