@@684829

txt FOR TRADE WITH BRITAIN . A Chamber of Commerce Organized to Promote Business . To the Editor of The New York Times : The seas of humanity are in turmoil , the currents of international commerce and finance are subverted and turned from their normal channels . It should be the inspired duty of all honorable men and of all high principled institutions to bend ' their whole energy and to use their whole endeavor to the end that once again the fair trade winds of understanding and agreement may smooth the tempestuous waters that rage around us . The war made the allied nations comrades on the field of battle . Let peace be crowned by a continuance of such comradeship , and tile splendid sacrifice of those that died for us , will not have been In vain , and we may proudly and reverently walk between the rows of crosses that cover the poppy fields of Flanders prepared to hold high the torch sacredly intrusted to our hands . The heart of every nation , be it a republic or a monarchy , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which flows to the extremities of the body politic is commerce , not national , but international ; stop this ' and the veins and arteries will become hardened and the limbs atrophied . Institutions which make for the better and clearer . understanding between nations of their respective trade usages and methods are most powerful instruments for the promotion and preserving of international , accord . American Chambers of Commerce in London and Paris and other European capitals have for many years efficiently aided the nations in which they are domiciled . The rapidly increasing interest of American producers and manufacturers in export matters and foreign commerce generally would indicate the urgent necessity of the establishment of foreign Chambers of Commerce in the Uniteci States , these institutions affording to all interested expert and authoritative advice on all questions belonging to the trade conditions of the countries they represent . There has been recently incorporated in New York the British Chamber of Commerce in the United States . Tile li chief purpose of this Chamber , as I described in its charter , is to facilitate trade between the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has taken offices at 295 Broadway , until more adequate quiirters can be obtained . All inquiries as to the scope of the work to be undertaken by the Chamber or as to qualifications for membership are most cordially Invited . A. WALPOLE CRAIGIE , Vice President British Chamber of Commerce in the United States . New York , Dee . 30 , 1919 . Colonel Robins . To the Editor of The Nett , York ' limes : In your issue of Dec. 29 , Mr. W. P. Merrill rushes to the defense of Colonel Robins 's loyalty and tells of one instance where the Colonel made " the strongest , most brilliant and most fervent defense of American institutions that he Merrill ) had ever heard . " Do n't doubt it . Colonel Robins can always be relied upon to make a " fervent " speech whenever occasion requires . But ' , Colonel Robing , like every one else , Must he jtidged by his acts , rather than by his words . And his acts while in Russia as head of the Red Cross Society show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was there . Lenin and Trotzky thought so much of him that they wanted him for American Ambassador in place of Governor Francis . Robins knew that the Bolshevist peace with Ger-many might imperil the success of the Allies . Including his own country , yet he sided . with Lenin and Trotzky to the very last . Such conduct can not be palliated by " fervent " speeches on Americanism . The war period was the time to show one 's Americanism , and Colonel Robins showed his Americanism in such a way as to make Republicans ashamed to have him selected for any responalble position In the party of Lincoln and Roosevelt . W. H. ALLEN . Brooklyn . N. Y. , Dec. 29 , 1919.                     