@@695705

txt The PanAmerican Conference on Conciliation and Arbitration today formally offered its good offices to Bolivia and Paraguay in an effort to settle the boundary dispute between the two nations that holds out a threat . of war in South America . This action was taken through the adoption of a resolution submitted with the report of the special committee appointed to report on appropriate action which the conference might take in the matter . Diplomats here appeared encouraged by today 's meeting and the conciliatory attitude of Paraguay , and cited the adage that " It takes two to make a fight . " The issue now , they feel , is between world public opinion , which desires to see war averted , and public opinion in Bolivia , which is still running high and still demands " moral reparation " by Paraguay . The great hope is that no further armed clash will occur on the distant border of the two countries before national resentments begin to die down sufficiently to allow reason to hold sway and pave the way for such good offices as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sends Message . The text of the committee report and the resolution have been forwarded by Secretary Kellogg , chairman of the conference , in identical notes addressed to Thomas Manuel Elio , Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bolivia , and Jeronimo Zubizarreta , Minister of Foreign Affairs of Paraguay . Secretary Kellogg 's message read as follows : " I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency the following report of-the speciaLcommission of the conference together with a resolution , both- unanimously adopted by the International Conference of American States on Conciliation and Arbitration , with the exception of Paraguay , which refrained from voting , and Bolivia , whose representative was not present . " Text of Committee Report . The committee report read as follows : " The committee charged With reporting to the conference on the conciliatory action that may be appropriate with respect to the incident between the republics of Bolivia and Paraguay . after being Informed of the replies received from both nations to the cable message sent by ' the chairman of this Conference on Conciliation and Arbitration , considers that the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course which should be followed . " Nevertheless , the committee deems it to be its duty to suggest to the conference a concrete proposal to the end that the principles of conciliation and arbitration in support of which it was convened may find their most sincere and their friendliest application in this case . " In accordance with American tradition , in ' general , as shown by the antecedent expressions of hope , and Pan-American resolutions , and also in conformity ' with the measures adopted during the last years for the maintenance of world peace , the Con. ference may take a prudent and effective course with the assurance of general approval of its endeavor . " The friendly proceedings of , assembly of sister republics ust find favorable echo and most Synipa. thetic reception , especially in the spirit of . the nations directly interested in the incident . Those proceedings show the degree of solidari- ty and affection by which the other countries of the hemisphere feel bound to them . " Animated by these sentiments , and without assuming any political attitude beyond the appropriate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly the conference proffer its good offices to the interested parties for the purpose of promoting suitable conciliatory measures with the aim of preserving the principle of conciliation and arbitration as a solid foundation of in-. ternational life . " Text of the Resolution . The resolution reads as follows : " The conference resolves : " 1 . To proffer its good offices- to the interested parties for the purpose of promoting suitable conciliatory measures , with the aim of preserving the principle of conciliation and arbitration as a solid foundation of international life . " 2 . To continue the special committee charged with considering and reporting to the conference on the developments which may take place in the incident between the Republics of Bolivia and Paraguay . " The report . and resolution submitted by the committee constituted the only business before the conference at today 's session . In presenting them Dr. Victor M. Maurtua of Peru , chairman of the Committee of Five , declared that the committee had been working intensively - to carry out the purpose of the conference , and that the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its members . ? All delegates to the conference were present at today 's session with the exception of the Bolivian Minister , Senor Don Eduardo Diez de Medina . While his government had authorized him to participate in the work of the conference , he announced at the legation this morning that he had received no instructions regarding participation in the work of the special committee , and therefore did not feel ? at liberty to attend a plenary session of the conference called for the specific purpose of considering a report of this committee . Dr. Eligio Ayala , Paraguayan delegate , was present , but did not vote on the resolution for lack of insti uctions from his Foreign Office . " . When Z left my country , " he said , " there was not even the slightest idea that this incident would occur . Consequently , up to this moment I have no knowledge of the activities of the Foreign Office of my country , and I would not wish to interfere with any agreements or tenders concerning this incident . Therefore , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , I beg this assembly to excuse me from casting my vote in favor of this positive procedure which has just been voted . " I desire to confine myself to reiterating my heartfelt thanks for the lofty and exalted ideals which have been manifested by the conference and which are also mine as well as those of my country . " Delegates Hopeful of Outcome . It is the general feeling of the delegates that the moral pressure Which the conference can exert can be of real effect , especially in view of the communication received yesterday from Argentina stating that that country would " welcome " such steps . Argentina is the only Latin-American nation absent from the sessions here , but her willingness to have it offer its good offices in conciliating the dispute between her two neighbor republics is considered as equivalent to a vote cast by a delegate here , had she sent one , and makes the action of the American republics unanimous in the endeavor to avert hostilities . As both Brazil and Chile are present at the conference and both represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B C powers are thus in direct touch with the situation . The fact ' that no further communications had come from Asuncion to Senor Juan V. Ramirez , Charge d'Affaires of Paraguay , was regarded by that official as a hopeful sign . " This is a case where no news is good news , " he said today . Both Senor Ramirez and Dr. Ayala reiterated that Paraguay does not want war and stated that memories of the terrible conflict of 1867-1870 , when the Paraguayan nation was all but exterminated , would lead them to make every effort to submit the present conflict to peaceful settlement .                     