@@695972

txt Under the circumstances they point out that the ? outlook is for continued firm money , and case in the situation can only come through either a collapse of security prices or a drastic decline in business . Neither one of these developments of an unfavorable nature is expected by these bankers Precedent Complaints are heard that the expected hulloh demonstration in connection with the mau1 guration of President Hoover ended even be ; fore it really got started . However , the action of the market in recent days is not without precedent . In 1925. after the inauguration of President Coolidge. there was a sharp break in ; the stock market , and the market also turned weak for a time when the late President Harding had been inducted into office in 1921 . Because of this many of the old timers sold their long stocks late last week prior to the latest inauguration ceremonies . Prices va . Earnings I A recent compilation covering a large group of stocks listed on the New . York Stock , Ex , change showed that 92 ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group were selling for more than ten times their 192S earnings a share ; that 773. were at more than 12 times earnings ? that 5 , S 5 ' , were at more than 15 tames and that 10 , a- were selling ra between 20 and 25 times their earnings . In the opinion of many this indicates that the average price level is high and this has caused observers recently to continue keeping customers out of the market . More Selective Market It is probable that when the market again turns definitely upward the advance will not be as general as it has been many times during the past few months . For that reason it is believed greater care should be exercised in making buying commitments . because the market is likely to be a selective affair for some time . Stocks with a good background of earnings and with prospects of continued favorable revenues or increased dividends are likely to be most favored and should be given first consideration . erproduction Fears Certain economists seek to show that present ; steel production is close to buying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the automotive industry , and the point is made that there is no shortage of cars this year , with used automobiles accumulating rapidly . Another factor mentioned is that the spring boom , which came early this year , might mean a considerable lowering of activity in various lines in the third quarter of the year , as the operations in many dii ections for the second three months arc already la ell provided for . As a matter of fact there is a normal drop in activities in the third quarter in each year . so that such a development would not be unusual in 1929 . It is evident that leaders of industry are not anxious over possible overproduction , because thus far the outputs in most lines have been taken readily by ultimate consumers . Machine Tool Activity Current situation in the machine tool industry is looked upon as favorable because sustained business activity in this field in the past has preceded industrial expansion on many occasions . Railroad machine shops and airplane plants have been doing considerable buying in this branch of trade . Rails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern to acquire several subsidiary lines can be taken to indicate a more favorable disposition on the part of this federal body toward the carriefs . It may be a forerunner of other favorable actions by the commission on applications now pending before it . Car Loadings Freight loadings for the week ended February 23 again showed a large gain over the corresponding week a year ago , the increase being 37,930 cars , of which 30,000 represented improvement in coal movement . A decrease of 50.714 was shown as compared with the preceding week , but this was due to the observance of Washington 's birthday . Chrysler The work for higher prices for Chrysler , which was undertaken about a week ago by several important i , arket operators , was halted by the reactionary trend in the past few days , but houses which have acted for the new interests in the stock are insisting that the operation has not been completed .                     