@@690771

txt The charge that the Republicans are getting together a huge slush fund to " buy " the Presidency is strongly resented by The Herald Tribune . It eloquently and at length describes the work of the national committees of all parties as being an endeavor , rather , to " sell " the Presidency . What this means is that money must be expended to induce the voters to choose one or another President , just as it is used to prevail upon them to buy one or another kind of chewing gum , soap , motor car or radio set . Thus the labors of politicians are Identified with those of advertisers . Chairman - I3nrLER is only another name for WILLIAM WRIGLEY , Chairman SHAVER Is merely doing , or wishing that he could do , what IIENKT FORD does in getting his wares before the public , and the La Follette Chairman , Mr. NELSON , proceeds just as if he were the manufacturer of a famous soup . It is to be feared that some oldfashioned and fastidious Americans will not think that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dignity of a Presidential ekelion . They will not like the comparison of a Presidential candidate to a man going about the country selling razors . It may be true that this campaign has been at least on the surface apathetic , and that , it is necessary to take steps to rouse the interest of the voters . But it does not follow that they can be roused only by way of assault through glaring advertisements and noisy political " barkers . " Some other excuse must be found for raising a large campaign fund than its analogy with the advertising expenditure necessary In order to make large sales of talcum , powder and talking machines . The analogy , besides being sordid and a little degrading , is not at all complete . No doubt , outlay for " publicity " appears in all campaign ' accounts . But that is only a fraction of the whole . What has in the past made the people suspicious of swollen - campaign funds Is the belief that , in addition to legitimate but wasteful and ineffEctive advertising , vast sums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not bear the light of day . To press the noble advertising simile of The Herald Tribune , it is as if bribes and conunissions were secretly paid so as to get orders which otherwise could not be obtained . This is the suspicion which the Republican Party , as the party of rich men , has fallen under in days gone by . A , gainst .. it every precaution in the way of accurate and public accounts , and carefully controlled expenditures , must be taken . No pasty can escape public Condemnation , if it seeks to exculpate itself for spending too great sums of money In a campaign , by the plea that it was only doing what big advertisers do . If the latter " sell " something , it is not concealed that somebody " buys " it . It is not agreeable to have either word used of the Presidency of the United States .                     