@@693539

txt To President Coolidge 's suggestion that at Geneva during the coming months there should be framed a particular agreement among the five great naval powers limiting their forces for the future , France will reply tomorrow that she prefers to seek , in association with the fifty-odd other countries which are members of the League of Nations , a general agreement on how armaments can best be limited , rather than to join in any local agreement with a country which remains outside and critical of that association . This reply was framed by Foreign Minister Briand today , will be considered by the Cabinet tomorrow and may be delivered in Washington tomorrow afternoon . In sending it thus expeditiously the French have no other intention that to show their interest in the motives behind the President 's suggestion , as set forth in his message and in the note delivered here last Thursday . Their reply has been also more easily and more expeditiously framed because they have not takers Into consideration their own particular case . They have no conditions to attach to a possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such be done they will be disposed to consider the matter . Their reply is based on general considerations and principles , without reference to their particular interests , and is made as that of the spokesman for a majority of the members of the League of Nations Preparatory Commission on Disarmament , who are in agreement that consideration of the arms problem must be taken as a whole and not separately either by arms or by countries . League the Great Peace Factor . Minister Briand 's note will therefore be in effect a direct presentation of the League of Nations as the great pacific factor in the world , in opposition to Washington 's attempt to appear in that rdle . Articles VIII and IX of the League Covenant , to which he will draw President Coolidge 's attention , lay it down clearly that one of the obligations which League membership entails is recognition of the fact that the maintenance of peace requires the reduction of national armaments to the lowest point consistent with national safety . The Council of the League undertakes through a permanent commission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the geographic situation and circumstances of each State . That is what is being done now at Geneva , and to depart from that procedure to make a local agreement including only five powers , of which only two are Continental European powers , would be , in the French opinion , to do a direct injury to the League and prejudice its whole case for the future . It may be argued against that that the Locarno and other local agreements have been made by League members . But in these cases the contracting powers were League members in the first place , and only local and not world interests were involved . To France the League of Nations Is too vital for her to run any risk of in- juring its strength and prestige through deference to White House opinion of how disarmament should . be begun . Many Practical Objections . To the President 's suggestion there are innumerable practical objections . Of these the most apparent is the foolishness of France in limiting her program of auxiliary ships while all her immediate neighbors and those of Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Washington accord . Spain has kept her full liberty , and so has Holland , and in times gone by these were great naval powers . Greece is a maritime enuntry , and Russia a very few years ago had a Black Sea fleet which caused many times no little uneasiness in the Mediterranean . These practical arguments . however , Mr. Briand haslet aside in his reply . He makes only two main points : First , that the League of Nations is already engaged in a most serious study of the whole problem and that when the principles on which disarmament can be based have been. , established special agreements between powers such as that Mr. Coolidge has proposed may be realizable . Second , that in the French view and that of a majority of the members of the League the disarmament problem must be studied as a whole , without differentiation between land , sea and air forces . To that he adds that ? it is the opinion of the French Government that security for France and for all other countries can lie only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they are members . Washington 's role as peacemaker must come second , 111'feet , as . one of others who are willing ? to sign- with other nations , little . and. - big . . a --  ; general agreement and not ; only the : kind of agreement particularly- faVorabla ? to American interests , .                     