@@688436

txt Have you seen Reginald Denny in the first picture of the new series of " The Leather Pushers " ? If not , I wish you would . It 's really remarkably worth anybody 's time and money. , I never knew I was a prize light fan , . but Mr. Denny and . those with him in this fight series are rapidly making a new woman of me . H. C. Witwer , who wrote the old series , is responsible for the new and , as the sporting editor would say , he pulls some clever stuff . He takes his beautiful society prize fighter over to London and introduces him to a lovely bun ' thatleads him Into a lot of trouble just a couple of nights before a big battle . ' The oddsare all against him . Whether he wins or loses , this depart ! ment ' refuses to say , thinking you should see the film . Each installment of the series is a complete story in it self , so if you miss ' one do n't be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comedies , saw Bobby Vernon in " Choose YOur . Weapons " and : . enjoyed myself considerably . Mr. Vernon is such a plump , engaging . young gentleman . He is quick on his feet . He- knows the value of a smile . He is usually pretty lucky in the stories written for him . " Choose Your Weapons " is swift and funny and preposterous and , by ' the way , quite expensively staged and costumed . THEN , still harping on the subject of laugh getters  --  there 's Felix , the black cat , turned out by the Pat Sullivan studios . Many people get more downright joy out at Felix than they do out of Charlie Chaplin . The latest Felix funny is being shown at the Chicago this week and is , causing quite a riot . There area lot of people making a lot of-comedies . Most of them ought to be ashamed of themselves and the junk they turn out . Occasionally , though , a lucky strike comes across , and heaven knows it ought to be boomed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was pretty much bruised in. a fistic fight staged for " The Knight in Gale . " The story is by H. C. Witwer . Zero and Arctic , a team of trained Alaska huskies , said to he valued at $3,000 , will be sent to Hollywood to be used . in a picture soon to be filmed called " Baldy of Nome . " " The Rustle of Silk " - will be rola Negri 's next picture . It will be an adaptation from a novel of the same name . The Women 's Overseas Service league will hold its monthly meeting tonight at the Drake . Plans will be discussed for Christmas gifts and entertainment for the disabled men in the hospitals of Chicago , for which purpose the members of , the league and the Forty and Eight gave " , A Night in Paris " on Dec. 2.                     