@@694445

txt The first definite casting of a candidatorial hat into the Republican Presidential ring came today when Charles Curtis of Kansas , majority leader of the Senate , announced his candidacy for his party 's highest honor . None of the other party aspirants for next year 's nomination has taken such a definite stand . Even former Governor Frank 0 . Lowden of Illinois , sponsored by Westerners who espouse the bill , has not gone further than to say that " no man ever ran away from the Presidency , " while Senator Frank B. Willis of Ohio has indicated merely that the public could draw its own conclusions from a statement he issued last week giving his views as to what the Republican national platform should contain . The Curtis announcement , made in the form . of a letter giving permission to circulate petitions in favor of nominating the Senator for President and for the organization of Curtis-for-President clubs , has a double interest and importance . As Republican leader of the Senate , Mr. Curtis occupies a strong position , one that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the event of a deadlock in the national convention . Convinced That Coolidge Is Out . Of more immediate interest and importance is the fact that Senator Curtis 's announcement means that he is at last convinced that there is not- the slightest likelihood that President Coolidge will be renominated . Mr. Curtis has been one of the most ardent advocates of putting Mr. Coolidge forward for . another term , and he hesitated a lying time before reaching the conclusion , based on intimate means of obtaining information , that the President had taken himself entirely out of it by his " I do not choose to run " declaration of Aug. 2 . Mr. Curtis has been so much in the background as a Presidential possibility that his friends  --  and they are many  --  have not regarded seriously the talk that has been going the rounds for the last couple of months that he might get into the contest for the nomination , but there appears to be no doubt that Mr. Curtis is in deadly earnest . An astute politician , he . is credited with believing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has as good a chance as anybody else to be named as the Presidential candidate , a gambling chance , but nevertheless one worth taking . It is not overlooked by some of those who are impressed by the point of view attributed to Senator Curtis , that when Warren G. Harding was picked for the Presidential nomination in a smoke-filled room in a Chicago hotel at 2 o'clock on a June morning in the course of the Republican National Convention of 1920 , the Harding stock had been at a low ebb , his chances of obtaining the nomination being looked upon as negligible . Checked Movement in August . The Curtis-for-President movement was started in Kansas in August and was immediately checked by Senator Curtis . It was evident that he still clung to the hope that President Coolidge , in spite of his statement of Aug. 2 , had not been eliminated as a candidate . Mr. Curtis desired time to satisfy himself whether his hope was justified . He issued a public statement , in which he made it plain that if he should permit himself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow himself to be used as a " stalking horse " for any other aspirant . In the letter given out by him today , in which he consented to be brought into the contest , he repeated that expression . He does not choose that his support in the national convention shall be used as a cover for the candidacy of anybody else . While the generality of opinion among political observers is said to accord Mr. Curtis little , if any , show for the nomination , it is not to be overlooked that he has a party standing and other attributes which will give strength to his cause . As leader of the Senate he occupies a position of honor and influence that has impressed party leaders . While he voted for the bill and the Soldiers ' Bonus bill , measures vetoed by President Coolidge , he is in the Administration 's good graces and one of the foremost supporters of the Coolidge policies . He has fought many battles in behalf of Mr. Coolidge 's recommendations to Congress , and altogether has been regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration . That he is a Western man is an asset in view of the movement to nominate for President a Westerner " familiar with Western problems . " Popular in Washington . Mr. Curtis has the advantage of possessing an agreeable personality , which makes him popular in the Senate and in Washington society . A picturesqueness attaches to him because he is part Indian and is an elected Chief of the Kaw Tribe . He has had a varied career , which included experience as a cowboy and as a horse-racing jockey in his youth . Although he was 67 years of age in January , be has a sprightliness and an appearance of vigor that belie his years . There has been some reason to believe that Senator Curtis really had his eye on the Vice Presidency . That is the view of certain Republican politicians in Kansas , who figured that Mr. Curtis wanted to see President Coolidge renominated in the hope that a man from the Western prairies would be chosen as his running mate . When President Coolidge returned to Washington from his long vacation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his first visitors . Nothing has come to light to indicate whether on that occasion the Kansas Senator learned at first hand if there was any possibility that Mr. Coolidge would consent to be his party 's candidate again . The impression existed that Mr. Curtis got no more information on that score than an r of the others conspicuous in the Republican Party who desired more definite information than they were able to glean from " I do not choose to run . " At any rate , Senator Curtis 's announcement of candidacy today is taken to mean that he has become convinced that the President will not be renominated . The understanding is that Mr. Curtis found in the President 's rebuke of Senator Fess of Ohio for persisting in stating publicly that Mr. Coolidge would be renominated the final evidence that Mr. Coolidge had definitely eliminated himself from consideration for another term in the White House . Mrs. Curtis was in great humor today when he gave to newspaper men copies of his letter agreeing to ? Harris &; Ewing . SENATOR CHARLES CURTIS OF KANSAS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his friends work for his nomination for President . He declined to discuss his candidacy , however . When he was asked what his platform of principles was , he said , with a laugh : " My record of thirty-four years hi Congress shows my platform . " He was beset by news photographers and escaped further questioning by interviewers by walking laughingly out of his office , with the announcement , " I 'm just going out to have my picture taken . " Senator Curtis spent last week-end with President Coolidge on the Mayflower . There were other guests , one of them a Democratic Senator , Ashurst of Arizona . If Mr. Coolidge confided to Mr. Curtis in their companionship on the Potomac River from Saturday afternoon until Monday morning that he would not consent to be drafted for renomination , nothing is known to give color to any such impression . Text of the Curtis Letter . The letter of Senator Curtis in which he consents to be brought forward for the Presidential nomination read : Washington , Oct. 26 , 1927 . My Dear Bone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the action of my friends in Kansas in organizing a State-wide " Curtis-for-President " Club , of the organization of similar clubs in various counties of the State and of the circulation of petitions asking me to allow my name to be used as a candidate for the Presidency . Kansas has honored me by electing me to office under every National Administration since 1892 , and the present proposal is a still more signal honor . Having served in the House and Senate for more than thirty-three years , I know the great responsibility of the Presidency and the arduous duties of the office . Nevertheless , if my friends of Kansas desire to send a delegation t. , the next Republican National Convention favorable to my nomination , I shall be greatly pleased to be their candidate . However , I will not consent to become a candidate if the delegation is to be selected with a view of voting for me for a few ballots as a " favorite son . " As I stated when the question was first put to me , I will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for any one . Even to be considered for the Presidency is a great honor . I assure you the action of my friends in Kansas is apreciated , and I am deeply grateful to each and every one of them . With kindest regards , I am , Faithfully yours , CHARLES CURTIS . Roy L. Bone , State House , Topeka , Kan . " I like the way Senator Curtis announced his candidacy , " said Senator Hartlet Waterman of Colorado , an old friend of President Coolidge . " In view of his announcement , I think it is a good time for the leading Republican spirits of the Middle Western States , who have many interests in common , to stop , look and listen . "                     