@@692138

txt Captain Paul Foley was today relieved at his own request by Secretary of the Navy Wilbur as Judge Advocate of the court appointed to inquire into the wreck of the dirigible Shenandoah . Captain Foley , who is technical aid to Secretary Wilbur , took the position that his withdrawal from the court would be appropriate in view of the testimony given before the Mitchell court-martial by , Mrs. Zachary Lansdowne that he had I tried to induce her to falsify at Shenandoah inquiry . Prompt action was taken by Secretary Wilbur upon the request of Captain Foley . The word " granted . ' was written on the Captain 's letter , followed by Secretary Wilbur 's 814-nature . When the Shenandoah court reassembles Monday , Major Henry Leonard . Marine Corps , retired , will appear as Judge Advocate in succession to Captain Foley . Major Leonard was detailed for this assignment under an order issued by Secretary Wilbur today . Captain Foley is now free to testify in reply to Mrs. Lansdowne , and it is expected that he will take the stand early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where he is expected to face Mrs. Lansdowne , also called as a witness . Captain Foley asked yesterday to be heard by the Mitchell judges , but his testimony was deferred to some future time at the request of the defense . Foley 's Letter to Wilbur . In his letter asking to be relieved of duty as Judge Advocate before the Shenandoah court , Captain Foley stated that Mrs. Lansdowne 's charges placed him in the light of " an interested party , " and that inasmuch as he desired to appear as witness in his own defense the way should be cleared for such action on his part by the assignment of another to the post of Judge Advocate . Captain Foley made no Comment on the merits of the testimony given by Mrs. Lansdowne beyond that contained in his statement that he be allowed to appear as a witness to refute it . His letter follows : From Captain Paul Foley , United States Navy . To Secretary of the Navy . Subject : Shenandoah Court of Inquiry . Request to be relieved of duty as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mrs. Zachary Lansdowne , widow of the late Lieut . Commander Zachary Lansdowne , United States Navy , testified in the general court-martial proceedings against Colonel William Mitchell , United otates Army , that I , as Judge Advocate of the court of the inquiry to investigate the loss of the Shenandoah , had attempted to induce her to give false testimony before the Shenandoah court . 2 . On Nov. 13 I presented myself before the general court-martial . above referred to , and requested that as a matter of personal privilege and in the interest of public and private jusc.ms I be allowed to appear at once as a witness before that court to contravene the testimony given by Mrs. Lansdowne . My request , supported by the Judge Advocate of the court , was objected to by Mr. Reid , crAmsel for the defense , and the objection was sustained . I was not permitted to testify . 3 . I now request to be relieved from duty as Judge Advocate of the Shenandoah court to permit this court . to proceed in its own way and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new phase of the inquiry and in order also that I may be in a position to be called before that court as an interested party , should the court deem it advisable . PAUL FOLEY . Fight Shifts to Dirigible Rearing . Some military officials show uneasiness over recent developments before the Mitchell court-martial . They particularly deprecate the issue injected Into the case by Mrs. Lansdowne 's testimony , fearing that sympathy for the bereaved widow may prompt the public to give undue weight to her testimony . With the Mitchell trial at a recess until*esday interest in the fight over the ernment'a - aviation policy will shift on Monday to the open session of the Shenandoah court . Mrs. Lansdowne is expected to repeat to the naval investigators the charges she made against Captain Foley before the Mitchell court . The showdown between Mrs. Lansdowne and Captain Foley is expected to develop into a battle of memories in respect to the contents of the paper that the widow asserts she was asked to sign . According to Mrs. Lansdowne , the paper was handed to her by Mrs. George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lakehurst Air Station . Mrs. Steele later will be called to give her version of the incident . Foley to Deny Undue Influence . Captain Foley 's testimony before the Shenandoah court , it was said today , will be to the effect that Mrs. Lansdowne 's memory is at fault , and that the statemeitt submitted to her was prepared to relieve her of the ordeal of testifying extemporaneously and was merely an exposition of her views on the questions in controversy , as previously outlined by her to Captain Foley . Captain Foley will take the position that , as Judge Advocate of the Court sworn to adduce facts for consideration by the investigators , he called upon Mrs. Lansdowne in the performance or his duties , solely with the idea of as . Suring an orderly presentation of evidence and with no thought at all of influencing the witness 's testimony . Major Leonard , the new Judge Advocate of the Shenandoah court , was appointed to the services from civil life in 1899 . He had previously served as an officer of the Marine Corps during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in China in 1900 . In July of that year he was shot in the arm while storming the walled city of Tientsin , the wound rendering amputation necessary . In 1908 he was decorated with the Order of the Double Dragon by the Emperor of China . During the World War Major Leonard was recalled to active duty and served in the- office of t judge Advocate General of the No st                     