@@694033

txt At last the Republican Party of New Jersey has broken away from the Anti-Saloon League . Three Democratic Governors and a Democratic Senator are trophies enough of submission ; and the example of New York and the result of the liquor referendums there and in Montana , Nevada , Wisconsin and Illinois last Fall have been taken to heart by the " leaders " in the Jerseys . So the New Jersey Republican Convention passed by 47 to 37 substantially the Root proposal of 1926 , with a few softening words tagged on at the end to comfort or cajole the Drys . It is a pleasure to know that Senator EDGE and former Governor STOKES , Mr. HAMILTON KEAN and " JOE " FRELINGHUYSEN ? the last no longer hampered by a beforethe-war cellar  --  have been able to get together . " We had a love feast , " said Mr. STOKES at the end of the show . Let us hope that the stern and unbending Drys do n't feel that they were the victims sacrificed . For State purposes and to mollify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hitherto taken and which , as national Republicans , they will again take . They have steadily been in favor of enforcement of the prohibition laws , State and national . Now they consent to a referendum on the modification of the National Prohibition act . As the Legislature is not in session , there can not be a referendum before the general election of 1928 . It has been suggested that it would be embarrassing to the Republican candidate for President , committed to the ordinary law enforcement resolution , to have the question of modification of the Volstead act placed on the ballot at the Presidential election in New Jersey . Where is the embarrassment ? How does the still too platonic hope of modification change the duty to execute the law as it is ? A Republican or a Democrat may yearn for modification or repeal of the Volstead act or for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , as a State Republican or Democrat . As a national Republican or Democrat , he is sure to have his nose up against the grindstone of enforcement and no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which prudent politicians run away . Here are the New Jersey Democrats crying , as usual , for the legalization of light wines and beer , by amendment of the Volstead act and the State Enforcement act . That is all right for 1927 in New Jersey ; but does any New Jersey Democrat have even the ghost of a glimmer of expectation that the next Democratic national platform will have the smallest crumb of comfort for him ? Let us unite , brethren , eat our convictions and try to grab the offices ! There are two Republican parties . There are two Democratic parties . In 1928 the duets must become solos . This is an unhappy state of things . How long will it last ? Meanwhile , the New Jersey Republicans are to be congratulated on their effort to come in out of the dry . They are more than a trifle late ; but what is more affecting than an eleventh-hour repentance ?                     