@@694584

txt It is strictly true that Calvin Coolidge does not mean more than he says . It is equally true . and pernaps more Important , that hz does not mean less He did not countenance att , : mrts. to read Into his declaration of August second more than he had sa , d or something that he had not said . He loyally removes himself from the consideration of his party to secure an unembarrassed choice . His friends know that he does not want another term at the White House . His fellow ciitzens know that he is patriotically at the serv , ce of his country . In his declaration made to the Republican committee last Tuesday he showed that he did not believe the Republican party dest , tute of presidential ta.len ? . He renounced even the shadow of a pledge to himself such as loyalty might inspire , to say nothing of grat.tude . No man who is nominated or not nominated can say that Mr. Coolidge by word or deed influenced his chances . If the Republican party can unite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's honorable and unselfish attitude . If the party can not sir unite another problem may arise , leaving conditions exactly as they were after August second . Mr. Coolidge does not say . as Sherman did , that he will not run if nominated and that he will not serve if elected . He has freed his party from the embarrassment of the third-term agitation , something sufficiently meaningless in itself but capable of being troublesome . Mr. Coolidge is a soldier in the ranks : anybody who thinks he has retired from the service does not understand cne who has forgotten more about real politics than most of his audience ever knew . That is the situation . " reduced to simple words and phrase 's , after the exultur ; t shouts of the Democratic newspapers have died away . Each of them reads into the President 's statement something more than he said , undeterred by the lesson of his previous utterance . The wish is father to the thought and the hope of a Republican party divided against itself , even as the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always the principal Democratic asset  --  before the nominations . That party never seems to have forgotten its minorit : . president of 1912 and 1016 . ' But the Republican party has a wa7 , of getting together at its conventions : it is in the last degree unlikely that the Roosevelt split of 1912 v ill be repeated . or CNC/1 that the wounded self-conceit of a single Senator will throw away the deciding state Note as in 1916 . The Republican party can best reciprocate the loyalty of its leader by taking counsel from his wisdom and unrivalled experience . With about 5,000 bills before it . Congress will be as busy as a Ford factory on full production basis .                     