@@693304

txt The death yesterday Good Work of the second policeby man fired upon . withDetectivesout warning by the Brooklyn bandits last week is a fresh reminder of the atrocity of that crime . It is of a sort to show anew the hazards to which the police are exposed in coping , with the new-style desperate criminals . It serves anew to show the courage with which Policemen daily go about their duties , even though they are now put anew on their guard by such occurrences as that in Brooklyn . It is easy to understand the course of the two policemen in New York who on Sunday stopped an automobile which had been acting in a suspicious manner , but did so with their revolvers already drawn . They took no chances of being shot before they could shoot . In following up the brutal Brooklyn crime , the detective force has shown great activity and skill . In spite of the blind trail left by the murderers , two of them are already under arrest , and it is expected that the others will soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speedily , there will not be , at least in their case , any complaint that the penal laws are too severe . While it is too soon to say with confidence that the police of New York are getting the better of the audacious and remorseless bandits , it is a common remark that there has been a good deal of improvement in the whole situation . Robberies and assaults are still too common , but in their more daring , reckless and outrageous forma they seem to be somewhat under repression . Aloreover , .. the work of detection appears to be better done . This must always rank high among those " resources of civilization " which must be fully made use of in order to put down the worst forms of crime . As the result of Two Professions efforts now un That der way at . New . MosAre cow and at Rome two gainful occupations . which hitherto have lacked systematic preliminary training are to be put on a regular professional basis . One is the business of making men laugh and the other is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inaugurated the Clowns ' Academy . The course of studies . includes elocution , declamation and . patter ; topical satire ; humorous musical effects ; physical culture and acrobatics ; contemporary politics . In Italy the Fascisti are planning a school for the education of a new ruling class . ' The idea is to form " among promising youths an aristocracy of faith and ability to guide the future destinies of the ship of state . " The two educational enterprises thus take issue with the prevalent notion that ** takes little to make the crowd laugh and that with little wisdom people are governed . It is now asserted that arauous preparation is necessary for both . The Moscow curriculum will probably include many special branches , such as a course in clownish laughter while the heart is breaking beneath the motley . In Italy , on the other hand , there may . be , . a special . course , in the art of keeping a straight face before the public .. Obviously , . the two courses have something to , lend to each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bit of false face for the oligarch . Unfavorable comment A Conflict has been made on the of ? action of the United . States Golf AssociaDates . In fixing the date of the American open championship only a week away from that of the British . It had been expected that next year 's contests would be unusually interesting because of the large interchange of professional players between the two countries . That will now be impossible , unless the dates are changed , or unless the , golfers come and go by airplane . . It is true that the British golfing authorities went ahead and named their own date without , consulting the Americans . In the defense which the latter make of their own choice of time and place for the open championship there is implied a slight feeling of resentment that there could not have been better cooperation with the British . But that is scarcely sufficient reason for assuming a defiant tone and for making arrangements which can not fail to disappoint golfing enthusiasts in both countries , who always look forward to seeing foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconsideration . Since no great interval is required between the two tournaments ? if they were a couple of weeks apart that would meet the case ? it certainly seems as if an adjustment could be devised agreeable to all concerned . Such a thing would surely be in accord with that hope which springs eternal in the golfer 's breast . Uncle Sam is deGovernment terhilned to show and that he is a good . housekeeper , though Turkeys he sometimes manifests a lack of faith in the housekeeping ability of his millions of nieces . Thanksgiving Day is at ' hand , and the markets are loaded with turkeys . What more appropriate , therefore , than for this devoted relative to broadcast to the nation 's housewives detailed instructions about how to tell a turkey from a cranberry , and how to prepare it for the feast ? Examine the bird with its back up . says the Department of Agriculture . Be sure it ' has a generous amount of fat , else ' twill not be a succulent bird , but rather one of those dry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Put a little water in the covered roaster , ' ; ' so that it become not parched while cooking . Fortunately , the department has not ventured to , settle the great dispute whether a , turkey should be stuffed with chestnuts or , as some maintain , with a mixture of various tasty morsels . The master epicure , BRILLAT SAVARIPT , pronounced a truffled turkey one of the finest gifts which mankind could receive . He also spoke well of stuffing turkeys with sausage . So long as cranberry sauce accompanies the bird , these minor differences of opinion will be found rapidly to disappear . The principal thing is to choose a good fat bird .                     