@@691739

txt Owing to . the magnitude of the task involved in - choosing administrators and staffs in the twenty-two districts-into which the country has been divided for prohibition enforcement , the effective date of the Andrews plan probably will be advanced from Aug. 1 to Sept. 1 . Political pressure brought to bear upon the appointing power is understood to be one of the major reasons for the prospective delay in the installation of the new organization . At a meeting of the Prohibition Board of Strategy to be held tomorrow , fur- 1 Cher consideration will be given to the I candidacies. of various persons recommended for appointment either as administrators or assistant administrators , and at the same time there will be a discussion of proposed changes in the lines of a number of the regional districts . Lincoln C. Andrews , Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , in charge of prohibition enforcement , is expected to return to the city in time to attend the meeting . Statements made here today in official quarters indicated that few of the districts will be remodeled . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toe districts that have bean marked out for the big Industrial Stales like New York . Pennsylvania and New Jersey , where the situation as to policing and the withdrawal of alcohol for use in the arts and manufacture was carefully studied before the Andrews order for reorganiea.tion was . promulgated by Secretary Mellon on June 23 . May Recast Virginia-Maryland District . in the Andrews plan Maryland , which is notoriously wet , and Virginia , which is marked arid on the prohibition map , : ? re tied up in one regional district with the City of Washington . Virginia has made a protest against this alliance ncl , as the problems in the two States differ . it is altogether probable that this district may be recast in accordance with representations made to the Treasury by members of the Virginia delegation in Congress . There may be changes in a few of the Western districts , but the Andrews plan , PO far as it affects New England and the Middle Atlantic States , will be put into effect in original form . The job of picking out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the twenty-one districts is one of the hardest that the Treasury officials have tackled in years . Practically all of the forty-eight State directors are candidates for reappointment . Few will be retained . Apart from the applications made by the State Directors . Assistant Secretary Andrews Is considering the claims of many others . Moreover he has prepared a private list of his own and the names that appear on it will get priority when the time comes to make selections . General Andrews has received a free hand in choosing and , as he has made no commitments either to political leaders or others according to his own Statements , the names of the successful candidates will not be publicly known until formally announced at the Treasury . There is good reason to believe that several of the " dollar-a-year " type of men who were offered places as administrators have refused to serve , forcing General Andrews to turn to others . among them men endorsed by political leaders . There will be at least four desirable positions in the office of each of the district administrators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attend to work having to do with the withdrawal of industrial alcohol and the second to have immediate charge of policing . Each district will have a general counsel and a chief chemist . The two assistants , the lawyer and the chemist will each receive $0,000 a year . while the administrator will get $7,500 . The administrator will select his own staff . Following the completion of organization at headquarters in each of the dis tricts. the administrator , with the help of the supervisory force which will operate from Washington , will begin the work of weeding out the field force . This is expected to take a good deal of time . All of the competent men will he retained . Those who do not measure up to the revised standards will be dropped from the rolls . At present there are about 1.600 men regularly employed in the field service of the prohibition unit . There are times when the force is expanded , owing to the discretion lodged in supervisory agents to employ additional help to meet emergencies . Prohibition enforcement officials in Washington assert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventually will be reduced . Them appear to be confident that ultimately the Andrews plan will effect a considerable saving In money , due in part to better administration at district headquarters and more efficient supervision in the field . Commissioner Roy A. Haynes . who has been relieved of most of the administrative work of the prohibition unit will be at the head of the supervisory corps . A statement made public today at the Treasury explains that responsibility for control of industrial alcohol under the naw prohibition system will be divided between the Internal Revenue Commissioner and Prohibition Administrators . If the new prohibition plan does not become operative until Sept. 1 , as now seems likely alcohol permits will be handled during the month of August by the State directors . INDICT 2 AS PRINCIPALS OF BIG BOOTLEG RING Accused of Having Counterfeit Stamps  --  Inquiry Continues Into Liquor Shipment . Jacob Kirschenblatt , alias Kitsch , and Sol Adamsky , alias Sam Adams , alias Sol Damsky , alleged principals in a bootleg ring which ships liquor in trunks by express and the trunk keys by mail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday by a Federal Grand Jury before Judge Lake Jones of Florida . The indictment charges the two defendants with having in their possession 480 counterfeit internal revenue stamps , used to seal bottles of distilled spirits , Kirschenblatt and Adamsky were among eight prisoners taken . in a raid last Friday at 1,123 Broadway , near Twenty-fifth Street . The law they are charged with violating carries a maximum penalty of ten years ' imprisonment . The counterfeit stamps , commonly called " sfrip stamps , " have been widely used by bootleggers , according to United States Attorney Buckner. to make customers think that adulterated liquor was genuine imported goods . The case against the two defendants is complete , according to Mr. Buckner , who explained that the stamps were found by the raiders In a private desk of Kirschenblatt 's , who furnished the key . The desk was opened in the presence of several witnesses . Evidence against Kirschenblatt and Adamsky , described as his assistant , was presented to the Grand Jury by Assistant United States Attorneys John J. Fogarty and John M. Harlan. in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating a mail order business throughout the country . It is planned to bring the case to trial as speedily as possible . The investigation into the operations of the ring will be continued . IZZY - FOOLS FERN CLUB ; ARRESTS ITS MANAGER Gets Elected Member After Posing as Idle Actor  --  Brings In Convivial Fellow-Agents . After posing for three days as Ethelbert Santerre , a legitimate actor waiting for a part worthy of him to be created , Izzy Einstein got himself elected a member of the Fern Club at 147 West Forty-eighth Street , which has an exclusive and talented clientele . Anybody that can prove he can act is the right kind of timber for the Fern Mtn . Izzy acted the part of an actor well enough to deceive the veteran professionals who belong to the organization . There are no critics among the members , honorary or otherwise . By yesterday the famous agent had such a standing in the profession that 1Ti3 was able to sponsor Moe Smith and two other agents . They were introduced around as " friends of Ethelbert Santerre , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They 're actors , too . " said Izzy . " Resting , at the moment . Set ' em up . " Four whiskies were set forth at GO cents a drink . Santerre and his four Pals tested the evidence and found It valid . " You 're under arrest , " announced Izzy . Hands were clapped on the shoulders of Charles Burns , the manager , and . Tames P. the waiter . They thought it was a joke at first and were then inclined to criticize Einstein for being unethical . Izzy denied this , pointing out that he was working for the Government all the time and merely posing as an actor . While prisoners and captors resolved themselves into a griev ' ance committee to discuss the fine points of conscience raised by the case , Tony Duemauve walkeq in with a half-gallon of whisky , the club being conducted on the jug-to-jug basis . Tony , to bis great surprise , was arrested by his jolly and hearty friend Santerre . The place was full of patrons at . first . but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member or two might be taken along as evidence . They spread the news and a great crowd had gathered by the time Izzy and his colleagues emerged with their prisoners , who were taken to the West Thirtieth Street Station on the charge of sale and possession of intoxicating liquors.                     