@@686612

txt THE BRITISH STRIKE . Strength of the Constitutional System Is Demonstrated . To the Editor of The New York While I have unbounded faith that the British Ship of State will weather the present storm of trade Unionism ; it would ' be foolish to deny the perils of the day .. The coal miners have said that they will not dig coal unless the Government sets.tift a national pool to pay them more than they . earn . The transport and railway men are asked by the miners to see to it that ... the nation does not get . Coal from elsewhere . That is , forty millions of white people ate to be starved in order to . preserve the purity of labor union theories and to convince ' , the people of Britain that they have no right to live except upon conditions fixed by the " - Miners ' Federation . Such a situation is little ; short of revolution . ? In any other country of Europe the ' labor ; conditions now obtaining in Great Britain ' would spell Bolshevism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this realm were bred. : ? for just such crises . No man doubts that the. , Miners ' Federation is challenging the functions of orderly government , and no man , doubts but that the British Government - is ' ready and able to preserve the existence of the commonwealth . Thin England is the oldest nation in Eu -- -rope with a distinct and continuous - history . ' Today the nation is stronger than any selfish fraction , or any combination of them , and the Administration of Lloyd George is determined to prove that fact , no matter : ' how painful may be the proving . Confident and placid amid strife and noise stands the little Welsh Minister of State . Even his enemies acclaim him as the most astute statesman in British history since the days of Disraeli and Gladstone . The mind and heart of the Prime Minister are concentrated on an early , permanent and fair settlement of the coal strike . He realizes the need or concessions on both sides ; - but he realizes above all that no community can exist under conditions which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One thing is sure : King Coal is about to be dethroned in Britain . Not only as fuel , but for manufacturing and transportation purposes oil will take the place of coal . This will be England 's last coal strike . HYACINTHE RINGROSE . London , May 12 , 1921.                     