@@690740

txt Tinille politicians ordinarily defer consideration of the political effect of the death of a Senator until after his funeral , the imI portant bearing the passing of Senator Brandegee may have on the national political situation produced much coin , ment today . Taken into consideration with the death on Sunday of It.epresentative Sidney E. Mudd. a Republican member of the-liouse of Representatives from Maryland . political circles were profoundly impressed by the consequences that might arise should a stalemate Presidential election make it the ! duty of the Congress to choose a President and a ' Vice President . The death of Representative Mudd : broke a. deadlock in the present Maryland delegation . While he was alive the Maryland delegation stood three Republicans and three Democrats . That meant that the State would not be able to cast it vote for choice of President . should the House he called on to select Calvin Coolidge 's successor in February , it being necessary under the Constitution that the one vote permitted each State in such circumstances shall be cast as directed by a majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's successor will be chosen at the regular election in November . Should a Democrat be elected and the rest of the delegation remain as at present. , ' Maryland 's vote for President would be cast for John W. Davis . If a Democrat is chosen to succeed Mr. Mudd the political division of the State delegations in the House will be : ; Democrat , 22 ; tied delegations . 4 . Situation Favors Democrats .. " But one of the so-called Republican delegations  --  Wisconsin  --  is controlled by La Folletteites , and there is the suspicion that another State delegation might go over to the La Follette cause . Conceding the Wisconsin delegation to La Follette , the Republican-controlled delegations , with Maryland 's deadlock broken and Democratic control of It assured . would number only twenty-one . This , however . would leave the Democrats . still three short of enough delegations to give the twenty-five State votes necessary to a choice of a President . At the same time the chances of giving the Presidency to Mr. Davis would be measurably improved if he lacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from one of two separate sources . either through a Republican or La Follette member of each of three of the four deadlocked delegations voting for Davis , or through the Wisconsin delegation and two RePublican-controlled delegations deciding to cast their votes for Davis . While Republican politicians regard this possibilityas remote , it is apparent that the present situation is more encouraging to the Democrats than to the Republicans when they consider the relative ' chances of Coolidge and Davis in the event of Congress being called upon to make a Presidential choice . As for the Senate the situation there would become quite as important should either Charles , G. Dawes or Charles W. Bryan fail to obtain enough electoral votes tosmtdte him ' Vice President . On paper the Senate 's political division now stands : Republicans . 48 ; Democrats , 42 : Farmer-Laborites , 2 ; vacancies , 3 . Eliminating the three vacancies . which will be filled in November and the Senators elected entitled to take their seats when Congress convenes in December , the Republicans now have a paper majority of five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacancies was caused by the death of Senator Brandegee today : Another was caused by the recent death of Senator Colt of Rhode Island , also a Republican . The vacancy caused by the death of Senator Nicholson of Colorado , Republican , in March . 1924. was filled by the appointment of a Democrat . Alva Adams , who served in the last session of the Senate . The remaining portion of the late Senator Nicholson 's term will be filled in the Colorado election in November and the candidate elected will take his place in the Senate when it reassembles in December . Included in the forty-nine Republicans now members of the Senate are a number who have cut loose entirely from the Republican Party or can not be depended upon to vote for the Republican candidate for Vice President . should the national contest be thrown into Congress . The Constitution limits candidates in : Vice President before the Senate to the two persons who received the highest number of votes in the Electoral College . That would mean that the choice would be between Dawes and Bryan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . could not be voted for , but as a Senator front Montana he would have the right to vote for the choice of a Vice President under the limitation mentioned . While Republican politicians are confident that Rhode Island and Connecticut will cast their electoral votes for Coolidge and Dawes , the situation affecting the elections of Senators from those States in November is a matter of greater uncertainty . It is too soon to attempt to canvass the situation in Connecticut with reference to the electitm of a successor to Senator Brandegee , but Connecticut has shown strong Democratic tendencies , and In 1922 Thomas .1 . Spellacy , Democratic candidate for Senator , received 147,276 votes to 169,524 for his successful Republican opponent , Senator . Peter G. Gerry , the present holdover Democratic ato from Rhode Island . has twice beenSe enlect-r ed to that office . In Colorado there are i confident claims by both Democrats , and Republicans In regard to the Senatorial election this year . Two Senators are to be chosen , but one of them I will be for the term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest over the Vice Presidency in the Senate prior to that time . The other will take his seat in December . Republican Majority May Vantsh . Should Democrats be elected In Novemtber to fill the vacancies in the present Congress caused by the death of Senators Colt of Rhode Island and Brandegee of Connecticut and Nicholson of Colorado . the Senate for the session which might see the election of a Vice President devolve upon it , would be divided politically as follows : Republicans . 46 ; Democrats . 45 : Farmer-Laborites , 2 . This would give the Republicans a majority of only two over the Democrats and Farmer-Laborites combined . That Republican majority of two , however . does not exist in fact . Included among the forty-nine Republicans are La Follette . Rrookhart of Iowa . who is running for re-election its a . Republican but espousing the La Follette Presidential cause ; Norris of Nebraska , who has announced that if the choice of a Viet President is tnrown into the Senate , he will vote tor the candidate who receive the . electoral vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who favor La Follette 's candidacy .                     