@@692143

txt The Republican Business Men 's League of New York City , offspring of the Waterman Business Men 's League , entered the political field yesterday . It will he an ally rather than a foe to the existing Republican organizations within the city , . It plans to do constructive rather than the destructive work that had been predicted in certain quarters . As William J. Wells , who will head the new organization , put it , its purpose will be " to sell Republicanism to the business men of New York City . " Mr. Wells , who is general manager of H , Macy &; Co. , . impressed interviewers who called on him yesterday as beinga very forceful person and a good salesman . He disavowed any intent upon the part of the new organization to make trouble for anybody and made it clear that much that had been said in advance of the organization 's launhhing by some spokesmen for it had misinterpreted the purpose for which it had been created . That under given circumstances the new league might turn into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to build up was not denied . The business : hen who will offer their services through the league to the Republican leaders in their Assembly and election districts will insist upon being heard and heeded as well as being used in the work of the several district or ganizations within the city . A spokesman for the regular Republican organization in Manhattan , Harold G Aron , who was manager of the Waterman campaign and in that capacity in close contact with Mr. Wells during the Mayoralty fight , was on hand to bid the new organization welcome to Republican politics . He made the principal address at a. luncheon held yesterday at Macy 's dining rooms with Mr. Wells as host . It was at this luncheon " that the converted league was launched . Mr. Aron even suggested a name for the ne --  organization and his suggestion was promptly accepted by the score or so members who attended . Resolution Adopted , Immediately after organization had been effected . the following resolution was adopted by unanimous vote : Resolved , That the Republican Business Men 's League of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the party In this city by enlisting increased support of the business community ; and that it tender the Republican organization of the city its financial support in the maintenance of a central bureau of information and publicity , to the end that there shall . by developed a strong party of opposition to Tammany Hall and that the interests of the city , shall be safeguarded by vigilant and constant scrutiny of the newly elected Administration . Mr. Wells said : " The sole purpose of this organization is to sell Republicanism to the business zip of ? New York City . It is not intended to take part in factional political disputes , or to forward the interest of any individual or group of individuals , toward party leaderships or otherwise . Rather , it is to unify the Republican forces of the city . " Talking more informally last night , Mr. Wells said that it was the aim of the new league to effect an organization in every Assembly , and if possible in every election district throughout the city , and that all the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and take active part in their work . In this way . of course , the Republican Business ? en 's League will be in a position to make itself felt , if it develops any strength whatever , in the affairs of the Republican Party in every part of the city . It could even become a menace to the type of leadership that does not measure up to standards acceptable to itself . Mr. Wells said that he had received scores of letters since the plan to perpetuate the Waterman League had become public , approving what he was trying to do and offering financial and other assistance . Mr. Aron said in his speech that the Republican Party in this city needed . and would welcome , the assistance business men could give . " It wants the same support in municipal campaigns from business Interests that it receives from them in State and national campaigns , " he said . Pays Tribute to Tammany. - " Quite apart from the partisan stand-1 point it is important to the City of New York that there shall be developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he went on . " The city is safest when there are contending parties of relatively equal strength , so that the public may turn to one to correct the abuses of the other ; and I do not contend that the Republican Party has a monopoly on virtue or the complete ability to avoid mistakes . I believe that the citizens of this community will welcome your efforts to strengthen the Re ; Publican Party , so that we may go into battle on future election days equalin strength , equal in confidence , equal in financial support and equal in the stability of organization with that masterful organization which functions in Fourteenth Street , arid which is never without funds and which Is never without cohesive support oil the part of its workers . I " Toward this end may I suggest that . the members of this league make it their duty to Join their local Republican organizations , and there express their . views and let their voices be heard on questions of leadership , principle and party organization . The most effective work in polities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs of the city organization . I am sure you will find that in the majority of the districts the advent of the knowledge and ability and constructive thought of business men , such as You will bring , will be more than welcome . There will be ample opportunity there to make your constructive help felt ; and if it should so happen that the offer of the kind of help you will bring should be resented , I know you will find that the discipline of the party will be able to correct such error . of judgment on the part of any district leader . " My second suggestion , therefore , is that you bring together through your organization the business men of the city and induce them , as a matter of civic duty , to take part in the activities of their districts . You must remember that this aid to the district leaders in the drudgery attendant on district work contributes most to the welfare of the party . , Asks Financial Support . " My third suggestion involves the financial support of your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this city is now in very bad shape financially . So bad , in fact . that it is doubtful whether the Publicity Bureau work can be carried on . The Publicity Committee . of which I had the privilege to be Chairman , did as much to accomplish the elimination of HyIanism as an other group in this city . A publicity bureau will serve as a vigilance committee to protect the city- against any rapacious ' tendencies of the Tammany Tiger . It will-make effective the Republican attack in future campaigns ; it will be helpful in crystalizing party policies , and will make a constructive program part of the Republican Party 's endeavor , and this is bound-to appeal to the people of this city . This is one of the most important factors in the future success of the party here . " The Republican Party of this city welcomes any genuine and sincere movement which will strengthen its organization by contributing the kind of ability and force which the successful business men can bring to it . In my opinion , with such an organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party leaders , ' we shall find , sa new state of affairs when we go into the next election battle , and we shall have no longer to look for excuses , but rather performance , on election day . Mr. Wells said last night that the tentative plan of holding a public rally soon under league auspices had been abandoned . Among those who atterdled the luncheon were Edward Carpel , Secretary of the Waterthan Business Men 's League , who it is understood will be Secretary , of the - new organization ; Lawrence B : Ward , A. W. J. Pohl and Daniel Kranakopf. ?                     