@@689407

txt Foremen and assistant foremen of New ' York newspaper pressrooms who were among the participants in the unauthorized strike against the newspapers called by New York Web Pressmen 's Union No. 25 held a meeting at Beethoven Hail , 210 Fifth Street , yesterday and discussed how they could return to their old places and arrange for the return of the other pressmen who struck on Sept. 17 . It was decided to send a. committee to see George L. Berry , President of the International Printing Pressmen 's and Assistants ' Union . The foremen called on Mr. Berry at the Waldorf last night . after promising to make a report on the result of their mission to a mass meeting of pressmen later in the evening at Beethoven Hall . Cards and Contract Agreed To . The committee , which made it known that it represented not only the foremen but the pressmen and ' the juniors also , agreed to take to the Beethoven Hall.meeting a'document prepared jointly by them and by Mr. Berry calling for the acceptance by the New York web pressmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressmen shall - take out cards of membership in the international union . 2 . The local pressmen shall accept 1 the present contract arranged be1 tween the Board of Directors of ' I the International Printing . Pressmen 's and Assistants ' Union ant ' the New York Newspaper Publishers ' Association , agreeing also to give guarantees for the faithful performance of the contract . A preamble to the document states that acts of sabotage or destruction of property shall be regarded as barring those having committed such acts from 1a restoration to their positions . It is understood that when the local pressmen take out international union cards they become members-at-large . No reference was made in the document to the formation of another local union . " I am completely satisfied with the way things are going , " said Mr. Berry last night after the committee departed 1 for Beethoven Hail . Papers Back in Old Dress . Owing to further Improved conditions in the pressrooms of New York newspapers , it was decided yesterday by the nublisheers that the newspapers should today omit the composite headings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike of members of New York Web Pressmen 's ' Union 25 and appear in their usual dress . Additional pressmen from other cities continued to report at the offices of the international union . Rooms 614 to 618. 150 Nassau Street . yesterday in response to the call of President Berry to outof-town locals for support in his fight against the dissolved New York local . Some New York pressmen also applied for international union cards . At Beethoven Hall , the spokesman for the foremen 's committee presented the proposal to the pressmen and moved that it be accepted . An amendment to postpone a vote until Friday at 8 P. M. was submitted . Discussion followed . At midnight , pressmen . Who began leaving the hall reported that the amendment had been adopted and that the proposal would be printed and placed in the pressmen 's hands today . Paper Rand/ere Say " No Strike . " Mr. Berry made the following statement in reference to the paper handlers ' situation : " The following telegram was forwarded to Thomas P. Gilt , President of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , Sept. 26 , 1923. - " Thomas Gill , 23d Floor . Sun Building . 150 Nassau Street . New York City . " Under date Sept. 23 I caused to have delivered to you a letter through Alex . Hayes . This letter required an answer . You will please give me before .5 o'clock today , Wednesday , Sept. ' 26. a definite assurance and answer of compliance in every respect with the letter in question which was seived upon you as President , and upon Mr. George Travers as Secretaryof Paper Handlers ' Union No. 1 . If this answer is not given and compliance with the letter is not fulfilled by you and your officers in every respect I shall recommend summary action be taken by the International Board of Directors . " GEORGE L. BERRY . " And the following answer received from Mr. Gill : " New York Paper Handlers ' Union " No . I , " 150 Nassau Street . New York , " Sept. 26 , 1923 . " Mr. George L. Berry , Room 819 , Waldorf-Astoria . New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informingyou - that in accor , dance with the instructions contained in your letter of Sept. 22. 1923 , the men are all back in their respective positions . " Also that there has been no strike of our members . " Sincerely , " THOMAS P. GILL . President . " GEORGE F. TRAVERS , Secretary Treasurer . " All newspapers received a good supply ' of paper yesterday . Up to 4 P. M. the United States Trucking Company had unloaded eighty loads or approximately 560 tons at the newspaper plants . Motorcycle Patrolmen James and Lloyd Curry were injured early yesterday morning when their machines skidded as they were escorting newspaper trucks . Both were attended by surgeons and went home . Motorcycle Patrolman Melvin Williams was pursuing a delivery truck which had been stolen , when his machine skidded and his left shoulder was bruised , but he remained on duty . The stolen truck was found , a block away from the accident .                     