@@693796

txt The Mississippi levee is to be cut to save the city from being flooded by the approaching waters of the swollen river . Governor Simpson late this ? evening declared an emergency existed and ordered a severing of the levee Friday noon at Poydras , fifteen miles below the city . Here a spillway will be created to let the rising waters out into Lake Borgne and thence to the Gulf of Mexico . Fully 100,000 acres will be flooded . Before the cut is made the people In the lower part of St. Bernard and Placuemines Parishes will have had plenty of time to withdraw themselves and their movable property from the arca . This evacuation movement has already started . The breach will probably be made by engineers of the State with approval of engineers of the War Department . The step was recommended by the Mississippi River Commission . The problem was discussed at a meeting last night attended by Governor Simpson , Mayor O'Keefe and fifty leading business men of New Orleans . All day today a similar conference was in session . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by cutting the levee at Poydras the flood pressure on the city would be greatly decreased and a drop of a foot and a half to two feet in the river level in front of the city would result The entire National Guard is being mobilized to carry out the order . There has been great opposition by the trappers and small truck farmers of the area to be flooded , although the more substantial elements of the district favored the cutting of the levee . Tonight , after many hours of conferences , mass-meetings and telegraphic comunication with Federal officials , it seems certain that the plan will be carried out- For hours . however it looked as if the armed opposition of 2.000 men would prevent the breaking of the levee . These 2,000 are fighting for their homes and their property . while opposed to them was the safety of a city of 425,000 with assessed real and personal property of $585,000.000 . The assessed valuation of the land to be flooded is $1.500.000 . Tonight there are still bands of armed men in St. Bernard who may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The farmers and trappers have machine guns , riot guns . rifles and pistols . But observers say that when the time comes for the engineers to break the levee residents of the region , forewarned , will withdraw to places of safety . Recall the Break of 1922 . The people of St. Bernard remember vividly the crevasse five years ago today . Without warning at 3 o'clock in the morning the Mississippi River made history and a natural outlet for itself when the swollen stream burst its bounds and spilled it waters through a gap at Poydras . Thousands of acres in St. Bernard and Plaquemine parishes were flooded and property damage of several hundered thousand dollars was caused . It was while New Orleans was facing the worst flood crisis in her history that the break occurred . Instant relief was afforded the city . A drop of two feet was registered at Carrollton Avenue and this was followed by a gradual decline until the water had returned below the crest of the levees and finally subsided in their natural channels . Today the situation is nearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great inflow into the Mississippi from the flooded Streams of the Middle West . Engineers and river , authorities and Weather Bureau officials have predicted a stage of twenty-four feet at New Orleans between May 5 and 20 . This is higher than the highest point reached in 1922 by at least eighteen inches . Today , however , the levee lines are perhaps stronger than in 1922 . The cut in the levee , it is figured , will give just the amount of relief needed . Armed Men Patrol Levees . A ? thousand grim trappers and farmers , guns over arms , are patrolling the Poydras levee tonight , under hastily strung electric lights , determined that no one shall cut their precious.levee before the time set . In the meantime , their women folks were packing up and tonight the road up to this city is filled with a long procession of rickety trucks and wagons with broods of children perched atop , on their way here for shelter . Mules , horses , automobiles are part of the caravan . As the news spread homes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might break at any time under the natural lash of the river seemed accentuated by the knowledge that it was to be definitely broken at a certain time . In the city S00 pump guns have been issued by the police to patrol squads and to special dock watchmen to guard against possible reprisals . An embargo has been ordered on dynamite sales , and 400 National Guardsmen are encamped above the city , guarding the river walls there .                     