@@691366

txt H. G. Wells , the British novelist and economist , was discovered today living in an isolated farmstead high up in a mountain valley behind Cannes . where he has secluded himself to spend several months completing a masterpiece which he admitted was the fruition of many years of : thought . Incidentally , he spoke his mind on the work of Herriot , declaring that the fallen French Premier had begun a policy that promised a new era of trust and affection between Britain and France . The interviewer was attracted to the spot by the spectacle of a postman staggering beneath a mass of books , papers and letters in the hermit 's morning mail , none of which bore the name of the addressee but only that of the provincial farmhouse . " These are for the English writer who must be terrified by something or some- t body . " explained the burdened and panting functionary . " Nobody knows his name hereabouts . " Although angered at being discovered , Mr. Wells soon became more amicable , saying : " I merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have had in mind many years . This is my first visit to the Riviera and it is wonderful up here away from it all . " Then he switched zestfully to the French crisis in reply to the suggestion that he was a sworn enemy of France . " I have criticized France not as an Englishman but as a liberal , critical of all reaction , " he said . " It is nonsense to say that people may not criticize another country to which they are vitally linked . It is necessary , though one can afford to be polite and eulogize distant countries . " I am personally convinced that Eng , land and France are each other 's property and belong one to the other not only geographically but mechanically . What many forgot is the close kinship of the people Southern England with the inhabitants of Normandy and Brittany . " You hear ft said that the French are Latins and the English are Nordics . I have always thought that the French character was far more Nordic than Latin . The French may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin  --  witness the dictatorships elsewhere . " 1 am also convinced that France , by temperament situation and tradition , is the born mediator between the peoples of the North and South of Europe and that the English are coming to give increasing attention to this basic truth . " We consider the French firstly as Europeans  --  that is why recently we have been distressed , but not antagonistic , at symptoms of excessive individualism here . But T believe , thanks to Herriot , that we on the point of entering a period of Franco-British trust and affection . The fallen Premier inaugurated an - international policy that is destined to bear vast and happy fruits . " Whereupon the hermit , after extorting an oath of secrecy from the interloper ac to his whereabouts , withdrew to a table littered high with manuscripts and completely hidden frrom view by a riot of Riviera Spring blossoms and olive trees .                     