@@685189

txt The Michigan result is one of the most curious things in the preconvention campaign . JouNsox 's large plurality over WOOD is something that Jotorsori 'd own supporters would have been sanguine indeed to expect . Equally unexpected was HOOVER 'S vote in both parties . The part that the weather played is something no one can estimate ; the dispatches say that the great storm blocked the country roads to an extent that made many of them impassable . It was in the country districts that WOOD was supposed to be strongest , it being a Foregone conclusion that the radical elements in the cities , especially Detroit , would be more likely to express their preference for JottNsorr . The Upper Peninsula , a Roosevelt section , went for WOOD . Michigan of late years has . been an eccentric State politically as a result of its rapid industrialization and the Increase of radical sentiment in the cities . The Socialist Party there went over to the I. W. W. and was cast out of the national organization in a body . There have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there . Four years ago the State instructed for EiENRY FORD as the Republican candidate for President , and this again was done by Detroit and other cities . Where the conditions are similar a Like result is to be expected ; but radicalism is not so strong in other States , and even where it is highly influential in the cities there is not much likelihood of its being able to overcome the country vote . In Ohio , ! or example , the industrialization of the State has made . the old political calculations undependable without throwing it into the hands of the radicals . The deplorable condition of the Democratic Party in Michigan was never better shown than by the halfpathetic , half-ludicrous showing it made in the primaries . At the head of the poll stands HoovElt , who has announced that he does not want the Democratic nomination and is running as a Republican . Closely second to him is Coverpor EDWARDS of New Jersey , who represents nothing except a protest against the prohibition amendment and the Volstead law and is not to be regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Behind EDWARDS come MCADOO , PALMER and BRYAN . Mr. JoHNsoN 's victory proves that a radical candidate can carry a radical constituency , and that , since HENRY FORD revolutionized the industrial situation in Detroit , is what Michigan has become . It was as a radical , not as an opponent of . the League of Nations , that he was voted for . There Is not much evidence in the voting that issues were much considered ; it appears more likely that . men were considered instead . It was a distressing day for the Republicans of the Old Guard . They view JOHNSON with alarm , Wool with distrust , HOOVER with resentment for his impudence and his presumption . Yet these three , in the order named , lead the poll ; while Governor LOWDEN , who is supposed to be favored by the Republican old-timers , takes the fourth place , polling only a little more than one-tenth of JOHNSON 'S vote . Such things are terribly upsetting , but when it is noted ? that on the day of these primaries the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bond issue of $15,000,000 for the building of a municipally owned street railway , to compete with and doubtless destroy the Detroit United Railway system , it becomes plain that radicalism rather than politics determined the result . in Michigan .                     