@@685499

txt WOMEN AT CONVENTIONS . At San Francisco They Were Interested in the Platform First . The crucial difference between the women who attended the Chicago Convention and the women who went officially to San Francisco Is that the former went to support favorite candidates , whereas we suported vital principles . Our women Democrats were far less preoccupied with the problematical nominee for the Presidency than with the platform to he established in the progressive interests of the people . The citizens of this country have no longer any patience with politics as a mere business , but will accept politics only in-the directing of principle . We take but little stock in the pretended " direct wire " theory uniting our policies with the Federal , State or municipal Governments . The only telegraphic influence in which we women really have implicit faith is that wireless leading us to the Supreme Ruler of the world , who is God Almighty . We see no reason why , if advisable , a constitutional amendment should not be amended as well as the Constitution itself . After all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man for the Constitution . Just so far as we believe in the fatherhood of God , just so far must we believe in the brotherhood of man . This world has been too long saturated with hatred and venom . It must now be watered with the dew of human . kindness . The Republican Convention was opened with a Hymn of Hate , never equaled by the expression of any boche in the early days of international conflict . No utterance of a von Tirpitz could excel the poisonous oratory of a Lodge . And finally , we as Democrats have neither the , desire nor the intention of offering any apology to the American people for the conduct of the war , but we shall certainly demand of those Republicans who are in legislative control a detailed accounting of how they on their side have been conducting peace . ELISABETH MARBURY , Delegate at Large . Sari Franeisce , July 2 , 1920 . The Armenian Language . To the Editor of The New York Times : It may be of interest to your readers to know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities for many years . Now that Armenia is liberated and reconstruction has already begun , philologists and antiquarians are encouraging the study to an even greater extent . It is not generally known , perhaps , that there are many more facilities for the study of this delightful language than any other . What appears so difficult is really not difficult at all . For example , It has no system of diphthongs and compound vowels like that of English and French . All consonants and vowels keep their pronunciations in the syllables . It has an abundance of consonants , no gender , and is free from many other difficulties , such as present themselves to the student of any other language . The uses of articles are exceedingly simple . The alphabet has thirty-nine characters , and well-informed philologists and antiquarians aver that Its accents are very simple . MISSAK TURPA NJ IAN . West Hoboken , July 5. 1020 . Hungarian Complaints . To the Editor of The New York Times : Referring to the letter headed " Hungarian Complaints , " published In your paper , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were so cruel while in Budapest , does Mr. Sugar " admit " that many Hungarian refugees find their " promised land " . in Rumania ? So far as " written documents " are concerned about the Rumanian Army 's good behavior , those 100 , e00 signatures of the People of Budapest sent to the Paris Peace Conference to instruct the Rumanian Army , not to leave Budapest , is significant in the memory of the whole world . I am satisfied with the service of Rumania 's Army to humanity , and I am proud of it ! MICHAEL POPE DE BOIN Ex-service man , U. S. Army . Torrington , Conn. , July 5 , 1920.                     