@@685238

txt The Democratic primary contest in Nebraska admittedly has become an open battle between the White House and William Jennings Bryan for the domination of the party in the National Convention at San Francisco on June 28 . Senator Gilbert M. Hitchcock , who led the President 's fight in the Senate for the ratification of the Treaty of ? Peace and League of Nations without reservations , is entered here in the race for the Presidential preference vote . He has no thought that he will be the nominee of the San Francisco Convention , but his entry in the primary race strengthened him in his fight against Bryan , who is running for delegate at large to the convention . It is not denied in the Hitchcock camp that Senator Hitchcock decided to enter the Nebraska primaries soon after the Jackson Day dinner in Washington , D. C. , in January , when Bryan came out openly in opposition to the President On the League of Nations Issue and advocated adoption of the league with the Lodge reservations . He , did so because he believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid him in the local fight to kill off Bryan . Some say that this decision received the full sanction of the White House . Bryan Denounces Hitchcock . In any event , enmity to Bryan admittedly is the reason Senator Hitchcock got Into the race . Bryan knows this to be the case and is intensely bitter about it . In his speeches throughout the state he has been denouncing Hitchcock without reserve . So far he has made no open assault upon President Wilson , but nobody In these parts doubts how he feels . As an example of the situation here statements given to the New York Times correspondent today . by Senator Hitchcock and Mr. Bryan are illuminating . Mr. Hitchcock characterized Bryan as the leader of a " wrecking " crew who had adopted a " rule or ruin " policy . Bryan came back with a statement , also given to THE Taus correspondent , that he was not a party wrecker , but was " going to San Francisco to help save the Democratic party from the men who wrecked it with a Wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it this yea ? with a brewery candidate . " In another statement given publicity in Nebraska Bryan made a bitter attack on Hitchcock as the representative of Wall Street in the Democratic party , the man who would overturn the prohibition law , and altogether an undesirable citizen to have as spokesman for the administration . Both Hitchcock and Bryan admit that the fight to prevent the election of Bryan as a delegate at large to the Democratic National Convention will be close . Each expect to win , but political conditions are so confused in Nebraska this year that the result really is in doubt . The majority of the leaders expect that Bryan will lose , but there will not be much surprise if he is elected a delegate . As to the course he will follow in case of defeat , ' Bryan refuses to talk . He probably will go to the convention as a newspaper correspondent , but he is going to wait until the voters have expressed their preferences on Tuesday before discussing that emergency . Hitchcock Charges Wrecking . The Hitchcock managers assert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a serious effect on President Wilson 's leadership of the Democratic Party when the forces-assemble in San Francisco . Here is a statement which Senator Hitchcock gave to THE NEW TOME TIMES correspondent today : " The fight here is to prevent Nebraska being represented at the San Francisco convention by a disturbing element . Mr. Bryan declared in advance his purpose in going to the convention was to secure the adoption of certain planks out of harmony with the Democratic Party as a whole . His determination to get a plank favoring Government ownership of railroads into the platform is one illustration . His support and advocacy of a policy accepting the Lodge reservations , to the League of Nations covenant is another . " If lie should do this it would be to discredit the Democratic Administration . It would be an affront to President Wilson  --  an attempt to take the party away from him . " Mr. Bryan would , in effect , go . to the Democratic National Convention at San Francisco to lead a wrecking crew and to adopt a rule or ruin policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sent to any convention it ought to be the Republican Convention at Chicago , whicu will undoubtedly adopt a plank in its platform in harmony with the Lodge . reservations to the League of Nations , and go as far as it , ean to discredit the President , hot only in connection with the League of Nations , but on other policies of the Administration . " The fight against me as a candidate ' for the favor of Nebraska " for President has practically collapsed . The only issue over which there is a fight seems to be to keep . Mr. Bryan out of the Democratic National Convention at San Francisco . " Mr. Bryan was interviewed today just before he delivered an address before the Omaha Y. M. C. A. on the subject of " Ingratitude , " in which he - asserted that many men who owed their education and advancement to the home community frequently fell before the lure of ? other interests later . He did not mention any names , but none doubted the inference drawn . To the charge that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to THE NEW YORK TIMES correspondent . " I am going to San Francisco to help save the Democratic Party from the men ' who wrecked it in 1904 with a Wall Street candidate and from those who are trying to wreck it this year with a brewery candidate . ' I helped save the Democratic Party from Wall Street domination at Baltimore , and 1 hope to save it this year from the domination of both the reactionaries and wets . " Mr. Bryan referred to a statement he had issued for local consumption here today as " expressive of my views of Senator Hitchcock " and the Senator 's part in the fight . Here are a few paragraphs from that statement : " Since he urged the nomination of a Wall Street candidate in 1912 he has obeyed the ' command of Wall Street whenever Wall Street needed him , as , for instance , when he opposed the President 's currency bill and the President 's shipping bill , and when he favored the railroad bill dictated by the railroad magnates . He is a Western man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haVe been fought by Wall Street for the past twenty-five years . He has opposed prohibition in Nebraska and in the nation , even to the extent of defying the State of Nebraska and misrepresenting the people . I have helped to win the fight for prohibition in the State and nation . He now seeks to nullify the national and State . amendments by the licensing of beers and wines . I am opposed to any reopening of the liquor question in the State or nation . " He opposed woman suffrage in the State and in the Senate . - I favored woman suffrage in both State and nation . " ? He advocated ratification of the treaty for eight months and then voted against ratification because he opposed reservations agreed upon by fifty-seven of the seventy-nine Senators who favored ratification . I favored ratfication without reservations while that seemed possible , and favored ratification with reservations when it became apparent that ratification was impossible without reservations . " He now wants the treaty made a partisan belie , with himself as the candidate . I think such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the world . I believe our nation . alone can prevent a renewal of the war and that partisanship is inexcusable in the presence of such an appalling possibility . " And so the battle to determine whether Bryan shall be a leading fig-are in the councils at San Francisco will be fought out here at the polls on Tuesday . The . Hitchcock forces assert that defeat of Bryan will be ' his ruin - and that he can not expect , in view of the fact that he was defeated for delegate in 1916 and was forced to attend the convention as a reporter , to hold ' much prestige if the people of Nebraska reject him again . In speaking of Bryan 's attitude on the League of Nations , in the fight to depose him here , Senator Hitchcock said : " Bryan said the President was wrong in fighting Lodge and his reservations . The people were with the President when he insisted . on the league for the purpose of doing away with war , and they are today with him iii spirit and sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring peace to the world . They know , too , that as he regains his health and strength the fight will be renewed , and they have high hopes that the outcome will be a triumph of the great ideal . " There has been little to change the situation in the Republican primaries in the last two days . The majority of the leaders of both parties expect Johnson to win the popular ' vote of the State for President , with Wood second and Pershing third . Wood made a splendid impression here yesterday , however , and some of his followers are hopeful that there may be a reaction and that the General will win the fight . R. B. Howell , Republican National Committeeman , who introduced General Wood at his meeting in the Auditorium yesterday , thinks the General is gaining and expressed hope today that he would win .                     