@@692109

txt Dr. Butler Says Foes of Uni. form Entrance Examinations Have Been Beaten Down . MORE CHANGES PREDICTED Dr. Farrand Sees Drastic Requirc-i ments of Students  --  Scholastic Board Marks 25th Year . The old prejudices In favor of Individual college entrance examinations and requirements , made without any regard for the policies of other colleges or secondary schools , have been beaten down and shelled out of their bombproof entrenchments , said President Nicholas Murray Butler of Columbia at a dinner of the College Entrance Examination Board , held yesterday to celebrate the board 's twenty-fifth anniversary . President Butler was instrumental in the formation of the board . Still further drastic changes in examination methods were predicted by Dr. Wilson Farrand . Headmaster of the Newark Academy and one of the principal secondary school supporters of the board , when it was first proposed . He said the tendency was toward requiring every candidate for college entrance first to submit his complete school record and the opinion of his teacher as to his qualification for going on with advanced work . " These will not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but will be given the weight that experience has shown the records of that school and the judgment of that teacher to deserve . and they will be supplemented by a written examination , and in all probability by an intent . gence test . All four will be taken into account In arriving at the final ( led . Mon . " Probably the character of the examinations will undergo a gradual change . They will become less of content examinations and more tests of method and power . The school record will show the ground covered , while the examination will test the way in which the work has I been done . " The machinery of the board Is organized to bring about such a change as rapidly as the judgment of the teaching world decides it to be desirable . In Ifact , such a change Is already in progress , and has advanced further than many of us realize . " Dr. Butler Satisfied . President Butler expressed satisfaction at the way the board had developed . " When one recalls the arguments that were advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this board and the obstacles that for years were put in the way of its successful operation by college Faculties of no small distinction , he must view with satisfaction and entire resignation the esteem in which the board is now heti and the substantially unbroken support which has been given to its work 1 ) 1 secondary schools and colleges every4 where . " " Twenty-five years ago , " he said , " thi colleges throughout the United States were going their several ways with sublime unconcern either for the policies of other colleges , for the needs of the secondary schools , or for the general public interest . They regarded themselves as wholly private institutions and each indulged in some peculiar idiosyncrasy having to do with the admission of students to Its freshman class . The colleges made no attempt to agree among themselves , either as to what subjects should be prescribed for admission or what content should be given to any particular subject . The several colleges held admission examinations when it was most convenient for them to do so , and with the rarest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school could adjust its work and its program to the requirements of several colleges without a sort of competence as pedagogic acrobat that was rare to the point of non-existence . The situation would have been comic were it not so preposterous . " " Some of the most influential colleges were very suspicious of the board and its work , " said President Butler . " Tucked away in almost every college Faculty was at least one isolated teacher who felt sure that he knew more than any one else in his field as to how the college admission subject should be stated and what kind of examination should be held upon it . It took ten or fifteen years to shell out all the occupants of the bombproof entrenchments . " Nine Schools Hays System . Dr. Henry B. Pritchett , President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching , said that the board was today examining about 10.000 of the 200,000 freshmen who enter college each year , about 5 per cent . Only nine institutions in the country admit all their students by means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and five women 's colleges , Bryn Mawr , Smith , Mount Holyoke , Vassar and ' Wellesley . Public recognition of the work of teachers was asked by Dr. Julius Sache , Professor Emeritus of Education in Teachers College , Columbia University . " Such public recognition of exceptional performance would lift to a higher plane the efforts of capable teachers , " he said . " To gather an elite of specially competent teachers , rich in their several performances , into a number of model training schools would be an enormous step in advance as a counter-influence to our prevailing lack of precision . " President Mary E. Woolley of Mount Holyoke presided at the dinner . Another speaker was President Ellen F. Pendleton of Wellesley . A message from exPresident Charles W. Eliot of Harvard was read by Professor Thomas S. Fiske of Columbia , Secretary of the board . HEARS PHONE RATE PLEA , Service Board Listens to Local Company 's Arguments for an Increase . The Public Service Commission resumed hearings yesterday on the application of the Nev York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1924 the Federal court permitted the company to increase its rates 10 per cent . pending a final settlement of the controversy . This increase was nearly 5 per cent . less than the company sought . At yesterday 's hearing George W. Whittemore , valuation engineer of the company , was cross-examined by Assistant Corporation Counsel Fertig on an appraisal of seventy-three buildings owned by the company . Mr. Fertig asserted that the figures represented an appraisal of only forty-three buildings and that the value of the others had been guessed at . Mr. Whittemore insisted that the appraisal was fair because the buildings were constructed under identical specifications . He said lie had inspected buildings valued at 1 ; 13 , : 233,179 out of a total value of $34,570,000 and that %he had not considered buildings under construction that were worth several million dollars more . Other testimony was to the effect that 245 men had been employed in examining the property for the purposes of the hearing , that the cost of the appraisals amounted to $200,000 and that the cost to the company of the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had examined 8.760 miles of interior block wiring in Manhattan and 3.470 miles in Brooklyn . Mr. Whittemore said that the company . maintained 11,639 booths in Manhattan and the Bronx , of which 1,035 were Inspected for the appraisal . The next hearing will be on Nov. 20.                     