@@695545

txt It seems almost as though nothing is on the level any more . Your correspondent has ascertained by an admission of Maj. Phi112 Fleming , athletic officer of the Unittd States Military academy , that the so-called army mule which parades before the public on certain occasions of the football season is not the army mule at all , but merely a mule of variable identity . About all that can certainly be said of the army mule on any given occasion is that it is a mule . To be specific , the jars animal which appeared before the citizens of Chicago on the occasion of the penultimate Army-Navy game In the fall of 1926 had no military affiliations whatever and may even have had pacifist leanings . It never had served in the army or National Guard , and never had seen West Point . It was , In fact , a local mule of civilian status and inferior social position . Owned by a gentleman by the name of O'Brien , It was then and still may be , unless one sip of celebrity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humdrum work of hauling a cinder truck In collaboralion with another mule . Mules Lack Principle . Mules are , as has been said in the halls of the United States congress and subsequently in many banquet halls , magazines and newspapers , without pride of ancestry or hope of posterity . It would seem that they are also without principle . The Chicago mule was hired for the sum of ten dollars for the afternoon , and any esprit de corps which ? it manifestc-d on that day now may be set down as extemporaneous , synthetic and illusory . It was a stage struck mule in " buskins " for an hour . The mule which paraded " in Harvard stadium Saturday afternoon was regularly engaged in the profession of arms , it is true , but it was not a member of the forces stationed at the United States Military acad. emy. until fifteen minutes before the kickoff it was an utter stranger to the detail of cadets who led it , caparisoned in the ' West Point blanket , girth , puttees and halter , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gun mule from Fort Hancock , near Boston , specially detailed to this duty for this afternoon only . ' T was a Borrowed Mule . Your correspondent first suspected some sort ' of sordidness when he no- : ticed this ' mule being led onto the property by an infantry corporaL " Well , well , " your correspondent exclaimed cheerily , " and how did the army mule stand the trip from West Paint ? " " This mewell stood the trip all right because it did not make no trip from ' West Point , " the corporal stated . " This mewell belongs to the machine guns at Hancock . " Somewhat appalled , your correspondent tracked down Maj. Fleming and asked whether he was a party EXPOSED The Army mascot , as you can see here , was visibly affected when it was established that he really is no mascot at all . to the sham , the major asserted , " the army mule is like Santa Clans ' Sometimes we rent one from a livery stable and sometimes we borravr one from an army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes no special training to jog around in the army mule suit . I guess fifty moles have worn that suit . " Returning to the mule , your cot ' - respondent learned that its name was Began out of compliment to a temperamental resemblance to a colonel of the same name . The infantry corporal went around to the mule 's starboard quarters and rubbed him on the brisket , saying , " Growl , Began , growl , " and Degan 's ears went back and he rolled his eyes and , so help your correspondent , If he did n't growl . No Regimental Pet . The cade 's threw the blanket over Degan 's ridgebone and trying to cinch the girth , found It short . " What 's the matter ? " one asked . " Fat mules ? " " Yes , let out the belly band . " Your correspondent is much trete bled by the discovery , apprehending that deceit feeds upon conceit and that any instlttItion which would subscribe to so flagrant an imposition upon the public imagination might go further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regimental pet , there is no special keeper of the army mule at West Point because there is no army mule . One has misgivings now . Are those real officers who shake at midfield between halves of the Army games , or does the athletic officer telephone the Actors Equity association for an actbr , about 50 years old , to fit a size 48 stout uniform of a major general ; two actors about 45 to fit the size 40 , medium colonel 's uniforms , and a dozen assorted actors to fit uniforms of assorted ranks down to second lieutenants ? These are things that try men 's faith .                     