@@695820

txt The first surge of the Canadian cold wave predicted for the middle west struck Chicago last night with a sweep that plunged the temperature from a balmy 43 degrees In mid-afternoon to an unofficial mark of 7 above at 5 o'clock this morning . fly daybreak the reading was expected to be zero , and the thermometer will remain ' within 3 degrees of that mark throughout today and tomorrow , according to Forecaster C. A. Donnell . No relief is in prospect before tomorrow night , be predicted . The sudden freeze left the raindrenched streets glassy with ice . Pedestrians , who splashed to work through puddles yesterday , stumbled home on icy pavements last night . Crews on the surface lines , which had worked through the day to drain flooded tracks under viaducts , were confronted with a new problem last night as the power current leaked away to the ground through insulators which were sheathed in ice . Ice Impedes Traffic . Motorists , sensing the hazard of the icy pavements , were extra cautious , with a resultant retarding of traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Icy rails caused the injury of five persons on a Chicago , South Shore and South Bend interurban train at Michigan City . Ind. , however . The train skidded into a Nickel Plate gondola car at a siding , causing minor injuries to 11 . M. Clouston , E. J. , Marie Yoeman , Albert Doherty and Paul Rosa . Blustery winds stiffened the grip of tho ' cold snap . A strong gust shattered a plate glass window in the quarters of the Madison Baking company at 365 West Madison street , and another at 179 West Monroe street . A small cyclone swept into a revolving door in the Tribune Tower lobby , whirling it at dizzy speed until tho puck smashed with a report as sharp as a bomb explosion . In Evanston large plate glass windows were shattered in the State and Trust bank building , the public library , and several other places . Burled Under Straw Stack . None was injured by the freak winds here or on the lake , ? the weather bureau having issued a storm warning advising mariners to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a blast of wind upset an ice sheathed straw I stack , burying Herman C. Knoll , 38 years old , wealthy bachelor farmer , and his hired man , William Budach . Knoll was found suffocated when neighbors pitched away the straw , but Budach was revived after three hours ' application of a pulmotor . The wind will moderate today and skied will be clear , according to the forecast . The prediction for fair weather was hailed ' with relief In communities downstate where streams were reported overflowing their banks and flooding the lowlands . Crews from the state highway derpnartmpebont werewatchingpa **25;130;TOOLONG for possible washouts . The Illinois river , swollen by heavy rains , stood at 10.5 feet , a rise of one foot in 48 hours . Yesterday the . Peoria fire department answered fifty calls to pump outflooded basements . Floods in Chicago were confined moinly to the subways under railway viaducts . The thermometer performed acrobatics during the flood and ensuing freeze . At 9 a. xn . yesterday it mounted above the freezing point , 32 degrees , and at 4:30 p. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped at a rate of 3 degrees per hour until midnight . Nebraska 's Bill to Gag Press Given Death Blow Lincoln , Neb. , Jan. 22. ? ( 49 . ? The anti-publicity bill , prohibiting Nebraska newspapers from publishing any information about the various department of the state government , without the consent of the department head , was killed late today by the judiciary committee of the house of representatives .                     