@@690427

txt John W. Davis , Democratic nominee for President , left this city . last night for a ten-day vacation in Maine , barely managing to catch the train . He announced before he left that Clem L. Shaver , National Committeeman from West Virginia , and the " original Davis man , " would be the Chairman of the Democratic National Committee . Mr. Shaver left last night for Washington , where he will confer today with Cordell Hull , whom he will succeed as Chairman of the National Committee . After their conference it is expected that Mr. Hull will issue the call for a meeting of the National Committee at Clarksburg , W. Va. , to follow the notification ceremonies , which will take place Aug. 31 . At the meeting of the National Committee Mr. Shaver will be elected and active campaign organization begun . It is anticipated that there will be a headquarters in Washington , where the National Committee maintains its permanent office , and a headquarters in New York . Whether New York will be a financial headquarters only or an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mr. Hull . It will also be determined whether the Chicago and San Francisco offices shall be headquarters or bran9hes . To Take Office on Aug. 11 . The selection of Mr. Shaver was made known in the following typewritten statement : " Announcement was made today by John W. Davis , the Presidential nominee of the Democratic Party , that he had decided to recommend the appointment of Clem L. Shaver of West Virginia as Chairman of the Democratic National Committee . " Although the ' recommendation of Mr : ' Davis operates as a mandate , Mr. Shaver can not take office until the National Committee elects him . The committee adjourned the day after the National Convention ended , to be recalled at the call of the Chair , and it was understood the next meeting would be at the time of the notification ceremonies , the time and place of which were designated in the following statement : Announcement was also made that Mr. Davis will receive notification of his nomination and deliver his acceptance speech at Clarksburg , W. Va. , Aug. 11 at 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heretofore notification ceremonies have been held about noon or shortly thereafter . The evening hour was the result of a desire to get as much as possible out of the radio possibilities of the notification ceremonies . The photographers are apparently in the discard for the time being in favor of tile radio audience . Headquarters to Be Ready . The meeting of the National Committee apparently will be called for late on the evening of Aug. 11 in Clarksburg . After that meeting , the opening of the New York headquarters may be looked for , and it is likely , in view of Mr. Shaver 's propensity for looking ahead , that the headquarters will open here early on the morning of Aug. 12 with a full staff in charge rind that the Chicago and San Francisco headquarters will be in readiness by that time . Before he announced the appointment of Mr. Shaver Mr. Davis conferred at length with Thomas Taggart of Indiana and-George , Brennan of Illinois . Taggart was a Ralson backer in the convention and Brennan was the strategist of the Smith force ? . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where , despite the opening of . headquarters in the Murray Hill Hotel , Mr. Davis conducted most of his business during the day , apparently had little to do with the selection of Mr. Shaver , but it did have a. bearing on the campaign , and it is likely that as a result of these conferences both Senator Ralston and Governor Smith will make speeches in favor of the national ticket during the last few weeks of the battle . In fact , Brennan said as he left the Polk house : " I suggested to Mr. Davis that Governor Smith be asked to make an intensiVe campaign tour of the East and Middle West all the way to Illinois . I pointed out to him the magnetic appeal which the Governor has for the average voter and I told him I thought the Governor would be the strongest man we could send ' on the road . ' Mr. Davis received my suggestion cordially . He has not told me directly that ho will accept it , but I am sure that he-will . " Leaders Want Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic managers have had it in mind to put Governor Smith on the stump for the national ticket In the hope that he might overcome the strong feeling that was engendered in the convention over the religious issue . But Governor Smith is not , at present , disposed to acquiesce in the suggestion that he stump ' , the country . While Mr. Shaver , as Chairman of the National Committee , will have direction of the Davis campaign , it is expected that a campaign manager will be appointed independently of the committee Chairman . These details , however , will be worked out between Mr. Shaver and Mr. Hull while Mr. Davis Is in Maine . Mr. Davis , while he is away , expects to have little to do except to rest and to prepare his speech of acceptance . The plans for organization , however , have been thoroughly gone over between Mr. Davis . Mr. Shaver , Frank Polk , personal friend of the candidate , Norman Davis and others and there Is no likelihood of a serious hitch . No details of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that a board of strategy , under the direction of Mr. Shaver. is to Le formed and that the new Chairman will have around him such experienced campaign strategists ' as Vance McCorinick , Homer Cummings , Mr. Hull and George White of Ohio , who has been in conference with Mr. Davis every day for the last week . With.tbese men will be associated the district or regional managers from the East , North , South and West . Gate a ** Contribution . Mr. Davis saw many visitors , yesterdal . Among them was James W. Gerard , formerly connected with the financial end of Democratic national campaigns and likely to be drafted again In a similar capacity . In the course of the day Mr. Davis broke up a conference to announce to reporters that he had received a contribution of 10 cents from Asbury Park . The letter said : " Enclosed find my contribution to your campaign fund . This Is all I can afford . " Mr. Davis spent only a short time at the Murray Hill Hotel , returning to the Polk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house In an automobile to catch his train a neighbor introduced his wife to the candidate , so that the Davis party in three limousines had to make quick time to the Grand Central Station , arriving a few minutes before the train for Rockland . Me .. on which reservations had been engaged , departed . In the party were Mr. and Mrs. Davis and Mrs. Davis 's maid , Frank Polk and Mr. Polk 's valet , Bill Nye , who is Mr. Davis 's bodyguard , and Mrs. Nye , and the cbrps of correspondents who will remain with Mr. Davis probably until the campaign ends . Mr. Davis Is to spend about ten days at , the home of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dana Gibson at Isiesboro , Me. , not far from Bar Harbor .                     