@@690908

txt With the bill described as the most important banking measure since the passage of the federal reserve act and with the American Bankers ' association , the controller cf the currency and the federal reserve board supporting it ; there is every prospect of its approval by both houses of congress . The purpose of the measure is to restore as nearly as possible the equilibrium between state and national banks within the federal reserve system , to remove restrictions against national banks which have tended to cause many prominent institutions to withdraw from the national banking system , and to curtail branch banking . Committee Action Completed . The bill is now on the calendar of both houses . It was reported from the house committee on banking and currency last April after extensive hearings and a special rule was aproved for its consideration in the house . At about the same time the senate committee on banking and currency reported the hill in substantially the same form . Its sponsors were eager to obtain action in both houses before congress adiourned last June , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made this impossible . With committee action completed and substantial support assured it now seems reasonably certain that the bill can be put through both houses during the winter . Representative Rep .. Pal , chairman of the house committee on banking and currency , plans to ask the house leaders to give the bill a place on the calendar for action before the holidays . Representative Wing ? Dem. , Ark. , ranking Democratic member of the committee , said today that the bill will be passed In the house , although he intends to oppose certain features . Bank Conversion Causes Alarm , Senator Pepper Rep. , Pa. , a member of the senate committee on banking and currency , is in charge of the measure In the upper house and will seek to have it made a special order for consideration at the first favorable opportunity . Government officials are frankly alarmed over the withdrawal of national banks and their conversion into Mate banks . Since Jan. 1 . 1918. about 175 national banks , each with a capital of more than $100,000 , have given up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total assets amounted to nearly $2.000,050,000 , or about 10 per cent of the assets of the entire national banking sytem . The purpose of these banks in withdrawing from the national system was to place themselves upon an equal competitive basis with the state banks in their localities . //ninth Banking Provisions . Of widespread Interest are the provisions of the bill relating to branch banking , which is credited with being the factor which is making the greatest inroads into the national system . Statewide branch banking by state banks Is being permitted under state laws in nine states , county-wide branch banking in two states , and city-wide branch banking in nine states . In the United States as a whole it is estimated that about 500 state banking institutions have under operation 1,700 branches . The state banks with branches have had a big advantage over national banks , whose branch banking operations are extremely limited . Controller of the Currency Henry M. Dawes has taken a stand against branch banking and the pending bill aims to prevent a further extension beyond the present stage of development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognizes the right of the state banks to engage In Mira-city branch banking in the large cities where the state legislature already has granted them this right . Where a state bank is hereafter consolidated with a national bank any , such consolidated bank is prohibited under the bill from retaining in operation any branch which the state bank may have had beyond the city limits . Where a state bank is converted into a national bank the branches outside the city limits similarly must be abandoned . The bill prohibits any state batty having in operation branches outside the city limits from becoming a member of the federal reserve system without first divesting itself of such branches . This has the effect of preventing statewide branch banking on the part of new member banks in the federal reserve system . State banks already members of the federal reserve , system , which are engaged in statewide branch banking are prohibited from establishing any additional branches beyond city limits . The bill does not attempt to force state member banks to divest themselves of branches which they now have outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks of the federal reserve system also are prohibited from establishing any branches at all in cities with a population less than 25,000 , more than one branch In cities from 25,000 to 50,000 , and more than two branches in cities of 50,000 to 100,000 population . National banks are prohibited front . establishing any branches beyond the limits of the city in which the bank is located . In those states where state banks are not permitted to establish branches even within city limits the national banks also are prohibited from doing so . An important feature of the bill has to do with real estate loans , the period for which a loan may be made by a national bank upon improved city property being increased from one year to five years . The demand for this change has been especially strong from the national banks in the smaller towns and cities . Gives Indeterminate Succession . The bill changes the term of the suecession of national banks from ninetynine years to an indeterminate succession . Under the present charter limited to a term of years the banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , customers desiring to make a long term trust naturally selecting a state bank or trust compatty with an indeterminate charter .                     