@@696385

txt In times past the Rev. David Brown , who wears the British Distinguished Service Medal and who has letters of commendation for his part with the American army in the Pilipino insurrection , has extended the helping hand to many a fallen brother , but this morning the helping hand will be ' extended to him . He will appear before a fellow veteran of the world war , Judge Joseph , Burke , past commander of Black ? I hawk post , American Legion , as one who has strayed from the fold . Otherwise he would merely be one of the many unfortunates who are brought I into the Des Plaines street court every day . Picked up as Derelict . Policeman B. A. Finnell came upon the huddled figure of the 60 year old man who had collapsed in the street , and took him to the station . There he was revived and he told the sergeant he had come to Chicago from Montreal three weeks ago , becoming a derelict In the Des Plaines street district . Gray and haggard , Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contents of his pockets Included i four medals for distinguished service and bravery with an Essex regiment of the British army . Then there was a letter from Brig . Gen. Robert L. Howze , of the United States army , stating that the bearer , David Brown had been captured by Aguinaldo and was held prisoner of war for nine months during 1899 , and he was rescued by the command of Gen. Howze who was then a lieutenant . Photographs , newspaper clippings. letters and credentials Identified him as David Brown , a minister of the Methodist Episcopal church , ordained Dec. 2 , 1894 at tho Montreal confer ? ence . His clerical papers were signed by A. Carman , general superintendent of the conference , and by E. B. Ryckman , president . Pastorate in Southwest . One letter to him referred to his pastorate at the old Harrington mission to Prescott . Ariz . Another from the Rev. Wilson Ard of Denver , Colo .. represented Brown as " a man of high ideals and conduct above any reproach . " A letter from Lynn Harold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church of Detroit , Mich. , indicated that Dr. Hough felt concern for Brown 's condition . " The strain may be testing and difficult , but the fight is tremendously worth while , and when your physteal strength has been rehabilitated that will be an asset all the way through , " Brown was admonished . A few more documents showed he bcen through considerable sick-nes as a result of his war service and he was receiving a pension of $40 a month through the ministry of penalong at Ottawa . Judge Burke was notified . " We must do whatever will rehablli ? tate and reclaim him , " Judge Burke announced . " The American Legion will naturally interest Itself In thn Rev. Mr. Brown but In addition 1 will ask George Dixon , who is the leading Methodist layman of the city . to come to court and help me arrange to restore him to society and happiness and health . "                     