@@693036

txt Mr. SHERMAN 'S death by drowning deprives American letters of an influence always greatly needed , perhaps never more so ' than at present . He was riot merely a critic , but that rare compound , a man of ample knowledge and also of the impulse and ability to express himself . Mr. SHERMAN was one of the few surviving great readers . He knew the best that . has been thought and written , and from it was constantly deriving I standards of judgment by which to test current literature , even those parts of it which he undoubtedly believed to be the worst , or at least the most freakish and rootless , that had ever ' been written . It was . a tonic thing to have the comments which flowed from his pen during the past fifteen or twenty years , covering a wide range of literary production , ' particularly in this country , and shooting delicately barbed arrows at folly as it flew across his field of vision . As a university instructor in English . Professor SHEAMAN made a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labors . It is said that he was an inspiring teacher and guide to the outstanding talents in his classes , but was rather inclined to discourage and deter the dullards . He was never one to suffer fools gladly . Apparently he became a little sceptical or cynical about the possibility of toning up Western culture through college courses in English , so that when The Herald Tribune of this city offered him the position of literary editor he was ready to make that hazard of new fortunes . His work since coming to New York was marked by his high and serious quality , tempered a bit by new genialities and graces . He has been accused of somewhat relaxing the severe standards of his earlier writing . Whereas he used to desire to strangle misshapen literary births in their cradle , he seemingly came to have a sneaking fondness for acting as godfather to ungainly offspring of . the moderns . To this charge Mr. SHERMAN recently replied partly by way of light-hearted admission . If he stopped learning . what was the use of living ? Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historian J. R. GREEN somewhat bitterly predicted that it would be said of him after his death : " He died learning . " Of haphazard and impressionistic criticism our literature has more than a plenty . Writers fairly swarm who think it important to tell the world what they like , though why they like it , or what its relation is to what has gone beforg in human experience , they can not give their readers the faintest explanation . Mr. SHERMAN 'S Criticism was of a ? different order . He had background , he was aware of the relations of one period and one literature to another , he felt it desirable to know what he was writing about , he wreaked himself upon acquiring information from the sources , and altogether was a critic of such demonstrated usefulness and stilt higher premise that his untimely taking off brings with It a sense of  |p6culiar  and irreparable loss .                     