@@692306

txt The Stinnes weakness revealed the weakness of Germany in finance , credits and liquid capital . The best estimate I could get of the Stinnes fortune rt the maximum was as of between six and seven hundred gold marks . Proba.bly Stinnes himself could have liquidated for around five hundred million gold marks , or 125 million dollars . Stinnes couldtransmit his property ; but not his business training and financial sense . He was the great afterwar profiteer , and the people of Germany today hold him re.qponsible , in a measure , for the inflation period out of which he made many hundred million gold marks , but which brought ruin-to Germany . He borrowed paper marks of the banks when they had rgone down more than 90 ' of their value and repaid when they had far less than 1 ' 1 , of their face value . In other words , for every hundred million paper marks borrowed he repaid , after a still further fall of the mark , at a cost of less than 10 ' ; ' , . Thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DEISTS But when the rentenrnark , or the gold standard , was , brought in , the situation was reversed . Stinnes died with less than eighty million marks indebtedness against his industrial mining and shipping combination . He had made the greatest industrial combination in all Germany It extended from hotels to newspapers ; from oil in the ground to the finished ship and the shipping business that loaded it . Instead of following the advice of the elder Stinnes and keeping out of the clutches of the money lenders , instead of sacrificing properties to remain the dictator of what was left , the two Stinnes boys added a hundred millior.s to the debt of the house of Stinnes and soon found themselves in the hands of the ' financiers whose power Stinnes had overthrown . In the old days the bankers were in control of the industries , and the direction was from the bank parlors . Stinnes was the one man , however , who rose to such , heights that he was able to dictate to finance . Now the sons must receive the dictate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bankers ; bought out with the gift of a radio company and the Stinnes automobile concern which soon busted ; and the younger and more worthy son , Hugo , remained alone . Hugo appealed to Clarence Dillon of the American house of Dillon , Read 8 . Co. , who offered eighty million marks , provided the German bankers would put up forty and grant a five-year liquidation . The bankers were insistent upon a prompt liquidation and the Stinnes elimination . German bankers have not manifested any financial acumen in fifteen years . The great successs of the German Reichsbank , that most wonderful German credit structure , has made them more autocratic than - acute . The demand for immediate liquidation cut the market prices of the Stinnes properties in halves . Clarence Dillon with Baron Schroeder , at the request of Hugo Stinnes , put up the millions to take over the iron and coal properties in the heart of the Mhr  --  the Deutsche Luxernburgiache -- which was the foundation of the house of Stinnes , and they are content with their position . The German hankers declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have any further Stinnes management ; but even with their harsh , cruel and precipitate liquidation , there will probably be left for the Stinnes family about twenty million marks or five million dollars . G.En , Liot PARADOXES Germany is feeling the pinch of the gold cure in her export business . She has no longer the advantage of her paper mark over the gold standard countries , but she has developed internally increased consuming power from higher wages . The Geruihn worker did not know how little he was really getting when millions and billions and later trillions of paper marks went into his pay envelope . bow he is again able , with a twenty-five-cent mark , to comprehend his wage position , and he is demanding higher wages ; getting them and spending them . Therefore internal trade in Germany is improving . G ERMAN DOLES Paradoxical as it may seem , there are fewer men at work , and more than 600,000 are receiving the assistance sf the dole . This is just about the number of idle men in England . for confessedly the dole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the - war and Germany never had . Individual incomes are again large in Germany , and payments from the national income , under the Dawes plan , should not be difficult . But if one looks to international trade for payment , the export of capital will be difficult . A secondary effect of German financial blundering may be noted in the destruction of internal indebtedness by the *wiping out of the German paper mark . ' VDU DAWES VAYDE NTS The national debt of Germany is now only 5500,000 , - 000 , and the states and cities had their indebtedness practically wiped out by inflation . They have , therefore , now a new basis for borrowing , and the obligation of Germany to the Allied is in much better position for collection . Therefore it is expected that ten billion dollars may eventually be realized from Germany under the Dawes plan for the account of the Allies . In the first year under the Dawes plan Germany had paid one billion gold marks , but of this sum eight hundred million marks were from the German external @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German railways . In the second year , which began September 1 , last , the payment called for is one billion two hundred and twenty million gold marks , of which only two hundred and fifty million gold marks may come from Germany 's national budget . An equal amount is expected from the transport tax ; and another 300,000 gold marks are expected from her sale of the preference shares of the railways . If other special income is not to be had , Germany may , still borrow . The third year payments to the Allies are expected to be as the second , and the fourth year the requirements are one billion seven hundred and forty million , and in the Mil year and thereafter , two and a half billion gold mark per annum . CULTIVATING THE WILL TO PAY Certainly German national finances are handled very lightly under the Dawes plan . And the old sore is there ? a budget of about three billion dollars , or nearly the equal of that of the United States . Two-thirds goes out salaries , pensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with large national income and heavy taxation and the heaviest government expenditures . The German problem for the Allies in the future is rineee that of the German " will to pay . " Meanwhile it is hoped that Germany will like the way of gold and peace and will be good , with membership in the League of Nations and European confidence in the Pact of Locarno . Meanwhile there is annoyance in Berlin over the Publication at Moscow of an apparently official book dealing with the armies of foreign countries and revealing an alleged secret military organization in Germany , closely knit with the regular army . ? WAIL PREPARATIONS According to the London Daily Mail 's Berlin correspondent last month , the Russian figures show that Germany is capable of quickly making a ninefold expansion to her regular army , has three and a half million secret soldiers and can place five and a half million men in the field . Particulars are given of factories at which arms are secretly manufactured , of secret stores of arms which have not been handed over as agreed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Russian publication contains a list of secret regiments , with the names of their commanders . It also gives particulars of hidden military- aeroplanes and tanks . The book points out that Germany pursues the task of perfecting military aviation secretly at home and openly abroad , where she possesses aeroplane factories and trains airmen . " bi S T OVITITATE TEE ' UNITED STATES There are many in Europe who predict that Germany will attack France in ten years , lout my observations and studies within and without Germany and through repress-natives who line* investigated recently for me at first hand the war sentiment within Germany , make clear that Germany will not attack France until France is isolated and Germany in alliance with either England or the United States . At the present time Germany is making every bid for friendship with the United States . This is one reason to expect the carrying out of the Dawes plan . English diplomacy was most clever in arranging the German settlements and giving it an American name . Germany may be again underestimating England as 12 years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national sentiment of the United States or their financial and industrial power with mass production a IS respects men , money , ships , aeroplanes , technical engineering , factory and electrical forces . Before Germany can set on war again , she must reunite the German forces that were dismembered from her in the ruthless splitting up of the Austrian Empire , and she must make new alliances south of Austria . A. WORLD VONVER . TN ASIERICA . The untrammeled free sentiment of the United States is a world power that is more and more appreciated in Europe , and to affront the American demands for - world peace by German armament beyond necessary defense , especially after the Pact of Locarno , would be inexcusable national stupidity . Great Britain . Germany and all Europe , except France and Russia , recognize as never before a world force in the peaceful progressive sentiments of the United States . Little attention , therefore , is now paid in England to newspaper or Soviet reports of Germany 's war preparations . I do n't believe- the restoration of the Hohenzollerns to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German people , - would be very seriously contested , notwithstanding the wording of the Versailles Treaty . Indeed , there is considerable expectation in England and Europe that a monarchical party must ultimately prevail in Germany . The Germans still believe in efficiency rather than in democracy , while the Anglo-Saxon people are in general satisfied to pay the price of freedom under democracy .                     