@@686381

txt President Harding and the members of his cabinet are seriously concerned over the economic situation . This was shown at the regular meeting of the Cabinet today when the condition of the nation from the viewpoint of prosperity was discussed at length . The Cabinet sat for more than two hours and most of tee time was taken up in considering the problem , especially conditions with which the agricultural interests of the country are confronted . That the farmers in many parts of the United States face ruin was stressed at the meeting and it was the general opinion that immediate relief was necessary . President Harding shared the common feeling of concern and was in sympathy with the suggestion that . something should be done quickly by the government . War-time powers are still vested in the President , among them the right to impose an embargo on the importation of agricultural products . at Willie some consideration was given to this remedy the President indicated that he was reluctant to exercise his authority . Just what to do was a matter that was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said after the meeting - that the President desired a plan of action devised with the least possible delay . Want ' Stella for Farmers . What came to light ; at the Cabinet session with regard to the conditions prevailing among farmers , cattle raisers and dairymen made such an impression that it was evident when the Cabinet adjourned that relief for the farmers has become the primary principle of the new administration 's program . It was also evident that the matter of determing whether tariff revision or revision of tax laws shall be taken up first by . Congress is considered as of i.econdary importance . From all appearances , unless the President finds that ie is able to remedy the situation by f.xecutive action , the first business that lie will urge upon Congress will be the enactment of legislation to furnish re1 ief to the farmers . In the closing days of the last Con ! ! grass President Wilson vetoed the emergency tariff bill intended to furnish reillef through higher duties on farm products . Many Senators and Representatives who voted for this measure doubted its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political sop to the complaining farming interests . It was gathered after today 's Cabinet meeting that the plans of the administration contemplate a much more comprehensive measure of relief . onsideration is expected to he given to eta h matters as the extension of rural credits and perhaps direct Federal aid to the distressed agricultural communities in addition to tariff legislation of a more comprehensive character than that embraced in the Emergency bill vetoed by President Wilson . Wool Growers ' Plight Pictured . Figures were produced at today 's Cabinet meeting to illustrate the condition in which those engaged in agriculture find themselves . The wool growers were represented . as being in a desperate plight , and so close a student of this industry as Senator Smoot of Utah favors an embargo on the importation of wool to bring relief . Senator Smoot contends that no other remedy will meet the situation . The Cabinet was told that 100,000 tons of wool are en route to this country , where the woel producers , according to the statements made at the Cabinet meeting , are unable to sell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beef were also on their way to the United States , the Cabinet was told , and these , it was said , could be disposed of at a profit by their owners . American producers of meats , wool and other agricultural supplies , it was explained , find that they can not dispose of their suralus because of the lack of buying power aoroad , and at the same time can not dispose of their surplus without great loss in competition with foreign producers . These foreign products , it was said , can be shipped to the United States at less cost for freight than American producers in the West can send . their products by rail to the Atlantic seaboard . Much of the agricultural produce now coming from abroad , it was claimed , is being sent here to take advantage of the Underwood tariff rates before these rates may be raised by the Republican Congress . Transportation conditions also fit into the situation , according to the Cabinet view , and this phase will have consideration in connection with means proposed to remedy the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summary of what took place at tile Cabinet table , to the fact that despite the surplus of agricultural production retail prices had undergone little change . . Executive The authority of the Executive to impose an embargo on tile importation ' of agricultural products is found in the war-time Trading- With the Enemy- act . which remains on the statute books . In speeches in the Presidential campaign President Harding advocated the repeal of the wartime laws . Since he became President two weeks ago Mr. Harding has once taken advantage of the authority vested with him under those laws . That was in the appointment of his physician , Dr. Charles E. Sawyer of Marion , Ohio , as a Brigadier General of the Army Reserve Corps and his assignment to actitve duty as physician at the White House . In a speech delivered at the Minnesota State Fair on Sept . S Mr. Harding outlined his agricultural policy , advocating tariff protection for agricultural products and an effort to make the Unites States self-sustaining . That speech was the joint product of Mr. Harding and Henry C. Wallace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Secretary of Agriculture .                     