@@685944

txt The commonest and most plausible explanation of the crashing Republican victory is that the voters wanted a " change . " But what they wished to have changed is as various as the desires , the passions and prejudices , the hopes and fears of the heart of man . There was no real consensus concerning ; what the new Administration ought to do . The craving was mainly for something different , no matter what . By so much , there will doubtless be a " change . " But there are certain things in government , as in life , that can by no possibility be changed by a popular fiat . And in respect to these fixed elements , many of them the cause of apprehension and discontent , it will be found that , even under Republican rule , the more they are changed , the more they remain the same thing . Legislation can do much , but against the glacial movement of economic forces it is well-nigh powerless . No clearsighted man expects that the processes of financial and industrial readjustment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as everywhere else in the civilized world , can be stayed , or made less painful , by the new President and Congress . The well-known phenomena of an era of falling prices , liquidation , lessened employment , can not be obliterated by electoral majorities running into the millions . Causes at work deeper than politics will ' produce their effects despite politics . Politicians who have rashly promised to suspend economic laws will be hurt by their own folly and impotence when the people discover that what was to be will be , notwithstanding their rush to the polls to order a change . Nor will it be wise to indulge the hope that the nature of government will change simply because party control has been changed . Washington , after March 4 , will not suddenly become the scene of efficiency and economy . The immense inertia of the governmental machine will not yield readily to a new touch . Senator HMIDING has spoken confidently about getting rid of two hundred thousand needless Federal employ ? s . More power to his elbow if he resolutely sets about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every sinecure there is a politician somewhere snugly ensconced . Strike at the superfluous clerk and you hit a captain of fifties or of hundreds in the " deestricts . " Then the new President will have to confront a new horde of Republican Senators and Representatives , all eager for offices of smile kind to be doled out in their name . HARDING 'S big battalions will insist upon being fed if they are going to fight . He will deserve well of his country if he is able to make one office holder in Washington grow where two grew before ; but he ought not to blink the fact that he is entering upon a struggle in which stouter men than he have striven only to fail . In the matter of cutting down the ex-e penses of government , it is easy to point out the crying necessity , exceedingly hard to make the desired saving . Senator CAPPER has recently been urging the need of heroic measures of economy . He urges the new Administration to take an axe and chop and smash the appropriations . Excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them are compulsory . They are unavoidable if we are to pay for past wars and go on making costly preparations for future ones . Interest on the public debt and money for the army and navy are the veritable horse-leeches of the Treasury . Let Senator CAPPER cry out for disarmament ? in the only safe way , through the League of Nations  --  and then he will be talking business . Otherwise , the demand for economy will be fruitless . Historically , the political watchword " retrenchment " has always gone along with " peace . " Without the latter the former is impossible . Something still harder to change is the temper and judgment and aspirations of the American people . They will persist after the election very much as they were before . To listen to some foolish talkers , one would think that the attitude of the citizens of this country toward the war , and what followed it , had suddenly been transformed . But this is to judge by the shallows , not the deeps . In all the fundamentals , America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the war . If the thing were to do over again , it would be done with the same national enthusiasm and determination . And the people are not so light-minded that they now imagine it possible to go , on as if the war had never been . The vast alteration which it inevitably wrought in our contacts with Europe is accepted by all ; and all are fully aware that the necessary steps must be taken to discharge our obligations and safeguard our future . The international re- lations of the United States have now become a large and permanent factor in our political life . To assert , as some are glibly doing , that " we have changed that " by last week 's election is merely to advertise one 's ignorance .                     