@@694669

txt It is extraordinary that two of the greatest figures in American painting were destined for naval or military careers . James Whistler actually got as far as West Point but , fortunately for art , was " flunked " in a chemistry examination . A favorite bon mot of the painter in after years was : " If silicon had been a gas I would have been a major general . " John Sargent was saved from becoming an admiral by the very precocity of 111,9 talent for drawing and the interest of his mother , who , ' we gather , painted also  --  but In a lady-like manner . Hero the parallel between Whistler and Sargent , our two famous artistic expatriates , abruptly ends . Sargent was from the beginning occupied with the external and visual . He spent his entire career , with the exception of a few decorations , in rendering the actual and in the elimination of Irrelevant detail . Whistler , on the other hand , waited for his subject matter until nature was " in tune " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonalities married to the linear scheme of Hokusai and 1-liroshigi . The Honorable Evan Charteris has given us a very chatty and agreeable biography enlivened with letters and anecdote . It is true that it lacks the frank wit of the French latter day biographers of , let us say , . Brousson 's Anatole France or the Renoir by Vollard . We may also regret that the critical passages were not written by R. A. M. Stevenson , who was a fellow student with Sargent under Carolus Duran and whose " Velasquez " has much of the clarity and charm of his cousin 's , Robert Louis , ' work . We could wish also that the Honorable Evan might have been a youngster in Rome with Johnny Sargent as Vernon Leo Violet Paget was . Her chapters written as a sort of supplement to the book are touched with the magic and glamour of remembered childhood and if we do not get a. great deal of Sargent , the boy , we at least carry away much of the rose spectacled " glory that was Rome . " Charteris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ness or fine writing . It is perhaps too much to ask of an Englishman to dwell on the pride with which Sargent clung to his American citizenship or his renunciation of knighthood and of the presidency of the Royal Academy as well for Sargent in England is claimed as an English painter . He does not make a derisive demigod of his subject as the Pennells made of Whistler . He merely builds up a record of work and achievement that in its very bulk compares in acreage with the output of the factory we know as Ruben . Best of all we see the man John Sargent emerge from the mass of letters and narrative which form the interesting background of this friendly book . A gentle soul in a giant 's body , shy with the shyness almost of Arnold Bennett 's Priam Farli and lost in his work with the same detachment , ho was the most loyal of friends and a generous fairy godfather to impecunious members of his profession . i At the time of his death he had and still has enormous piestige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's three years ago when a small 7. opy of the little Prince Balthazar Carlos on Horseback alter Velasquez , sold for the unprecedented figure of $30,000 and when indeed the only two .  - -  anva.ses which might be ranked with his best work were a study for the 1 11adame Gautreau and a little sunny I landscape with Claude Monet sketchng . Will this prestige last ? I hardly lank so with ; the artistic pendulum winging so rapidly away from realism .                     