@@684833

txt SIR WILLIAM OSLER . His Services to Society'as Physician and Humanist . To the Editor of The New York Times : Sir William Osier was so widely and so affectionately known in America that his death ought not to pass without more than the conventional notice . Besides , it touches the hearts of many to remember just now that during the war Osier was continually offering hos-I pitality and help to Americans . Please let me say a few inadequate words . Sir William Osier was altogether the best known and best loved physician that this or any country has produced . His influence and achievement are not to be measured by the books he wrote , 1 the , students he taught or the scientific observations he made . Through the influence of his ideas , his personality and the mellowing activities of his career , he enriched the medical profession and greatly helped to raise its art to a point which now compels for it the esteem of society in general . For Osier was not only a proponent of science and progress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals were high but also human and attainable . He was most skilful and learned in medicine , but he was also a bookman and a scholar of wide and accurate knowledge . ' He wrote with charm , learning and distinction , and what he did seemed easy and wise for others to appreciate or themselves also to attempt . He introduced new methods and infused new enthusiasm into medical education , and was a main factor in setting and compelling high standards and wise methods for medical schools in America and England . He loved his fellow men and gave himself to their service , but he loved also books and libraries with a grand passion . He made the study of historical medicine not only interesting , but showed it to be necessary to broad vision and genuine culture . He had a joyous humor and a genius for friendship , so that the circle of friends was an ever widening one . To these friends he was lavishly unselfish of service . When it was proposed a year ago to publish in his honor a volume made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the project was nearly wrecked by the flood of contributions which poured in upon the editors . These anniversary volumes in celebration of his seventieth birthday , now completed , form a final memorial of things accomplished through the inspiration of his personality , and through the recognition of an incomparably lovable character and an enduringly helpful career . CHARLES L. DANA . New York , Jan. 1 . 1920 . To the Editor of The New York Times : In the death of Dr. osier the world is poorer . He , indeed , was a great physician and a great and good man . Never failing to any one in timely great courtesy and kind acts , he was ever true to highest duty to his noble profession , which he adorned by every possible grace of knowledge and culture . I remember him well , and always with feelings of warmest admiration and friendship . Spiritually , he is well shown In the following words , taken from " Science and Immortality , " his address at Harvard University in 1904 : He it is " who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with those who deny altogether the life after death ; and this is my own confessio Mel . " BEVERLEY ROBINSON , M. D. New York , Dec. 30 , 1519 . The Anti-Strike Clauge . To the Editor of 7'he New York Times. : Objection to the anti-strike clause of the Cummins bill , so far as I can discover , is confined to the labor leaders . Most of the rank and file I know not only do not oppose the provision but rather look to it as a protection against danger of interruption in their work at the word of the leaders . These leaders , however , see in the provision a vital blow at the dignity and power they have maintained . Adoption of this feature of the bill will leave them shorn of their greatest prerogative  --  the right to hold the strike club constantly over the heads of employers . At the present time the leaders insist on having a strike vote in their vest pockets for ready use . President Johnson of the machinists recently protested that he would not think of using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government . Nevertheless , the strike vote apparently is regarded as an important part of the leaders ' equipment when pleading their cases at Washington . The whole problem now , as I see it , is with the leaders . The rank and tile are not worried , but the labor barons who have lorded it over the Washington politicians see their soft snaps in danger . OLD RAILROADER . New York , Dec. 31 , 1919 . Irish Plan Worth Trying . To the Editor of The New Fork Times : Sir Edward Carson ( a few years ago a " potential rebel " ) does n't like Lloyd George 's new plan for home rule . Neither does the so-called President of the Irish Republic ( a " carpet-bagger " In Erin ) , Eamon Le Valera . Therefore it must be a plan well worth trying . I am not the only Irish-born American who wants to see his native land happy and harmonious that hopes Lloyd George will succeed in putting his Irish bill through Parliament and force the Irish in Ireland to settle their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one invite Ireland 's really great statesman  --  a man of broad , far-seeing views  --  who knows the strength and weakness of his fellow Irishmen at home and who despises petty polities and blatant politicanders , to tell us what he thinks of the case ? I refer to Sir Horace Plunkett , who at present is our guest . WILLIAM J. GUARD . New York . Jan. 1 , 1920.                     