@@690082

txt After a day of stormy debate , in which party feeling ran high , the House late this afternoon , by a vote of 210 to 198 , passed a resolution declaring that Sol Bloom , the Democratic member from the Nineteenth New York District , was entitled to the seat that lie now holds . thus rejecting the claim for it made by Walter M. Chandler , former Republican Representative from the New York district named . Mr. RIclom 's tenure of office during this Congress was assured as a result of the support given him by a coalition of Democrats , eight Progressive Republicans and one Farmer-Labor mem-ber , Of the 434 members of the present House 408 voted today . Had the eight Republicans and the one Farmer-Laborl member who voted for Mr. Bloom supported Mr. Chandler he would have had 207 votes , one more than the Democratic membership , which is composed of 200 Representatives . Not in many years has an election contest in the House excited so rmuch ' interest among the members of that body . Usually cases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest was no exception to the rule . The Republican leadership was anxious to win this seat . In the first place their hold on the House is insecure , owing to the fickleness of the Progressive bloc . Gives Control of New York Delegation . In the second place they realized that in event of a deadlock in the next Presidential election , following a third party bolt , thus throwing the selection of a President into the House , they would be in a strong strategic position if they were in control of the New York delegation . That delegation as it now stands is composed of twenty-two Democrats and twenty-one Republicans . If Mr. Chandler had been seated the Republicans would have been put in control of the New York group and could cast the State 's vote in case the House is called upon to choose a President . With Mr. Bloom sitting firmly in his seat , the Democrats retain control of the New York delegation . The contest between Representative Bloom and Mr. Chandler grew out of charges made by the latter that 11 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law in the special election held in the Nineteenth New York District on Jan. 30 , 1923. to fill a vacancy created by the death of ' Samuel Marx . Bloom , on the face of the returns , received 17,909 votes , and Mr. Chandler , his Republican opponent , 17,718 , ' Bloom thus having a plurality of 191 . Mr. Bloom was declared elected and a certificate of election was duly issued to him by the Secretary of State of New York . Mr. Chandler filed notice of contest , alleging that irregularities , frauds and crimes were committed in the special election and that a recount would demonstrate that he was entitled to the seat . Following this there was an official recount , in which it was held that Bloom had received 17,302 apparently good ballots and Chandler 17,676 apparently I good ballots , leaving a majority for Mr. Bloom of 126 . Under the direction of the House another recount was ordered , as a result of which it was held that Mr. Bloom had received 17,837 ballots and Chandler 17,704 , leaving Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ease . the eight Republican members of , the Elections Committee decided to reject the votes polled in the Twenty-third Election District of the Eleventh Assembly District , and in the Thirtieth and Thirtyfirst Election Districts a the Seventeenth Assembly District , alleging that in those districts " there was such an utter , complete and reckless disregard of the election laws involving the essentials of a valid election that it can be fairly said there was no legal election held in the , said election districts . " Committee Supports Chandler . It was further charged the returns of the election boards in the districts named " are so badly tainted with fraud that the truth is not deducible therefrom . " Eliminating the returns from the three districts in dispute , the Republican members of the committee held that Chandler had received 17,504 votes and Bloom 17,280 votes , and declared that Chandler had accordingly been elected by a. majority of 224 votes . It urged the House to unseat Bloom and seat Chandler . The three Democratic members of the Elections Committee took issue with the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The minority recommended that Chandler be denied admission to the House and that Bloom be continued as the legally elected Representative . To today 's debate Republicans supporting Chandler 's claim beat the torntoms on Tammany 's alleged domination of elections in New York City . Mr. Chandler , who appeared in his own benalf , made this statement : " 2-. do not want you to steal this seat for Bloom . I do not want you to let Tammany Hall steal it from me . " Representative Guinn Williams of Texas , who wrote the minority report for the Democratic members of the Elections Committee , declared that " common decency and common honesty " should impel the House to seat Bloom . ' He asserted it to be a well-grounded principle of law that a party is not bound to disprove fraud either directly or constructively ; it must be proved by the party alleging it . Chandler , he asserted , bad failed to prove his case . The principal speech in support of Chandler 's contest was made by Representative Richard N. Elliott of Indiana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the State of New York had a good election law for the guidance of election officers , but that in the three election districts in controversy the officials carried on the affairs of the special election in which Bloom and Chandler were candidates " without any regard whatever for the laws of New York and paid no attention whatever to whether the election was tO be either honest ? r legal . " Mr. Elliott urged the House to accept the majority report and declare air . Chandler to be the legally elected Representative . Piogressive Republican Supports Bloom . presentative 3014 M. Nelson , the Wboonsin . It apublVe Q n Progressive , ' warned the House against " disfranchising* " the voters of the three precincts in controversy as urged by Mr. Elliott . He asserted that such action would establish a precedent that might arise to plague the House in the future . Mr. Nelson said that , as an " independent tRepublican , " be had come to the conclusion , after a study of the record in the case , that Chandler was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that the seating of Chandler would give the New York delegation a majority of one Republican instead of the present majority of one Democrat and that this would change the vote co the State should the Presidential election be thrown into the House . " While this political exigency has been whispered about in the cloakrooms and throughout the corridors . " said Mr. Nelson , " I do not believe that any such ignoble motive is the primary cause of this partisan contest . To unseat a. duty elected member of Congress for the purpose of getting control of a State delegation so as to elect a President would be bold and hazardous to the nth de- ' gree . The end would not justify the means . " Mr. Nelson believed that , while this argument had much to do with the situation , the primary cause is " an active human being , the contestant himself , and his persistent personal campaign since Congress convened . " Mr. Nelson said that precedents had been cited in support of unseating Bloom , but that they were bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gill against Myer. in the Sixty-third Congress , was disapproved by Mr. Chandler 's vote as a member of the House at the time . Bloom Defends His Case . Representative Bloom was vigorously applauded as he rose to speak . " If I thought for one minute , " he said , " that I was not entitled to my seat in this House I would break all speed records going out the door . I have examined every bit of evidence in this case . It is the most inconsistent , illogical thing I have ever read . There is no doubt in my mind that I was elected . I was elected on the face of the ' returns in the initial count . Two recounts accorded me re-election . Now I am up for re-election for the fourth time . " Mr. Bloom insisted that ail the egal rules prescribed in the handling ofl ballots were observed in the special election in which he and Chandler ran as candidates . He exhibited ballots and ballot boxes used in the election and attempted to show by illustration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention of committing a fraud . " You should point outr interrupted Representative Williams of Texas , " that when the ballots were being deposited there were ten witnesses present . " The House laughed when Mr. Bloom replied , " Ten men and one policeman , " Addressing the Republican side of the House , Mr. Bloom said : " You have to right-to steal my seat , Jam-entitled to it under the law and the evidence . I now leave the matter in your hands . " Chandler Addresses the House . Pleading his cause in a long speech in which he reviewed the election and the evidence offered ha ' support of his contest , Mr. Chandler charged that ballots had been abstracted from the boxes and that other Irregularities had been present which warranted the House in unseating Bloom . He also charged that for a part of the time on the day of the election only Tammany watchers had been present in the polling booths of the three precincts where the votes were thrown out by the majority of the House committee on the ground of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in encompassing his defeat . Representative John J. O'Connor , the Tammany member from the Sixteenth New York District , interrupted Mr. Chandler at this point . " Did you charge the use of money in your original notice of contest ? " asked Mr. O'Connor . " I did . " replied Mr. Chandler . " Did you press that point before the Elections Committee ? " Replying , Mr. Chandler said that he did not invoke the Corrupt Practices act in pressing his contest before the House committee . Mr. Chandler received an ovation from the Republicans as he finished his speech . A rising vote was taken and Mr. Bloom was declared elected by a vote of 210 to 198 . A roll-call was demanded , and Mr. Bloom won by a vote of 210 to 203 . Republican Leader Longworth . in a last-minute endeavor to save Mr. Chandler , called for a vote on the amended resolution . On this vote Mr. Bloom won-209 to ? 199 . The Republican Progressives who voted for Mr. Bloom were : Mrs. Mae G. Nolan of California , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Wisconsin . and Kvale and Keller of Minnesota . Representative Wefald of Minnesota was the Farmer-Labor member who sided with Mr. Bloom . Representative Berger , the Milwaukee SoCialtst. voted " present . " So did Representative Lineberger of California , Republican ; Representative Patterson of New Jersey , Republican ; Representative Roach of Missouri , Republican . Representative Bloom also voted " present . " Representatives Langley of Kentucky and Zihlman of Mery1 land , Republicans , who are under inIvestigation by a special committee of the House , did not vote . The New York delegation divided along party lines . Representative La Guardia of the Twentieth New York District , Republican , whose seat is contested by Henry Frank , Democrat , Sup , ported Mr. Chandler . Representative Weller of the Twenty-first New York Atiii , r1 , t upArrfriog.gr illferrignatefflt ; rldarthl Ansorge , voted for Mr. kitoorn.                     