@@691100

txt The King and Queen of Spain were invested this afternoon with the insignia of their new offices as Honorary Mayor and Mayoress of every municipal district in Spain . King Alfonso received a gold-topped cane and the Queen a cross in brilliants . Great enthusiasm marked the ceremony , which took place in an ice rink transformed into a vast hall . The Alcalde ( Mayor ) of Madrid invested their Majesties , after reading a message inscribed on parchment from all the Alcaldes of the kingdom . The message asserts that King Alfonso has devoted his life to the good of his country and the cause of national progress in every branch of industry , commerce , science and art ; that he never quailed before personal danger ; that by generous initiative during the war he won the noblest crown for any monarch , that of the gratitude of many nations . l t adds : " For these reasons , and by your high example , you have gained universal respect and affection . The States of Spanish America in particular join us in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobility and pride of the Spaniards . in whom all the virtues of a chief of state are happily concentrated . " The Queen . who is regarded as having shared his sacrifices and shown the same virtues as King Alfonso , was in justice associated with the King in their homage , concluded the Alcalde . King Alfonso was visibly moved by the warmth of the reception . He replied that the homage of the Alcaldes would encourage him to further efforts , and he asked them to continue in the path 5f peace , order and labor . In this cause he invited the cooperation of all good Spaniards , to the exclusion of none . This passage was greeted with prolonged cheering , after which the King ended by professing his faith in the great destiny reserved for Spain , wan the help of God , Who had enabled her to perform great deeds in the past . Nine thousand Alcaldes were served with an excellent luncheon , believed to be the largest meal ever catered for in Spain . The host was the municipality of Madrid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " Viva simpatio ! " for the King . When the Marquis d'Estella ( General Primo de Rivera ) , newly arrived from Morocco . appeared the King hailed him as the " bravest General in the world . " When the royal party , which included the Queen Mother and the Prince of the Asturias , had departed , the Marquis d'Estella addressed the Alcaldes . His speech , however , was net listened to , for the Alcaldes , carried-away by their enthusiasm , climbed onto chairs and tables and shouted and cheered in one continuous roar . General 13erenguer , former High Commissioner in Spanish Morocco , and two other officers who were confined to a fortress for having attended a political banquet a few months ago , have been pardoned and set frees                     