@@695507

txt Acquisition by the Radio Corp of America of an interest in Keith-Albee-Orpheurn. and F. B. 0 . Pictures Corp . probably marks the beginning of a new era for the amusement industry which after years of rapid growth has been solidifying in the past few years into half a dozen strong groups . Some of the most important financial interests in the country have been brought into the amusement field by the advent of sound in film , developed by Western Electric and Radio Corp . The immediate cause of Radio 's interest in P. B. 0. , and in Keith . which incidentally has an important interest in Pat he Exchange . was the necessity of providing a product and a market for its new device . as Western Electric with the Vitaphone and the Movietone had already signed up all of the other important amusement companies . But the long range purpose was undoubtedly Radio 's preference for taking a position in the amusement field through companies the future expansion of which it could control instead of through arrangements with independents . Broadcasting radio amusement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability of combining the two in television has shown that Radio has one of its most important future fields in amusement . The management has long felt that its equipment for synchronization of sound and movies is not only the best in the field but that its engineers , backed by General Electric . Westinghouse and American Telephone &; Telegraph laboratories , will keep the company in the front rank in the new field . Victor 7 ? 11ny Join In Ness Group The Radio Corp refuses to comment on the proposed plan but it is understood that a new company will he formed in which the Radio Corp will have a substantial interest It is probable that stock of Keith-klbee-Orpheurn will he exchanged for stock in this new eontpanv which is expected to he named the Radio-Keith Corp The Street also hears that the Victor Talking Machine Co , which does the recording work for talking movies , also will take an interest . Conversations between Radio and Victor have been going forward for many months in connection with a working plan for the two companies to develop cooperating departments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country and abroad . Sound films now appear to be the most important future field for development in the amusement industry . They have been seized upon eagerly rte. offering an opportunity for novelty since already tlir 's is some indication that new plots and new ideas for - aae silent screen have been running low . To fulfill-the ultimate possibilities of the new device an entire-17y new Itectrnique must be developed and the advent into the field of the company which has been a leader in making equipment is therefore of the greatest importance . In view of the fact that Radio and Western Electric , which owns the Vitaphone and Movietone patents . have a patent pooling agreement it is entirely possible that Radio 's whole position in the field may be stronger than It appears . Industry Now in Five Groups The new company presumably means that Keith , and Pattie. which have lately found themselves in the position of being the weakest members in an increasingly competitive industry , will have the financial backing of Radio and its affiliated interests . In the past few years there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cha'ns to provide outlets for films and for independent theatre ci , ains to obtain producing affiliations Paramount and ' , clew both have been strongly intrenched in both divisions of the industry for years Fox Film Corp . by building up a greatly improved production department and acquiring theatres , has attained a position practically on a par with the two older companies . Warner . by acquiring Stanley Co. , makes a foul th important group . Keith and Pathe have had an agreement for some time but their position in the industry was not strong . The entrance of Ramo therefore makes a fifth strong group . Incidentally it removes 1-Zeith as a factor for competitive bidding between Fox and Warner , both of whom at one time considered acquiring it . The amusement industry may therefore be said to have made the greatest strides toward stabilization m its history in the past year or so and the entrance of toe Radio Corp . in the long run will have far reaching resol'o With the whole industry now in the hands of strongly financed groups , all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future should be bright . Conc , rtration of production and exhibition into theoe groups makes probable cooperative measures which will improve trade practices and eliminate over-production of films .                     