@@687154

txt Action on Secretary Hughes ' Proposals for reduction of armaments can not be taken until the parliaments and governments of the powers have passed legislation permitting It . There can not be a scuttling of entire squadrons of the fighting ships of Britain , Japan , and America until a vast machinery , terminating in rat ' . fication of triple treaties among the Parties , are exchanged . British and Japanese authorities , discussing the proposals tonight , indi ? sated that it would be at least : a year before the necessary steps could be taken to fulfill the American plan . INIllitary and naval inquiry boards mast first be created to investigate and file reports with recommendations . These would be submitted to the Japanese navy board and British admiralty . Must Go to Executives . After examination and indorsement by the general naval staffs , they would be referred to the houses of parliament and the diet , respectively . Constitutional laws , thereafter enacted and ratified by these assemblies , would permit negotiation and drafting of treacles , and finally there would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British and , iapanese circles point out that the same procedure would be necessary by the United States government , and some surprise has been expressed in certain quarters that the state department , even when the support of the navy department , could pledge the United States to a program , which the senate had not indorsed . . First Surprise on Program : Foreign comment on the Hughes plait tonight indicated that the visiting delegates and their naval experta had subjected the proposals to the most rigid scrutiny . Firstly , adoption by the United States of the capital ship as the sole itnd unequivocal naval unit came as a surprise , as that automatically throws submarines into the discard us first class independent combat craft , despite the special regulation for submersibles in the detailed plan . That no attention is paid to airplanes was taken as an indication that the navy . point of view had triumphed over the army-aviation opinion as a result of recent tests when former German cruisers and battleships were bombed . Former Status Pleases British . Mr. Hughes ' provision that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sop to the British to induce them to accept the plan . America 's offer to accept British naval superiority came as a sudden but welcome surprise to the British after speeches by American officials calling for the most powerful navy . Public opinion , aroused through the publicity given the plan , is expected , to begin to make itself felt , however , by Tuesday , when the conference sits again as a whole , and American circles do not believe that the diplomats and naval cliques can afford to defy the wishes of solid masses of taxpayers , all interested via their pocketbooks.                     