@@690338

txt Rumors fly thick , fast and contradictory regarding the attitude toward the League of Nations to be taken by the Democratic platform . Some say the League will be favored , others that it will be ignored or dodged . Counsels of political timidity and expediency are urged against anything like a. bold , clear and consistent utterance . But if the Democrats had good reasons for advocating entrance of the United States into the League of Nations in 1920 , they have much . better reasons for doing so this year . Four I years ago , the League was in its untried infancy . Since then it has gone on from strength to strength and from triumph to triumph . It is about to be requested , as the latest expression of European confidence in its usefulness and conviction of its necessity , to undertake the military supervision of Germany . This is the sort of achievement which has converted cool and skeptical statesmen in Europe . One of them . Prime Minister BENES of Czechoslovakia , declared last week that " the liberalism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more " important role , serving as the big " - peace machine which the nations need . " And yesterday both RAMSAY MACDONALD and M. HERRIOT agreed to honor and utilize the League in every way . It is at such a time that Democrats are advised to soft-pedal the League in their platform ! The League does not need endorsement from them , but they need to associate themselves more positively than ever with its advancing success . Of little use will be vague and pious platitudes holding out the hope of cooperating with Europe in restoring peace and stability , Ways and methods not mentioned . If we honestly mean to cooperate , how is it possible to shut our eyes to the one great cooperating agency already in existence and functioning well ? In 1920 it might have been plausibly argued that the country was invited , by joining the League of Nations , to embark upon an uncharted sea . But now the routes have been clearly marked , and ship after ship has arrived safely , et its desired harbor . All the circtini ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over their previous pronouncement for the League of Nations , and reaffirming it explicitly and with enthusiasm . It will not do for the Democrats to let the Republicans catch them bathing and steal their clothes . After the plank which President COOLIDGE insisted upon inserting in the Republican platform at Cleveland was adopted . one despairing and die-hard Senator Was heard to exclaim : " This means " that we shall be within the League " within five years . " It was not wholly a question of the language used . Definite approval of the World Court , child of the League as it is , was not the entire basis of inference . The truth is that the Republican leaders , most of them , have become ashamed of their tortuous and humiliating course in regard to the League of Nations . They know well that it was hot voted down in 1920 . Directly after the election of that year , Mr. COOLIDGE himAelf was honest enough to state that the result at the polls in no wise constituted a " mandate " against the League of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been for the League , he felt compelled to speak of it as a " foreign agency , " acceptance of which had been definitely refused by the American people . But their acts belie their words . As the League visibly increases in power and prestige , tiheir objections to having a part in it become more and more half-hearted . If they could see their way to enter it without too public a wearing , of the white sheet of pens ( 4 .. tence , they would be glad to follow it . But it is the Democrats who should lead . They should not allow their political opponents to outwit or outstrip them Time and the flowing tide have been on their side . They have no sound motive to regret or alter the position which they took four ybars ago . Any retreat-or hedging on their part now would be everywhere taken as an ignoble yielding , for the sake of votes , to little groups of fanatic and narrow-minded men , mostly of foreign nativity , who rage at the thought of having anything to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party consistency . That counts but a trifle with electors who little note nor long remember political platforms . Least of all is it a question of being loyal to the memory of President Tiru , sor r , or of giving heed to what is alleged to be his " last will and testament " for the Democratic Party . These absurdities are not for ' grown men . What they have to consider is simply where lies the path of national duty and of party opportunity . If they do this conscientiously , they will not be afraid of handling with courage an issue which as the years pass shines brighter and brighter unto the perfect day .                     