@@689381

txt H. F. Sinclair , chairman of Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corporation , commenting on midcontinent crude oil price adjustments made by the two largest purchasing companies , said to The Wall Street Journal : " Pessimism in the petroleum industry has been carnied to ridiculous extremes . Conditions in recent months have been bad , but they certainly have not been so bad as the publi : has been led to believe . Two outstanding facts , as I see them , are : First , that California 's production , according to the best judgment available , has already passed its peak and will doubtless have a rapid decline ; second , that the increase in consumption has been greater in volume than ever before . " 1 believe that with Wednesday 's adjustment , crude oil prices in the midcontinent field are at the bottom , and should result in early stabilization of the industry . The ? prices we are now paying for crude oil do not cover the cost of production except from perhaps 5,000 out of 285,000 producing wells in the United ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the sooner it is corrected the better . If the decline in California production is as rapid as is now expected , there will be a shortage of crude oil which must necessarily mean higher prices . 61171BERSON 'S VIEWS " 4 . A. Guiberson , chairman of the Oil Pro-rating Committee in the southern California fields , who under the Fuel Administration during the war had charge of all pipe lines in the United States , says that in the southern California fields there is practically no shut-in ' production and wells are delivering 1005 , of their actual capacity . As Kr . Guiberson says : ' The big problem facing the California producers is that of pumping the deep wells ( many of which are a mile deep ) when they cease to flow . We shall find that over night the production will drop to almost nothing . Water is now appearing in many tections of the three fields . When it reaches a small per cent . in any deep well , it will prevent , that well froniilO'wing . ' " Consumption of crude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately 2,000,000 barrels daily , according to the latest reports of the U. S. Geological Survey . This means that the annual rate of crude oil consumption has increased in one year 130,000,000 barrels . In spite of the heav$ ' production in California , the actual gain in crude oil stocks for the entire country has been less than 32,000,000 barrels . This also is on the authority of the U. S. Geological Survey report . Without the flush production of California , how will this tremendous consumption be met ? " The midcontinent field , where crude oil prices were adjusted Wednesday , has been for many years the bed-rock foundation of the petroleum industry in the United States . It seems to me that it would be the height of folly to destroy the reliable production in the rnidcontinent field , discourage the men who developed it , and let their investments go to pot merely because of the short-lived flush pools of California . " Presont conditions are temporary . There have been many similar conditions in petroleum history . The industry 's quick recovery may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were as despondent as now . Since ; 915 crude oil consumption has increased more than 160f , l , while crude oil stocks have increased less than 80% . " Consumption in.the United States has almost doubled since the end of the war , and though output has kept pace with demand , a large percentage of the production is coming from so few wells that it can not be considered reliable . In this connection it should not be forgotten that the light oil production from Mexico has practically disappeared . "                     