@@691590

txt The situation seems to be clearing locally while reactions from the Shanghai incident throughout the country are spreading and growing in violence . It is difficult to predict the extent and continuation of the disorders now . The only measure applicable is an analysis of the plans of the inner committee of the Chinese radical party which instigated and directs the movement . It is probable that , having gained nation-wide popular reactions , the radical master minds want to compose matters temporarily until they are ready for the next move , but it may be that they are now unable to Quell the storm . It should be ** that this was not a sporadic incident but was devised by extremely brainy men , having definite objectives , which they are moving cleverly to obtain by a graduated process . Also , while foreign intrigue and influence took part in arousing the provoking situation the real directors are Chinese , mostly educated abroad , who are perfectly familiar with foreign affairs , international law , the bases of treaty rights , the conditions of world politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lausanne Conference . Following is an outline of the-radical course : First  --  to overcome the denibix:rand timidity of the elder political l ? si . and the advisability and feasibility of a national liberation program . Second  --  to align the leading militarists in favor of the program , thus making possible the using , if needed , of the 1,500,000 troops in the country for common action against the powers . Third  --  Either thus to compel Peking to repudiate the extraterritorial treaties or else to oust the present Government , to be replaced by one dominated by radicals . Fourth  --  Making a gesture to revive and restore China 's complete sovereignty as a useful unit for popular sentiment and common ground , to make the organization of a genuine national Government possible and thus to recreate the nation . The powers should realize that this program is not visionary , but is quite logical and supportable by many reasonable arguments . Also , it is the only Political program existing here having definite objectives that are sympathetic toward popular nation-wide aspirations . Seek to Divide the Powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some results , but they are accompanied by clever devices to split the powers by dividing their interests . Already this is having considerable success . Japan , France and Italy all are strictly playing their own games and trying to avoid friction , while the Chinese confine their resentment and animosity to the British . So far Americans are practically exempt from Chinese resentment , which is carefully focused by radical propaganda toward the British , who are more vulnerable because of their greater material Interests in ChinaThe master minds are confident of their ability to abrogate unequal treaties and the foreign concessions ultimately , provided Great Britain and America are unable to agree upon concerted action . and the radicals comprehend the reluctance of those powers to take military action here . Concerning the local situation , the demand of the Chinese civil , commercial and labor bodies for the punishment and demotion of the police who caused the shooting of the students is difficult to concede without serious damage to the morale of the police and the volunteers . who , lacking larger naval forces , are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , efforts are being continued to find a compromise . Chinese Trade Also Suffers . Certain local incidents are significant . The foreign language press is able to get out strike editions only by omitting the words " anti-foreign " and " riot . " The agitators insist that their motives are not anti-foreign , but are only patriotic . This is partly casuistic . Chinese ' here are seriously damaged by the stoppage of business and suffer greater loss than do foreigners . Therefore they are anxious to end the strike . but are intimidated also . Deep in their hearts they sympathize with the underlying motives of the agitation and are willing to make sacrifices to obtain their ends . It is an error to suppose that local Ghinese material interests outweigh deeper sentiments . That view is superficial . Yesterday I talked with a liberal Western- educated Chinese Christian who said : " While deploring the loss of lives and the damage to property because of the disorders , I feel that it may be the only means to create a nationalistic consciousness . - If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A is worth any loss of life and temporary depreciation of property. - Regarding the future outlook , the l existing agitations may soon be coca ' posed unless they get out of the hands of the radical master minds , who require an interval to utilize the psychological reactions to exert pressure upon Peking and the militarists in order to propel them in the desired direction . It would be a great error to regard the subsidence of the disorders as evidence r that the crisis is over . More Agitation Planned . Quite the contrary is true . This crisis is only a step toward the objectives of the liberation party , which are certain soon to be revived when the reactions from this episode have been consolidated and further organized . The Western powers are getting the results now for allowing France for petty reasons to hold up the procedure to assist in stabilizing China under the Washington treaties . Now it is certain that the tariff conference , whenever held , will be forced to deal with the question of early abolition of the capitulations of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entity . Chinese sPntiment throughout all classes will support such an effort , notwithstanding the fact that it is almost certain that the return of the foreign settlements would cause enormous property losses to the Chinese far in excess of the damage to foreigners . Washington should foresee the future and ponder whether cultural and commercial relations with China and the Asiatic world would be promoted better by opposing or assenting to these aspirations of the Chinese .                     