@@691260

txt Without taking action on the resubmitted nomination of Charles B. Warren of Michigan , to be Attorney General , the Senate adjourned tonight until Monday , under conditions of considerable excite ? ment caused by a statement issued by President Coolidge that if the Senate again rejected Mr. Warren 's name the President would offer him a recess ap ? pointment in the office which the Sen. ate had declared he must not serve . When the turmoil had partially sub . sided an agreement was reached to vote on the Warren nomination at 2:30 o'clock Monday afternoon . In the last tense minutes before adjournment was taken . the anger the President 's statement had aroused among Mr. Warren 's opponents flared up on the Senate floor . Democratic Senators , in brief speeches flashing with bitterness , stopped just short of hinting that President Cooligdge had laid the foundation for impeachment proceedings . It was charged that no President had ever so defied the Senate . Senator Robinson , the Democratic floor leader , quivering with passion , asserted that Mr. Coolidge had brought about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Warren 's fitness for the Attorney Generalship . There were allegations that the constitutional rights of the Senate had been Invaded by the Executive . What the outcome of this new development will be will not be definitely known until the vote is taken Monday afternoon , but predictions were freely made by angry Democrats that no Senator who had voted last Wednesday to reject the original nomination of Mr. Warren would dare , in the face of the President 's statement , to vote for confirmation . Senator Curtis . the Republican floor leader , told the Senate the President would be within his constitutional rights in giving a recess appointment to Mr. Warren , but other supporters of the Administration remained silent , apparently realizing that ' remarks by them would only tend to intensify the storm that broke on the Democratc side . Press Report Adds to FeelingThe feeling shown was augmented by the reading of a press service dispatch in which it was stated that the President intended to utilize the time until the Senate reassembled on Monday hi seeking to change the votes of Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unofficial and unauthorized , but it was made the text of remarks derogatory to the President . The appearance of President Coolidge 's statement was a great surprise . Evidently Republican supporters of the President were unaware that he had determined to issue It , although its first reading led to the construction that in determining to offer Mr. Warren a recess appointment if the Senate again rejected his name , he had acted on the advice of " certain men and certain Senators , " to quote the language of the statement itself . A study of the President 's defiant pronunciarnento , however , showed that , while it set forth that he had taken counsel of " certain men and certain Senators , " he did not indicate that it was their judgment which had induced him to determine upon the course outlined which caused such emotions in Senatorial breasts . The President 's statement , - as furnished to newspapers by the White House , will be found in an adjoining column. ? - When the President 's declaration of intention was read in the Senate that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Warren nomination . Much that was said was repetition of what had been uttered when the nomination first was discussed early this week , prior to its rejection on Tuesday . At 520 o'clock there was scant listless discussion about getting an agreement to adjourn over until Monday . with no result , as Senator Reed of Missouri insisted upon keeping on talking . The storm was started by Senator Reed as he was concluding a , bitter assault on Mr. Warren 's character and general fitness for Cabinet office in an effort to puncture a defense of President Coolidge and Mr. Warren by Senator Pepper of Pennsylvania . Reed Starts the Storm . Senator Reed first read from what be said was a statement handed him by The Associated Press , which Indicated that the President intended to give Mr. Warren a recess-apPointment. ; xi also than if the Senate took an aeljournmerit for the week-end , Mr. Coolidge would attempt to win over enough votes to obtain confirmation on Monday . There were bitterness and sarcasm in Senator Reed 's voice as he read the statement . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be an official statement given out by the White House . Then Mr. Walsh gave way to Mr. Reed . " Nothing is so necessary , ? " said Senator Reed , " in sustaining any Government as the orderly compliance of the officers of the Government . not only with the letter but with the spirit of the law . There is no man who holds office who cannot. while acting within the letter . defeat the law 's most munificent . purpose . It would be a very sad clay for this country if Congress used the power given It to paralyze the arm of the Executive . It would be a sad day for our country if we should . on Saturday or Monday , reject air . Warren and then send word to the country that we did not propose to approve the name of any man the President might send to the Senate The Senate would be within the limits of its legal authority . but it would not be serving the interests of the country . " If the President were to take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only have the converse of the proposition . The President gives , us poeeee m advise and consent : yet in effect he says . I 'll override your decision : nil trample it in the dust : wait until you have adjourned and then put in office the man who. under the Constitution . you saga was unfitted for the place . " I can not bring myself to believe that the President is so lost to a proper conception of duty as to take that position arbitrarily . unjustifiably and in violation of the spirit of the Constitution . I hope the reports are not true , but if they are true then indeed there has come a condition of lack of cooperation the American people had the right to believe never would exist . " Administration Senators Silent . Senator Curtis had been moving nervously about the rear of the Senate chamber during these remarks , but no Administration Senator rose to make reply . Senator Walsh got recognition by the Chair . He had previously objected to adjourning until Monday . " In view of the statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am willing to withdraw my objection . I am quite content that the President of the United States shall continue until Monday making every possible effort to obtain confirmation of Mr. Warren . I am curious to know if these efforts W-111 have any effect . " The annals of the country may be searched for a parallel of this extraordinary statement . violative of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States : A President never has asserted before than regardless of what the Senate does , he will have his way . " This matter is now a question that far transcends any inquiry concerning the fitness of Mr. Warren for office . The Senate itself is under a test as to whether its power . green by the Constitution , shall be . disregarded by the President in the selection of men for high office . " Then Senator Curtis spoke . " I think . " he said , " the President was within his rights in issuing this statement-I have tried to get an agreement for a vote on Monday . " Before this agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice that resounded throughout the chamber he launched his attack against the position taken by President Coolidge . " Each Senator when he takes the oath . of office , " said Senator Robinson . " swears to advise and consent to nominations . The power to advise and consent is coextensive with the power to nominate . Those powers are being chaZlenged by the Executive , and this raises an entirely different question than that of the fitness of the individual nominated . Says Challenge Mast Be Met . " The challenge having been made . the Senate of the United States must meet it . and it must meet it fearlessly and decisively . No Executive has the right to insist that an officer whose nomination has been rejected shall perform the fuhetierie of an office , high or low . " Th:s question must be considered and determined by the Senate with a proper regarl for the rights and prerogatives of the Executive . As the Senate has /10 right to assume that the Executive would nominate a man who is unfit . so the Executive . must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that this body , ' in the performance of its duties , Is transcending its authority and violating the rights of the Executive . " There is now subject matter for debate which an hour ago did not exist . As I can not tell the Executive whom to nominate. neither can the Executive tell me whose nomination 1 must assert to . It is regrettable , sir , that any conflict should arise between coordinate branches of this Government , but when either challenges the authority of the other it heeerees of supreme importance that the rights of each shall be maintained . " At the first lull in the storm Senator Curtis renewed his attempt to get an agreement for an adjournment until Afonday , with a vote to be taken at a fixed time on that day . Unanimous consent was required for this . While there had been a disposition shown by some opponents of the Warren nomination to keep the Senate in session tonight until a vote could be reached , the reading of President Coolidge 's statement brought about a change of heart on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new plan of campaign . So Senator Curtis had little difficulty in obtaining general consent to adjourn over the week-end , with the Senate to meet again at 10:20 o'clock Monday morning and vote on the Warren nomination at 2:30 o'clock that afternoon . The agreement reached provided that no Senator should speak more than half an hour and that the four hours of debate should be divided equally between the supporters and the opponents of the Warren nomination . The Senate generally was dumbfounded at the President 's boldness . Senators had not expected any such sensational move from Mr. Coolidge . Most of thorn were inclined to the view that he would handle the Warren case as he saw fit . but they were not looking for any advance notice to the Senate through the press than no mailer what the Senate did , Mr. Warren would he Attorney General , provided the latter assented to the President 's desire to have him at the Cabinet table . it was the contrast of this proceeding with the estimate that a considerable number of Senators had formed of Mr. Coolidge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator Curtis was credited with having been responsible for the effort to bring about an agreement for a weekend adjournment based on the proposal that the President would nominate somebody other than Mr. Warren for the Attorney Generalship nn Monday . The negotiations were begun soon after Mr. Curtis returned from a conference with President Coolidge . Democratic Senators in , ' , , ted that they had been given the impre. inn that President Coolidge would withdraw Mr. Warren 's name if the Senate did not reject his pending nomination . At the White House this evening it was said that if Senator Curtis got the idea that the President was willing to abandon his fight for Mr. Warren , the Senator had misunderstood the President 's position . This phase of the Warren sensation is regarded as a mystery in political quarters tonight . The decision of the President to issue his defiance of the Senate while that body was still considering the Warren nomination is attributed partly to information that had reached him that conferences were on between Republican and Democratic Senators to adjourn over until Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Mr. Warren for the office . Sought Agreement on Another Man . The explosion of the bombshell from the White House had been preceded by an all-day effort by leading Republican and Democratic Senators to couple with the proposed agreement to adjourn until Monday . without action on the Warren case , a stipulation that Administration Senators would use the week-end interim in an effort to induce President Coolidge to withdraw Mr. Warren 's name and submit the nomination of some other man for  --  the office of Attorney General when the Senate reassembled on Monday . The belief seemed to Prevail among opponents of Mr. Warren that the President had given up the fight and was considering the qualifications of other lawyers who might be fitted for the office of Attorney General . Everything looked good for perfecting an arrangement such as had been suggested when Senator Reed of Missouri got into action with the later confessed intention of making a short speech . But rert-rite were spun out . Under the rule of the Senate of which Vice President Dawes complained in his inaugural ' address , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pepper began the Warren debate today . but he had hardly started when Senator Walsh , in behalf of the two Republicans and seven Democrats of the Judiciary Committee who had voted yesterday to recommend that Mr. Warren 's nomination be rejected , read their report , upholding their course . They held that it would be unseemly for the Senate to confirm Mr. ' Warren 's nomination after having rejected it a few days before . While the Senator threw hot shot in Mr. Warren 's direction . supporters of President Coolidge obtained the impression . in sonic unexplained way a prolongation of the debate might give them a fighting chance to change defeat into victory . Besides , they were hopeful that the President would assent to a proposal to call it a draw and prevent another rejection of Mr. Warren 's name by nominating somebody else . The more time for this effort the better the prospect of its success . they thought . and they were not averse to having Mr. Reed continue his strictures upon the President 's choice for Attorney General . Then came the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring about an arrangement dovetailing with their idea of how the situation should be handled . the President had decided upon his course . He had asked Senators for advice . and they had given it . most , if not all . to the effect that Mr. Warren was doomed to another rejectien . Three was a conflict of opinion as to whether the President had the right to give Mr. Warren a recess appointment after his nomination had twice been rejected by the Senate , but friends of the President were inclined to the view that he would be within his constitutional rights in commissioning Mr. Warren after the Senate 's special session had been adjourned sine die . President . Surprises Both Sides . The President , as subsequent happenings showed . made up his mind to offer Mr. Warren a recess eommission if there were a second rejte-lion of his nomination . Apparently , however . he failed to tell his Senate allies that he would announce that decision while the Senate was still debating Mr. Warren 's case . Nothing came to relit tonight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be wise or not to make that announcement . His friends ? in the Senate were as much surprised as were Mr. Warren 's opponents . Senator Pepper defended at the outset the legal qualifications of Mr. Warren in reply to criticisms directed against him . " I have particularly in mind , " he said . " the suggestion made by one of the Senators who opposed the confirmation of Mr. Warren that it was no injustice to him to say that he enjoyed no legal reputation whatever . I can not help thinking that this statement would not be made again if time and trouble enough were taken to gain information respecting the very notable career which Mr. Warren has had at the bar , both in service of private clients and as representing his country in international proceedings . " It is seldom the case nowadays that any lawyer enjoys the nation-wide reputation which was enjoyed by some of the great leavers of the past . There were days when the professional attainments of one lawyer wore well known a 11 over the country , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast , our interests so diverse , that it is seldom nowadays that any one man attains a national reputation until he actually enters the service of the Government at Washington and in some particularly eonepicuous case . " It so happens in the case of Mr. Warren that I have known of him professionally for many years . and in the coed temper and-good spirit which ' I think should characterize these discussions .1 rise simply to bear my testimony as a fellow-member of the profession to what I conceive to have been his professional achievement and to bear my own witness of regard for his character and for the abilities which I think abundantly qualify him for the office to which he has been nominated . " Reviews Nominee 's Career . In reviewing Mr. Warren 's career . Mr. Pepper said Ills choice by Theodore Roosevelt as counsel for the United States in the North Atlantic fisheries arbitration was a good selection . " In that case , " Mr. Pepper added . " he conducted himself with a credit which was freely accorded him even by those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate . " He denied that Mr. Warren was in the Bering Sea controversy in the role of a clerk or junior assistant to an older lawyer . " When we discussed the matter before , " Senator Fess interrupted , " it was stated on the floor of the Senate that 00 per cent . of the people of Michigan would be against this confirmation . While I should not regard that statement , even if true , essential as to the determination of the qualifications for this particular office , has the Senator any evidence as to the popular viewpoint in the State of Michigan ? " " I ' am informed , - Mr. Pepper replied , " that one or more Senators in the Chamber are in possession of an endorsement by the Legislature of the State of Michigan . I am not advised myself on that point . and I may be misinformed , but my own information-is derived from personal observation of Mr. Warren and professional contact with him , and the testimony of those telegrams I have read , supplemented by a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore I am not reading into the record , but which in their way bear testimony to the same effect . " Senator Pepper then proceeded to an argument on the legal questions attending the renomination ? of Mr. Warren . -I should suppose , " he mid . " that every time the Executive sends a communication to the Senate , whether by way of submitting a treaty or by way of submitting a nomination , that is a new act , a new Executive act , and that if by chance , by accident or by design there is resubmitted a treaty or a name that has theretofore been the subject of a previous communication , the Senate is bound to receive this as a new Executive act and must proceed to consider it , irrespective of the circumstance , quite subordinate as it seems to me , that the Executive has ' seen fit to send the same name or the same treaty or the same document back for a second or a third time . " Senator King interrupted to ask if Senator Pepper did not think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mr. Warren if they were convinced that he had been connected with one of the most corrupt trusts which has been in existence . " If I believed that man was guilty of violating the Ten Commandments than I should vote against him , " said Senator Pepper ironically . " One commandment is enough , " retorted Mr.-King . Senator Pepper said the charge was being made that , because Mr. Warren had aided in putting together a great corporation at a time when it was believed that the laws permitted such an organization , he was not fit to be Attorney General . Such was the way he interpreted remarks by Senator Walsh , I fear the Senator from Montana , " added Mr. Pepper . " mistakes the effect on strong men of experiences which have been charged up against Mr. Warren . " Senator Walsh said the courts found that the Michigan Sugar Company , of which nit . Warren had been the President and the dominant intellect , had violated the anti-trust laws . The Montana Senator called attention to_the the career of Philander C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that Mr. Knox had been one of the leaders in activities against combinations in restraint of trade , and yet he had gained his experience as an attorney whose interests were connected with the building up of these great trusts . " Was Mr. Knox ever made a defendant in an action for violation of the law ? " asked Senator Walsh . " Did-Mr . Knox do anything illegal ? " Senator Pepper said he understood that a stipulation had been entered into by the Government to the effect that Mr. Warren personally was without fault . Senator Walsh held that the stipulation contended nothing of the sort , and , he added . it had been found that the Michigan Sugar Company had entered into a conspiracy to violate the laws . He contended that Mr. Warren was in fact the Michigan Sugar Company . Senator Pepper declared the history of the American bar demonstrated that the men who got their training in the upbuilding of great business enterprises at a time when this was believed to be within the law had been the most relentless in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been done in violation of law . Senator Glass of Virginia interrupted to say he must be a very strong man who could divest himself of the attitude toward such things gained in his earlier training .                     