@@693836

txt Paris has spent another agonizing day of wondering ? wondering what has become of Nungesser and Coli . " Are they alive ? Are they floating helplessly on the icy waters of Labrador or Newfoundland ? Or did the ' two aviators finally lose their terrific battle with angry elements and meet death in the sea ? " These and countless other questions are upon the lips of Frenchmen . Every edition of the evening newspapers is hastily scanned for some bit of cheering news , and thousands of anxious , tear-stained eyes strain toward the bulletin boards . No event since the war seems to have gripped so intensely the minds and hearts of the people of France as the attempt of the two war aces to span the Atlantic between Paris and New York . Lack of news of any character , good or bad , has led experts to speculate on the possible fate of the airmen and what their chances would be of remaining alive on the cold , deserted stretches of the North Atlantic . The majority of opinions agree that whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Captain Coli , the climax of their hazardous flight must have come somewhere between the middle of the Atlantic and the coast of Newfoundland . There are a few . however , who are now inclined ' to beli , ve that the White Bird may have come to grief not many miles from the coast of Ireland . This latter theory , in the absence of more definite indications , would seem to lack the slightest support . Hope Fliers Near Newfoundland . Friends of the airmen  --  and all France may be included in that category  --  are clinging desperately to the slim possibility that the rumors of their having been seen over Newfoundland may eventually prove true and that the aces may be picked up somewhere off the coast of Newfoundland . Experts , though , reluctantly admit there is nothing upon which such hopes can be based , since investigation of the rumors has failed to produce a single bit of evidence . A survey of what the White Bird carried in the way of food , clothing and fire materials does not make the situation more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biplane took the air at dawn last Surday every item that could possibly be dispensed with was discarded , including . 200 litres of the expected load of 4,000 litres of gasoline . According to officials of Le Bourget airport , the utmost that could be expected from the motor , assuming its performance was 100 per cent . efficient , was forty-five hours . That would have carried the plane through the air until 2:20 o'clock this morning , Paris time . In theory . the biplane , being a navy type , should remain easily upon the surface of the water , provided the waves were not too heavy and the descent not too abrupt . It was feared today that if the White Bird was forced down during the early part of her flight ( that is to say , a few hundred miles off the Irish coast ) the weight of her fuel would have been so great as to carry her under the waters of the Atlantic without giving the airmen time to empty their tanks . A special arrangement , carefully tested before starting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as necessity became apparent . Unfortunately , there are many cases where such apparatus has failed to respond at the crucial moment . Discarded Raft and Life Belts . The , plane was to have carried two life belts and a rubber life raft , but at the last minute Captain Nungesser threw these out , fearing the plane would have difficulty enough in getting off the ground . In the words of one great French aviator , M. Arrachart : " The flight , made under the conditions in which Nungesser and Coli took off , was a pure sporting proposition . " Heavy leather flying suits worn over ordinary clothes , augmented with extra clothing for cold altitudes , and the usual leather headpieces and gloves completed the personal equipment of the two men . The food rations ( sixty pounds were taken ) were selected with an eye to compactness , combined with high .. utritiye value . Strangely enough , caviar and bananas comprised a portion of the diet . which also included cold coffee , soft drinks and dried fruit , vegetables and tabloid foods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canned heat . Altogether , enough food to last two weeks was on board at the time of departure , although the diet would be extremely limited and inadequate if the plane came down in an intensely cold region . To cut down weight only such tools . as were absolute necessities were taken in the plane . Airplane constructors observed today that the chances of the plane remaining afloat would be materially increased if the airmen succeeded in breaking off the wings within fifteen minutes of landing on the water . Believe Plane Carried Sea Anchor . It is reported this afternoon that the White Bird did carry a sea anchor after all . If this is true , a very efficient weapon with which to combat the waves was at hand , for the sea anchor serves to hold the nose of the plane straight into the waves , thereby steadying it and preventing the sea from hitting it broadside . Plenty of flares are available to call the attention of passing ships , and Atlantic shipping was told that a red light would mean a call for help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bird really carried a receiving set , although it seems certain there was no wireless sending apparatus aboard . Captain Coli , just before leaving , explained that , aside from the question of weight , the reaa ? they did not take a wireless set was that it might throw his compass off any minute . in which case he might lose his directions completely and find himself eventually back over Europe . When interviewed today General 1. ? . bre , head of the National Weather Bureau , said that his greatest hope is that the White Bird came dow . in or near shipping lanes . If the airmen were forced to descenc in the far northern latitudes he feared that the intense cold might prove too much for them , considering the strain they would have already undergone . Thoughtless reports , one of which was even published in an afternoon newspaper , to the effect that America failed to furnish weather reports prior to the flight , are naturally dismissed here by intelligent people as fantastic and with no basis of truth . In a statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weather reports on both sides of the Atlantic . explaining that he had had full information upon which to base his advice which sent the airmen on their perilous voyage . There is great public indignation , however , over the false reports of success which were published all afternoon yesterday and provoked the false celebration . Inquiry has been started and questions will be asked in the Chamber of Deputies . Questions Cabinet on False News . In the Chamber of Deputies yesterday 's false reports of the progress and safe arrival of Nungesser and Coil in it . New York were the subject of a question by General Girod , himself an airman and President of the Army Commission . In his question two Ministers , M. Bokanowski , Minister of Commerce , and M. Sarraut , Minister of the Interior , were directly envisaged as having sanctioned the issuing of confirmation to reports of the safe arrival of the airmen late yesterday afternoon . The Chamber listened in silence to General Girod 's short speech setting forth the tragic deception of yesterday . That some airplane had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Girod said , but he wished to ask from what source the news was given out which was printed in every afternoon paper here , that the French airmen had landed in New York Harbor . M. Bokanowski , for the Government , asked a postponement of discussion in moving an apology . - Suffering as we are but still hopin , " he said , " this is not the moment to reply in the tone of polemics . " All yesterday both France and America had waited breathlessly to see the courage of the two airmen win its reward , " he said , and continued : " It is not then astonishing that the most generous hearts mistook their desires for realities . The aeronautic service was at least not In fault and refused to give the signal for the firing of cannon at the Invalides when the false report came in . There was therefore no official communication . The airplane which dropped the smoke-bombs from the sky to announce the news belonged to a private organization and had no official character . Calls Errors " Collective Illusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomena of collective illusion . If in any way the Government was to blame Land today the whole press piles the blame on the Government it suffered with all those who blame it . In this moment of distress let us not try to apportion blame , but to hold together to the hope that this painful anxiety soon will be ended by real news that the two airmen are saved . " War Minister Painlevd made a personal explanation of the circumstances under which his cable of congratulation to the airmen was issued and the incident was closed . Where the cable or wireless message came from which gave ground for the final report that the two Frenchmen I had succeeded , has remained all day a mystery . Those who were the first to announce the news are now the most emphatic in denying they had anything to do with it . The evening newspapers together issued a statement putting the whole blame on Cabinet Ministers . The Haves News Agency denies that it ever received or issued any such cable . R was apparently on the Bourse that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Once launched it was spread by word of mouth and telephone all over the city and , in anxiety to be the first , the evening newspapers vied with the publicity sign at the Place de l'Opera . Thousands of people standing there saw the message , for which no authority was quoted , and , once started and apparently officially confirmed by the Ministers involved , it could not be checked . Reports have apparently been cabled from Paris to New York of anti-American feeling and demonstrations . Such interpretation of the attitude and action of the crowd is entirely misleading . In the deep anxiety of the thousands of people massed in the streets outside the bulletin boards , there was . when uncertainty became conviction that they had been misled , a certain irritation , not against any special American newspapers or agencies . bfit against newspapers which had issued the bulletin without having waited for confirmation . In the Place de l'Opera a pile of French evening papers was burned by the inevitable crowd of rough youngsters looking for excitement of some sort . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved . but it would be utter misrepresentation of the real sentiments of the populace to say that there was even in the most unofficial manner any directly anti-American demonstration . It happens that the Opera sign , against which the crowd directed some of its ill humor , is Anglo-American , but it shared responsibility for its error and its subsequent unpopularity with five French evening newspapers and all news agencies . . Such irritation as was . expressed had a far deeper cause and a far sadder character than can be so cheaply described as anti-Americanism and today not a - single attempt is made by any newspaper or in conversation to place any of the responsibility for yesterday 's tragic mistake on America in any Avay . Vliere is rather the most complete confidence that every effort will be made by the United States Navy , merchant marine and air force to find the missing men , and a deep appreciation of the sympathy with which America is sharing in France 's anxiety . Denies Removal of Our Flag . Absolute denial that the American flag was removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-American character took place during the demonstration while the crowds were waiting for bulletins of the Nungesser flight in front of their office Monday night , was given to THE NEW YORK TIMES by the Matin management tonight . This statement was corroborated by the night editor and by the editor in charge of posting bulletins , who remained in full sight of the crowds throughout the night . The latter said : " When the news was first posted that there was no official confirmation of the reports published by afternoon papers that the fliers had reached New York , many persons in the crowd were outraged and there was a manifestation directed against the persons responsible for the false news . " There was somebody in the crowd , which numbered several thousand , who at one moment shouted . ' The flags ! The flags ! ' But nobody paid any attention or comprehended what he was talking about and the demonstration very quichly ceased . " The people were too anxious to get reliable news , and as soon as they were convinced that the Matin was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained before the bulletin board , waiting for hours in hopes of getting real news from the fliers . " At no time was there any attempt to pull down the flags from the Matin office nor any demand that they be taken down . " The American flag was not removed from the Matin . " " We have no knowledge of the origin of the flag report , but , whatever its origin , it was untrue , " it was stated by the management of the newspaper .                     