@@696154

txt Ambassador Hugh S. Gibson electrified tilie Preparatory Disarmament Commission again today for the second time in five days . This time the chief American delegate did it by making , in the same spirit as ? Monday 's naval , ffers , what Count Massigli of France immediately called an " important " and " historical " concession on the question of army effectives , which has rivaled the naval issue as an obstacle to a disarmament convention . The concession , as anticipated in yesterday 's dispatch , was that America had assumed a neutral position , specifically withdrawing her previous strong objections to excluding trained reserves as army effectives . To the concession Mr. Gibson added  --  with a view to speeding the commission 's work , as explained yesterday , by encouraging a conciliatory spirit all around  --  a strong recommendation that all the other powers having concessions to make should follow suit and make them immediately . America , in short , laid her cards as frankly on the table in the army as in the naval discussion , and this time she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gives France Free Hand . The concession itself meant that America joined Britain in giving France a free hand in the matter of trained reserves , which amounts to backing up the French , who have always insisted on excluding them from the effectives to be included in any reduction scheme . The manner in which it was made tends to narrow the essential debate on this point down to France and Germany , with France holding the best cards , but America and Britain in a good position to exert a moderating influence toward a. possible FrancoGerman compromise . The effect of all this was immediate . Count Massigli lost no time in confirming the impression noted yesterday that , the French attitude since Monday had changed greatly in the direction of conciliation and that France welcomed the move for speeding an army accord . He declared that Mr. Gibson 's statement would " prodigiously accelerate our labors . " Count Massigli said that France , up to this time , felt she could not make . a concession on trained reserves , but that now " the situation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " more than ever ready to lay her cards on the table " and make " every concession within her power . " Sato Predicts Solution . N. Sato associated , Japan with Count Massigli 's reply to Mr. Gibson 's " supremely important statement , " adding : " We can now find our way out of a great many difficulties " ? in the trained reserve ques-1 , tion . He said that Japan felt she could now maintain her system of a conscript army without differing with the other powers and that as a result of this American concession " the Japanese delegation will do everything in its power to make counter-concessions in turn ' . ' , - which is taken to man that Tokio will have a more friendly disposition toward Washington 's naval ideas . The concession is naturally expected to have a similar effect on the Trench naval views , to American advantage . The Japanese thus believe that Germany 's fight against the exclusion of trained reserves is already com pletely lost , but it is not so clear that the French are unwilling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is pointed out that the American delegate was the only one to make a concrete concession today , the French and Japanese delegates using much vaguer terms , but since they made necessarily impromptu speeches , this may not be so significant as it is regarded now . Indeed , the concrete official effects of Mr. Gibson 's move were hardly revealed today ; but they are expected to begin to take form at tomorrow 's session , which is eagerly . swatted . Count von Eernstorff will then give Germany 's viewpoint . Apparently nonplussed by today 's de- velopment , he confined himself to telling the commission that he was " z.:o greatly impressed by the important statement " Mr. Gibson made that he desired to reflect over night on it . French Will Be Questiened . If the concessions the French and ** promised do not take difinite shape , then it will not be Count Yon Bernstcrff 's fault , ? for he said this afternoon that he was going to insist tomorrow that the French must state just what they are going to concede . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if ? . only for British election reasons . ? Last Friday. - he took the same general stand on effectives that Mr. Gibson took today , tut not se categorically . . Mr. Gibson 's speech obviously also . gives him an - excellent opening to make any naval concessions he may have up his sleeve . The impression which Mr. Gibson 's brief . statement made on the commission and ? in the corridors was hardly leas dramatic than . his , naval . proposals put forward on Monday did . for it must be remembered that if the naval problem deeply interests ? five powers the army problem vitally concerns a great Many more . Moreover , today 's statement not only carried added authority , due to Monday 's announcement of general policy  --  coming , indeed , as concrete proof that America meant business ? but it also carried a similar element of surprise . It carried an element of surprise because the delegates are still far from being accustomed to approaching disarmament in the frank and conciliatory spirit . in which America has been a pioneer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint on Monday that such a concession would be forthcoming , for the hint was apparently overlooked in the mass of other matter . ? Move Is a Surprise . It carried it , finally , because nobody was forewarned that it would come today . Mr. Gibson himself : planned to make this move later . An opportunity came sooner than he had expected and he seized it at once . He spoke extemporaneously . The opening came this morning when the commission , partly through the quickly conciliatory impulse Mr. Gibson gave it on Monday and partly through postponing- for later decision several articles of the aviation chapter for its draft convention , suddealy came to the end of that section , and toward the close of the session took - up the next chapter on eerily effectives , which was not exneeted yesterday to be reached for at least a week . The commission had been droning through a dry technical aviation diseuzzion with many in the hall chatting informally and reading papers " d the ** gray with cigarette smoke , when President Louden announced that army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rose . He had not finished his first sentence before the chatting ceased , papers dropped , listlessness vanished and every one was leaning forward hanging on every word . That atmosphere continued through the translation into French and through the answers made by the Germans . French end Japanese and  --  it being the usual clesing time  --  President Loudon then afeiourned the discussion until to1210 rrow. - German Delegates Confer . The corridors fairly buzeed as Lord Cnehendun and Count Marsigli went into immediate conference in the adjoining library . while all the German en-marts " and correspondents rushed io where Count von Bernstorff ' stood at his place at the council table and eerns.uned in an animated " huddle " around him for a quarter of an hour . There is no doubt that Mr. Gibson 's speech was effective . The text of his address was as low - : " .. 1 , assume that there will be no ohjeetion if . in the interests of brevity . : -. - erne general remarks are introtint:ed at the beginning of this discuseien . " In making up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time a question on which the difference of opinion has been so fundamental that neither of the two - schools of thought within the commkision has hitherto found it nosethic to make concessions . In paeticular. the question of trained reserves gave rise during the debates in subcommittee ' A ' and again during the third session of this commission to earnest but inconclusive discussion . " Allow me in a few words In recapitulate the attitude of the American delegation on this problem . Explains Our Position . " We have always maintained that fazined reservee should be included with peacetime armaments . since both actually e : : ist in time of peace . In our eyes , a nation which possesses an adequate and equipped trained reaerve is in a position promptly to endertake an offensive battle . Such a nation is , therefore , in a markedly more favorable position than one which must train its personnel and equip it . Untrained civilians can not he turned into efficient fighting men without many months of training . " Starting with these premises the American delegation reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being included among peace-time effectives In the draft convention . " In these principles , for which we stood during the first reading . we - till believe : nevertheless . as I indicated the other day , I as fully recognise that . other delegations which hold opposing views believe in their thesis with the same conviction . Therefore , if we are to reach an aereement  --  if we are to he able to join in a common draft  --  it will be necessary for concessions to be made rot only on the - part of one but on the part of every delegation here present . Defers to the Majority . zersiens effee to our governments and peoples a pcsitive areiorne pliehmeet. " iI3 all Spzake Neat . Count Maseigli , speaking with great earneetneas , not to say emotion , said : " If after the declaration , so important and . I can ray . historical , that we have just heard , I venture to address you it is because you all - know that the . French delegation in the question now before us has - regretted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Matter of principle with the American delegation . " I have just listened with- the most profound emotion to Mr. Gibson 's declaration . It is of a nature , as he said , to accelerate prodigiously our labors . My country has always held and , continue to hold the view that to . safeguard vital principles . at the base of its national defense will not permit it to make any concession on trained reserves . " If the French delegation adopted this attitude despite the desires of its chief to make all the concessions necessary to ? hreeton the conclusion of your labors , if when the other delegations for perfectly respectable reasons expressed the fear that the exclusion of trained reserves from the system of limitations would make peace . loss stable , - my country still stood firm , it was because it had the profound conviction that it had and would have no aggressive intentions . Favors Laying Cards on Table . ? " Now the situation is profoundly changed . Mr. Gibson . in his lucid explanation of his move . has just told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cards on the table . My . intention since I have been here always has been to play with the . cards on the table . That is why , as I venture to say in thanks for the statement Mr. Gibson has just made , I want to ten the honorable delegate from the United States that the French delegation , as far as it is concerned , is more than ever ready to lay its cards on the table and , whenever possible , to ' make every concession within its power . " N. Sato , after associating Japan with Count Massigli 's reply to Mr. C-ibson'a " supremely important statement , " went on : " To the countries which still have a system of conscription the statement of the delegate of the United States brings a great deal of comfort and hope . We can now find a way out - of a great number of difficulties which presented themselves in the first reading of the report regarding trained reserves . " Japan has adopted conscription , during the last sixty years after a feudal system which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not depart from conscription because it would be impossible for ns to accept the system of limiting reserves . . Thanks Slim for Move . " After listening to Mr. Gibson I think we can now approach the queetion with the firm hope that we shall he able to maintain . the system of conscriptions with trained reserves without differing with our colleagues and I desire to - express our profound thanks for this very important concession , in which we recognize although Mr. Gibson does not depart from his own opinion . that he is willing to take into account the diffi eultics of other countries with regard to trained reserves . " The . Japanese delegation will do everything in its power to make a counter-concession in its turn -- it can not he expected that no difficulties will arise , but when Japan finds herself under the necessity of opposing the views of other delegations , she will make all the concessions in hen power and will give her reasons for differing from the other delegations on various points . " Geneva , as the result of these speeches . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trained reserves , which are being especially pushed by the French . Count von Bernstorff. it is understood . has wired Berlin for instruction s . " Naval Question Marks Time . Though the nay el reduction negotiations era obviously likely to be greatly affected ultimately by today 's developments , the navy question itself continues . as far as Geneva is concerned , to be merely simmering . which is all that responsible quarters expect for the present . Reports that the American project for reduction aims at an agreement . valid until 1940 were laughed at in American quarters . it being added that such things as dates were a matter of detail arid that far more important matters demanded attention first . It was also stressed that the kernel of the American proposal is not the acceptance of the French compromise on categories or the long discussed idea . allowing each power to transfer a certain fraction of tonnage front one category to a.nother . but the basic - idea of establishing a common measuring stick for comparing the value of different naval units and a. formula for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some concern , indeed , was expressed at attention being sidetracked from this new and essential point of departure for the naval solution , as explained in Wednesday 's dispatch , by a tendency . as in the British press , to - discuss other and for the moment less important elementsof the American program . " With this in mind I am able to declare that the American Government as a practical matter is disposed to defer to the views of the majority of those countries whose land forces constitute their chief military interest , and in the draft convention before us , to accept their ideas in the matter of trained reserves . " I venture to express the hope that as a corollary to this attitude the delegations of other countries will in like manner make the maximum of ' such concession as they find possible . I do this in no spirit of bargaining . " Tlite are two ways in which the commission can proceed further . The first is for each delegation to hold up the concessions it is prepared to make until the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value received . This would inevitably result in months of negotiation and bargaining and would certainly not truly represent the spirit in which we are met here . " The other method is for the delegations frankly to explain what concessions they are in a position to make , to lay their cards on the table and to create a feeling of candor and harmony that will be conducive to the further success of our work . " It is in this spirit that I have made a fundamental concession today , and it is , I am convinced , the method by which , if it finds favor with the other delegates , we can advance our work not only speedily but effectively and after three years and                     