@@694720

txt Chain store shares . both food and merchandise . led a broad upward movement in the curb ' market today , The advance of the chain store issues was Joined by utilities , mines , oils , and motors . Profit taking forced a decline in some of the favorite industrials . , Safeway Stores was the leader In the rise , advancing .20 points to a new high at 360 , ' American Bakeries A , Fanny ' Farmer/Kroger Groceries , Monson , 130-1 hack , Grand , and others reached new high ground . Firestone Tire moved up 8 points , but weakness appeared among the Industrials , American Rolling Mills dropping ' nearly 3 points . Tubize Art Silk , 8 , NewInert company about 2 , and Spalding nearly 6 , after touching a new , high . The new Shearer Pen issue opened at , , 46. but closed off a point , while the old sold oft 20 points for the day . New Mont Mines agged nearly 3 points , but buying strength buoyed other mining shares . Bunker Mill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 160 . Motors produced chiefly fractional Oils and pipe /Ines advanced under fairly Navy buying . Gulf rose about 3 points and Humble , Vacuum . and others were up slightly . Northern Pipe Line touched high at Indiana Pipe Line was near its high . and Southern Pipe Line rose 134 points to 20% , a new high . Inland Steel Co . Officials Hold Merger Conference Youngstown , 0 ? Jan. 23.  - -  (R) ? L. B. Block and P. D. Block , chairman and president , respectively , of the Inland Steel company , of Chicago , were in conference here today with James A.-Campbell , president of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube company , presumably In connection with merger negotiations which have been going on for several weeks . At the offices of the Sheet and Tube company it was said there was no announcement to make . but that a. statement might be given out tomorrow . More than enough stock has been depotted by Trumbull Steel stockholders to allow the merger with the Republic Iron and Steel company to go through . Nothing has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Name Change Announced by Reliance State Bank Announcement that the Reliance State bank will change its name to Reliance Bank and Trust company , effective Feb. 1 , was made last night by F. 0 . Blrney , president . The bank has been qualified to act as a. trust company tar some time , according to Mr. Birney , and an Increasing flow of insurance business brought the decision to carry the trust feature in the name . Formal opening of the remodeled home of the Mid-City Trust and Savings bank , Halsted and Madison streets , will take place Saturday . There will be music , refreshments , and souvenirs .                     