@@696821

txt With Secretary Mellon and Congressional leaders joining in the prediction of action early in the December session on the proposed joint resolution to cut the normal tax on personal incomes and the corporation income tax by 1 per cent , and with the stock market showing a decided rallying tendency , officials here professed confidence today that the " worst was over " in connection with the collapse of values on the security exchanges , and that business would suffer no severe a nd , general depression . Decision of the New York Reserve Bank to reduce its rediscount rate , effective tomorrow , from 5 to 41,4 per cent and the $710,000,000 decrease in brokers ' loans reported by New York member banks were being accepted as conclusive evidence that the last danger of credit strain was over and that gradually easing money rates would be in order from this time . The Federal Reserve Board made public its approval of the action of the New York bank without comment and members refused to discuss the stock market and business situation from any angle . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Bank was regarded as a decision on its part to take the leadership in bringing down rates throughout the country , as an added stimulus to business . While no official prediction was available , the belief here is that the other reserve banks , which now have a rediscount rate of 5 per cent , will quickly fall into line . Tax reduction along the lines of the proposed joint resolution is expected not only to stimulate business by reducing its tax burden , but to help maintain the level of the consuming market by the savings which individuals will experience . Mellon Expects No Opposition . Secretary Mellon , in discussing the tax reduction proposal , predicted that there would be no difficulty in obtaining adoption of the resolution , and in this he was hacked up by the outstanding leaders of both parties . Mr. Mellon described the proposal as simple and understandable in every way . He indicated that the treasury had been working on such a plan for some time and that it would have been proposed regardless of the situation in the stock market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business and its ability to cope with the effect of the stock market crash , by saying that if the Treasury had been apprehensive as to the future it would not have recommended a reduction . Mr. Mellon added that losses in the stock market which might tend to curtail the income of taxpayers , had been considered carefully in preparing estimates upon which the proposal was based . The final estimates were withheld . however , it being stated that while they were in hand the policy was not to make them public until they were sent to Congress . This will be done at the opening of the December session . The Secretary expressed the utmost confidence that the prosperity of the country would continue and would not admit that the announcement of a tax reduction program was made last night because of the condition of the market . Mills Favors Flexible Plan . Under-Secretary Mills , in explaining the Treasury 's proposal , said that for some time there had been a desire to include a flexible provision in the government 's tax system by which taxes could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury that there would be a surplus in excess of that which could have been accurately foreseen . While it was now apparent that there would be a surplus sufficient to warrant the proposed reduction in 1930 , it was pointed out that the task of ' estimating revenues and expenditures for the fiscal year 1931 was much more difficult . In this situation the flexible provision , which granted the relief only for taxes paid in the calendar year 1930 on income earned in 1929 , provided a simple means of giving benefits . Mr. Mills emphasized the point , however , that the adoption of the policy did not mean that the tax reduction benefits would be canceled at the end of the period covered by the resolution . A later survey of the revenues and expenditures for the fiscal year 1931 , it was said , might prove that the temporary relief must be withdrawn , but on the other hand there was the possibility of an even greater reduction . Reserve Board in Session . The Federal Reserve Board met today . It is understood to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning stock market and money conditions , but no announcement was made . Approval of the reduction in the New York bank rate to 4i , per cent was said to have been unanimous . This is the first time since July , 1928 , that the rate has been so low- and it was increased to 5 per cent on July 13 , while speculation on the Stock Exchange was in full swing . An increase to 6 per cent ' was made on Aug. 9 , 1929 , and this rate remained until the recent liquidation in the market , began . A drop to 5 per cent was approved two weeks . ago . Approval of the administration 's proposal for a tax cut through a joint resolution was general among Congressional leaders . The proposal was received entirely without political bias , and Republicans and Democrats united in their support of the tax cut , believing that such legislation would tend to ease the Stock market . situation and , would . be beneficial to business . In the House Representative W. C. Hawley , Republican , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative John N. Garner , ranking Democratic member of the committee , and minority House leader , declared - their intention of supporting the reduction . They are united on a program to assume passage of the resolution in the early days of the regular session . Not a single discordant note was sounded by the leaders of either party in Senate ' or House , and nothing that has been done by the administration has been accepted by Congress with such general approval . Leaders in the Senate feel that the resolution should be adopted without any disturbing debate . The program there is to adopt it as soon as it comes from the House , immediately after the tariff bill is sent into conference . Hawley Commends Proposal . " The way this proposal comes to us unites all shades of political thought and puts aside from the next session any political discussion on tax reduction . " said Mr. Hawley . " Nothing that has been done recently has met with such general approval as this , and I believe the House will promptly set the way for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is possible and practical to aid business and unfortunate investors in stock securities . " The resolution will bring in an entirely new principle , however , when it comes to dealing with taxation . The basic tax law will remain and the old rates will be charged in the ensuing years unless Congress should take further action to cut the tax rates . Under this plan , however , the government , through Congressional-action , will be able to make tax adjustments from year to year . to meet existing needs . " Garner Also Enthusiastic . Mr. Garner said that be thought it was his patriotic duty to support the resolution and to do all he could to prevent its being made a partisan question . " I realize , " said Mr. Garner , " that there may be advantage to the Republican party in the campaign next year from the passage of tax reduction legislation at this time . But I look at the proposal from the point of view of the good of the country and I shall support it . There is danger to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the stock market . Even though a business crash might aid in placing the Democratic party in power , the price would be too great to pay for party success . " We must think in terms of the country . That is just the way I view the tax reduction . I believe that it is the duty of the government to aid in any way that is sound to stop the stock market drop . This situation is now injuring business , and if the market does not become settled it will demoralize business . The tax reduction ought to stabilize business , and because I believe in the wisdom and justice of the move I am in hearty accord with what has been proposed . " " I believe that the announcement now and its general approval by representatives of both parties will have a quieting effect on the stock market and be so assuring to business as to prevent any slowing down as a reflection of the operations of the stock market . " Senator Harrison Approves . " This is the best thing that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mississippi said . " The Democrats will not offer any resistance to the prompt adoption of the resolution . No partisan politics ought to operate at this time : " Senator Smoot , Republican , chairman of the Finance Committee , and Senator Simmons , ranking minority member , both announced their ' support and thought there would be no prolonged debate ' or partisan opposition to the administration 's program . " I think the suggestion is timely . and , since a tax reduction loomed , it was opportune that the country be told of it in definite terms long in advance , " Senator Reed of Pennsylvania said . " The Republicans never give anything until they have to in the way of a tax reduction and none of their plans have been adopted by Congress , " said Senator Glass of Virginia . " It is only right if the government collects more money than it needs from the people that it should be returned to them . ' While I have my own views on tax reduction . I think the suggestion made by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Hoover and Secretary Mellon both learned the policy of tax reduction was initiated under President Coolidge , under whom they served . " explained Senator Moses of New Hampshire . " I am glad to see that the Coolidge policy is to be carried forward to the present administration . It is a sound business policy for the government to pursue and the suggestion comes at a time when the mere announcement will be beneficial and help stabilize the stock market and materially , aid business ventures . " Insurgents Non-Committal . While the regulars and Democrats expressed themselves , without hesitancy , in favor of the reduction , some of the insurgent Senators , while not raising objections , indicated that they had not studied it closely enough to give a definite opinion . In the midst of the administration 's program to restore unnecessary taxes to the people , it was learned that some of the large farm associations are now urging that there be no tax reduction but that the surplus be applied to reduction of the national debt . Some Senators said that their mails were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy : Because of the attitude of the farm associations , Senators from such States refrained from committing themselves . This was the attitude of Senator Borah of Idaho and Senator Norris of Nebraska . Their acceptance of the administration 's attitude seemed , however , that of tax proposal but an inclination not to say so at this time ,                     