@@686811

txt Enrico Caruso died here today . The great singer , whose ultimate ' recovery had been hoped for under the benign influences of his own Neapolitan skies , passed away at 9 o'clock this Morning at the Hotel Vesuvius in this city . At his own request , Caruso 's body will be embalm ? , 1 and the funeral services will be held tomorrow . It is recalled that when lie lay gravely stricken in New York , I : ' had expressed the wish that he might die in Italy , and now all Italy is mourning that this sad wish has come true . The feeling of Italians has always been one of pride that . Caruso for so many years represented the musical genius of their race . And not only that , many of them had found a friend in the beloved singer in time of need . Signor Caruso had been brought here burriediy from Sorrento , on the Bay of Naples , where less than a week ago he avowed his returning strength and expressed the conviction that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been able to visit the famous Sanctuary of Our Lady of Pompeii , giving a thank offering for his recovery . He went also to the wonderful Island of Capri , where he attended a luncheon in his honor . But soon afterward unfavorable symptoms , In the form of a high fever , manifested themselves , and his wife telegraphed to a Rome specialist to come to Sorrento . It was then discovered that a new internal abscess had developed . Caruso 's removal to Rome for an operation was advised , but he showedtuch weakness that it was impossible 13 transfer him further than Naples , t ; here he arrived by sea Sunday evening . Four eranent physicians were called in consultation , and their exsmination showed the presence of a sub ) hrenic abscess , accompanied by severe peritonitis . An operation at noon today was decided upon , but the patient 's condition became suddenly worse at 4:30 in the morning , and he died soon afterward . Prior to this , heart stimulation was resorted to hourly . In order that Caruso should not tire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak , so during his last . night he uttered no word . Of the members of his family present at the deathbed , the most pathetic was his father 's widow , who had always clung obstinately to her little home , despite her stepson 's efforts to accustom her to the material comforts of life . Mrs. Caruso ' With Him to tho Last . Present also at the bedside were Caruso 's wife , who was Dorothy , daughter of Park Benjamin of New York ; their little daughter Gloria and Caruso 's eldest son , Itodolfo , as well as the tenor 's brother , Giovanni , several nephews , and Vincenzo Beliezza and Paolo Longone , two musicians . a time after his arrival in Italy Caruso showed improvement , his native air having a beneficial effect . Nevertheless , he- conserved his strength , and for this reason was obliged to refuse a request to sing at a reception given by the Admiralty to Crown Prince Hirohito of Japan . That his voice remained strong and clear was declared to have been evidenced when recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who expressed their delight . There was grave anxiety , however , when Caruso , only a few days ago , began to show signs of depression . The ? rising temperature , which had characterized previous attacks , recurred , and steadily his condition grew . worse until Saturday , when he sufferQd from violent pains in the abdominal rition . The medical consultation followed , and It was apparent that the patient was not only suffering acute physical pain , but that his heart was weakening rapidly . ? Oxygen was administered and other measures were taken to prolong his vitality . Caruso himself - wanted to proceed immediately to Rome , but he was dissuaded from this because such a journey , it was pointed out , might prove fatal , Foam New Operation Necessary . ? LONDON , Aug. 2 ( Associated Press ) . Caruso was prepared for an operation . Sunday , over the results of which the surgeons were pessimistic , according to an Exchange Telegraph dispatch from Rome today , quoting a Naples message . Caruso was said to have become extremely weak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of camphor every two hours . The operation , the dispatch said , was for an abscess between the liver and the diaphragm , which caused acute peritonitis . Caruso 's wife and his brother were at his bedside . The tenor was until a week ago believed to be on the way to recovery from the long illness which began in New York last Winter early in - the operatic season . Then suddenly he had an unexpected relapse and was removed from Sorrento to Naples . lie arrived at Naples Sunday night , added the message , and the specialists who were called decided to operate immediately . The burial of Caruso will take place today ( Wednesday ) amid national mourning , at the Church of Santa Maria Gracia , in Naples , according to the Daily Mail . Crowds in Italy Wotehed Bulletins . Copyright . 1921. by The New York Times Company . Special Cable to THE . NF:W YORK TIMES . ROME , Aug. ** news of Caruso 's fatal relapse filled every one in Rome with the deepest consternation , as throughout Italy it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recovery . According to reports here , the greatest impression was caused in his native Naples , whore a vast crowd in perfect silence waited all morning outside the clinic , in order to hear how the patient was progressing . Some papers printed special editions , giving bulletins of Caruso 's condition . Hundreds of telegrams expressing sym , - pathy , and others of encouragement up to the last , were received from all over Italy . The physicians did not disguise the gravity of the operation , for which they had prepared , especially in view of the weakened condition of the patient , but they had expressed even yesterday the strong hope of saving Caruso 's life . , Late last night in Rome , knots of people had remained standing outside the newspaper offices to get the first news of the result of the operation . Instead came . the news of his death this morning .                     