@@690634

txt Despite the gossip which led th : Rev. Leslie R. Anderson to run away and attempt  --  sulcide here , members of his Evangelical church at St. Joseph , Mich. , informally decided last night that they wanted him to remain as their pastor . A meeting was called soon after the parishioners learned that the Rev. Mr. Anderson , who disappeared last Saturday , had been rushed to the County hospital in Chicago to be treat ed for . injuries received in an automobile accident . Witnesses declared . ' the clergyman stepped in front of a machine at.Washington and Canal streets early yesterday . They thought he was a laborer . Then a letter addressed to his wife ' Was found , and detectives discovered that they had the man for wham the St , Joseph police had been searching for four days . Blantes Women Parishioners . The contents of the letter were startling . In it the Rev. Mr. Anderson announced his intention of commit . ling suicide and gave the names of two , parishioners : Mrs. Mildred ' Johnson and Mrs. 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " My blood is upon her head as sure . ly as if she had shot me . " While Mrs. Anderson was hurrying to her husband 's bedside , members of the little Michigan church were buzzing over this latest development in the strange case of their missing pastor . There was some talk of demanding his resignation . A special meeting was called . Two dozen members of the church were gathered in the edifice last night . awaiting the arrival from Jackson of the presiding elder of the district . Neither Mrs. Johnson nor Mrs. Servis was present , and all efforts to locate them were futile . Mrs. Johnson 's bus ; band was there , however . He turned his back on a reporter who attempted to question him . " I believe thoroughly in our pastor , " declared one of the church members . " So do I. " was the response of several otheis , and only two men were found who thought he ought to resign . But the presiding elder failed to arrive , and the meeting ended without any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again tonight , it was decided . - Meanwhile , the Rev. Mr. Anderson was recovering from his injuries at the County hospital . Ills wife of sotenteen years , whom he had left after a quarrel last Sattirday , was beside him . There had been a reconciliation . They were going to start out all over again . The clergyman said his mind had been in a daze for almost a week . He vaguely remembered driving to Chicago and then getting employment as a teamster on Samuel Insult 's farm near Libertyville , Ill . After working for two days ho droNre to Chicago . He recalled writing the suicide letter , which began : " One about to die salutes you , " and ended with endearing words and directioni for a simple burial . But the Rev. Mr. Anderson said lie did n't know If he had actually tried to commit suicide . What had happened was a hazy uncertainty . Kept Scandal from Nilfe . " I just broke down , " he said . " Too much work . Too much trouble . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Of course , there was trouble with women , dear , " the pastor continued , looking up at his wife . " I never told yeti . I kept a thousand and one things from you . You never knew how the was driving me . " This elusion to the woman ' mentioned in his farewell letter aroused no resentment In Mrs. Anderson . It was MI over now , she said . Precisely what past actions led to the Rev. Mr. ? Anderson 's sensational mention of the two women parishioners were not disclosed .                     