@@695562

txt Iowa City was football mad tonight as the advance guard of some 30,000 homecoming fans came in from all points of the state for Saturday 's struggle with Minnesota . While Coach Burton Ingwersen drove ? his charges through their final strenuous practice session behind locked doors on Iowa field , the town itself began to take on a. festive aspect in preparation for what promises to be its greatest football treat in recent years : Downtown streets and frater ? n1ty and sorority houses blossomed out in Iowa and Minnesota colors . The town 's limited hotel facilities were nearly exhausted as the alumni trekked back to the campus , Saturday 's game was on every one 's tongue . The Turning Point . Iowa 's football renaissance has stirred the fans throughout the state to fever pitch , and the largest crowd in the history of the school will be in the stands Saturday for the game , which marks the turning point of Iowa 's sudden march back toward the Big Ten football heights . Coach Ingwersen 's accomplishmetit in raising the Hawkeyes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the period of a year has rewon the confidence of the fans , who had lost interest in the Hawkeyes during their recent lean years on the gridiron . New paved roads leading into this little university town also are playing their part in swelling the crowd to record proportions . Among some of the notables who will attend Saturday 's game are Gov . John Hammill , United States Senators Daniel Steck and Smith Brookhart ; Frank 0 . Lowden , former governor of Illinois ; J , P. Gorman , president of the Rock Island railroad ; William H. Bremmer , president of the Minneapolis and St. Louis railroad ; all members of the state board of education , and most of tho state officials . Gov . Hammitt will speak at a monster student pep meeting tomorrow night . Watch , Nagnrskl . Chief interest in the game centers in the individual duel between those two great plunging full backs  --  Mayes , Iowa 's giant Cherokee Indian , and Bronko Nagurskl of* Minnesota . Iowa fins feel Ina-worsen has been holding back so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flash his real colors for the first time against the Gophers . Defense for the Gophers ' forward paises and running attack kept the Hawkeyes busy today In its final hard practice of the week . Ingwersen put his men through a long defensive drill against both the second team and a freshman eleven , and the varsity battered down a majority of the aerial attempts . Farrob , first string blocking half back , was out of the game with a cold . With his return before Saturday uncertain , Ing ? wersen drilled Thomas and Hagerty in the half back job . ? GOPHERS BREAK CAMP Minneapolis , Minn. , Oct. 25 . ? Special . ) ? After the m o s t. strenuous scrimmage of the week 33 Minnesota football players today boarded a train for Cedar Rapids , where they will rest until time to enter the battle against Iowa Saturday afternoon . Leroy Timm , blocking half back , was left behind because of an injured leg . Quentin Burdick will take his place . The Gophers will run through sig ? nets at Cedar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special train Saturday noon . The Gophers got a noisy sendoff from 3,000 rooters and the band as they left for their first out of town game of the season . In the final drill Coach Spears stressed defensive play . For two hours be directed the varsity and see ? and teams ' efforts to atop the Iowa attack . Late in the workout the regulars took the ball and tried out their own plays .                     