@@696734

txt Declining tendency in the total amount of commercial paps ? outstanding in the banks is continuing , according to Herbert F. Boynton , of New York . in submitting the report of the Commercial Credits Co ? - nreittee to the Investment Bankers Association . ' The lure of high money rates has resulted in an undue extension of credits secured by intangibles , resulting in an unhealthy speculative condition in securities , and , further , has driven commercial borrowers to using their depository banks as a source of borrowing to a degree never reached in recent years . " he continued . " The spirit of cooperation among paper houses seems to be continuing and there have been , throughout the year , practically no cases reported to the committee where any house has acted contrary to policies as laid down by the commercial credits committee of earlier years . " Reports of Committees Report of special committee on securities fraud prevention , presented by R. C. Osgood of Chicago , stated that efforts to obtain expansion of the inspection service of the U. S. Post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a national conference to assist in intensifying and cordinating the efforts of public and private agencies in the war on fraud as a means to stimulate public interest in a larger postal appropriation for fraud work , and also believed it would assist in exchange of case information among the various organizations . Sub-committee on cost accounting of the business problems committee urged that the members of the association send in reports on departmental cost accounting , based on a uniform system , with a view to having these  --  cost sheets analysed and composite cost sheets prepared for the industry as a whole . In this way , each house would be able to compare its costs with the average and find out wherzin its operations are better or worse than the average . The individual cost sheets will be given a code number so that no one examining the sheets will know from whom they were received . The sub-committee asks : ( 1 ) A. uniform classification of accounts . Tentative classification contains a limited number of primary accounts . Its purpose is to have a uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other vital terms will represent the same facts in each house . ( 2 ) A. list of cost factors . Only simple cost factors which can be easily calculated from forms submitted will be used . ( 3 ) A cost statement . Tentative form submitted is to be filled in by in-embers directly from data shown on their books . Electric Securities Discussed " The best electric securities and particularly those of senior grade are based upon such fundamental values that their Investment worth can scarcely be questioned even in these hectic days , " F. E. Frothingham , of Coffin &; Burr . said in presenting the report of the public service securities committee at the Investment Bankers Association convention . Commenting on the enormous investments of the investment trust companies in utility securities especially the common Stocks of holding companies , the report said : ? The problem is as to what the effect of this new market influence on utility as well as other securities will be should a real stock market liquidation set in . " The report discussed the bill introduced by Senator Couzens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wireless and expressed the hope that no unnecessary federal authority would be set up as the committee believes it to be a sound national policy to leave to the states that which the states can effectively do . The committee holds that the large mergers in the electric light and power business not only are worth achieving , " but must be done if the amazing fiexibilities and adaptabilities of electricity are to come into their own and become the possible servant of man 's needs that they can be . " Increased Need of Regulation However , the committee sees an increased need of tightening of public state regulation at the sources , together with increased resistance on the part of such regulating authority to the often intangible influences over Par-flung operations by a remote centralized control . Commenting on record high prices in many public utility stocks and a cdinciding decrease in interest in bonds , Mr. Frothingbam said : " This rising stock market has been in some measure but a just recognition of mounting values and opportunities , in some measure it is due to the decrease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the influence of investment trust buying , and in too large a measure to the speculative rush of the public , of the small wage earner , to make quick and apparently easy profits . " It is certainly open to question if in too many instances futures are not being overpaid for . The principles of sound investment can not permanently be set aside . That they have , .. een temporarily so set aside has but made exceptional opportunities for prudent . investors to buy the senior securities of established properties and nowhere is the opportunity more attractive for the practice of these sound principles than in the public utility field . " Your committee believes that this association can do no greater service in the present juncture than to caution against speculative and uninformed buying and to counsel the prudent buying of utility securities . "                     