@@695830

txt In determining present policy . directors of Federal Reserve banks and members of the Federal Reserve Board are faced with a situation not only extraordinarily complicated , but one that is without precedent . The course or interest rates and credit conditions for the balance of this year depend , to an unusual degree , on Federal Reserve policy . Yet Wall Street has seldom been as baffled as now by the credit situation and so impotent to forecast the likely course of Reserve policy . There is every reason to believe the Reserve banks are equally baffled . for , after all , Reserve bankers are in possession of little more information than is Wall Street collectively . To predict the course of Reserve Bank policy is therefore idle . At the moment its policy appears to be one of watchful waiting , but the possibility of an increase in the rediscount rate has been attracting considerable attention . While any early increase in the bank rate seems unlikely in view of recent move of gold from England . the factors affecting the rate are basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Primarily . the cause for raising the discount rate would be to curb the tendency for the volume of credit to expand at a faster rate than business . Such tendency is particularly important now because of this country 's gold exports during the last 18 months . Federal Reserve indices of general business activity in 1928 show an increase of roughly 2 , -e over 1927. or slightly below the normal secular trend . Estimated increase of actual bank credit in use during 1923 indicates an expansion of slightly less than ** This is a normal rate , and not in any way alarming . Rapid Turnover of Credit However , Federal Reserve authorities point out that credit had a much more rapid turnover in 1928 than in 1927. as indicated by a 14,7 , increase in bank clearings. it is claimed this rapid turnover is the equivalent of a considerably greater volume of credit turned over at the 1927 rate of speed . But still another factor in credit volume must now be considered seriously , namely the use of non-bank funds in security market loans . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their importance indirectly as a potential call on bank credit was clearly demonstrated over the year-end . In December . " others " withdrew over $170,000.000 from the New York money market . To pre- vent demoralization of the market . New York banks had to supply the deficiency . Coming . as it did , at the end of the year . this pieced a considerable burden on the credit : situation . If the increase in brokers ' loans for the account of " others . " as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , be added to the increase of brokers ' loans made by private bankers , foreign agencies . etc. , reported by the Stock Exchange , it will be seen that non-bank credit extended to security markets gained just short of 92,000 , - 000,000 during 192S . If all this increase be added to the actual increase in credit extended by banks of the country , then the use of credit in this country last year will be found to have expanded at the rate of about Whether all non-bank loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes under surveillance of the Reserve Banks is highly debatable . However . it would seem to fall within the province of the Reserve Banks to pay attention to the tremendous increase in funds used for speculation , more particularly since , in addition to the already large amount of bank credit directly Involved therein , there is a substantial volume of funds which is a potential call on bank credit . Questions Before Reserve Officials By dint of high rediscount rates , frequent admonitions to member banks and actual cooperation by such banks , the Reserve Banks were successful in keeping the volume of direct bank credit involved in securities at a reasonably constant level throughout 192S . Whether use of bank credit for security speculation would have increased in the absence of such Reserve policy is an interesting question . Equally interesting is the question of what would happen to bank credits used in brokers ' loans if the Reserve Banks should relax their policy by lowering the discount rate , or by buying more bills or government securities . It is generally assumed , of course , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on an even larger scale than any yet seen . The question now facing the Reserve Banks is whether the continuing increase of credits for speculation is a threat to credit stability and an indication of inflation . Dr. W. Randolph Burgess of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York made an interesting comment on stock inflation and credit in a recent speech , when he said : " The only answer I know for the question of whether speculation is using more than its share of credit is found by the test of interest rates . A speculative situation in the long run will , I believe . be tested by interest rates . If prices are on a sound economic basis , then they stand up under high rates , or if they are not sound high rates discover the points of weakness in the long run . " For something like a : , ear security prices have been under the test of high interest rates , yet prices continue to advance , volume of security transactions increases , and the demand for security loans , even at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unfortunately for Reserve Bank policy , the test of security prices by high interest rates can not continue indclarlitcly without affcct-nghuslaess. ** situation of abnormally high call and time money rates and relatively low commercial rates that prevailed through 192S is apparently drawing to an end . The spread between the two broad types of loans is constantly narrowing , at the expense of business loan rates . In fact , business interest rates are now rising to levels where the 5 , - rediscount rate is getting out of line . How high money can go before adversely affecting business can be determined only- by trial , but the danger is not to be minimized High interest rates here already have exerted their normal influence on international credit conditions . Gold has started to flow in from England and sterling is at the gold import level The question arises whether high Interest rates can be maintained here without seriously embarrassing the Bank of England , which is in no position to lose gold in any quantity . Should the Federal Reserve increase its discount rate it is probable England 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time being it would seem that the discount rate had been removed from the Reserve Banks ' available instruments of policy . Federal Reserve 's problem boils down to finding a policy that will discourage a rate of increase in specula. tive loans out of keeping with the rate of the country 's savings , and yet a policy that will neither hamper business , unsettle confidence . nor precipitate international credit disturbances . How this problem can be met seems beyond the ken of Wall Street 's most experienced bankers .                     