@@694884

txt Suddenly getting out of control of Its driver , a sedan speeding south in the outer drive in Lincoln park early this morning plunged off the road to the right , crashed through the Iron railing guarding the jackknife bridge . near the Lincoln Park Boat club , and plunged into the lagoon twenty feet below , where it was completely submerged . The two men occupants of the car climbed through the windows which happened to be open and began swim-1 tning for the shore . They were pulled up the bank by Lincoln Park Policeman Leo Miller and Joseph Moore , n. cab driver , who were near the bridge when the accident occurred , and taken to the Columbus hospital . The occuputts of the nutchlne were Ainsiee Lambert . 6330 Winthrop avenue , general manager of the Granada theater , and Clement D. Krapps , living at the Albion Shore hotel , production manager at the same theater . Lambert was driving the car , when suddenly it swerved sharply , struck the railing and went down . Lambert suffered a broken thigh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Krapps was less seriously Injured and after an hour at the hospital was permitted to go home . One Man hilted in Collision . One man was killed and two women seriously injured early this morning In a collision between two automobiles at Woodlawn avenue and the Midway . The dead man was Lawrence Lorraine , 56 West Grand avenue . With Miss Helen Smith , 5944 Prairie avenue , he was driving south all Woodlawn avenue and failed to stop with the red lights . ills car struck a machine driven by Benjamin Simpson , 6901 Crandon avenue . In Simpson 's car Were five other persons , including ' Mrs. Simpson and Mrs. Ida Gordon , 7122 East End avenue . Both the women were set-kingly injured . Mrs. Gordon was taken to Washington Park hospital and Mrs. Simpson to the Illinois Central hospital . Lorraine 's death , with one other , raised the Cook county motor toll since Jan. 1 to 184 . Skull Fractured in Crash . Thomas Kourvetarts , 24 , of 4843 Broadway , was taken to the Rogers Park hospital with a fractured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one driven by Thomas Gallagher , 1230 West Ran . dolph street , wholesale butter and egg dealer , at Ridge avenue and Pratt boulevard . Gallagher drove on , but was chased and overtaken . At the Rogers Park station ho was booked for assault with an automobile . ' Witnesses told tho pollee Gallagher was driving on the wrong side of the street , An unidentified colored man , about 30 years old and poorly dressed , was killed late last night when ho was struck by an automobile at 35th street and South l'ark way . Police held James Guy , also colored , 20 West 20th street , the driver of the automobile .                     