@@696139

txt - President Hoover 's speech on laws , law enforcemeat and lawlessness in the United States was intended to be and should be a bracer to the American sense of responsibility . The President finds tile subject one of the chief concerns of his administration . His speech supplements his Maugural message in this respect . Exhortation Is to arouse consciousness , but When a proper anxiety and concern have been Produced something more will be needed and that perception of what the trouble is . The American people in the mass are orderly , good natured , amenable and amiable . In these Which are the days described as of greatest lawlessness the people of the United States are freer from organized disturbances of the public peace than the people of Germany , France or even Great Britain . They do not have dangerous street demonstrations or riots , They have not required the military force to preserve order . Even their legisi ; . ; tivit bodies are fairly orderly . They had an election - last November which might have sp- . pealed to passion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there was not a notable incident of disorder in the whole campaign . They can lint 190,400 spectators on a great field to see an athletic contest arousing partisanship and enthusiyam wadi , all they require of the police is to keep the automobile traffic from snarling up . Thesearo not lawless people . ' They have faults . One Is the disposition which makes it possible for them to be given inconsiderate and unwise laws . States prohibit cigarets or the exposition of certain scientific theories and then bootleg both . Illinois for years had some anti-prize fight laws which indicated nothing less than an Insane asylum for their source . Old blue laws remain on statute books and give rise to vagaries of enforcement and nonenforcement . Public prosecutors frequently select what they will and will not take before juries . " United States district attorneys have reduced the Mann act by refusing to take cognizance of its worse features . A Michigan county prosecutor would not act under the prohibition life law and when his successor did , under threat from the attorney general , the victim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by hanging himself in his cell . American law making is often a wild and unreasonable thing and it adds considerably to the burden of effective administration . Furthermore , the people frequently find the chief offenders against law in the persons they have put in government positions . They are betrayed by corruptionists who make alliances on one hand with moralists for their protection and with criminals on the other hand for their profit . The President appealed for a stricter enforcement of law , but in the federal administration of it there is at this time such a disregard for lawful methods that the function of federal justice has the entire country disturbed . Some of the chief offenders against law and order are in the federal service . The criminal offenses of the coast guard and the prohibition unit are worse than other criminal acts because they are under the protecBon of the department of justice , which deliberately establishes legal processes to safeguard guilty men . That example is so terrible that it almost makes improvement elsewhere hopeless while it conttnooa. - Americans observing law enforcement find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violation of constitutional guarantees , such as the right of trial by jury , protection against confiscation of property and of double jeopardy , security against search and seizure without warrant , etc . When these processes are considered and when the acts of government agents are observed there is a natural wonder as to what a still stricter enforoement would mean . ' Neither the crimes of violence in the various states nor the failure to apprehend and punish , he guilty represent the will of the masses of the people . Criminal statistics do not mean much , Standing without explanation . This is not a homogenous country . The bad homicide owes considerable to two fasters . The highest . xsurder rate is in some of the southern cities and there It means that there are many crimes of anger in the Negro population . Quarrels have fatal consequences . There is , as another factor , the code of private justice which still Prevails among some Europeans , notably the Sicilians , domiciled chiefly in northern cities . America is carrying the social burdens of youth as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' to new ' Opportunities . qwq and when they fail the gross impurities get into the administration of their law with men given rnb/lc trust coUperating with the criminals . Defects in the American judicial system also are attributable to the fact that the American system in its origin and in its earliest development aimed at the protection of the individual from injustico at the hands of those in authority . That idea was carried from England by victims of Judicial procedure and when the colonies has become an independent republic it was reanimated by outrages under the federal sedition law . The state courts immediately reflected a reaction against the federal court procedure . When the United States acts for a correction ef the abuses which have grown up it must proceed with an understanding of what it is about . It does not minimize the necessity of correction to insist that the evils require first an understanding .                     