@@693147

txt With the Republican State Convention scheduled to be called to order at the new . Madison Square Garden at 11 ' o'clock . this forenoon , the Republican skies at a late hour last night had cleared th such an extent that the more influential leaders of the party ventured to predict an assembly which would , ' In the main , be harmonious . In , dications pointed - to the nomination of Representative Ogden L. Mills for Governor and the , adoption of a party platform containing ' a law enforcement plank which would prove acceptable to the wets and to the main body of the drys . Who live chosen to make their Omer : , prohibition within party lutes . The situation ' had so changed for the better from the . party viewpoint last night that a dinner which National Committeeman Charles D. Mlles- gave at . the Uetreprilttalt club to about sixty 14044 : Will iiieiked to by titn as a " 4/iarittony dinner " . whereas it has been ? oilginally intended ' its a conference at Which . path* dligletilties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County Leader ! ? at Dinner . Practically all ' the county leaders ' Vete present at ' the ' dinner , : With Senator James V- Wadsworth Jr. , State Chairman George K. ' Morris , James R. Sheffield , ' United States Ambassador to Mexico , and others . The affair-lasted late . ? 0ne of the first , to leave was William L. Ward of Westchester , who explained that because of his age he felt he should be getting home rather early with the morning session of the convention in prospect . ' The diners began to disperse at 11:30 . From all accounts no mention was made in speeches to candidates , and about the only reference to the platform and its law ' enforcement plank was an assurance that a formula had been found that would be effective in bringing together all elements of the party behind the ticket . The first speech was made by Mr. Hilles himself , who was followed by Ambassador Sheffield . Other addressee were by Congressmen Bertrand H. Snell . James S. Parker and S. Wallace Dempsey , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph A. of the Assembly followed . The last speech was made . by Representative Mills , who expressed his confidence that with the Party harmonious an aggressive and successful fight could be made against Governor Smith and the other Democratic candMates . The topic of a majority of the speeches was the condition of the party in the respective strongholds of the speakers . AU doubt that Congressman Mills , despite his avowed wetness , would be acceptable to a majority of the dry Republicans up-State was removed ' when the . advance guard of leaders I from up-State counties began to . drift in yesterday ahead of their delegations . which are not due until early today . Without exception the ' up-State chieftains who. were questioned expressed , their belief that in the circumstances . brought about by the stand on prohibition taken by Senator Wadswortb . Mrs Mills was the man who could make the most telling fight against Governor Smith , whom the Democrats are expected to nominate for the fourth term at Syracuse tomorrow . ' Says Split Will Be Averted . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a law enforcement plank that would avert a split in the convention on that crucial question had been agreed upon in principle . This agreement was reached at a conference held earlier in the ' ' day at the Hotel Ambassador . The conference was called by Mr. Morris , Chairman of the Republican State Committee . The invitations had gone- out exclusively to up-State leaders with were known as drys . Senator Wadsworth attended while the form of the ' prospective law enforcement plank was being tbreahed out . When he returned to his own headquarters at the Hotel- Belmont he authorized the following statement : " As a result of many conferences we have made important progress on the platform .. I have every reason to believe that there will not be any split in the convention worthy of the name with reference to prohibition . An agreement has been reached in principle on . a law enforcement pla.nk , but I am not at liberty to tell the details . because the exact wording still remains to be worked out . " Those who attended the conference ooskdee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liniglata Mr. , Representaffves Snell of St. Lawrence and Parker of Washington County . . A11 of the conferees observed unusual reticence regarding developments at the- meeting , which lasted for several hours and none would divulge in detail what was to go into the proposed declaration on law enforcement . Some Provisions of plank . It was learned , however , that broadly the plank will urge voters generally to cast their vote on the referendum to the end that the result may afford an index of sentiment throughout the State on the present Federal enforcement statute . The extreme drys , through the Anti-Saloon League ? and other dry agencies , have been urged not to vote on the referendum . The plank will pledge the pas : 7 , it successful at the polls , to a policy . of rigid enforcement of all laws , iselnding the Prohibition law . In a general way , it was said , the language of this part of the prospective law enforcement plank would follow that embodied in the Republican National platform in 1924 . There will be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the plank discussed at the conference . In this respect it may not prove acceptable to the extreme dry element ? which is looking to Representative Hamilton Fish ** for leadership . Mr. Fish said last night that if he should become a member of the Committee on Resolutions , as he expects , he would present a resolution calling for a State enforcement plank . When asked if he would carry his fight . to the floor of the convention if this proposal were rejected by the committee , Mr. Fish said he had not made up his mind . He did declare that any attempt to stand pat in the platform on a mere pledge to abide by the referendum would compel him to take his fight to the floor of the convention . " And under the circumstances , " he added somewhat grinily , ? " I think I would come pretty close to having a majority of the delegation behind me . " Delegates in Three Groups . In general , the 1,317 delegates in the convention may be divided into three groups in respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the wet and dry " regulars " and the extreme drys , whose operations up to the very eve of the convention have bordered on insurgency . The leaders , in their deliberations over a platform statement on prohibition , have been inclined to ignore this latter element because they have felt that nothing short of a direct declaration in favor of State enforcement would prove acceptable to them . The statement made tonight by Representative Fish , the leader of this group , was interpreted , however , , as indicating a less uncompromising attitude than had been anticipated . With this break in the clouds that have been hovering over the patty for months and the new prospects of harmony where war had been expected , every effort will be made by the leaders to speed the convention procedure . The opening session will be called to order at U o'clock this fore -- noon by Mr. Morris . Much of the forenoon session will be devoted to routine work , such as election - of . Representative Mills as Temporary Chairman and the appointment of standing committees , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will write the platform from several tentative drafts . The feature of the opening session will be the " keynote " speech to be delivered by Representative Mills when he takes the gavel . It will be the first time in the memory of active Republicans that a man selected to lead as standard-bearer in a campaign has functioned as keynote orator as well . Seek to Speed Procedure . If the present plan of the leaders is adhered to the convention will adopt its platform at tonight 's session and be free to devote all tomorrow to nominations . With the election law requiring nominations to be filed before midnight tomorrow at the office of the Secretary of State at Albany , convention leaders are anxious to avoid any waste of time that would keep the convention in session until a late hour tomorrow night . Senator Wadsworth , when questioned yesterday with regard to prospective candidates for Governor , declared that this question must remain unanswered . " The matter has not been settled , " he said . It seemed to be pretty well settled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and up-State districts that Representative Mills was to be the nominee . Senator Wadsworth has maintained all-along that he was bringing no influence to bear in the selection of a candidate for Governor . It has been noticeable , however , that he has been ? consulted at every stage of the search and that a word from the Senator was enough to shelve Supreme Court Justice James C. Cropsey , who was favored by a large majority of the upState leaders . It may have been to create an impression that Senator Wadsworth had been disregarded in turn in the selection of Representative Mills that one of the prominent " politically " dry leaders from up-State took pains yesterday to have a report circulated to the effect that Senator Wadsworth was opposed to Mr. Mills and wanted to see Colonel William J. Donovan of Buffalo nominated for Governor . General acceptance of this report at its face value would have indicated a victory for the drys in the opening round of the convention preliminaries . Says He Has Stated No Preference . Senator Wadsworth was asked whether the report that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator shook his head : " I have not stated finally any preference in the matter , " he said . The name of Colonel Donovan still remained on the Republican slate , but with not much prospect that it would remain there much longer . Fred A. Bradley , Republican leader of Erie County , where Colonel Donovan as United States District Attorney made a record for strong enforcement of the Prohibition law , had a talk with Senator Wadsworth yesterday in which he is said to have given the Senator ample reasons why Colonel Donovan should not be asked to make the sacrifice that running for Governor would involve . The delegates from Erie County who had reached the city last night did not seem enthusiastic over the prominence which Colonel Donovan had received in connection with the nomination . It was inferred from their talk that they would be as well pleased with Representative Mills . Mr. Bradley was asked whether his delegation would support Colonel Donovan in the convention . " The Erie County delegation is strong for the organization " he replied . " We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are here to do anything and everything to help him . " There is no doubt If Senator Wadsworth should insist upon Colonel Donovan , the Colonel could be nominated although he is not a candidate . He has intimated to his friends that he would much prefer to be allowed to remain at his lucrative law practice and that if it were left to him to pick a time when he was ready to run fog Governor , he would pick 1928 , a Preal ; dentin year , rather . than the present . Dislike Demand for The only serious reservation that was ' heard regarding Representative Mills and his prospects of becoming the nominee came from his own Congressional district . The Republicans in the Seventeenth Congressional District have told Senator Wadsworth that if Representative Mills is drafted by the convention they will , be confronted with much difficulty in finds ing a substitute to run for Congress whose nomination would insure victory . Representative Mills . with his -exce/lentreccird in the House , has-had a hard fight on his hands every time he has been up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Seventeenth that if a newcomer were to be nominated ; a Democratic victory might follow . Senator Wadsworth denied yesterday that word had come to him that the Administration at Washington was anxious to see Representative Mills sent back to Congress rather than drafted for the uncertain venture of running for Governor against Governor Smith . " Of course , " the Senator said , " it goes without saying that Mr. Mills has rendered services as a member of the House which any one inking his place would find it difficult to match . That of course , is a consideration not to be overlooked . " A consideration that will have weight in the other balance , however , is the long preparation that Mr. Mills has made to fit himself for the kind of emergency that has arisen . While never a candidate for the nomination . Mr. Mills has been engaged for the last two years in-assembling a great mass of material for use against Governor Smith in the coming campaign . Of course , all that material would be placed at the disposal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is agreed on all hands that no one could use the ammunition stored up to the same advantage as Representative Mills , nor could any candidate be found to make a more aggressive fight . Will Accept Leaders ' Choice . The Republican organizations in New York and Kings , it was said last night , were . prepared to take any candidate the leaders might select . " Despite demands from time to time from Kings County Republicans for a place on the ticket , it was said last night that the Kings County organization would have no candidate for Governor to present to the convention . Edmund B. Jenks , Assemblyman from Broome County , who for a number of years has been the sponsor for the Anti-Saloon League 's State enforcement bill in the lower house at Albany , will sit in the convention as a delegate from his Assembly district . Mr. Jenks has intimated that he might not support Senator Wadsworth for renomination . Last night he was evasive when asked whether he would cast his vote in the convention for Franklin W. Cristman , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for granted that Mr. Cristman 's name will be presented to the convention by the delegation from Herkimer , his home county , where he won a sweeping victory in the primaries , no one appeared to be prepared last night to say how many votes he would get on Tuesday 's rollcall . The first indication of the extreme dry strength in the convention should be had this morning , when the ultra-dry delegates will hold a caucus at the Cristman headquarters- in the Hotel Imperial , the call having gone out from the Rev. S. E. Vicholson , Mr. Cristman 's campaign manager . ' It was learned last night that a scattering of delegates who are " regular " in every respect have confided to Mr. Morris that , owing to the character of their constituencies and the circumstances leading up to their election as delegates , they would be in no position to vote for the nomination of Senator Wadsworth . " I do not want to vote ' for a bolter ( meaning Cristmani- what shall I do ? " was said to be typical of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was suggested last night that possibly some third candidate for United States Senator might be brought forward as a rallying point for the dry " regulars " who , unlike the Cristman backers , expect to support Mr. Wadsworth on election day . ? Snell Looks for Harmony . Mr. Snell will lead the fight in the Committee on Resolutions for the dry " regulars . " He said last night that he looked for harmony . " Our first interest is for the success of our party , " Mr. Snell said . " Do not overlook that ; We are not coming down here to make trouble . I believe now that we will have a law enforcement plank which will be satisfactory to all reasoning wets and drys , even though it may not please the extremists on either side of the prohibition dividing line . " Discussing the referendum , Mr. Snell severely condemned the position taken by the extreme drys that it should be ignored on election day . ' I believe that every man and every woman who has reached voting age and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should vote on the referendum , and I believe that the ' platform should recommend such ac- , tion on their part and stop right there , so far as the - referendum is concerned . What we want is an index of public sentiment on this question . " Representative Fish made this statewent last night : " If an'attempt is made to adopt a Flank merely pledging the party to abide by the vote on the referendum , I will fight the proposal on the floor of the convention . Moreover , I believe that I. would come pretty near having a majority of the delegates with me in a fight of that character . " I believe I shall be a member of the Resolutions Committee and as such expect to introduce a resolution pledging the party to the enactment of a Slate enforcement law . " " If you are defeated in committee on the latter proposition , will you take your fight to the floor of the convention ? " he was asked . " That I can not say until I have consulted with others who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this juncture Mr. Fish was told what was generally understood would go into the proposed law enforcement plank . " Well , if that is so , it looks as if our fight was almost won . " Mr. Fish was asked if he expected to support Senator Wadsworth for renomination . In many speeches he has denounced the Senator as disloyal to what has been the traditional policy of the party with regard to prohibition . " I want to support the party candi1 dates , " he replied . " My chief concern is with principles and the platform . I do not want to make trouble for the party to which I belong . I want to be helpful to it by keeping the record ' straight . " CALL PARTY 'S FUTURE DARK . Cristman Drys Charge Wadsworth Seeks to Change Its Nature . The drys who are out in support of Franklin W. Cristman for United States Senator and have selected Dr. Frederick W. Seward as their candidate for Governor en an independent ticket , made public last night a statement against Senator Wadsworth and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue of their organ , The News Sheet . Their statement follows : " Tbe Republican State Convention I which convenes in Madison Square Garden has an opportunity to shape the future of the party for weal or I woe , such an.has rarely been accorded to any gathering of political representatives . By its action , both on the I platform and In the selection of candidates , it will decide whether or not the majority of Republican voters in the State are to have a party which . continues responsive to the popular will of its members or whether , on the other hand , their wills are to be subordinated to the demands of a pol1 itical boss , who , in the interest of per ' sonal preferment and in order to carry out the wiU of the discredited liquor interests of the nation , is apparently ready to make his party their subservient tool . " It is difficult to Understand how any one who believes in the Repub1 /Man Party as an agency for the public good can willingly consent ? to such a program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' if they are credited with that degree of political acumen which is commonly attributed to them , that there is such a revolt throughout the State against Senator Wadsworth , his only hope of winning is to force an issue by which he hopes to get enough Democratic votes to elect him . For the good of the party alone , regardless of any particular issue , Senator Wadsworth has earned the right to be set aside by the convention , not only in the interest of the future good of the party in this State , but because of the reflex benefit df it for the party as a whole throughout the nation . " But even if the convention lacks the freedom to take ' this action , it would be an unnecessary piece . of effrontery to the great mass of Republican voters , if it should permit the Senator to demonstrate ' in the selection of other candidates and in the making - of the platform , that the interests of a great 1organization like the Republican party are obedient to the interests of any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican party of New - Sork State is not a separate unit but a distinct part of the Republican party of the nation . If any action be taken that will lead the bulk of the Republican voters . in the nation to believe that the party is being forced into an attiItude of . obedience to the will of the die ' credited liquor interests , there will be such a political revolt as has not been witnessed since pre-Civil War days . " The questions of prohibition and even of law enforcement become in a sense secondary issues , as compared to the effort now being made to change the whole njeture of the Republican 11 Party from a free agent , acting for the highest good of all the people , into , ' a servile tool of sinister and discredited Interests which know no party and are only interested in their own aggrandizement . " The delegates to the convention on Monday and Tuesday should bear in mind the fact that the plot to put up a wet ticket.from Governor down , was hatched nine or ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wadsworth and his friends , has been directed toward its accomplishment . There are delegates from many of the counties up-State , who under all ordinary , conditions would naturally be expected not only to support Senator Wadsworth , but be obedient , more or less to his wishes . But this is no ordinary situation and no ordinary campaign , and these delegates from nearly fifty counties should certainly know by this time , that in carrying out the wishes of our senior Senator , they are not only misrepresenting the real ) Republican sentiment in their own counties , but are piling up for the party an altogether unnecessary amount of trouble for the future , not only locally , but in the State and nation . " Whether or not any temporary benefits to the party in New York State may be won by yielding to the demands of the discredited liquor interests , will be revealed at the election in November , but wise political leaders , who have any vision at all , must see that such a contingency , even if successful , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party of the nation which it does not merit and which would be resented in the great majority of Republican States of the country . " There is still time for the delegates to take charge of the convention , and in writing the platform and selecting the candidates . to demonstrate to the voters of the State that the Republican party with its honorable record of achievement in not going to surrender to any sinister and discredited interests , whatever their names may be . " A full list of the delegates and alternates to the Republican State Convention is printed on Page 4.                     