@@696051

txt LACK OF SHIPS , NOT PERSHING , DELAYED ARRIVAL OF TROOPS We Did Not Have Transports and the British Did Not Supply Enough Until After The March 21 Disaster To thn Editor of TM New York Times : Tres TIMES published a letter from H. J. Whigham that should not go unanswered , since if taken at face value it would convey impressions regarding the American participation in the World . War and the part therein of Marshal Foch and General I Pershing that are incorrect .. These 1 things are history now , and eleven years afterward we want the truth only . First , Mr. Whigham says that a recent dispatch from Edwin L. James , THE TIMES correspondent in Paris , and during the war its accredt ited correspondent with the American Expeditionary Forces , is in error in stating that Marshal Foch favored the creation of an autonomous American field army from the American troops in France because " Marshal Foch really had very little to do with the case . ' I believe Mr. James is quite correct and Mr. Whigham has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foch did have quite a little to do with settling the question of when an autonomus American Army should be created , in accordance with the orders under which General Pershing sailed for France ( those orders approved by President Wilson ) and in accordance with repeated agreement with every French commanding General . Chronology of Events . That question had not been settled when , on General Pershing 's formal motion , Marshal Foch was formally made Allied Generalissimo with practically full powers on April 3 , 1918 . After that Mr. James probably had in mind the following events : In July , 1918 , Marshal Foch consented to the formation of an autonomous American force under General Pershing 's command , following the American successc i at Ch ? teauThierry and Soissons . On Aug. 30 and again on Sept. 2 Marshal Foch proposed plans that would have continued the plan of scattering large numbers of American troops under allied command , and would have reduced the size of this autonomous American Army just forming , but when General Pershing rejected these proposals Marshal Foch yielded on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foch 's wishes for the strategical employment of the autonomous American Army . They compromised . About Oct. 1 , after our Meuse-Argonne battle had begun , rather disappointingly to some allied leaders , General Pdtain proposed to take away the Argonne Forest front from American command . Marshal Foch forwarded the proposal to General Pershing , who remonstrated , and Marshal Foch dropped the matter . He also dissuaded M. Clemenceau from appealing to President Wilson to remove General Pershing . There are more such instances , but I think I have cited enough to demonstrate that Marshal Foch had quite a little to do with the case . Lack of Transports . Second , Mr. Whigham 's letter conveys the impression that General Pershing unnecessarily delayed the transport of American troops to France , and that he was indirectly responsible for the British disaster of March 21 ( not March 18 , as the letter says ) , following the German break through before Amiens . This is unjust and inaccurate . The letter says that General Pershing was responsible for the fact that until March-April , 1918 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dating from July , 1917 , it was fewer than that ) , then gives the impression that the only reason it was not 300,000 a month was that General Pershing objected to American troops being " brigaded with the allied troops , " and " that immediately this objection was removed , it jumped to 300,000 a month . The principal cause of the jump was , of course . that shipping hitherto lacking was made suddenly available . The March 21 disaster gave the Allies the scare of a lifetime and the British especially made available for transport of American troops ships that previously they had been unwilling to spare from food transport . Some other ships were scraped up partly from neutrals . The army here packed the doughboys in like sardines and sent them across . Mr. Whigham implies that only then did it become possible for " large numbers " to be " equipped abroad " to greater or less degree . to save shipping space . The fact is that was agreed upon nearly a year before March 21 , and had then been in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pershing Urged Rapid Movement . The letter implies that General Pershing preferred to transport American troops to France at the rate of 50,000 men , including one division of combat troops , a month , rather than at the rate of 300,000 if they were to be brigaded with allied troops . On July 6 , 1917 , just after reaching Europe , General Pershing cabled Washington : " Plans should contemplate sending over at least one million men by next May , " including twenty-one combat divisions , an average of two divisions a , month plus auxiliary and technical troops . On July 11 , 1917 , he cabled that " plans for the future should be based * * * on three times this force ? that is , 3,000,000 men . " General Pershing 's recommendations were not being carried out on Jan. 1 or on March 21 , 1918 , not because he was obstructing that process , but because , as he himself says , of the shortage of American shipping available to transport troops and supplies for the A. E. F. , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pending our own shipbuilding program reaching fulfillment , only the British could supply ships enough to make good our lack , and this they would not do until after the March 21 disaster . How on earth General Pershing can be held responsible for that disaster is difficult to understand , although Mr. Whigham seems to think all would have been well had he acceded Jan. 1 to an alleged allied request to President Wilson to " hasten the dispatch of American troops so that divisions could be equipped over there and brigaded with the allied troops . " The fact is that shipping shortage was about the only thing preventing the first , that divisions already were being partly equipped over there , and to a considerable degree brigaded with the allied troops , depending on what one means by " brigaded . " Offered Men for Ships . The letter says that President Wilson agreed , but " a few days later , under pressure from General Pershing , revoked the orders and we returned to the system of equipping divisions at our leisure and sending them over one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in January General Pershing did accede to British requests for American troops to be trained by them , behind their front , as already American troops were being trained with the French , and did agree that six American divisions should go to the British for this purpose provided the British would provide ships to take them to France . This was . two months . before the March 21 disaster , but the British ships did not land the first of these divisions behind the British . front until April . The trouble on March 21 was not lack of American troops , which must inevitably have been insufficiently trained for battle service for the most part , but unwise distribution of allied troops , caused partly by politics , partly by misunderstanding of the German plans , and lack of sufficient cooperation between British and French , to say nothing of the fact that the German Army on March 21 , 1918 , was a very powerful army using new methods that had been thoroughly rehearsed , and that at the point of break-through . Gough 's Fifth British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although Gough had repeatedly protested to Haig , just as Haig had protested to Lloyd George , about shortage of British man power in France . There have been sundry nominations to scapegoatship for March 21 , but this is the first time I ever heard Pershing mentioned . The facts are available fairly readily to those who are interested in knowing what part their army and its leaders really played in the World War . THOMAS M. JOHNSON . New y orlE , April 2 , 1929.                     