@@692371

txt The Metropolitan has just revived " The Bartered Bride , " . a Czechoslovak opera , and some years ago gave " The Polish Jew , " also a Czechoslovak opera , in German . It has recently given " L'Africaine , " a French opera , in Italian ; " Eugene Onegin " and " Boris Godunoff , " Russian operas , in Italian , except for Mr. CHALIAPIN 'S part in the latter , which he prefers to sing in Russian ; two other Russian operas , " Coq d'Or " and " Snegourotchka , " in French . Shall opera be given in the language in which it is written or shall it be put into the vernacular of the country in which it is performed ? The Metropolitan has , often proclaimed its policy of sticking to the original tongue  --  unless it happens to be inconvenient . Then it uses a translatton , but never an English one . The management , plainly , has had to put up with much and to suffer much , which it does without complaining . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience has suffered ; or that it cares one way or the other ; or , indeed , that it notices what is done at all . Nor does it complain . The practical reasons for sticking to the original tongues  --  except in cases where it is not convenient  --  are several . One is the arrogance of foreign singers , who prefer the foreign tongues and who intend to have their own way . Another is that foreign singers generally speak English with a marked accent and in passages where they are understood may produce effects comic , disagreeable , inappropriate . Probably the singers not born to Italian , French or German produce a similar effect on native ears ; but there seems to be no revolt on the part of the rather numerous section of the audience that would be affected by it . The principal reason why so few people care about it is that in so large an auditorium as the Metropolitan , with a modern orchestra playing as it does , with singers brought up for the most part with hazy ideas of diction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unintelligible to the audience . In other words , it makes little difference what language is used . There are exceptions . There are passages where the orchestration is light and the words can " come through . " There are singers whose diction is all that it should be and who , when the orchestra does not cover them , can make themselves clear . There are places in the house where the text can be better heard than in others .. Some of these facts may enable the listener to know what language is used on the stage . But the possibility of ascertaining without previous study of the libretto just what is being sung , or just what is going on in detail , is always rather remote . It has been little better on the few occasions when opera has been given in English on the Metropolitan stage . It has been perhaps even worse . Some people know the old operas well enough to follow more or less well the foreign texts . But English texts of new operas or the English translations used during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were generally as unintelligible as the - foreign texts ; or else the singer was understood , for instance , to say " comb with me " when he meant " come with me . " Sometimes they were unfortunately expressed , as in that classical locus in one of the best-known translations of " Tristan " where King Mark is made to ask : Why in hell must I abide Without hppe of heaven ? But we hasten to say that in actual performance this was amended . There were other translations made with the skill of music and of literature . There are ? more difficult and subtle things than these for the translator to get over . There are right accent and declamation , phrasings , rhythms , quantity , the avoidance of difficult vowels for difficult tones , the correspondence between the musical phrase and the poetical line  --  all the various niceties that the composers of the present day are supposed to be more concerned about than their predecessors . There are translations that convey these subtleties ; there are many more that do not . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics , when they speak frankly , acknowledge that there are many such in German . A standard translation of one of MOZART 'S Italian arias is universally known as the " bookbinder 's air " because of a wrong accent . To require English in opera in New York would present a dismaying task . It would involve a retranslation of most existing texts ; enormous pressure ' on recalcitrant singers ; the conversion of a large part of the audience , disturbed , startled and uneasy at things it never heard before and never wanted to hear ; and in order to have them heard , a restudy of many orchestral scores and the building of an auditorium not only of perfect acoustics but also of smaller dimensions . This last we commend to the projectors of the new opera house , whatever languages are to be used in it .                     