@@689221

txt WILLIAMSTOWN , Mass. , Aug. 6 . ? Characterizing the Treaty of Versailles as " the most colossal misfit in history , " Count Harry Kessler of Germany told the Institute of Politics tonight that the treaty must be fundamentally revised " if the world is to become a fit place to live in . " He reached this conclusion after an exhaustive analysis of the treaty from the German viewpoint , which also led him to the statement that the treaty had enabled France to realize the dreams of Napoleon and Louis XIV . for a great empire . Count Kessler declared that by sacrificing everything to " the imaginary and false idea " held by French leaders to be necessary for the security of France , the treaty makers had failed to solve any of the problems threatening European civilization . " Did they give any security to the growing nations of Europe for their increasing need of raw materials and foodstuffs ? " he asked . " Are the expressions of European nationalism less heated today ? Has militarism been subdued or imperialism abated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is capital more secure or labor more contented ? " Has even the League of Nations , the best part of the treaty , organized Europe so that the shifting balance of man power and the conflicting interests of rival democracies no longer endanger its peace ? Is the feeling of security in Europe since the treaty on the decrease or the Increase ? " The league was the only part ... f the treaty of which Count Kessler did not speak in a tone of deepest gloom . Imperfect as it was , he said , it was " a step in the right direction : ' Part XIII , relating to labor , he regarded as I , " great hope held out to the world fot the future . " But , he went on , the good features of the treaty had been rendered almost useless through the effects on the political . economic and moral status of Europe " by the insincerity and unwisdom of the treaty as a whole . " Declares France Rules Europe . " Politically , " he said , " they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France . Germany is under its heel : Poland , the States formed out of the fragments of the former AustroHungarian Empire , Roumania , and Serbia could not pay their way without French doles . " Italy and the neutrals have not sufficient weight to counterbalance this great combine . England is outdistanced in the air and on the land , and is unwilling to get mixed up in any quarrel in Europe . Russia is a dark horse , whose possible future performances no one can foretell , but which up to the presentis out of the running . " He described Prance as ? ? standing on a badly balanced pyramid , " which gave her a sense of insecurity . The all-round increase of armaments , he added , was an embarrassing factor for France , as she has to help out the Poles and Yugoslays as well as pay her own heavy bills for armaments . According to Count Kessler . the treaty had caused the shattering of the economic organism of Europe . He Cfiarged that Germany had been dismembered " with the set purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe had been 13alkanizecl by the breaking up of big States into little ones with conflicting tariff laws and economic frontiers , and that the markets of Central Europe had been ruined , he . continued : " Europe has been divided by a great gulf . on one side of the gulf are the millions of unemployed , and on the other millions of men . women , children half-starved for the necessaries the work of the unemployed could produce . Over this rift there is no bridge allowing both sides to come together and cooperate for their common welfare . " The treaty stands between them , a cold , transparent mass , like a great plate glass window , through which they can see each other but can not reach hands . " Saying that some one had asked him what kind of a treaty he thought the Imperial German Government would have imposed if Germany and not the Allies had won the war , especially in the light of the Brest-Litovsk and Burcharest treaties , he said he greatly feared that it would have dictated a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harsh and foolish " as that of the Allies . Count Kessler said that the entire spirit of the treaty was based on the assertion that Germany was solely responsible for the war , and attempted to disprove that assertion , replying to Canon Ernest Dimnet , the exponent of the French viewpoint at the institute . Admitting that the Imperial German Government , particularly the Kaiser and the Chancellor , had " a large share in the report of the outbreak of war , " he denied that it alone was responsible . Count Kessler also denied that Germany had brought about the war to satisfy her ambition for world dominion . The real motives on the part of the countries immediately responsible for the war , he said , were as follows : Serbia wanted to secure an outlet to the sea anti foreign markets for her growing populations , and to find expression for the movement for . unity and self-determination of the ' Yugoslav nation . Austria feared the movement for selfdetermination threatened her empire and thought it necessary to keep the various races together under hetsovereignty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power was her only security against the growing man power of Russia , and feared that the loss of Austria as a strong ally would isolate her ( Germany ) between France and Russia . Russia was actuated by the intrigues of her War Minister . Quoting Professor Gooch of Oxford . Count Kessler said that fear rather than ambition lay at the root of the war . He also quoted Lloyd George as saying that the nations of Europe " stumbled and staggered into war , " and President Wilson ( Oct. 26. 1910 ) as saying that " nothing in particular but everything in general " started the war . Germany alone was disarmed , he said , while France and Poland increased their armaments " and can invade Germany ( as France is doing now ) at pleasure . " " Instead of a general League of Nil tions , which was part of the agreement of the Allies with Germany , " he concluded . " the Allies founded an exclusive League among themselves and refused Germany 's petition to be admitted . " Instead of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German people a treaty which they knew it never would agree to except under compulsion of overwhelming force . " Debate Rubber Shortage . British control of the crude rubber production and the possibility of the United States ddveloping new source ; of supply to make up independent Jt Great Britain in ease of war or other emergencies were discussed at the open conference of raw materials . Dr. H. N. Whitford of the Department of Commerce said that British - control of 82 per cent . of the world 's crude rubber supply had caused fear that the United States might be cut off from the product in wartime . H. Stuart Hotchkiss of the United States Rubber Company , who is Vice Chairman of the Committee on Restrictions of the Rubber Association of America . said that , based on his firm 's experience , he saw no reason other than military why the future should not develop along economic lines as le the past .                     