@@685175

txt PRINCE FEISAL 'S PLANS . Previous Agreement on Palestine Is Now Overlooked . To the Editor of The New York Times : I read with much interest in your issue of March 28 the article by my friend and colleague Dr. Frederick Joneb Bliss dealing with Prince Feisal and the hopes of the Arabian nationalists in regard to Palestine , Syria and Mesopotamia . I feel that in regard to one point we have the right to ask from him further elucidation . Dr. Bliss mentions in text the promise made by Great Britain , by the League of Nations covenant and by President Wilson looking to the possibie recognition of certain parts of the Turkish Empire , or In certain parts of the Turkish Empire of " national governments and administration " ? though Syria and Its exact boundaries are nowhere mentioned . On the other hand , Dr. Bliss does not cite the agreement entered into by the Emir himself and the Zionists . It is true that he speaks of " the mutual excluding arrangements entered into by Great Britain with the French , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not think that he is within the right in attributing the " mutual excluding " to the fact that the arrangements were made " by different persons at different times who were quite unaware of the details of each other 's negotiations . " But surely he can not be ignorant that such arrangements with the Zionists were made , as his knowledge of the recent history of the Near East is so precise and so full . I am far away from my library and can only from here cite the text of the letter in which the Emir declares his agreement with the definite promise made in the well-known pronouncement of Mr. Balfour . In a letter to Mr. Herbert Samuel , written shortly before his return to Syria , the Emir Feisal says as follows : " I am firmly convinced that the mutual confidence established between us and the complete agreement of our point of view , which has made possible a perfect understanding between Dr. Weizmann ( the Zionist leader ) and myself will prevent in the future any similar misunderstanding , and will maintain between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common cause . " In a speech delivered by Mr. Samuel on Nov. 2 last , and in which he mentioned a conversation he had had with the Emir , he added that the Emir " had publicly declared his assent to the proposals that were laid by the Zionist leaders before the Peace Conference and his attitude was unchanged . " Perhaps Dr. Bliss will have sufficient knowledge of the Emir 's mind and intention to explain how the implicit promise of a Jewish National Homo in Palestine ( i. e. , a Jewish State ) is to be reconciled with the idea of a great Arab empire reaching from the Desert of Sinai to the Persian Gulf , as projected in the article to which I am referring . At the same time may I again make a public demand for the early publication of the report made to President Wilson by the commission consisting of Ambassador Crane and President King , which certainly must be of great interest to the large number of American citizens who desire to take an active part in matters relating to the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by the President have been published and many of us are asking for the reason Why just this particular report should be withheld . RICHARD GOTTHEIL . Savannah , Ga. , March 31 , 1920.                     