@@690498

txt Holders of Brazilian bonds are naturally anxious to know what effect the San Paulo revolt has had on the financial position of the Brazilian federal government . Such movement of troops to the interior of San Paulo state has . undoubtedly cost a great deal of money at a time when the executive was extremely anxious to avoid any extraordinary expenditure , and this outlay has probably to be financed by further currency emissions , but the exchange value of the milreis has now recovered to ten cents , indicating that the drain on the treasury has not been excessive . Coffee exports from Santos have been interrupted , but these were limited to 35,400 bags daily before the revolt and can now be extended to 50.000 bags daily until the usual average for the year is restored . Many of the officers in command of rebel forces have been taken prisoner . These men were not on the active list of the army , as almost all of them were retired two years ago , but their reclusion is a safeguard and an example . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adds little glory to the government victory , but was apparently justified . No word has yet come to hand reporting the capture of those San Paulo politicians who were the real leaders of the rebellion . As these men exert great influence in their own state and can dispose of almost unlimited resources , it is quite possible that they will escape to Matto Grosso , within easy distance of the Paraguayan frontier . It remains to be seen whether President Bernardes is strong enough to confiscate their property and obtain a decree from congress for their perpetual banishment . With congress , army and press purged of these undesirable and dangerous elements , the President 's path should now be clear for enactment of the reforms which he and his finance minister have advocated . His position is more secure than it was , and he has now a better chance of obtaining the consent of Congress to some of the measures recommended by the British mission . The question is whether he will be able to put into practice a sufficient number of these in order to fulfill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big loan so urgently needed . If sound bases for credit are ' provided the money will be forthcoming . If the loan is not made there will be serious difficulty in meeting interest payments on the unsecured sterling debt . These bonds are quoted now on a higher basis than at the end of last year . The outlook is hopeful . By the end of September all doubts for the future should be dissipated .                     