@@690175

txt At annual shareholders ' meeting of Canadian Pacific Railway . President E. W. Beatty said in part as follows : " General railway situation has not materially changed since I addressed shareholders of the company . It is , however , satisfactory ' to know your company 's position has been well maintained , notwithstanding the rather anomalous situation in which it finds itself as being the principal tra.nsportNtion competitor of the government of the country , to a contract with which it owes its own existence . " There are two phases of the general railway situation which involve objectionable and discriminatory features not in the interest of the transportation companies themselves , or , in my opinion , in the interest of the people of Canada . One is the special powers vested in the National System by virtue of the statute passed in 1919 under which that company may construct branch lines without approval as to location and other details by the Railway Commission , when the statute was passed your company strongly urged upon the government the unfairness of such provisions and asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under the present law the Canadian National may parallel or duplicate existing lines of any other company once the Minister approves and Parliament authorizes the necessary expenditure . It is my opinion that that company should be brought entirely within the provisions of the railway act . " So far as the prospects for rail traffic are concerned . it is difficult to hazard any estimate which would be of value . First three months ' business was on the whole satisfactory , but at the present time there seems to be a distinct lull in both export and dome shipments due in part to some unsettlement in industriai district ; and to the fact that caution in purchasing is being generally practiced and short-term requirements filled rather than wholesale stocking in many lines of trade . It is too early to anticipate the results of this year 's crop , though the acreage under crop will probably be approximately the same as last year , and , generally speaking , soil conditions are reported to he excellent . If the yield approaches the crop of 1923 there will undoubtedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological and financial situation throughout the whole country . "                     