@@694862

txt Increased profit taking was met in the market yesterday but offerings were well absorbed considering the extent of the recent advance . Reactions which developed from time to time encountered good scale buying from outsiders at levels only slightly below those prevailing at the close on Tuesday . Optimists were encouraged by the fact that when stocks settled back to some extent , trading fell off sharply . There were few attempts to test the ability of the market to absorb offerings , and professional pressure eased as soon as it was demonstrated that stocks ' were being well taken .. Long range sentiment around the Street is optimistic again , although it is the impression in many quarters that the market could have a technical corrective movement either in the form of a period of irregularity , or somewhat lower levels on increased profit taking and , outside liquidation . Trading Commission houses were buyers on balance . Many ; of the leading arms were taking stocks on recessions , representing buying orders which they received from customers at lower levels . A considerable number advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did not equal the new demand . Professional operators tried several times to depress the general market . The result was that they sold on balance . There was considerable additional short covering by this elemenL Brokers ' Loans Discussions on the brokers ' loan report of the Federal Reserve Bank to be made after the close today were beard in all quarters . Due to the increased volume of dealings and the substantial advances recorded in many stocks it was the general view that a substantial increase would be shown . While many stocks were strong during the past week . there were a number of weak spots on which loans were iecessarily reduced . For that reason the conservative optimists were of the opinion that the increase in the loan total might not be as large as anticipated in most quarters . Any substantial gain probably would bring profittaking into stocks and halt the advancing tendency , but at best nothing more than a normal technical setback is expected because of the enthusiasm on the long side generated by the action of the market in the past few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bearish professionals to test the market with selling orders at times yesterday disclosed that stocks were meeting support orders on moderate recessions . Many of those who have been out of the long side recently have been placing buying orders under prevailing levels , and profit-taking or liquidation of sufficient volume to bring a decline would uncover these orders , so that resistance would be encountered . The Short Intereat Although there has been urgent and heavy covering of shorts in stocks since the beginning of the current week , an extensive short position still exists . This is indicated by the borrowing demand for stocks . Firms which are long of stocks report that requests to borrow some of the leading issues have not diminished despite the covering recently . Car Loadings The latest car loadings report was not encouraging to those who have been buying came of the rails recently . because large decreases were recorded from the preceding week and from the corresponding period a year ago Naturally this dampened some of the outside bullish enthusism which was being created on this group . ' How ever , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if selling developed in the leading rails because of this report advantage should be taken of any reaction to accumulate the leading standard dividend payers . Independent Steele Quiet scale buying has been coming into the independent steel stocks on the theory that these issues have been lagging recently and will be brought into line on the first indication of a better market for all the ateels . Bethlehem and Republic generally were in favor in important quarters . American Steel Foundries , which was one of the popular targets for short selling up to a few days ago , has been moving forward on new buying which came into the stock around 57 and then brought cover.ng by shorts . Interests identified with the sharp advance in that stock some time ago ? cze among the buyers around its recent low point and are now iv:Iva ... mg followers to pick up the Issue on any recession that may deve:op after the short covering has been completed . Neat York Central New York Central would be one of the logical leaders in any bullish demonstration in the rail group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail interests who still hold the belief that improvement in car loadings and earnings a few weeks hence will attract new attention to the rail department generally an bring higher levels for leading issues . Brunaa lett Balke There was good buying in Brunsa lett Balke Callender Ion the theory that this stock should have an upturn in sympathy with the recent strength of Victor Talking Machine . Earnings last year were nearly twice the $2 . a share dividend requiiernents and banking interests are credited with believing that 1928 will show better results than its predecessor . The stock established a new high for the current year . American Radiator The recent turn in the market has brought new confidence to interests who have been prominent in American Radiator on several occasions in the past year , and buying of the stock was impressive at times . The company is expanding its activities , despite the rather strenuous competition which developed in recent months . Much is expected of the new process for cast iron pipe with which the company has been experimenting . Cluett Peabody Cluett Peabody has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prospects for the company . The stock was under accumulation for some time , and this reduced the floating supply , so that when new buying came into the issue it responded readily . Preliminary estimates are being made in these , circles that earnings so far this year have been running at the annual rate of $14 a share . Belding llemineeity Moderate buying which has c arried Belding Hemingway forward recently was based on better outlook for the company in the current year . The financial position of the company is unusually sound , and as inventories were written clown to market at the end of last year the company is in a position to benefit by an advance in its product . Already silk prices have moved up slightly . International Harvester has been attracting buying recently because its $6 a share cash distribution and in stock offers a high yield considering the grade of this investment . Part of the demand has conic through houses with promneint Chicago connections . Odd-lot buying also has been larger than In some time , and considerable stock has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houses which have been active in public utility stocks recently are advising customers to pick up Unities Power &; Light A stock among the low-priced issues . They point ou that the stock is some distance from its former high mark . Meanwhile there has been good scale buying by interests identified with the utility field , based 0/1 improved prospects for the company . Consolidated Gus Consolidated Gas met excellent buying during all its recent reactions , and this demand is believed to he accumulation for the account of important interests who continue decidedly optimistic on the long range outlook for the company . Various rumors have been circulated heretofore to explain the strength in the stock , but most observers are of the opinion that the issue is merely reflecting the confidence of buyers in the prospects . ? Union Carbide Chart students have advised followers that Union Carbide should be accumulated on small setbacks . There has been good buying in this stock for some time without any effort being made to run it up . Small outsiders also have been taking a long position on the recommendations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               