@@687808

txt Proposals by Samuel Gompers looking to a healing of tie breach between the Brotherhood of Cari3enters and Joiners and the other building trades unions were unanimously rejected today at a turbulent session of the convention of the Building Trades Department of the American Federation of Labor . His appeal on behalf of unity ' brought a storm of criticism and rebuke upon Mr. Gompers and his attack on the National Board-of Jurisdictional Awards was ' repudiated by the convention , which re-endorsed the board . Mr. Gompers was charged ' with ' attempting " to raise a smoke screen " and the bugaboo of the " open shop " in the controversy . When repeatedly told that he had been " imposed ' upon " and misinformed as to the facts , the head of the American Federation of Labor , declaring that he had only acted for unity , withdrew while the delegates thrashed the question out in a disordered debate . Endorsement of the National Board followed almost unanimous rejection of Mr. Gompers 's recommendations providing for the reopening by the National Board of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawal from the department a year ago . The adoption of his proposal , Mr. Gompers said , would automatically reaffilliate the carpenter 's union with its 350,000 members with the department . The Building Trades Employers ' Association of New York City was denounced for failing to dbide by the board 's decisions and charged with breaking away from the National Building Trades Employers ' Association ? to escape ' responsibility . The storm which has been brewing in the department 's convention since it . began meeting several days ago broke with the appearance of Mr. Gompers to propose action to unite the carpenters and other unions . He asserted that efforts to reach a settlement regarding the carpenters had been blocked yesterday by the announcement from Chicago that the American Institute of Architects in annual convention had voted in favor of . the " open shop " in the building trades and planned to recommend that the National Board of Jurisdictional Awards also stand for the " open shop . " E. J. Russell . Chairman of the boars , is the representative of the architects . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back and place their case before a body that declares for the ' open shop , ' " said Mr. Gompers , urging that the convention demand that the Institute of Architects repudiate its declarations or withdraw its representative of the national board , or . the department " will cut loose from the whole dirty concern . " " As long as the architects get their 6 per cent. , " he added , " that should shut them up and they should not interfere with relations between employer and employe . " William Bowen or New York , President of the Bricklayers ' Union , opposed Mr. Gompers 's request . " I believe you have been imposed upon , " he said . " Why , you do n't seem to know what 's behind this and the condition that exists in the trade . With all due respect to you , you are trying to raise a smoke screen and raise the bugaboo of the ' open shop , ' which has no place in this question . It seems that you do n't ' know . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bowen continued : " If you do know , you know , Mr. Gompers , that this is a question of awarding work to the different trades . This has nothing to do with the ' open shop . ' . It is . ridiculous to raise the bugaboo of the open shop to induce us to do something we should , not do . " Mr. Gompers , after his suggestion had been turned down , withdrew froth the room . Holding that the building trades situation in Chicago because of the Landis arbitration award is a menace to the organized labor movement of America , the convention directed the International Presidents of the affected unions to proceed to that city and remain there until they have " established law and order and brought about former existing relationship between the unions and employers . " The union Presidents expect to begin their conferences early next month , and are empowered to enforce any decisions they make and discipline the Chicago Local unions . Chicago labor leaders admitted that they had " exhausted every effortpossible to adjust the situation and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some cleaning up done in that town , " declared Thomas Preece , Vice President of the Bricklayers ' Union , who urged organized labor to " put everything aside and bring about law and order out of chaos in Chicago and bring back the good name of our movement in America . " Mr. Gompers took the floor and said that he had visited Chicago twice in an effort " to bring order out of the chaotic situation existing there . " He warned that " when the word of organized labor is given to any arbitration judgment rendered , it should be abided by strictly and absolutely , " adding , " I will say candidly , however , so far as our movement is concerned , I would prefer repudiation to disunity , antagonisfn and rivalry . Antagonism gets us nowhere . " The labor chief said that the " honor of good men in the labor movement must be untarnished , above suspicion , and we must eliminate any element of wrongdoing in practice as well as in theory . If they hope to attain the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more humane an-any Other dro society . " Conditions in the New *fork hull industry , due to the existence therd ' . : o dual building laborers ' - unions , *ere-discussed and the convention adopted -a resolution requesting national and . international officers to ask their local unions " to render immediate support to the local - unions affiliated with the International Hod Carriers , Bull.ditlad and Common Laborers ' Union of Atter -- lea , so that one solid organization . of laborers can be established in that'cite for the benefit of the entire labor movement . " Affiliation with the American Con-struction - Congress was voted by the ? convention . Another resolution was adopted , upholding present wages and denouncing* profiteering by building contractors .                     