@@687016

txt Great Britain and France will raise at Washington the question of the adherence of the United States to the League ' of Nations . If this comes as a surprise to the Washington Administration it is nevertheless the decision of the London and Paris Governments have reached . They do not consider that it will be necessary to add any item to the existing agenda of the November conference , but will bring up the League under the discussion of disarmament , and particularly land disarmament . It is understood that the initiative will come from the British representatives at Washington . The line of reasoning the allied delegates will probably offer is that so far as land disarmament goes agreement of the great powers- to disarm by no means solves the problem . England and France feel that possession of topheavy military equipment by small States constitutes as great , if net greater , danger to peace than possession of large armies by the big powers with more poise and more to lose by rushing into war . Quarrels of little nations embroil big nations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportions . Therefore , they argue , real disarmament must be all embracing , and the best , if not the only , means to assure that it is through the League of Nations , for which the small nations have such enthusiasm . It will probably be pointed out that the successful Republican campaign in America against the ' League was based most largely upon criticism of the ovenant and not upon the idea of an international assocItaion . But thanks to interpretations and constructions put upon it little now remains of the Covenant except the idea . Interpretation .4 ) 1 Articles XVI . and X. Article XVI. , providing an economic blockade , is held up as the greatest weapon of the League . As written in the Covenant its says any nation breaking its League obligations with regard to going to war shall be considered to have corninitteed an act of war against all the other members of the . League and shall be subject to severance of all relations . This has been construed to mean that every nation is judge of when penalties should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not constitute a pledge of members to go to war to protect the borders of members , but was a declaration of principle and a pledge of the nations not to violate the territory of their neighbors , with agreement that such aggression would be punished largely with the use of the economic weapon . This construction states that no nation is bound to send troops for such a purpose . It is true that yesterday it was decided on the motion of Canada to delay all action on Article X. until next year , but the fact that all the delegations had previously agreed to modification of the article shows which way the wind blows . What is more , the League leaders are ready to change anything In the covenant to suit the ideas of the United States . Only yesterday SeiSor Alvarez of Chile advocated the entire rewriting of the covenant . And so at Washington England and France will try to persuade America that the League does not constitute a danger for the sovereignty of the United States . While the arguments of England and France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potent reason for their determination to 1:cep the League going . The two great allied nations are coming to realize that the entente cordiale which won the war Is 110 longer what it was . The winning of the war against Germany removed the greatest reason for its existence . England and France are having great trouble getting along in their twin partnership and they see dan- ' ger of a break-up of their entente . But neither Govei In:lent-wants a diplomatic break , and they have been considering how to replace thei ? present arrangement . They turn to the League of Nations , and the League to be effective must have America and Germany in it . About Germany there is no trouble . The great difficulty lies in bringing the United States into the fold . Britain 's Change of Attitude . The increasing importance England attaches t3 the League has been apparent to every observer of the second Assembly . Last year the English delegates were rather lackadaisical , if not apathetic . This year Mr. Balfour has labored night and day to make the League a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English delegates . and particularly that of H. A. L. Fisher , the British Minister of Education , has been really progressive . While last year it was the little nations which pushed ahead , this year the big nations were leaders for progress in League accomplishment . With the exception of the Japanese , who maintain their well-known reticence , the allied nations have plugged hard in this Assembly . England , France and Italy have all expressed their determination to keep the League going . The speeches in the disarmament debate yesterday of the spokesmen for the three allied powers were instructive . M. Noblemaire of France said of the November conference : " France will go to Washington to examine among other things the reduction of naval armaments , a question less talked of but not less essential than that of land armaments , " and then he pledged the help of France for the League program to reduce land armaments . Mr. Fisher did not mention the Wash , Ington conference . He said : I believe France and England between them , aided as they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have it in their power to realize this dream of humanity and lay the foundation of general peace . " Signor Schanzer of Italy said : " I am in great sympathy with the initiative of Washington and exp'ress the desire and hope that the Washington conference and the League of Nations will come together and eventually unite their labors . But the League of Nations must not cease its endeavors . " The League leaders , for such England and France have become , recognize the great handicap impaled upon the League by the absence of America . Last year their feeling . was one of doubt as ttt whether it would be advisable to keep the League going under such a handicap . The last twelve months have brought a change that now they prove is a determination to keep the League going and the intention to try again to bring the United States into the League as representing the only available prospect for international co-operation , especially for the purpose of general disarmament . The theme has been repeatedly advanced by Mr. Fisher that agreements between nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project ) mean great steps toward disarmament , but that general worldwide disarmament is possible only through world-wide international cooperation and that the League of Nations offers the only prospect for putting an end to war , and so the American Government will face once more the issue of the League of Nations at the disarmament conference , With adoption of the disarmament report yesterday the important work of the second Assembly carne to a close . There remain consideration of minor amendments and construction of Articles XVI , XVIII and XXI ; the election of non-permanent members of the Council and passage of the budget . The Assembly will close Wednesday or Thursday .                     