@@692276

txt Despite cgiscussion of two new sug ? gestions for settling the strike of anthracite mine workers , no apparent progress had been made when the joint conference adjourned at the Union . League Club last night after nearly five hours of talk . Chairman Alvan Markle suggested that his plan and those of miners and operators be submitted to former Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes , who would formulate the basis of a new Contract to send the 158,000 strikers back to work . The miners voted against the suggestion on the ground that it was really making Mr. Hughes the arbitrator of the entire controversy , and they reiterated their objections to arbitration in any form . Mr. Hughes was counsel for the United Mine Workers in 1919 , and ; appeared at Indianapolis for the union after Judge Anderson issued an injunction against the organization . The miners offered what they called a revised Markle plan . It embodied essential features of the PinchoL plan to which the union leaders have sought unsuccessfully to have the operators consent . These features arn board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to limit the check-off to $14 a year . or $1 a month and two assessments of S1 each , and an agreement for five ? years . To Assure Supply of Coal . Governor Pinchot 's Board of Investigation of seven also was retained in the new proposal by the miners , who suggested that the three public representatives be chosen by Mr. Hughes . Records of operators and miners worli be thrown open . to the board , acccrding to the proposal , and the board would . draw up a plan to recommend means for avoiding suspensions , to assure an uninterrupted supply of coal , and also make recommendations to increase efficiency and reduce the cost of operation . The plan also provided for a joint commission of one operator , one miner and one conciliator in . each of the three anthracite districts to strive for greater harmony in the industry . Establishment of a Board of Conciliation to equalize wages as provided in the 1923 agreement also was part of the Pinchot plan which was  - -  etained by the miners in their modified proposal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday there was a warm discussion on the matter of publicity . There was apparently some dissatisfaction with the method employed in giving out the news of the . meetings , and the miners asked the operators to join with them in inviting the reporters assigned to cover the negotiations into the conference room . The suggestion met with an emphatic rebuff from the operators . The news of the conference is given out in a joint statement issued after each session , and both sides have a " gentlemen 's agreement " not to discuss the situation further for publication . Issue Joint Statement . The joint statement issued yesterday follows : At the opening of today 's session Chairman Markle proposed that since the parties could not agree on a contract , the miners ' proposals , the operators ' plan and the Markle Plan should all be submitted to ex-Justice Hughes to consider all suggestions and formulate a plan that would be the basis of a contract . The operators ? voted " yes " ; the ers voted " no . " Miners offered a resolution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper men . The-opera-tors voted " no " ; the miners voted " yes . " Miners offered a motion that the meeting recess until 8 o'clock tonight owing to the necessity of reaching an ' ao'reement . The operators proposed a substitute to recess until 10 o'clock tomorrow ... This was passed . Miners offered what they designated as a revised Markle plan , the principle provisions of which were an agreement for five years , which could be changed by a board created under the plan ; a board to be established consisting of two miners , two ' operators and three representatives to be selected by ex-Justice Hughes ; the ? boatd to investigate and determine whether the operators can reasonably pay a. wage - increase ; if the board shall determine on a wage increase . it shall be , retroactive ; records of miners and operators to be available to the board ; the board to investigate , determine and . recommend means for avoiding suspensions of mining , ' and for assuring the public an uninterrupted supply of coal . ' The board to investigate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of operation ; a joint commission consisting of one miner , one operator and the conciliator to be created in each district ' to ' strive for greater cooperation , harmony and efficiency in the industry , this commission to ! lave the support and cooperation of c district organizations and the international union ; the check-off limited to $14 ayea.r ; the . board of conciliation to equalize ' wages as provided in the agreement of 1923 , and to handle matters in relation to conditions . The union officials in this city had no comment to make on the resolution adopted by the General Grievance Committee of District 1 , which called upon the Scale Committee to order the maintenance men to join the strikers . The maintenance men work the pumps and keep the ' mines in repair during a strike and their employ= ment is sanctioned by joint agreement of miners and operators .                     