@@693713

txt The first American refugees from Nanking arrived at Yokohama this afternoon aboard the President Madison and told vivid stories of looting , robbery , insults and narrow escapes from death . The Press . dent Madison has become virtually a refugee steamer for the throngs of Americans compelled to leave Nanking , Hankow and other cities seized by the Cantonese . Pacific steamers are now so crowded with people fleeing from China that many Americans who proposed to spend the Summer in the United States are becoming alarmed lest they fail to obtain accommodations . Of the President Madison 's refugees some are financially crippled , and the missionaries and educators are deeply depressed at being forced to leave the country where they have worked , in some cases , most of their lives . Professor S. J. Mills , head of the language school at Nanking University . told of being twice robbed on the street by Southern soldiers and twice more in his house , which was finally looted . " Our house was systematically searched , pillaged and wrecked , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the loyalty of our Chinese students . If they had not walked into the face of dangerous mobs with frenzied appeals for our lives we would all be dead . " What will happen . e those Chinese students I am afraid to prophesy . Many Chinese have paid with their lives for pleading for foreigners , or for having been known to attend Christian schools and missions . " The argument which the students used repeatedly was that we were Americans and not British . Our misfortune was to be mistaken for British , for then the enmity against us was intensified many times . " But the Southerners do not hate the British any more than they do the White Russians . Started Campaign of Looting . " After the Northerners fled from Nanking the Southerners began a house to house campaign of raiding . looting , killing and wounding . This was not a period of warfare , but of robbery and loot committed by soldiers . Guns were repeatedly aimed at us and bullets were constantly whizzing about in the streets . " The excuse that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this for a certainty , for I was born and raised in C ' ' la . I know the dialects of the North and South and I know the Southerners were guilty , for I saw and heard therm " The barrage which the British and American warships laid down did not last long . It covered the north , east and south sides of Socony Hill . We escaped by the western wall . " I doubt If 100 Chinese were killed in the firing . " Despite my twenty-eight years in China . I dare not predict what will happen . If the Russian-controlled communistic portion of the Kuomintang retain control there will be no improvement for many years . " qmmunists Are Blamed . Hunter Mann , who had a business in Hankow , now on the way back to Johnson City , Tenn. , blames the Communists of the Southern army for practically all of the disorder . " The South is responsible for all of the trouble , " he said . " It was an organized movement which seized the British concession , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite clearly organized . Promises were made and the British left their posts and the promises were ignored . Instead of the Southern officials keeping the mob out as they promised , small groups bent on destruction were introduced into the concession one by I one . " Under the farcical regulations issued by the labor unions after the Cantonese entered , the foreigners who wished to leave were forced to pay their servants six months ' wages . I saw Britishers chased at the point of a bayonet . Bullets were sent after foreigners , and many of us owe our lives to the bad shooting of the Chinese . " Some say Chang-Kai-shek is not a radical . What I have seen at HankOw does not encourage me to believe this . His speech at Hankow was radical enough , though the Communists were dissatisfied with it and suppressed both of the foreign papers for printing it . " I left Hankow on a steamer which ordinarily accommodates eighteen ; it had 340 American and European refugees aboard . We were fired at four different times by the Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply to the fire . " We arrived at Nanking soon after the Cantonese . All appearances pointed to systematic looting of the foreign buildings . " D. V. Wright , an American missionary from Shantung , said that the overwhelming sentiment of the North favored the Cantonese . Bandits Overrun Shantung . " Chinese professors in the universities and schools are for Canton to a man , " he declared . " I have talked with scores of them . I see no difficulty for the Southerners in their advance toward Peking except one , namely the White Russians . The North is definitely Nationalist but it dislikes Bolshevism , and if the Communist : : and Russians gain control of the Nationalist movement th Southern advance will be stopped definitely . " I have heard many stories from missionaries and their families of violence and loss . " The Northern soldiers have been withdrawn for the campaign and the greater part of our territory is overrun by bandits . They stick at nothing to intimidate their victims . Children are murdered as an object lesson . This is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know to be true . " Hunter Mann added that numerous Red Russians are now at Hankow acting as civil and military advisers . They are seen daily riding through the town in armored cars with Chinese guards . The refugees on the President Madison also include Dr. W. E. Franklin , founder of Nanking University and for forty years a , resident of China , and Dr. E. V. Jones , Professor of Chemistry at Nanking University .                     