@@695094

txt THE AMERICAN INDIAN PROBLEM What Is Needed Is Joint Congressional Action to Provide More Funds To the Editor of The New York Times : In the observations on the problems of the American Indian , TEE TIMES takes occasion to suggest that " probably the only way in which Congress can be made to understand the need of reforming the Government 's Indian policy is for it to hold an investigation of its own on the work of the Indian Bureau . " Those who are familiar with the activities of the bureau are strongly inclined to think that further investigations , especially by Congress , would serve no useful purpose . The needs of the bureau are thoroughly well understood and emphasized by you in the statement that what is needed is more adequate appropriation and more adequate compensation for the personnel of the Indian service , for the problems of the bureau are essentially financial . The Government policy with regard to Indians is well developed and for most of its needs adequate legislation has been passed , but with inadequate appropriations . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most perplexing problems confronting the Bureau of Indian Affairs . Both the medical service and hospital provision require to be enlarged to meet the needs of a most urgent and pathetic situation . You fail to emphasize the accomplishments of the Bureau of Indian Affairs during recent years . I have been familiar with Indian matters for nearly thirty years and during that time I have known personally every Commissioner . I am absolutely convinced that the bureau was never better administered than at the present time and that the officials in charge , not only of the office in Washington but throughout the field , are deserving of praise and encouragement . As you have pointed out , they are grotesquely underpaid , but in most cases sincerely devoted to the welfare of the Indian people . As an illustration of the progress made , I would like to point out that in the last year the bureau has established a Division of Vital and Medical Statistics which , for the first time , is putting the department in full possession of all the vital facts that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been turned over to the Census Office for tabulation and analysis , but henceforth they will be critically clealth with to draw therefrom farreaching conclusions necessary to the adoption of an adequate health policy . As another evidence of progress , it may be pointed out that the bureau intends to take a complete census of the Navajo Indians this Summer on the basis of an entirely new method of procedure . Every Indian will be fingerprinted for future identification , in view of the conflict of Indian and English names , supplemented by a numbered metal tag , corresponding to the method used in the United States Army during the war . The census will settle a long-time controversy as to the actual number of Navajo Indians , estimated at more than 30,000 and unquestionably proving that this tribe of Indians , in any event , is uot dying out . All-Indian birth and death rates are untrustworthy and pure guesswork . The enumeration of the Indian population is one of unusual difficulty . As the result of much intermixture with the white element , a considerable number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But under birth and death certificates a person with Indian blood is much more likely to be accounted for , in view of financial or other contingencies involved . What is needed is joint legislation by both houses of Congress to make appropriations adequate to the plans to carry out the declared policy of the Government , largely the result of the treaty obligations . What is further needed is a sufficient appropriation by the next Congress to provide for a special census enumeration of the Indian , corresponding to the special census of 1910 . The enumeration of Indians on the regular census schedule has uevex been satisfactory . FREDERICK L. HOFFMAN . Wellesley Hills , Mass. , May SI , A GALLIPOLI MEMORIAL . To the Editor of The New York Times : May I bring before the citizens of the United States an appeal for their interest on behalf of my attempt to insure a worthy shrine for the perpetual remembrance of those who fell on the Gallipoli Peninsula in 1915-16 ? In 1917 , I , at once the divisional chaplain to the Twenty-ninth Division and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Eltham , in the Borough of Woolwich , commenced , with the aid of many Gallipoli comrades , in the church a worthy memorial to the " Incomparable Division . " The first step was to raise funds for the creation of a trust under which a memorial service must be held here each year , forever , on April 25 . The second step was to begin the material memorial , and year by year we have been enabled by many gifts , large and small , of money to advance in our task . The memorial now consists of the very beautiful internal fittings of the chapel in the church , and the commencement of an ante-chapel to contain the historical naval flags presented by the British , French and New Zealand naval authorities . In the chapel itself are the flags which were taken ashore on the day we landed in Gallipoli . This memorial has been established simply in gratitude for and remembrance of what our comrades tried to do . In every nation were those who died nobly in the discharge of their duty as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I am now asking my many friends and others in the States to come to our help . I can not look after eleven years ' help for further material assistance from the survivors and relatives of the Twenty-ninth Division . And yet much remains to be done . The antechapel has to be completed . That will cost some $2,000 . Then I have plans ready for the completion of the church itself , which , apart from the bells , would need some $25,000 or $30,000 . I am appealing to all in your country who honor patriotism , wherever it is found , to come to my aid . ( Rev. ) HENRY A. HALL ( Eltham , London ' May 18 , 1925.                     