@@685031

txt The opposition or the railway ** to the passage . of the bill for the restoration of the railways to private control failed to intimidate the Rouse , which passed the bill , 250 to 150 . In politics the Federation assumes the balance of power between the two dominant parties . That is the position given the unions in the division of the Labor Board into three sections , each of three members . It is obvious that labor 's three votes can control the position by being cast at will with or against the public 's or the companies ' votes . No doubt the difference in the conditions of the two cases explains the reasons why labor rejects In the railway case what it would 4mpose in politics . Domination is the objective in both - cases , and is a sufficient  --  reasoil to condemn the idea in both . The reason would fail in both cases , if it were possible to supposa that the labor vote would be cast with a first regard to public interests , but the only reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise it could not get , and at the cost of others . In politics the Federation 's proposal will get nothing for it , for the division of the Federation vote among 435 Congressional districts reduces that vote in each of them to insignificance . In the Presidential vote the total vote is so large that the Federation vote would be swallowed , . even if it were massed , as experience has shown It can not be : Federationists vote as citizens , in the protection of the secrecy of- the ballot . When the ballot is open it discloses that there are as many labor factions as Socialist factions . That is particularly clear in the case of the labor clauses of the Railway bill . The railway unions are more nearly closed and . complete than In almost any other industry , but there are some unions not affiliated with the Federation , some unorganized workers and some whom the Federation wishes to force within its control . When the organization is in entire control , then It is in position to dominate the public interests in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The proposal in the bill enabling any one hundred workers to act independently of the Federation appears to be for the benefit of the organized railway workers in general . It is particularly objectionable to the Federation because it defeats the effort that organization has made to unionize. the classes of railway workers who prefer to benefit themselves by promotion in the service rather than to limit their prospects to the average imposed on the . unionized. ' crafts . Many railway unionists have been able to make more wages than they could without their union membership , and more than their superiors in the lower executive positions who get some protection in the bill . But the unionists forfeited or reduced their chances of promotion to anything better than the union average , although promotions in the railway service often lead to brilliant futures . Trackwalkers and water boys have been known to rise to high executive positions which are inaccessible to unionists .                     