@@689898

txt The stir caused by the revelations of Alfred Kerr , theatrical critic of The Berliner Tageblatt , who accuses a " high official prominent in I gamblers ' circles of having hired assassins against him " is assuming political importance . The Communist Party takes it for granted that the " high of ' racial " in question ' is Dr. Weissmann , the Prussian State Commissioner for Public Security , Alfred Kerr 's own father-in-law , and in last night 's session of the Berlin City Parliament its representatives offered the following resolution : Dr. Weissmann , Commissioner for Public Security in Prussia , has been openly accused by a newspaper writer of having planned an attack on him in Grunewald and for this purpose of having hired notorious criminals . We request the City Parliament immediately to ask the Prussian State Government- to discharge Dr. Weissmann because in view of his alleged moral depravity his services can no longer be considered a guarantee for Berlin 's publics safety . " Action on this motion was deferred till the next session . Herr Kerr in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager did well to replace at , the last minute the suburban actress , Asta Nielsen. selected for the principal female part , by another actress , Marianne Wenzel . " Most newspapers openly asserted this morning that it was this criticism that caused State Commissioner Weissmann to turn against his son-in-law . This afternoon Dr. Weissmann published a statement to the effect that he knew nothing of the whole affair and had never hired any criminal or other person to attack Alfred Kerr in front of his Grunewald home , as the latter charged . He , however , did not deny acquaintance with Asta Nielsen . Seconding Dr. Weissmann , a newspaper writer , Anton Fischer , appeared on the scene with a statement that he and some of his friends , all admirers of Asta Nielsen , had taken umbrage at Kerr 's criticism and decided to teach him a lesson . One night , after partaking liberally of wine . Fischer said , he met a young man named Hermes , to whom he promised a certain amount of money if he would slap Alfred Kerr 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story of " planned assassination . " Hermes and several accomplices . who claimed to have been hired by Dr. Weissmann and revealed the plot to Alfred Kerr , still insist that it was not Anton Fischer but Weissmann who tried to persuade them to " do up " Kerr .                     