@@687918

txt Harvard Economic Service in its survey of general business conditions says : " Business during June continued the improvement of recent months . " It is noteworthy that the June improvement took place during the third month of the coal strike , and with the northern cotton industry still suffering from labor trouble of even longer duration . Advance under such conditions shows clearly the impetus of the forces making for progress , and warrants the expectation of an acceleration of the upward movement when these retarding factors are removed . The continuation of the improvement begun in February cerroborates the evidence furnished by easy money and the rise in speculation that the present advance is a major upward movement of the economic cycle . " Business sentiment at the end of the half-year is becoming more optimistic , despite such adverse influences as labor troubles in the United States and financial disturbances in central Europe . Earlier doubts concerning the improvement shown are giving way to the conviction that a substantial recovery is under way , and only its extent and permanence are called into question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now met by such persuasive evidence a- the unprecedented building activity , the return to more normal production in the iron and steel industry , the sustained increase in freight car loadings , the decrease in the number of failures , and the advance in wholesale prices since the beginning of the spring . Such clear signs of improvement have followed , as in the past , the easing of money conditions and advance in speculative activity which were the most conspicuous developments in the first quarter of the year . LESS UNEMPLOYMENT " If the idleness due to current strikes is not considered , real improvement in the labor situation is clearly evident . Reports of labor shortages in certain localities persist , and the United States Employment Service shows a decrease of unemployment during June . The usual seasonal demand of the harvest fields for men is now being felt , and more than the usual employment is being furnished by the large road-building operations under way in various sections . With the continued expansion of industrial activity , we ? may expect further enlargement of employment , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the numbers at work . By fall , a relative scarcity of labor may becom-1 general . In this connection , the restriction imposed upon immigration by our present law may soon have a measur ? able effect upon labor supply . WEALTH IN CROPS " The indicated corn crop of 2,660 million bushels though below that of last year , is about thirty millions in excess of the 1916-1920 average . The indicated wheat crop is above that of last year and above the five-yea : average . With the exception of wheat , corn and oats , the acreage reports are larger than last year , and the gain in white and sweet potatoes and tobacco is large . The marketing of these crops at fairly satisfactory prices mean : an addition to the farmers ' purchasing power which will react most favorably upon other lines of industry . " In judging the consequences of some unfavorable elements , it should be kept in mind that the recent business improvement has been definite and substantial , and that the general economic situation favors a steady continuance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems may have serious consequences of an entirely unpredictable character , they are . after all , factors with which we have become tolerably familiar since 1919 . Such difficulties have not prevented business from responding to fundamental forces such as are operative at the present time , and they probably will not prevent it from responding now- . In spite of any temporary setback they may cause , business may be expected to continue upon the up grade . "                     