@@694819

txt Tomorrow is the tenth anniversary of the declared independence of Estonia . It was by no means won on the day of the declaration , nor was ours on the Fourth of July , 1776 . But it is the day which will be celebrated so long as this hardy little republic maintains the selfgovernment which it proclaimed between the flight of Russian Bolshevist forces and the coming of the Germans on the 24th of February in 1918 . The new military occupants , whose cyclist van pressed upon the heels of the retreating Bolsheviki , found a provisional Government set up overnight amid the rattle of machine guns which the Estonians themselves directed toward the eastward flying foes . This venture seemed for the subject Estonians a jumping from the fryingpan into the fire , for under the German , authorities , aided by the German nobles , long in Estonia  --  the German " Baits " ? their last state seemed worse than the first . Their real independence lasted not as their northern snows , but as that " upon the desert 's dusty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was immediately suppressed . With the armistice the German forces left . Yet they were hardly gone before the Bolshevist wave rolled back . Estonia 's neighbors , the Finns and others , came to their aid , and while British ships kept the Russian fleet near its Kronstadt base , the entire Estonian man-power under an Estonian commander , General LAIDONER , drove back the Bolshevist forces so that on the first anniversary of the declaration of independence Estonia wa : actually independent . Through 700 years of subjection to one or another of the powers , to the West or to the East  --  German , Swedish , Russian and again German  --  her people have stubbornly maintained their national spirit and loyalty to their traditions and emerged from their virtual serfdom with a high degree of literacy and of capacity for managing their own affairs . They are only a million and a quarter in number and their little land with its fringe of islands is only about the size of Massachusetts , but in their first decade of freedom they have conducted themselves with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States of larger territory and population . Estonia has long since met the popular international requirements for nationhood  --  balanced her national budget , stabilized her currency and funded her foreign debts . She has multiplied her farms by dividing the large estates of the German " Balts , " to whom she is attempting to make reasonable compensation . Students crowd her university and higher schools . Her illiteracy percentage is now practically nil , and she has the richest collection of folk-tales and folksongs in all Europe . Her annual great song festivals bring to her little capital 15,000 singers and an audience of 200,000 . She has to look abroad for industrial implements and wheat , but her own potato fields , farms and factories meet most of her other needs . She has assured just treatment to the national minorities  --  Russians , Germans , Swedes and Sews  --  and has taken her place among the other sovereignties of the earth in the League of Nations along with her young Baltic sisters , Finland , Latvia and Lithuania . She has forgotten that the United States was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not forget the material and moral assistance that Americans gave her children through Mr. HooVER 'S organization , the American Red Cross and other agencies in her darkest days . She deserves the birthday congratulations of the world .                     