@@687713

txt Trying to build something upon the ruins of the Genoa conference , Premier Lloyd George today succeeded in having the convening powers agree to a proposal for anetiwr attempt to reach an agreement with the Russian Government to be begun at The Hague on June 15 . It will , therefore , be proposed to the Political Commission tomorrow by England , France , Italy , Japan and Belgium that the governments represented at Genoa sand delegates to The Hague next month to choose by a panel a eomm:ssion of experts of the powers . For a period of ten days . that is up to June 26 , these experts would  --  try'to'draft a common memorandum stating the attitude of the powers toward Russia . This nicmorandm would then be submitted to the Governments of the powers and if approved a Russian committee of experts would meet the powers ' commission of experts and negotiate up to Oct. 26 in an-effort to reach an agreement on the issues of Russian credits , debts and private property owned byforeigners in Russia . Should an agreement be reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to the Governments . All the powers here would pledge themselves to conclude no separate treaties with Russia up to- Oct. 26 , nor support their nationals in any effort to obtain property or rights in Russia which were not theirs before the inauguration of the Soviet regime . - The action of the Governments upon the agreement if reached at The Hague would determine whether or not there would be another conference of the powers ' statesmen with the Russian statesmen . Draft of Plan Sent to America . It was also decided by the convening powers to make an effort to get the United States to co-operate in The Hague plan , and a draft of the plan was handed to Ambassador Child tonight by Senator Schanzer , and he was asked to communicate it to Washington and ask what would be the attitude of the American Government toward : the proposal . The decision reached by the convening powers has the inconvenience of meeting the opposition of the Russians , whose acceptance of course Is necessary to make it work . The proposal not having been submitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but M. Tchitcherin said in an interview tonight that he did not think much of it . He made three points : " In the first place , " he said , " We protest against these . decisions relative to Russia taken by statesmen without Russian participation . That has been all along the trouble with the Genoa-conference . In the second place we resent five nations sitting , down hi Lloyd George 's villa and deciding that the sovereign State of Russia shall not make : any treaties for four or five months . In , the third place , if the proposed commission is to be a sort of tribunal to pass judgment on Russia we will have none of it . " It is understood that Tchitcherin to- ; night is writing a note to Premier Facto. , President of the conference , saying that ' if the powers are planning What the correspondents report to him the powers can save themselves the trouble . The Russians have all along Insisted that they would accept the commission they proposed only if they were admitted on a basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have just as much to say with a whole commission of their own as with . one or two members in a general mixed commission . Four Months ' Truce Flan . An auxiliary feature of The Hague proposal is a four months ' truce or agreement between the European powers on the one hand and Russia on the other on the basis of existing frontiers that neither will attack the other during the period of the work of the commissions . It was also decided at Mr. Lloyd George 's villa today to send a sharp reply to the Russian note of Thursday , which was a propaganda attack upon the powers and a withdrawal by the Russians of all the concessions they had made when the powers refused to let the Soviets have a loan . . France and Belgium , not having signed the powers ' conditions , die .. nut take part in the reply . ' The powers ' reply as dfafted will remind the Soviet Government that it has ruined its country almost and is in no position to make .8.41 attack on . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loan from them . The powers will state that the Soviet is in no position to berate other Governments , and the powers are not willing to accept any criticism from Moscow . The note then will give the plan decided on for The Hague meeting , it being stipulated that Germany will take no part in the negotiations . The tenor of the note , coupled with M. Tchitcherin 's hostility as expressed tonight , indicate hard sledding for Mr. Lloyd George 's new plan . Determined Drive to Win Americo . A determined effort will be made by the powers to obtain America 's participation in The Hague negotiations if they are accepted by the Russians , which appears tonight far from a certainty . There have been a number of recent talks between Ambassador Child and the leaelers of the Genoa canference looking toward enlisting the co-operation of America . Mr. Child is having very little to say to the correspondents , but diplomats who have talked with him seem to have a great deal of confidence that Washington wit ! look with favor on the new proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week an American , proposal to the effect that if no general Russian agreement were Made at Genoa there should be formed an international commission to superintend Russian credits and concessions . This has been denied all round . However , it is known that yesterday the French submitted to Mr. Child a proposal which he cabled to ' Washington . but this proposition , it is said , is outdated by today 's decision . It is emphasized that the new conference would be one of experts and not of politicians , or statesmen if you like . This , it is held , should appeal to Washington , which thinks Europe 's economic troubles should be settled outside of political circles . Of-course , The Hague experts would have no plenary powers and would commit no nation to anything , which should appeal to Washington , since it would leave the Government free in the last analysis to do what it chose . But any one who expects that after Genoa other agents of the same Governments can sit in The Hague and consider Russian problems with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All along at Genoa there has been on one side business men of the powers who wanted to do business in Russia , and on  --  the other side Russians who wanted those business men to come to Russia . Between them stood political issues which have not been settled . Those political issues are those of the rights of property and tee obligation of the Soviet to assume the dehfs of Russia . Those issues will be at The Hague as they were present at Genoa . There can be no working arrangement between other powers and Russia euntil they have been settled . With the Washington conference treaties safely past the Senate and therefore out of harm 's way the Was " - ington executive branch may find principles justifying acceptance of The Hague invitation as lofty and impressing as those which Mr. Hughes dictated for rejecting the Genoa invitation . There will not be much difference between the issues and arguments basic to the situation . The greatest difference will be the absence of the Premiers from The Hague and the resultant slowing down of any progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . GENOA . May 14 ( Associated Press )  - -  Sir Edward Grigg announced this afternoon that the compromise plan suggested by Premier Lloyd George hail been accepted by the inviting powers in their private conference today and would be passed on by the subcommission on Russian affairs tomorrow . It was practically impossible , he explained , for all the powers in the conference to have representatives , consequently they would designate a limited number to handle Russian affairs , just as was done at Genoa , and that the Russians would eoubtless be allowed more members in their panel than any other single power would have in the mixed panel . Present at the meeting at Mr. Lloyd George 's villa in addition to the British Prime Minister were M. Barthou of France , e oreigri Minister Schanzer , Italy : Viscount Ishii , Japan , and M. Jasper . Belgium . At the conclusion of the afternoon session it was announced that the meeting had " satisfactorily settled all business submitted . " French representatives explained today that the French delegation was selected to approach the United States Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it was France that initiated the idea . France believes that her conception of how Bolshevist Russia should be treated more nearly coincides with the views of the United States than any other nation . She has been reluctant from the outset to engage in any hasty negotiations and is instinctively opposed to any recognition of a communistic government until that government , demonstrates that it will adhere to its engagements , acknowledge the sanctity of property rights and cease its efforts to propagate communistic doctrines in territories beyond the Russian confines. , France is described also as believing , like the United States . that a real opportunity should be accorded to the people of Russia to decide their own form of Government . though France , which had her own great revolution . has no concern or nu idea of interference in the formation of any type of Government the Russian people may wish to establish . The rejoinder which it is proposed to send to the Russian delegates , the French ? spokesman said . will contain some criticleat of the first part of the Russian reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply objectionable and think it should be vigorously taken up . In it the Russians resorted to a line of argument which the powers regard as a propagandist attack on the governInental systems of European countries . Neither France nor Belgium will sign the note to the Russians . according to the present plans , ' because Belgium did not sign and France withheld her approval from the memorandum to the Russians . The hope le expressed by the French &legation; that the ' United States will be prevailed upon to send their experts for the meeting on June 15 , which will start the machinery of the conference in operation . If the Russian commission idea can be Nvorice. : . our It is the French . ' xmvicti , : : that ? .. e United States should have a teoe. heed on the proposed board of inquiry , being allowed to direct its operations either in a managerial or advisory capacity and being bound by its decisions only to an extent desired by the United States . France and the other powers ' recognize the ch:lcacy inevitably attaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly , because of the determination of that country not to be dragged directly or indirectly into the Europe en political disputes . As . however , the proposed commission of investigation is expected to consider matters strictly financial and economic h. character . the powers think there can be no question of policies and that the United States could join the proposed international board in the same manner as it will participate in the forthcoming financial meeting at Paris to study the possibility of an international loan for Germany , and , later , the assembly of banks of issue at London to discuss currency . exchange and monetary problems in general . Asserts We Opposed Soviet at Genoa . LONDON , May 14 . ? " America has intervened in the Genoa conference in a sense hostile to the Soviet , " says the Genoa correspondent of the Daily Herald ( labor organ ) , whose close relations with sovietism are well known . " For two days , " adds the correspondent , " we have lived in the presence of a great capitalistic conspiracy against Russia disguised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Russian delegation , is quoted by the correspondent as saying : " The United States is the most hostile of all nations against us , and although the plan proposed by Ambassador Child , with the support of the Standard Oil observers now in Genoa , is disowned by Washington as unauthorized , it nevertheless represents the views of the American Government and the basis on which the United States will participate in the commission to be set up at The Hague or elsewhere . " We wo n't have any dealings with such a commission as proposed and wo n't allow it to conduct investigations in Russia . Further , we shall regard any attempt to curtail Russia 's soyereign right to conclude treaties with other powers , or the right of other powers to conclude treaties with her , as an unfriendly act . We insist upon full liberty to make treaties of any kind whatever with any nation whatever , both during and after the Genoa conference . " The correspondent goes on to say : " Ambassador Child proposed a plan to M. Barthou , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan , briefly , proposed : First , the suspension of all existing treaties with Russia : second , representation by the United States , but exclusion of Russia from the Commission of Experts ; third , a pledge to be taken by each nation to abstain from concluding private agreements with Russia during the labors of the commission . " M. Tchitcherin , according to the correspondent , describes the proposal as a return to the blockade of Russia , which the Russian delegation naturally never would support .                     