@@689521

txt Parts dispatches announcing that France will welcome an American representative on a committee of experts to examine under the Reparation Commission Germany 's capacity to pay reparations have been redeived in political circles here with great satisfaction . It is not all that the British Government hoped to attain by its recent moves , but it is a good deal . Belgium and Italy have also accepted on the same terms as Poincare. word having been received to that effect ! 1 today . A cartoon in The Star tonight represents the view taken generally of the advantage of American support of Great Britain at this particular juncture . It represents Poincare going for Baldwin , to roll him in the mud of humiliation . but held back by " Big Brother Sam . " who stands behind " Little Stanley " and restrains the Frenchman by a mere glance of his eye . It is , however , noted that France in giving way is apparently accepting the smaller and much less satisfactory of the two Anglo-American proposals . Poincare , unless he changes his mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the powers to review the entire Versailles settlement . which General Smuts put forward , and is simply assenting to a commission of experts which will not be very different and may not be more effective than the commission of bankers of two years ago . Moreover , it is feared here that even this commission will be subjected to severe conditions . It will certainly not be permitted to take into account any political considerations , and it may find that the French will impose restrictions even on its examination of the financial situation . Of course , all this will be decided by negotiation between the Governments , and when every subtraction has been made there still remains , in the opinion of well-informed circles here , solid ground forCsatisfaction . Expect Big Reduction In Reparations . Moreover , even Poincare. once he has assented to the appointment of the commission , can no longer adhere relentlessly to the estimate of German indebtedness at ? 6 ; 600,000.000 . One of the difficulties of negotiating with him has always been his tendency to revert to that figure ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At times , indeed . France has seemed willing to accept a settlement based on some such sum as ? 2,500,000,000 , but that has always been coupled with an arrangement by which she would escape direct payment of her debt to her allies , and as soon as her proposals on that head have been rejected , she has always brought up again the larger figure . But now America has firmly refused to couple the interallied debt and reparations problems , and France consequently has agreed to a new examination of German assets and can hardly complain If the international- experts decide to reduce the estimate . Then there is the question of the effect the appointment of an expert commission with American oarticipation will have on Germany 's internal condition . It is thought not unlikely that it will have a distinctly valuable effect . After all . German society , It is argued , has been evincing a wonderful tensile strength amid most terribly trying conditions . It has stood up against an unparalleled currency confusion , has so far resisted the efforts of the separatists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new inquiry into the true condition of its finances . But it is also realized here , from recent British experience , that there is great danger that Germany will read into the American desire foe a settlement an intention to save her from her just penalties . Great Britain has found it extraordinarily difficult to make the Germans understand that , because she thought the French were plishing them beyond what wao economically wise , she was not prepared to for ve them all reparation payments , an it is quite likely that Washington will find the same perverse misunderstanding of its desire for justice and . common sense . Commenting on the new situation , The Daily News says : " Mr. Hughes rightly points out that the question of Germany 's capacity to pay the Allies is absolute , and is not conditioned by the question of the Allies ' capacity to pay America , but he appears to admit by itnplicatidn that the Allies ' capacity  --  or the capacity of some of them  --  to pay America is ' to some extent conditioned by what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real point , we imagine , is that she will not be drawn into offers to reduce or remit the Allies ' debts to her , as Britain suggested to them to remit or reduce the debt of Germany to themselves , and that it is an entirely anderstandable and even cornmendabla attitude to adopt . Let the Allies , she says , make a just and reasonable settlement with Germany on the merits of the case . When they have done that , and not till then , she will discuss with them what they ? can reasonably offer and she reasonably accept . Yet the inter-relation of the two problems remains a very obvious and depressing fact for the Allies . The Frenchman says ' If . Germany pays us we may be able , to pay Britain and America ; if she does not , we can not . If we are to be made to pay , then we must make Germany Pay . ' He has tried to ' make ' her pay , and so far has egregiously failed . That is why America 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Daily Chronicle says : " The prospect of American intervention , hedged about with reservations as it was , has caused M. Poincard to move . Mr. Baldwin spoke of the statement of President Coolidge as though that had been the beginning of this promising event , but Secretary Hughes said practically the same thing as President Coolidge as long ago as December last . What has happened now might have happened then had the Government seized the chance , us Mr. Lloyd George urged it to do . " There never has been a worse example of slow moving diplomacy . and it may be that the world will never again be straight , with the arrears that have accumulated in consequence of this delay . " Poincard has hedged his acceptance about with certain conditions which will be made clearer when his dispatch comes , but no conditions can really wholly , destroy the utility of the conference , which now seems assured . " The Morning Post says : " We Were once told about the war that it was to end all wars , and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end all conferences . Lloyd George has gone , but alas l some of his tricks remain . This new inquiry will have only an advisory character . An American will probably be present , but , though his presence will be welcome . his status will be uncertain . He may be a member of the Government or he may be simply an eminent citizen who has been asked to drop in on those interesting deliberations in the course of ' doing ' Europe , nut whoever he be , there will be one subject which will be barred at that conference table and that is the subject of France 's debt to AmerIca . " Or if it be broached , the delegate or observer from Washington will probably rise from the table , as a virtuous lady leaves the drawing room when a risque anecdote is ventured . " The American attitude is delightfully simple and commendably frank . Mr. Hughes says in so many words ' England and France can reduce their claims on Germany , but our claims on both remain fixed . ' " General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with invective for this businesslike attitude , but when H. Poincard takes much the same line end puts the bailiff in the defaulter 's house he is described almost ' as an assassin . An inquiry then , which can not take into consideration the question of the interallied indebtedness , canhot really solve the reparation issue , though it may possibly reach some valuable conclusions concerning . Germany 's capacity to pay . " French Difficulties Appreciated . The London Times Bays : " We welcome the report that the French Government is prepared to accept the idea of a general conference on reparations in so far that , with certain reservations as yet incompletely defined , It would agree to the appointment under the Reparation Commission of an advisory commission of experts , including an American member . " ' We fully realize the difficulties of France  --  the state of uncertainty and depression to which the was reduced during the years Immediately following on the armistice , as Well as the dangerous complications into which she has been plunged as a result of the indeperOent policy that she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the indications that she is prepared to give even qualified acceptance to proposal for some form of general inquiry in which the United States Will participate . No doubt for many reasons the French Government would prefer to maintain and defend by formal clauses and reservations the exclusive validity of her own chosen method . The problems at issue have , ' however , assumed a character so grave and so menacing even for France herself that the idea of a return to international co-operation in some form must inevitably slake an increasing appeal to many French minds . " The Daily Telegraph , in approving the friendly tone of Mr. Baldwin 's earnest appeal to France , says : " His pleading lost nothing in effectIVeness because it cpntained no de nunciation of France and French policy . " The matter of obvious importance in the situation is that America refuses categorically to consider together as the obverse and reverse of the same problem German reparations to the Allies and the allied debt to the United States . Mr. Hughes insists once more on their essential difference . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one detail than to any other . " We put forward these considerations as correctives to a too easy optimism . They are big stumbling blocks in the way , and the mast eloquent appeals to the moral sense of humanity may beat against them without , unhappily , having the power to remove them . " The Daily Mail says : " The French Government has intimated its willingness to take part in an inquiry under the auspices of the Reparation Commission . The reservations which it makes are that there shall be no revision of the Treaty of Versailles . no revision of the guarantees already seized and no revision of the amount Germany has to pay . What such conference could do would be to discuss ' how and when Germany shall pay an amount already fixed . ' We may observe in passing that in stating these conditions M. Poincard is adhering to the Treaty of Versailles , and is showing his anxiety to meet Mr. Baldwin 's wishes . We may also observe that no inquiry as to the British taxpayers ' capacity to pay was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ f1.000,000,000 to the United States was required . We do not quite know why such extraordinary solicitude is always shown for the German tax-shirker , who at this present moment Is Raying the derisive sum of under f10,000,000 a year in taxes . "                     