@@696786

txt Nevi chapters re to be added to Washington 's sensations , national an  --  i locv.1. and the promise of the revelations which the chapters will . eontein has intensified the interest of the Capital 's residents from those in high places down to the most inconspicuous citizens . The outstanding chapter will be contributed by the appearance of Senator Smith W. Brookhart of Iowa before the District of Columbia grand jury next Wednesday to support his public charge that liquor was served at a dinner for Senators at a local hotel . but Senator Brookhart 's notice today that he will " tell the whole story " is only part of the sensational setting which the city is viewing with hated breath and stimulated curiosity . Practically coincident with the service of a grand jury subpoena on Senator Brookhart was the arrest yesterday of " the Man with the Green Hat . " This mysterious character has figured in local annals for several years . The allegation is that he is the bootlegger of the big marble building- near ? the ? Capitol where Senators have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grays he was seized by the police at an'entrance of the Senate office building and hooked as George L. Cassidy . He was charged with violating the Volstead act . Blease Demands More Arrests . Senator Cole L. Please of South Carolina is charging openly that narcotics are being sold near the Capitol , and.in.commenting on the arrest of " the Man with the Green Hat , " he . said : " Why do n't they go out now and get the bootlegger who sells whisky under the dome of the Capitol and the one in the : louse office building , and not play favorites ? " When Senator Brookhart first made his charge that liquor was served " from hip flasks " at a dinner party for Senators " given by a New York stock broker named Fahy , " he invited the authorities to call him before the grand jury . Whether Senator Please will be called on to furnish information to the grand jury that will back up his charges of liquor selling in and about the Capitol and the sale of drugs has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the District Attorney and the police have outlined a plan of campaign designed to get to the bottom of charges that have been flying thick and fast recently concerning widespread conditions of law violation in Washington . An investigation of the government of the District has been undertaken by Congress on account of these charges . Two police officials have been demoted and a police-captain and a patrolman have been suspended following developments in the mysterious death of a trained nurse whose husband is now in jail under indictment for her murder . Three reporters of a Washington newspaper have been sentenced to jail for contempt of court in refusing to tell the grand jury where they obtained published information as to bootlegging , but are out on bail pending the determination of habeas corpus proceedings . Broolchart 's Original Charges . Senator Brookhart 's allegation that liquor was served at a hotel dinner party for Senators was made on the Senate floor when Senator Robert B. Howell of Nebraska was respond -- ing to a polite demand from President Hoover that he . disclose the information on which he had based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prior speech in which he contended , in effect , that the President could stop bootlegging in the District of Columbia if he undertook to do so . Senator Brookhart told the Senate that he had attended a dinner given to " new and re-elected Senators by a New York stock broker named Fahy " at which hip flasks filled with whisky ' were at the disposal of any Senator who would take the trouble to reach down under a cloth-covered table to find them . He said that Senator Reed Smoot of Utah was present but . when the latter denied having seen any liquor or flasks , Senator Brookhart acquitted him of knowledge of the presence of either . Senator Brookhart said today that it would be " tantamount to treason " for him to refuse to answer any questions that the grand jury might ask him . He explained that he did not believe that any rule of social courtesy should prevent a person who attended a social function from telling of a " crime " that he might have witnessed there . Until he appears before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would decline to make known what he saw in the way of intoxicating liquor at the dinner . " I am not going to tell the story to the newspapers , " he said . Dinner One of Celebration . The original statement made by Senator Brookhart in the Senate created the impression that a New York stock broker had invited new and re-elected Senators whom he did not know to dine with him so as to become acquainted with them . This gave rise to curiosity as to why Senator Brookhart accepted a dinner invitation from a man from Wall Street with whom he was not acquainted . It is now being said that the dinner was given by Walter J. Fahy , head of a New York stock , brokerage house , that he had been an employe of the Republican Senate committee and that he was well accetainted with all or most of the Senators who were his guests . Mr. Fahy , who had been a reporter on a Washington newspaper , was employed by the Republican Senate Campaign Committee as a secretary prior to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Senate Campaign Committee man ages the campaigns of Republican Senators who are candidates for election and re-election . In one such campaign , that of 1924 when Calvin Coolidge swept the country , the Republicans made material gains and the Senate committee , to celebrate its victory , gave a dinner for reelected and newly elected Republican Senators . Called Part of " Social Lobby . " Gossip has it that one of the objects of the dinner was to enable new Senators to get acquainted with the members of the Senate Campaign Committee and Senators who were re-elected . Mr. Fahy , who had continued to serve the Senate committee voluntarily and to maintain friendly relations with its members , is credited with having been so impressed by the original dinner that he thought it would be a good idea to continue the get-acquainted function . His stock brokerage business having prospered , he decided to be host at a dinner for Republican Senators elected and re-elected in 1926 . This dinner , the one at which Senator Brookhart alle , zes he saw liquor in hip flasks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December of that year . Whether the alleged hip flasks contained liquor or were . empty flasks given as - 'ouvenirs of the occasion is something about which Senator Brookhart is supposed to be able to furnish evidence . Senator Caraway of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate Committee which is investigating lobbying , said today that the committee would make no inquiry into the Fahy incident unless Senator Brookhart volun'arily presented himself as a witness . The dinner episode is held by the committee to be a part of what is ! mown as the " social lobby " which Mr. Caraway and his associates will not investigate unless specific complaints are made by persons of responsibility . Senator Brookhart has been advised of the lobby committee 's attitude toward his complaint , but so far he has given no indication of a purpose to appear before it . Mr. Brookhart has asscr d that a " social . , 11 by " in Washington influences , egislation in Congress and Senator ; eorge W. Norris of Nebraska , chairman of the Judiciary Committee , who selected the members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper article . Case Developments . What were described as startling developments were made known this afternoon in relation to the mysterious death of Mrs. , who was strangled in her apartment on Sept. 12 . Earlier in the day it was understood that an investigation conducted by agents of the Department of Justice had led to the decision that Robert A. Jr. , the husband of the woman , who is in jail under indictment for her murder , would be released on bail pending further investigation . But late this afternoon John E. Laskey , former United States Attorney for the District of Columbia , who had been retained by Attorney General Mitchell to make a special inquiry into the murder , announced that would be brought to trial . " I have reached this decision , " he said , " as a result of new and unexpected developments today . " A coroner 's jury found that Mrs. was a suicide , but allegations made by a patrolman caused the grand jury to indict her husband for murder . At the instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials were transfert ed to ether duties and the patrolman , Robert J. Allen . who had be4n saseended pending trial on charges , veas restored to duty . Later Allen 's captain was directed to make a report as to whether he had stated to newspapers that he intended to investigate the District At.orney 's office , and the character of this repo  --  t was such that the captain and Allen were suspended and are to be brought before the police trial hoard . Washingtonians. official and unofficial , are noting the fact that the Rev. Jason Noble Pierce , pester of the First Congregational Church . which Calvin Coolidge attended when he was President , is delivering a series of Sunday sermons , in which he lietkes the position that conditions of crime in Washington are deplorable and that the authorities are not doing their duty .                     