@@696574

txt No particular menace to American consumers , or-even to American retalars ; is foreseen by most investigators and theorists in the attempt by the four biggest packing companies to relieve themselves of the provisions of the consent decree of 1920 . Among other . things  --  the decree as it now stands prevents these packers from engaging In any retail activities or to deal in any food products except meat and'a few others closely related . Prof. E. L. Rhoades of the University of Chicago , assistant director of the Institute of Meat Packing , In a study of the chain store and its relationship to the packing industry , has come to the conclusion that no packing firms are likely to go into the retail meat business themselves on a scale that will bring them into competition with the small neighborhood store . About a dozen packers , not subject to the decree , are experimenting with chains of meat markets now , According to Prof. Rhoades , only two , ot the projects can be classed as profitable and attempts along the same lino in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the packer owhed markets is to large , centrally located stores that can do more than the average business of the independent retail store . Cites Arguments . Against the possibility that even the largest packers may operate chains so widely spread that they will approximate the numbers of the great grocery organizations , two arguments are advanced . One Is that it is too costly to equip markets where the sales are not almost certain to be large . The other is that prejudice on the part of all meat retailers In a community will begin to operate at once against any packer who locates his own market near them . This would cause material losses in the regular distributive trade of the packer and might cost more in profits than his market could bring him . So far the de ; velopment of chain meat marketing has been largely in connection with the grocery chains . Of 800 Of the latter organizations , 351 conduct meat markets in connection with their stores , the number of such markets being estimated at from 10 , - 000 to 15,000 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strictly meat selling chains . About 15 per cent of all meats at : Mail are sold through chains . In Chicago the percentage is considerably smaller.  - -  Grocery chains have gone in a few instances into the ownership of packing planttkand there are somo inditetions that there will be more progress along this line . It is , in fact , entirely possible that this looked for trend has been one of the potent factors In causing the big packers to seek permission to become retailers themselves . Their petition In Supreme court of the District of Columbia for a setting aside of the consent decree shows with a degree of clarity that they consider the retailing of meats and of other foodstuffs could continue to be linked economically . Now at Disadvantage . At present they are at a disadvantage . Thero are so many packing firms in the country , and the meat sales of the chain groceries are so large  --  possibly 10 per cent of the whole  --  that these chains have some . thing like a whip hand In dealing with them . What the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course pure speculation . It appears likely that they expect a growth in the combination of meat and grocery sales agencies . These packers have a large and well organized system of distribution . The farmers of the country , through representative organizations , have urged that their facilities be used more completely . They see advantages rather than a menace in the packers ' plea .                     