@@686089

txt American farmers asked their representative-31 in congress for a temporary tariff bill to relieve ? their edanomie troubles . The lower house of congress promptly complied with the request . Probably the farmers are pleased . We are glad of that , but we are somewhat sad at the spectacle of legislators from whom we had hoped for important work occupying their time with such cheap petit lea ! buncombe . The relief legislation now goes to the senate There is some doubt as to its fate , but there should be no anxiety . It will make little difference if only the senate acts promptly and clears the way for worth while work . The fate of this particular hit of legislation will make no appreciable difference to the farmer anyway , except perhaps mentally . Tariffs upon staple food products , cotton , wool , and their manufactures are not going to relieve the farmers . Our exports , not our imports , of these things are important . Suppose Canadiat : wheat did hem to force down the price of American wheat . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our elevators are doing that . So also with corn , beans , cotton , and other commodi ties involved . We export these things in quantity . We import them only occasionally and incidentally A. tariff to keep them out may raise our domestic prices , but it will not provide the great foreign market Which is necessary to assure profitable defnand for our surplus . Arid domestic demani alone will not assure-prosperity to our farming interests even if It does bring $3 wheat and 15 cent . loaves . Both the farmer and the congressman know that , if they will admit- it . They also know the temporary tariff debate on farm products is pollt ! cal bunk . Congress is building political fences when it ought to be building economic foundations . That is further demonstrated by its failure to enae. immigration restriCtiod while supporting importa lion restriction , ? We pretend to relieve the farm Cm and to reduce unemployment by barring the products of foreign labor and at the same time we leave the way open for importation of the labor itself . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets , improved income from our foreign debtors , improved taxation system , improved employment , improved public works , Improved housing , and business and agricultural financing . If congress will devote itself to these measures it need not worry about protecting the lemon growers of California , the peanut growers of Georgia , or any other growers of any other section . General prosperity will provide its own protection and without artificial elevation of prices .                     