@@688505

txt Park Commissioner Gallatin yesterday disclosed a plan he has to amend the city building taws- to prevent the destruction of historical landmarks and to compel architects to make new buildings harmonize with existing ones in architectural style . The Plan proposed by Commissioner Gallatin as a member of the Municipal - Art Commission would enable the city to step in and save any building of antiquarian or sentimental interest or of architectural beauty . As types of buildings which he would have the city possess the power to preserve he named the Hotel Brevoort , because Jenny Lind stayed there ; the Academy of Music in Fourteenth Street , the city 's first great theatre . visited by the late Edward VII. , then Prince of Wales , in 1860 . Others on his list are the Flatiron building , the Times Building in Times Square , the Herald Building , the Woolworth , the Metropolitan , the Plaza Hotel , the Century Theatre , St. Patrick 's Cathedral , Trinity , and " hundreds of historic landmarks , homes and hostelries . " Mr. Gallatin said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second feature of the proposed new building law would not require that every new building conform in typo ? and architectural scbhool to its neighbors , but would empower the Art Commission to veto designs for buildings which would produce grotesque incongruities because of the conflict between their style and existing kinds of architecture . This would apply , Commissioner Gallatin said , not to all parts of the city , but to localities already possessing " singular personalities . " Under any and all conditions , the city should have the power , he said , to veto the erection of public eyesores , ' several of which have been constructed already , he said .. ? Suggests Public Monuments . " We ought to make all beautiful buildings in the city public monuments , " Commissioner Gallatin continued , " in France , I believe , there is a law that prevents the destruction of any building oesignated a public monument , without the consent of the authorities under Whose jurisdiction the building happens to be . " In Paris , a home to which there is some sentiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of some great Parisian is made a public monument . That building typifies the Paris of that episode or time and is Et monument to future generations . Churches and office buildings , exceptional in their beauty , and , of course , all public buildings , are public monuments . " Here in New York a commission could be established to designate hundreds of buildings public monuments , thereby preserving them against the future and from money-making demands . The honored building could be marked by a tablet upon which could be in ' - scribed the part played by the structure in the city 's progress . " It would be a good plan , too . " Commissioner Gallatin continued , " to establish zones in which the designs of each building 's architecture . would conform and harmonize with the neighboring buildings . While in Bruges , in Bel &-ium,; Last Summer , I learned that the town pays builders of new structures a small cum if they blend the new building into its surroundings and maintain the old standards of Flemish architecture . That woul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An ordinance could establish architectural zones and require conformity . Then an old , mellowed neighborhood could not be spoiled by a building that would belong in a modern , newly developed loc.:silty . New York is new and old in spots . This irregularity could be overcome to the city 's advantage . An ordinance such as proposed would never have permitted the gloomy , forboding Post Office to overshadow the charm of the colonial City Hall . " Wants Landmark Preserved .. Monuments to municipal progress could be well preserved in the buildings that have been erected since the city 's earliest days , the Commissioner believes . He condemned demolishing beautiful old landmarks to make way or revenueproducing skyscrapers . The Commissioner Stoner does not belittle the function of the skyscraper , he said , but he believes there is plenty of room for their erection without crowding off the city 's surface buildings that have marked its development . In his conference with Mayor Hylan Commissioner Gallatin will take up the feasibility of having the Legislature adopt measures . for vesting power in either a special commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monuments . City ordinances will be suggested for regulating the architectural designs of new structures .                     