@@693400

txt Adolfo Diaz , President of the Conservative Government in power here , issued last night a long statement addressed " To the American and Foreign Public , " in which he reviews tints in his country and reiterates his charges that Mexico has intervened in its affairs . He declares that another filibustering expedition , " outfitted by the Calles Government of Mexico , " is expected hourly on the Pacific Coast of Nicaragua , which his Government hopes to repel successfully . He adds : " The future of Nicaragua and eventually of all of Central America is at stake in the present conflict between my Government and the Calles Government of Mexico . " President Diaz says he has asked for the intervention of the United States And asserts that " this solicitation , * ? ? has many laudable precedents . " Text of the Statement . President Diaz 's declaration in full follows : To the American and Foreign Public : Another filibustering expedition , bringing arms , ammunition , airplanes and Mexican military personnel , outfitted by the Canes Government of Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific Coast of Nicaragua . This will be the third military expedition senti by the Calles Government against Nicaragua , concerning each of which the Nicaraguan and American Governments have had advance Information based on reports of reliable observ- ? ers in Mexico , who secured conclusive evidence of the Mexican Government 's responsibility for these expeditions . My Government , counting on the support of a large majority of the Nicaraguan people , hopes . notwithstanding its present financial and economic exhaustion , caused by the Mexican-made revolution , to repel successfully the latest Mexican invasion of Nicaragua . The future of Nicaragua and ultimately of all Central America is pending in the issue of the present conflict between my Government and the Calles Government . To suppose that the millions of dollars already expended on these revolutionary expeditions from Mexico should have been contributed by Nicaraguan Liberals , or for that matter by the combined memnerstilp of all the political parties in this country of some 600,000 inhabitants , is preposterous , and it is equally absurd for our Liberal adversaries , who admitted to the American representative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. S. Denver , that they were receiving aid from the Mexican Government , to declare that they have no engagements with the Calles Government . Mexico 's Motives . However innocent some of these Liberals may be of any desire to introduce Mexican radicalism into Nicaragua , no rational person will believe for one moment that the Calles Government has invested millions of dollars in a Nicaraguan revolt to overthrow a Government recognized by the United States without ulterior or improper motives , or that , once Mexico has set up a Government in Nicaragua , that Government will not be a docile pupil of its master and the exponent of present day Mexican radicalism . The charges against my Government and the Conservatives in respect to the United States and the American bankers , so assiduously propagated by the poisonous antiAmerican , anti-foreign Bolshevist Mexican propaganda agencies are equally unfounded . The Conservative Party of Nicaragua found the Government some fifteen years ago , after the long and vicious Liberal regime of Zelaya , terminated through American protests over the illegal execution of two American ? citizens , saddled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought ' 332,000,000 ; The aid of American finance and financial experts , with the result that the said debt has been reduced to 37,000,000 , and the National Railway and Bank are now the free and unmortgaged property of the Nicaraguan State . The currency has also been placed on a dollar-for-dollar gold basis . New York and Foreign Bankers . Moreover , contrary to the false assertions of Mexican propaganda , the Nicaraguan Government does not today owe one cent to any New York or foreign banker , having only its bonded indebtedness of 37,000,000 , most of which is due , to the claims arising out of the last Liberal Government in Nicaragua . It would be most agreeable to my Government at once to ? contralt a loan for the construction of a railway to the Atlantic Coast and for other public Improvements . Unfortunately , however , these New York bankers , so far from desiring to exploit Nicaragua , as is charged , are indisposed to consider any large loan to Nicaragua as long as it is not assured of tranquillity through protection from Mexican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Nicaragua . The landing of American marines in Nicaragua recently has been effected for the protection of American and foreign lives and property , but has in no way favored my Government . Had Mexico not sent expeditions against the peace of Nicaragua , my Government could easily have assured adequate protection , thereby averting the necessity for the landing of American marines . My Government has asked the United States Government to take any measures it deems appropriate to prevent the further invasion of Nicaragua by Mexican military expeditions . This solicitation of American intervention to protect Nicaragua from Mexican intervention has many laudable precedents , and it is not unworthy of any small sovereign State'to seek the aid of a strong nation to protect its sovereignty and territory against the armed aggressions of a stronger power . Witness Belgium . The Monroe Doctrine . Had any European nation committed the acts with respect of Nicaraguan independence and sovereignty of which Mexico is guilty , the United States Government would inidOnbted ; ly have long since been forced by ' public opinion to intervene in accord= ance with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is reluctantly forced to admit that no colony of any one of the foremost colonizing powers of the world presents today a condition of such complete political disorder , such a lack of security of life , property and the exercise of religious and political . freedom , both for native and foreigner ; as exists in Mexico . Nicaragua does not - want to be a European colony , nor does it . want to be a- satellite of ' Mexico . From the fate of Mexican domination ' it sees its only salvation in the protecting hand of its great North American brother . Nicaragua wishes to develop its political institutions and its cultural and economic resources independently . However , it realizes the need of drawing heavily on the outside world for all the elements needed for such development , which are not found in adequate quantities or quality , in ' Nicaragua . My Government feels no hesitation or lack of . national or race pride in declaring that it believes that as between the lUnited States of America and Mexico it prefers to look to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leveled against my Government by the MenMan Government of unducefriendship for or subservience to the United States . Central America Trembling . All the nations of Central America are eat this moment trembling in the presence of the military aggressions of the irresponsible and immoral Government of Mexico directed against Nicaragua and menacing all of Central America . Each Central American President fears that , if the present Mexican adventure in Nicaragua succeeds , it may be his turn next to be ousted by Mexico . My Government is for the moment alone the object of Mexican aggressions and alone in its formal protest . But its cause is that of Central American independence and freedom from Mexican domination , and , let it not be forgotten , the cause of American and foreign interests in Central America , the fate of which at the hands of Mexico can be foreseen by reference to the present situation in Mexico . I can not believe that the American Government bald people will remain indifferent to the Nicaraguan situation and allow themselves to be duped by tenacious Mexican propaganda against alleged American imperialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and American interests here of allowing the Calles Government a free hand to overturn and set up government at w1// , ' can , I repeat , be ' foretold by a. glance at present conditions in Mexico .                     