@@690412

txt In a triangle formaVon , their noses glistening in the brilliant sunlight , and followed by a guard of honor of eight French military air planes , the round-the-world American squadron arrived over the French capital this afterriPon . Instead of stopping at Le Bourget , the air port of Paris , the famous trio of air planes continued straight to the capital and circled over the Arc de Triumph , in the shadow of which France 's Unknown Soldier is buried . Swooping low over the great arch , While the guard of honor hovered overhead , the Americans dropped a tribute of flowers and brought their hands to their foreheads in a salute to their fallen French comrades . Then they soared again high into the air and beaded for their air port . When they I came in sight of Le Bourget a parachute rocket greeted them in salute . ' Once they swept around the field in formation , and the flag-plane Chicago . bearing Lieutenant Lowell H. Smith , the commander , shot ahead , followed in Line by the airplanes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came down within a few hundred feet of the ground , and a tremendous cheer arose from the waiting crowd . Once again the squadron swept over and circled the landing field . Then the airplane of Lieutenant Smith came gracefully down to earth a few yards from the waiting throngs . In a moment the privileged spectators who had been admited to the field burst past the guards , heedless of all warning , and surrounded the slowly moving machine bearing the great emblem of an Indian 's head . Cheer after cheer greeted the Commander of the squadron . Cheering Crowd Bursts the Gates . Then the spectators who were waiting outside the field rushed the gates five thousand strong , hurled the guards aside /-and the air rang with cheers as they wept up to the white square of earth where all three planes by now stood at rest It was only with difficulty that the French soldiers kept the throng back from the rapidly revolving propellers , so eager were they to catch sight of the intrepid Americans . All semblance of order ceased in the tremendous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ descended from his airplane it was with difficulty that the Under Secretary for Air . Laurent Eynac , and Generals Faure and DauMesa were able to shake the squadron commander 's hand and to congratulate him on his unparalleled voyage . From that moment It was easier fighting , but the jam ended , nevertheless , only when Lieutenant Smith and his companions finally reached the shelter of the offices of the commander of the air port . For a few minutes before the official teception Lieutenant Smith gave himself up to interviewers , but soon interrupted them to ask how the United States Stood in the Olympic games . When he was told of the respective standing of the countries , he exclaimed : " Good ! They told us at Constantinople that we were being licked . What ' era you a qlring me ? " Smith Recovers From Injuries . Lieutenant Smith said that he had Completely recovered from his broken rib , and all tile men In the squadron were in good health . Nevertheless , he added , all were dog tired , and the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight . He explained that today 's flight was interrupted by a rainstorm which the planes entered just after leaving Vienna . at 5:40 o'clock this morning . They were in the storm for three hours , and the heavy , low-hanging clouds made them fly with extreme caution . He considered that the most difficult part of the voyage was now I passed over , and looked forward to a successful completion of the teak , The fliers will rest in Parts tomorrow , and take off for London Wednesday . There they will change the motors in the planes : At Hull pontoons will be put on the machines and a final decision will be reached as to he dates for the remaining jumps . Af this point Lieutenant Smith was interrupted by the , for1Mailties of the reception , Eynac , addressing the Americans , *Idorned them to French soil and con-1 gratulated them on their remarkable flight . The French people , he assured them , had watched their progress with peat interest , at tirnea with anguish , and it was no little reuel when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan . This expedition , he said , was the Magellan 's voyage of commercial aviation , and the flight represented a great step forward for all aviation . The way was now blazed , and it . would be only a matter of a short time . until the world would be circled 1:0air routes . The glasses of charnPagne were then raised in a toast to the American pioneers , faaaag officials on the reception camiinitteeln addition to M. Eynac , Generals Faure and Baumesnil , were Comte de la Vaulx , President of the International Aeronautic Federation ; Colonel de Goys . Chief of Cabinet in the Air Ministry ; Colonel Denain , representing the President of the Republic ; Colonel Polimarcheft , Military Commandant at Le Bourget , and M. Renvoise . Director of the Air Port of Le Bourget , and Frank I Lahm , representing the American Aero Club . Among the American officers present , were Colonel Cootes , Lieut . Col. Kenyon Joyce and Major Donald the Military Attaches , respectively , at Vienna , London and Brussels ; Major Wash , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colonel W. I. Westervelt . Face a Busy Program Today . Following the reception , the American fliers were taken to the Crillon , where they were received by General Pershing and congratulated on their excellent work . Then they went to the Hotel d'Iena . There Lieutenant Wade was designated by Lieutenant Smith to receive the press . Lieutenant Wade gave a detailed account of the flight for the benefit of the French journalists and told of the difficulties met with over Alaska and of troubles with the Bolshevik ' at the Kuriles Islands . He recounted , too , the hardships met with in crossing over India . Lieutenant Wade told of the objects of the flight and how those objects were being successfully realized . The fliers are now nineteen days behind schedule , he said , but they have made up twelve days since leaving Japan ; This , he thought , was as much as they would be able to make up , however , and while the rest of the voyage is expected to be clear flying , they will arrive back in California a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fliers will be received by M. Eynac at 11 o'clock At 11:30 o'clock they will lay a , wreath on the tomb of the Unknown Soldier . At 2:30 o'clock they will be received by the President of France . At 6 o'clock they will be received at the Hotel de Ville . when the freedom of the city will be presented to them , and at 8 o'clock there will be as official dinner in their honor .                     