@@693412

txt When Admiral LATIMER first landed marines at Puerto Cabezas and established his extraordinary " neutral zone , " it was explained by the Washington authorities that the attitude of our Government was one of " strict neutrality " as between the contending factions in Nicaragua . The State Department pointed to the fact that our naval force compelled Nicaraguan Conservatives to disarm within the zone , just as it did Liberals , although our Government had recognized the Conservative DrAz as lawful President . But one step has led to another , until now there is scarcely a pretense at Washington of impartiality , nor is it denied . except feebly and with a sort Of sheepish smile , that we have in fact intervened in Nicaragua . No doubt , the official formulae are still used . The orders sending more - warships to reinforce Admiral LATIMER speak only of a purpose " thoroughly " to protect American interests and " the lives and property of American " and foreign citizens in Nicaragua . " So of our marines who have marched to Managua , the capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guard the American Legation . President DrAz , in his innocence , takes another view , and speaks of the coming of an American armed force as being " a harbinger of early peace and prosperity for Nicaragua . " This can be only on his assumption that the weight of this American military detachment will be thrown against the Liberal revolutionists who are trying to oust the Diaz Government . Almost at the same time Washington announces that the embargo on the export of arms and ammunition to Nicaragua has been lifted , directly , of course , in the interest of President DIAZ , just as was similar action a few years ago in the interest of President Ositzcorr of Mexico . Secretary KELLOGG is expected shortly to appear before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations to explain the course and causes of our Nicaraguan policy . It is high time we had a full official statement . To the ordinary reader of the dispatches from Washington , day after day , it must appear that the State Department had been let in much deeper than it at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of afterthoughts to explain the successive steps which it has taken . The country will await , with as much patience as it can command , the complete light which Secretary KELLOGG is counted upon to throw on this veil , dark subject . But it can hardly be that he will longer contend that the United States is following a course of " strict neutrality " in Nicaragua .                     