@@692182

txt With the signature of all nine members attached , the report of the Coolidge Aircraft Board was handed to the President today and made public immediately . The board , in its unanimous conclusions , makes no sensational statements and no proposals designed to bring about a complete overhauling of the air services of the Government . military and civil , but offers constructive suggestions intended to overcome present causes of dissatisfaction and recommends a policy of aircraft production , largely through encouragement to private manufacturers , as a foundation for enabling the United States to provide an adequate air defense in time of war . Not once in the report is the name of Colonel William Mitchell mentioned . There are allusions , however , intended apparently to apply to the charges ha has made and which had their reaction in his current trial by an army courtmartial and to some extent in the action or President Coolidge In appointing the Aircraft Board whose report he received today . Radical proposals of the character sPonsnred by Colonel Mitchell are rejected , and allegations concerning the &tate; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those he published are declared to be exaggerated or baseless . More patience with " unreasonableness " is needed on both sides of the air cOntrover8Y , in the board 's Opinion , and it adds that the problem " may be understood it men will approach it with less feeling and more Intelligence . " Opposes Amalgamation Plans . The board rejects the proposal for the creation of a unified , Government air service , It rejects also the plan a amalgamating the army and the navy in a Department of National Defense with an air branch . It makes recommendations for the improvement of the Government air services , such as the creation of additional Assistant Secretaryships in the Departments of War , Navy and Commerce for the better handling of aircraft problems and more satisfactory means of advancement for amy and navy fliers . It admits frankly that there were diverse opinions among its membership , " differing at first nearly as widely as some of those expressed In the testimony heard by us , " but it sounds a little note of pride that men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " were able to reach a unanimous conclusion " in a spirit of mutual accommodation and understanding . " In its closing sentence the board takes occasion to rebuke those who have indulged in sensational statements concerning the American aircraft situation when it says : " The same spirit may prove helpful both to those charged with the grave responsibility - of developing the policies in regard to the use of aircraft in national defense and to those who encounter the hazards of actual operations in the air . " Summary of Board 's Findink , a . The conclusions and recommendations of the board may be summarized as follows : That the military and civilian ' air services of the Government " should remain distinctly separate . " That it is not necessary ' to the national defense to build up " a large air power , " especially as the United States is well protected by its geographical position . That for the encouragement of the development and use of civilian aircraft there should be created a bureau of air I navigation in the Department of Commerce under an additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in danger of air attack " from any potential enemy of menacing strength . " In the board 's opinion , " the fear of such an attack is without reason . " That there should not be a Department of National Defense under which should be grouped all the military defensive organizations of the Government . That there should not be formed " a separate department for air , coordinate with the present Departments of War ' and Navy . " In this particular the board ' says it agrees with the opinion of General Pershing and the testimony of Generals Summerall , Hines and Ely , and Admirals . Sims , Eberle , Robinson , Coontz and Hughes . That our strength of the air arm in proportion to general military establishment compares favorably with that of any other power and that our army and navy air personnel is of the very highest type . That the Air Service personnel of both the army and the navy has been subjected to an extremely trying ordeal line the World War , and means suggested for overcoming this condition chould be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accident rate is deCreasing and compares favorably with Die accident rate In other air services . That no evidence was received by the board that filers were compelled to fly In unsafe planes , and In this connection the board says : " Any member of the r Air Service who has knowledge that his brother fliers are being forced Into the air In unsafe planes and who fails to Make direct and immediate report of the concrete case and facts do his chief is at fault to the extent that his knowledge aecairate. ? That to avoid confusion and bon enfilature the name of the Army Air Service should be changed to Army Air Verna That additional Assistant SecretaryShips of War , Navy and Commerce be created and assigned to aviation administration and to work In cooperation . That army aviators have special representation on the army General Staff , that an air section of the General Staff ender an air officer should be created by the Secretary of War , and that a departure be made in this instance from the principle that no General Staff member should represent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the General Staff without qualifying under present requirements , a reference to the necessity of taking a course in the army service school to qualify for General Staff duties . Two More Air Brigadiers Urged . That Congress provide two more Places tor brigadier generals in the Air Corps to hold rank for four years , one to be placed in charge of procurement and another to head the group of air training schools near San Antonio . That to provide rank commensurate With command , Congress should permit army air officers in charge of important air stations and holding flying COMmands to have higher temporary rank while exercising such commands . That qualified officers of Other branches of the army be transferred to the Air . cervice . That extra pay for filers of the army and the navy should be continued , and insurance provision be made for the dependents of fliers . That a special aviation medal and ribbon be conferred on army and navy fliers for extraordinary heroism in either peace or war . That a larger number of reserve ? fritters should be trained in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlisted men as air pilots be considered . That a plan of military aircraft production be tried for periods not exceeding five years , through adopting a limited number of types of planes and paying for their manufacture by private concerns under Congressionaal appropriation . That naval aviators get temporary advanced rank for Important commands . Finds Waste Charge ' Unjustified . That criticism of extravagance in naval expenditures on aviation was not justified to any substantial degree , but the naval aircraft factory should not compete in aircraft production with private industry , and should confine Rs operations to repair and experimental purposes . That naval aviators be made extra numbers of the grades of captain , commander and lieutenant commander In order to insure a better system of promotion for them . That naval aviators should be detailed to the office of chief a naval cperaCons and the Bureau of Navigation . " Here . as in the army . " says the board . " the particular men chosen must be of the temper of mind to appreciate not I only the special needs of aviation but1 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aircraft carriers and tenders and 1 naval flying schools should be command- I ed by flying officers qualified for sur- 1 That study should be given to providface ship duties . ing better means of promotion for naval i technical officers In naval aeronautic de- I elan and construction . That private aircraft production be encouraged through Government orders . Air Controversies World-Wide . Throughout its report the President 's 1 Board expresses Its views freely on the ! aircraft situation . It brings out strongly that there was great conflict In the testimony it heard , conflict that Mettler I fact as well as opinion . especially 1.3 Le the air strength of the ' United States , the condition and number of its planes , and the air strength of foreign powers as compared to the United States . " It is impossible , " says the board . " to attribute the controversy to any single cause , particularly in view of the fact that it has gone on in much the same terms in every country that participated in the war . The conflict is one between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustments required In a period Immediately following a great war . " What is needed Is a more generous appreciation by each side of the difficulties of the other side . On each side there is need of patience with what seems the unreasonableness of the other side . The fundamental problem may not be settled . It may . however , be understood if men will all approach It with less feeling and more intelligence . " In rejecting the contention that buildleg up a large air force would be a Peace movement . the board discusses the requirements end the conditions affecting national defense and reaches the conclusion that those who would sacrifice battleships and give a prepondering influence to air power " are not talking of disarmament . " Commenting on the situation which It visualizes , the board says ; " By our fortunate geographical position the have heretofore been freed from the heavy burden of armament which necessity seems to ' have Ithposed upon the nations on the Continent of Europe . If one thing has stood out sharply in the past century it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being interpreted by their neighbors as offensive movements . " " Armaments Beget Armaments . " ' This has naturally , perhaps ' inevitably , thrown most of the countries within the European orbit Into the vicious circle of competitive armaments . We are all in accord that the United Etates must at all times maintain an adequate defensive system . whether it be surface ships , submarines , land armies or air power . But let us not deceive ourselves . This new weapon , with its long range on power , not only for defense but also for offense , is subject to the psychological rules which govern all armament . Armaments beget armaments . " It has been our national policy heretofore to oppose competitive armaments . The coming of a new and deadlier weapon must not result in any change in this policy . The belief that new and deadlier weapons will shorten future wars and prevent vast expenditures of lives , and resources is a dangerous one which , it accepted , might well lead to a readier acceptance of war as the solution of international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an element hitherto unavailable to mankind will not necessarily change the ultimate character of war . The next war may well start in the air . but in alit probability will wind up , as the last war did , in the mud . " Without mentioning Colonel Mitchell , the board rejects his charge that the United States is " woefully lacking in serviceable planes , " and takes instead of the low figures he cited of army aircraft fit for service the much higher figures given by Major Gen. Patrick , Colonel Mitchell 's chief . The board does not . see the danger Colonel Mitchell sees , of air attack on the United States . It also says a good word for the DU plane to counteract the charges as to its being obsolete and unserviceable for war purposes . Generally , it does not appear to believe that edlitary aviation in this country is In emit a wretched state . as has bees charged ley Colonel Mitchell , and thuds that the United States Ls as well off both In a military and civilian sense as any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment and development . The board consists of Dwight W. Morrow . Chairman ; Arthur C. Dennison . William F. Durand , Major Gen. James G. Harbor &; Rear Admiral Frank F. Fletcher , Howard E. Coffin , Senator Hiram Bingham , Representative Carl Vinson and Representative James S. Parker .                     