@@695410

txt Bert Hassell , Parker Cramer , four members of the University of Michiigan expedition to Greenland and myself were shipwrecked on the Greenland coast at dawn on Wednesday , Sept. 5 , when our motor sloop struck a rock . ? We were all able to reach shore safely and we managed to save most of our equipment . On Friday afternoon we were rescued by the motor sloop Nipisiak of Sukkertoppen and brought to the Disko . We are all well . Another in Ceries of Perils . COPENHAGEN , Sept. 10 ( JP ) . ? Bert Hassell and Parker Cramer , pilots of the plane Greater Rockford , who were out of contact with civilization for two weeks following a forced landing in Greenland , recently have survived another precarious adventure . The motor boat in which they , with Professor Hobbs and others of the University of Michigan Greenland Expedition , were traveling down the coast struck a rock at the mouth of Simiutak Fjord and sank . The party escaped to shore . After the landing two natives made their way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to the marooned party with food and fuel . Efforts are now under way to raise the boat . Word of the party 's plight was received by radio today by the Greenland Administration Department from the Sheriff of South Greenland . The boat used by the party had been chartered from a company of Greenlanders at Holsterborg for transportation purposes . While the , radio from the Sheriff did not specify , it was believed that the motor boat was the sloop Nakuak of twenty tons . This vessel had recentlly brought In Winter supplies to the observatory and was to take out Dr. Hobbs , the two fliers , Assistant Director Belknap , and Stewart , Potter and Estes of the expedition . However , other motor Sloops were to be used in stages . of their journey to Ivigtut , whence they were to take a steamer for Philadelphia . Hobbs 's Plans for Return . Professor William Herbert Hobbs , expert or . Arctic meteorology , who fo. two years has maintained Summer quarters In Greenland and established an all-year-round base for observations at Mount Evans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain this Winter , planned , according to his radio to THE NE ' " YORK TIMES of last Tuesday , to leave that day or the next . The " Summer party , " which was leaving Mount Evans by the motor sloop Nakuak , consisted of the director himself , the assistant director , Belknap ; Stewart , Potter and Estes , members of the expedition , and the two aviators , Hassell and Cramer . The sloop , a vessel of twenty tons , had been chartered to take the party to Sukkertoppen , near which point it is presumed the vessel was wrecked . Another sloop was to take the grclip to Godhaab , south of Sukkertoppen , and still another to Ivigtut . According to Professor Hobbs 's plan , several of those coming out were to take the ore steamer Wagland from Ivigtut , leaving , about Sept. 29 , bound for Philadelphia . The head of the expedition had requested the Danish Government to permit Hassell and Cramer to accompany this group . Professor Hobbs himself , with Potter , the expedition 's photographer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holstenhorg and take the Disko from there tomorrow , bound for Copenhagen and thence to the United States . The Disko Is described as a new motorship . On it Professor Hobbs and members of his party . went out from Copenhagen to Greenland in June . Simiutak , the place where the sloop was wrecked , is an inlet in the southwest coast of Greenland at about 66 degrees 24 minutes north latitude . It is a little south of Holsteinbog or Holstenborg , which may be the " Holsterborg " mentioned in the radio message . Many Mishaps Marked Flight . The flight of Hassell and Cramer from Rockford to Sweden encountered an unusual amount of hard luck and mishaps . The first announcement was made on June 1 , but it was not until the middle of July that preparations were really completed for a start . The first postponement occurred on July 18 , when it was announced that the plane could not take off the following Friday as planned , but would be forced to . wait until the Sunday or Monday after . Ott the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather . When finally , on July ' 26 , the Hassell craft did take the air at Rockford it flew only ten minutes and then crashed . Three weeks passed before the ship was repaired and began its hop anew , finishing the first leg , to Cochrane , Ontario , on Aug. 16 . ? It was on Aug. 18 that the two fliers pushed off again , bound for Mount Evans , and disappeared into an icy void which did not give them up to mankind again until Sept. 2 . Hassell reported afterward how fog beyond Davis Straits gave them no opportunity to check bearings and when they found the coast of Greenland their search for the Hobbs camp brought their fuel to the lowest ebb before they were able to orientate themselves . By that time they had to land the plane , which they did safely , and continue on . foot . They were forced to trek for many miles and several days before Eskimos ' saw their signal smoke ? and reported to Professor Hobbs 's base . ' Meanwhile efforts to search @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which pursued the fliers . The United States Coast Guard vessel Marion , ordered northward on the hunt , early met such strong southerly gales that she was forced to heave to . The visibility also was extremely poor , it was reported . While the fliers ' were lost to the world their radio . was not picked up , although all messages on their wave length were silenced by order of the Government . ? The only good luck the fliers had , it appeared , was when their signal smoke was seen by Eskimos , who reported what they had seen to the Mount Evans base of the Hobbs scientific . party .                     