@@687766

txt John T. Hettrick , lawyer and originator of a " code of practice " among contractors ; Charles G. Witherspoon , head of Baker Smith &; Co. , steamfitting contractors , and Martin McCue and John Imhoff , delegates of the Steamfitters ' Union , were found guilty last night of a conspiracy to maintain a monopoly in steamfitting appliances . A jury in Supreme Court Justice Clause Alverson 's part of the Supreme Court brought in the verdict after three hours and thirty minutes ' absence from the courtroom , which included their dinner hour . The - crime of which the defendants were convicted is a misdemeanor , punishable by imprisonment . for not more than one 3-ear or a tine of not mere than $5.000 ; or both . Sentence will , be pronounced , at 10 o'clock , this morning . All , four were contiqued on bail ) until that hour . Het1 trick is already on parole from an indeterminate sentence for coercion in connection with the plumbers ' . " code of practice. ? He had served one Year before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Court the jury returned a verdict of not , guilty in the case of Louis Gobhardt , a union delegate . Yesterday 's session of the trial , which started May 16 , was taken up with the summation of counsel and the charge of Justice Alverson . At 5 o'clock the jury retired , returning at 7 o'clock to go to dinner . At 8:30 , when they came back from dinner , the captain of the court attendants was notified that they had arrived at a verdict . The jury then awaited the return of Justice AIverson , who also was at dinner . Justice Alverson re-entered the court at 9 o'clock . On ascending the bench he announced that no demonstration would be permitted on the announcement of the verdict . The foreman . of the jury , replying , to the formal question of Clerk of the Court Carl Smith , announced that the verdict ? was " guilty " in the case of Hettrick . Witherspoon , McCue and Imhoff and " not guilty " in the case of Gebhardt . Robert H. Elder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence would be pronounced today , said that he would prefer the noon hour , but Justice Alverson decided upon 10 o'clock . The Justice also anr ounced that he would prefer that any motions to be made by Mr. Elder , Max D. Steuer , counsel for Witherspoon and Imhoff and Thomas J. Sheridan , counsel for McCue , should be made at that time . No opposition was made by Deputy Attorney General Timothy N. Pfeiffer to continuance of bail until this morning . Details a the Conspiracy . According to the conspiracy alleged by the prosecution , twenty-nine steamfitting concerns were under agreement to submit to Hettrick all bids or estimates for steamfitting work on jobs involving on outlay of more than $500 , the bids or estimates to be changed by Hettrick , If necessary , in order to award the con- tract to the firm " entitled " to it . The four men were charged with conspiring to enforce the " code of practice , " Witherspoon with driving employers into the arrangement and the union men with threatening to cut off the supply of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the code . Deputy Attorney General Wilbur Chambers , in his summation , said that the - " code of practice " had been developed to restrain competition- in the steamfitting trade . The acts of Witherspoon and the union men on trial , Mr. Chambers declared , constituted a violation of the Donnelly act , the State antitrust law . . Max D. Steuer , summing uP for all of the defendants , contended that the prosecution had failed to prove its allegations of conspiracy . So far as the code of practice " was concerned , Mr. Steuer contended , it was a cleverly drawn document , legal in every sense of the word , and had proved of great benefit to the steamfitting and other building trades that use it Disclosed by Lockwood Committee . The use of the Hettrick " code of pre.ctice " was disclosed during the investigation of the Lockwood committee . Hettrick 's indictment for : coercion in connection with ' the plumbing " code " folloWed . He was sent to Blackwells Island for an indeterminate sentence of from six months to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Feb. 24 , on the recommendations of the Parole Commission , Hettrick was indicted with others for his part in ' the steamfitting " code . " Hettrick is also under indictment for a violation of the Donnelly act in connection with the socalled " Hettrick group " of cut stone contractors . Hettrick was brought to trial for a Donnelly act violation with respect to theplumbers ' " code " group affairs , but Justice ordered a dismissal of the case bn the ground of former Jeopardy , the coercion charge-. having been brought on the plumbere ' case ateo.                     