@@693218

txt BALTIMORE , Md. , Oct. 22 . ? With the dedication of the new building for the School of Hygiene and Public Health , which cost more than $1,000 , - I000 000 and is the first institution devoted to those sciences in the world , the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of Johns Hopkins University opened today . The new hygiene building is situate near the medical school , the nurses ' school and new home for 250 nurses , which was formally opened yesterday . All these structures are included in the great hospital group at Homewood . The building contains the most complete laboratory in the world for research and teaching in hygiene . Two rooms are able to produce the climate of any section of the world , having an equipment for ascertaining the effects of climate on both human beings and animals . The ceremonies , which began today , will continue tomorrow , ending with the alumni dinner tomorrow night , at Which covers will be laid for 1,500 . Many universities of this country , England and Europe were represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremonies , including Oxford and Cambridge , the Sorbonne , German universities and Edinburgh and Glasgow . Thanks the Rockefellers . Dr. William H. Welch , Director of the School of Hygiene and Public Health , expressed appreciation for the cooperation of John D. Rockefeller an ( his son in the establishment of t4 school , and acknowledged the gratk tude of Johns Hopkins owed to the Rockefeller Foundation , referring to the presence of its President , Dr. Yencent , at the celebration . Dr. Welch paid a speciJ tribute to Dr. W. H. Howell of the School of Hygiene . " I do n't like to think of what might have been the fate of the school if we had not been fortunate enough to attract Dr. Howell , " the Director said . Dr. Welch said critics sometimes asked whether in prolonging life they were also making it more worth living , but they could not conquer malaria without making the world a better place in which to live . Dr. Andrew Balfour , Director of London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , spoke on " Hygiene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it as one of the great factors which have influenced human life and activity , and as possibly the greatest factor which will influence man 's progress in the future . Dr. Balfour declared that hygiene does more than religion in various ways , one being the great system of quarantine , with its stations scattered over the globe and its control of ships and shipping . He said that the American mercantile marine is ahead of that of Great Britain in that respect , especially in housing and feeding its sailors . Credits British for World Work . " Unprejudiced persons will , I think , admit , " he said , " that the British Empire has been a power for good in the world . It helped to create the United States of America , and that is something to its credit . " Its sons throughout the long years have done much to make hygiene a world force . The traditions of the homeland have been carried overseas and some of the great dominions , favored perhaps by local conditions , have progressed further than the mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " has altruism played such a part la hygienic progress , for never before has colossal wealth been turned to so beneficent an object . When John D. Rockefeller placed his millions at the disposal of the International Health Board of the Foundation bearing his name , he made that board a power tor good , a world power with amazing possibilities before it . " Bishop , John G. Murray , presiding prelate ol the Protestant Episcopal Church , delivered the invocation . Dr. E. W. Berry was grand marshal and Adjt . Gen. Milton A. Record welcomed the visiting educators and alumni . Sixteen Conferences Held . This afternoon sixteen separate conferences and exhibitions , dealing with as many different departments of learning , from language to medicine , Were held in different places . The greater number were at Homewood . The School of Hygiene opened exhibitions . Members of the Medical Faculty entertained visitors In their laboratories . There were almost as many dinners in various parts of the university and in hotels and restaurants this evening . In addition , members of the Faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Education Department , Franklin Froelicher , headmaster of Oak Lane Country Day School , Philadelphia , was speaker . In the university auditorium Dr. Friederich Neufeld delivered one of the De Lamar Memorial lectures . Dr. Neufeld , who is Director of the Institute tor Infectious Diseases in Berlin , discussed " variability of bacteria with especial reference to infectious diseases . " HAS A RAPHAEL AND TITIAN . American 's " Copies " Bought Years Ago Said to Be Originals . What are said to be three original paintings by Raphael , Titian and Lingelbach will be brought here on the Arabic this morning by Argylle R. Scott of La Crosse , Wis. , and Miami Beach , Fla . The paintings form part of a collection purchased many years ago by Mr. Scott 's mother , who was told they were copies of originals in the Louvre and the Munich Museum . Some months ago Mr. Scott , believire7 they might be originals , took them Germany . where a number of expert , : expressed the opinion that they wee ' . All the pictures were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , prior to their purchase by Mrs. Scott . At the suggestion of Dr. Friedlander , Director of the National Gallery of Berlin , the pictures were cleaned and restored ..                     