@@686559

txt The world 's greatest medical centre Is to be created in this city , at a cost of $13,000,000 under an alliance formed by Columbia University and the Presbyterian Iibspital in negotiations that have now been terminated after eleven years . Work on a vast series of new hospital and instruction buildings will be begun soon on the site of the old American League Baseball Park on Washington Heights . Gifts for the realization of this dream of the two institutions for a medical centre that will surpass Vienna , Berlin or any other centre in Europe came from various sources and a bequest . The donor of the site is anonymous , but authentic report is that it was given by a member of the Harkness family , which amassed millions in Standard Oil , and it is reported also that the family made the $1,000,000 gift , which is also listed in the official announcement as being anonymous . Edward S. Harkness is to be a member of the board of the new centre . The bequest of $5,000,000 from Joseph R. De Lamar had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that $1,000,000 each would be given by the Carnegie Corporation , the General Education Board and the Rockefeller Foundation . These funds are forthcoming immediately . Co-operating , the two institutions will try to assemble on Faculty and hospital staff the foremost physicians and surgeons of the world , and negotiations already are in progress with s me of the ablest medical men of this country . It is predicted that the head of this new institution will be Dr. William Walker Palmer of Baltimore , who has chosen a post at this new institution in preference to the proffer of a place at Johns Hopkins as Professor of Medicine in the Medical School and Physician in Chief of the hospital in Baltimore . He was formerly associate professor in the College of Physicians and Surgeons in Columbia University . Obstacles toward the establishment of this great medical centre have been almost insuperable , and at least twice in the last six years public announcements have Indicated that the working agreement between the two institutions was ended . Each time , however , tact picked up the threads of discord , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1917 . The most serious threat of a. break Was in June , 1017 , when the Presbyterian Hospital presented a virtual ultimatum to the Columbia trustees , outlining their conditions for the continuance of the co-operative plan . Diplomacy disposed of these points of friction and the work went on . One of the serious clashes at that time came upon the survey made by Dr. Abraham Flexner for the General Education Board to determine whether they should join the Carnegie Foundation In providing endowment for the new combined institution . President Nicholas Murray Butler of Columbia rejected as " reactionary and antagonistic to the best interests of the public " the proposals tnat the members of the Coturncia Medical Faculty be dropped in the reorganization ; that the institution should receive all fees collected by Faculty members for outside practice ; that the students be limited to 400 , and the complete divorce of the medical school from all hospitals except the Presbyterian . How these troublesome points were settled upon the resumption of negotiations was not disclosed in the bulletin telling of the final plan for the medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution could be found with authority to discuss them . President Butler himself , who authorized the announcement of the final agreement , was not at his home at the university last night . Finding a Site . Another obstacle was the finding of a suitable site . The first dream of both institutions was to buy the old Yankee ball park , which is bounded on the east the Rockefeller Foundation , each of which has pledged 51,000.000 . " Land located between 165th and 105th Streets , Broadway and Fort Washington Avenue , and valued at not less than 51,000,000 , which is the gift of a donor who wishes to remain anonymous . " An additional sum of $1,000,060 for endowment from another anonymous donor . " With the land and buildings thus assured , and with this increased endowment , the university and the hospital will he able to go forward without delay in carrying out their plans . An ad-1 ditional endowment of from $3,000,00 to .4.000,000 will still he needed by the university , in order that when the buildings are completed and equipped , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atr possible for the advancement of medical instruction and rsearch . " It was pointed out yesterday by the , university that the reorganization and improvement of the medical school had been kept before the university and the public by President Butler from the very beginning of his administration twenty years ago . He became Acting President in succession to Seth Low on Oct. 7 , 1901. and was elected President ' of the university on Jan. 6 , 1902 . The first large question of university policy , to which he addressed himself was that of the medical school , then a very prosperous professional school with a large and influential clientele , but conducted on cad-fashioned lines with inadequate staff and equipment , without proper clinical facilities for its students , and largely under the traditioe of the proprietary school period out of which It had but recently come . and west by Broadway and Fort Washington Avenue and on the south and north by West 165th Street and West 16Sth Street , When that site was the property of the New York Institution ' for the Blind Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the time expired in November , 1915 . Disappointed at that failure . the two Institutions persevered , and another tentative site was selected on Gun Hill Road , the Bronx . and the plans were hurried forward . It has not been disclosed how the two institutions have managed finally to obtain the site they most desired , and , in the silence of those Who could tell of the anonymous donor , the chief reliance must be placed in gossip among real estate men for several 3-ears . The ball peek site was acquired by the City Real Estate Company for a client who has never been named , but who is believed to be a member of the Harkness family . which amassed millions in Sta.miar , 1 Oil . Members of this family Lave been benefactors of Columbia and of the hospital , and it has long been asserted by real estate men who were discussing this " real estate mystery " that the site was being retained by the liarkness family as a possible gift to the combined institution when Columbia and the hospital disposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be verified yeserday . An indication that all the difficulties bad been setttea was seen in the announcement that the building fund of t3,000 000 would be provided by gifts of 1,000,000 each from the Carnegie Corporation . the General Education Board and the Rockefeller Foundation . It was these organizations that caused the survey to be made by Dr. Abraham Flextime Silent , too , were officers of both institutions yesterday on the report that the anonymous gift of $1,000 ; 000 in addition to the gift of the site came from the Harkness family . and on the plans for the 53.000.000 to 54,000.000 additional endowment which , it is estimated , will be needed as additional endowment . Colnmbia . Announces Plan . " The efforts of Columbia University and the Presbyterian Hospital , looking toward a permanent alliance between the two institutions , which has been pending for a number of years , have at last been brought to a successful conclusion . " said the announcement authorized at Columbia University , " and the much discussed and long awaited plan to provide a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York and fully abreast of modern science , has now become an actuality . A permanent alliance has been effected between Columbia University and the Presbyterian Hospital , to provide such a medical centre , and the large sums needed to carry the plan into effect have been provided by gift . " Under the terms of the agreement , the university and the hospital each continue their independent existence and control . The Medical School now occupying the site . bounded by Fiftyninth and Sixtieth Streets and Tenth Avenue , and the hospital now occupying the site between Madison and Park , Avenues . Sixty-ninth and Seventieth streets . are as soon as possible to be provided with new and thoroughly equipped buildings upon a common site . The professional staff of the hospital is to consist of professors and other members of the faculty of the Medical School of Columbia University , to be appointed by the hospital upon the nomination of the university . Administration Board Named . " For the oversight of the common interests of the university and the hospital in the new undertaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of the trustees of the university and three representatives of the managers of the hospital . The first administrative board is to consist of Messrs . John G. Milburn , ' Walter B. James and ' William Barclay Parsons , representing the university . ikrid Edward S. Harkness , Henry W. deForest and William Sloane . representing the hospital . Gifts for the ProJeot . " The very large sums needed to enable Columbia University to bear its share in this great enterprise have now been provided in the following manner : " Five million dollars for endowment from the estate of the late Joseph R. De Lamar . " Three million dollars for the construction of new buildings and their equipment from the Carnegie Corporation , the General Education Board and President Butler 's Plan . " President Butler at once undertook the close study of the question of medical education both at home and abroad , and as a result presented a plan for the reorganization and development of the Medical School of Columbia University in December , 1902 , which was adopted and approved by the Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University on January 5 , 1903 . The leading details are reprinted in the President 's Annual Report for 1920 , pp. 36-37 . They included complete divorce from proprietary school tradition and practices , the establishment of full-time service of medical teachers on the same basis as in other parts of the university , the multiplication of laboratories and clinics , the provision of a university hospital , and the establishment of a Department or Institute of public health . During the eighteen years that have passed Columbia University has steadily kept these principles and policies in mind and has worked for their accomplishment . It has succeeded wholly , or in great part , in accomplishing them all , even under present difficult and restricted conditions . Its alliance with the Presbyterian Hospital now solves for all time the problem of a hospital to be permanently affiliated with the university . The university has now the necessary funds to build a new and thoroughly modern medical school , with appropriate clinics , institutes and laborator:es , in the immediate vicinity of a new Presbyterian hospital . It is believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are immediately necessary . The trustees of the university propose to spare no effort , working in co-operation with the Presbyterian Hospital , to carry their sound and wise plans into full effect at the earliest possible date . " Pr . Palmer 's Career . Dr. Palmer was invited to succeed Dr. William S Thayer at Johns Hopkins as Professor of Medicine in the Medical School and the chief physician at the hospital . He had similar proffers from Columbia , Yale and the University of Michigan , but accepted Columbia 's place . He is about 40 years old and until about 1019 Was Associate Professor at Columbia 's College of Physicians and Surgeons . Dr. Palmer received his B. S. degree at Amherst in 1905 and was graduated from the Harvard Medical School in 1910 . He served for a year as interne at the Massachusetts General Hospital , was Henry P. Wolcott Fellow in Medicine in Harvard in 1912-13 , and instructor In physiological chemistry in the same years . This service was followed by two years as house physician at the Massachusetts General Hospital , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From 11115'to 1917 Dr. Palmer was assistant resident physician at the hospital of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research . which he left to become Associate Professor of Medicine at Columbia in connection with the duties of visiting physician at the Presbyterian Hospital in New York . Dr. Samuel W. Lambert , who was Dean of the College of Physicians and I Surgeons when the Flexner survey was made , and whose removal with other members of his faculty was urged by Dr. Flexner , resigned two years ago , and his place was taken by Dr. William Darrach.                     