@@694478

txt Douglas Sidney Catchim , the Burns assistant manager at Washington , on whom a subpoena has been served by De-1 partment of Justice men , who regard Catchim as a possible material witness in the Grand Tury investigation of charges of the oil trial jury tampering , applied in this city on Oct. 24 for enlistment in the Marine Corps . This was four days before the jury tampering scandal broke in Washington . Catchim actually was taken into the service on Oct. 28 , the same day the sensational charges were made . Catchim told Sergeant Harry Ennis , in charge of recruiting for the Buffalo district , that he had resigned his position with the detective agency and wanted to be sent to Port au Prince , Haiti , as soon as possible . Catchim is quoted as having told a friend that if he got out of the country and remained out for some time he would be well pleased . Catchim appeared at the local recruiting station on the morning of Oct. 24 . He presented two honorable discharges from the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 , 1917 , until May ' 24 , 1925 , when he resigned to accept a position as assistant manager of the Burns Agency at Washington . Previous to his resignation he was a sergeant major attached to the marine headquarters at Washington . Sergeant Ennis said that after Catchim had presented his discharges and his business card , he requested that he be sent to Port au Prince . The sergeant said he inI formed Catchim that he could not give any assignment without a special order from the marine headquarters at Washington . Catchim appeared disappointed , Sergeant En- ' nis said , but requested that application for that permission be made at once . Sergeant Ennis wrote to marine I headquarters after Catchim left . He received word four days later that permission to send Catchim to Port au Prince was granted . Catchim appeared at the recruiting office on Thursday morning and was informed of the reply . He asked permission to go to his home at Newfield to arrange his affairs . The perinission was granted . Catchim reported back to the office on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same night for his transportation to the naval base at Hampton Roads , Va . A transport on which Catchim was to have been a passenger leaves for Port au Prince on Tuesday . Catchim 's name , according to Washington dispatches , was not known to the Department of Justice men investigating the jury tampering charges until District Attorney Gordon of Washington received an anonymous communication about his alleged remarks anent leaving the country .                     