@@691401

txt The recent action of the United States in relinquishing In favor of. - Cuba the American claim on the Isle of Pines was hailed as a fresh evidence of this country 's good faith and justice toward Cuba in a speech by General Gerardo Machado , President-elect of Cuba . at a dinner tendered to him by a large body of *representative New Yorkers at the Hotel Astor last night . General Machado suggested a revision at the treaty with Cuba . Saying that it now slightly favored the United States . The ancient friendship between the . United States and the island to the south , their military cooperation in 1995 . Cuba 's declaration of war on Germany within twenty-four hours of the American declaration and other high points in their joint history were celebrated by speakers who Included Martin W. Littleton . Dr. John H. Finley , Dwight wr , Morrow and Major Gen. Charles Wt Serrnmerall . The speeches were broadcast by WOR and were relayed south by telephone and radio to he broadcast throughout Cuba from a Havana station . President-elect Machado said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its sugar crop indefinitely was incorrect . Sugar Output at Maximum . " Our country has attained , " he said , " almost its maximum production crop . Not all his lands in Cuba are sutiable for the cultivation of sugar cane with sufficient economic returns . Moreover , among the lands under cultivation many of them axe in a state of exhaustion for the further growing of cane , and it will be necessary to devote them to other crops . American producers , therefore , cannqe fear an increase , which is impossible or well-nigh so , of Cuba 's output , and this fact will contribute to bring about a better inter , penetration of interests on all sides . " The President-elect said in part : " The recent action of the great American nation in recognizing , ' by the vote of , an overwhelming majority of its Senate , Cuba 's sovereignty over the Isle of Pines is a new and evident proof of its purpose to deal justly with its sister nations of this continent , both great and Small , in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peace may be more and more fruitful . I avail myself of the fresh opportunity which is offered to me on this occasion to reiterate our gratitude to the American people . " I wish to say , gentlemen , before anything else , that my visit to the United States is not simply for pleasure or rest . It has two principal objects : to personally greet , as I have done , the great American people in the person of your honorable President , Calvin Coolidge. and to become acquainted , as exactly as I can , with the possibilities for intensifying , even more than they are at present , the interchange of our products and the reciprocal advantages to be derived therefrom . " Two countries , whose commerce with each other amounted to $711.441,000 in 1919 and $1,310,245,000 in 1920 , should feel satisfied at the magnificent outcome of their coremon. efforts . At the same time , they should be zealous guardians of the results which have , been obtained , and should endeavor to find the best means of maintaining , for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be argued that the immense value of the merchandise exchanged in those years was a result of the economic consequences of the World War , but it is nevertheless an indisputable fact that since 1902 , the year of the establishment of the Republic of Cuba . the volume of its total commerce with the United States has been constantly on the increase and has grown from a little more than $74.000.000 at that time to $000 , - 000,000 in 1924 . You will pardon me , I know , if I say the facts therein set forth would seem to show that the treaty while advantageous for both peoples has been more so for the United States than for Cuba . This fact has never produced on the part of the people of Cuba the slightest complaint , but it seems opportune to suggest the idea of arriving at a harmonious adjustment insuring to both parties new reciprocal ad , antaFes , if it were possible to attain them through a friendly agreement . Plans Great Improvements . " The Government of Cuba under my Administration contemplates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible will be devoted to extending the means of communication , and particularly public roads . The building a the central highway will be undertaken , and thereby the principal centres of population and consumption will be placed in ready intercommunication , but this will be done without subjecting the credit of the nation to unjustified and unnecessarily onerous obligations . " The payment of the interests and sinking funds of the public debt will be considered preferred and sacred obligations , which there will he no failure to meet at any time or for any reason , sustained as they are by the credit and good faith of the nation . " " I am going to close . gentlemen , by offering a respectful homage to the memory of the Americans who gave up their lives to assist Cuba in achieving its independence ; to the great President William : to one of the great heroes of our history , who is likewise one of yours , Theodore Roosevelt , the great statesman , brave and gallant , the New Yorker , who has best represented the high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gratitude Generals Brooke and Wood , who left behind them , as capable and upright administrators , an example difficult to follow and impossible to surpass ; and Alexis Frye. for whom the teaching profession of Cuba conserves a devotion and a veneration which are imperishable : and still many others who served Cuba and who also honored their own country as the illustrious Ambassador of the United States in Cuba , his Excellency Major Gen. Enoch H. Crowder , At the same time I close with it toast for the increasing prosperity of this nation , which is evidenced in such an extraordinary degree in this marvelous city , and for the highest development of the spirit of democracy , of liberty and of justice , on the basis of which this nation was founded and has been sustained by an uninterrupted succession of great men . " Differences Inevitable , He Says . Dwight W. Morrow of J. P. Morgan &; Co. urged business men who have difficulties of any kind in dealing with Cuba to address their appeals to the Cuban Government , pat to the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " that the People of both countries should understand that the purpose of the Platt amendment was to carry out an obligation of the United States and to confer a right only so fat es it might be essential to performing that obligation . " Pointing out that differences of opinion between States were the incidents of international life , he added : " American business men who have differences with Cuban people should first seek remedies for their alleged wrongs through tle'e ordinary channels in Cuba . They shotticl not look to Washington . They should remember that Secretary Root , than whom no single person had more to do with the passing of the Platt amendment , assured the Cuban people ' while their constitutional convention was in session that it was not the purpose of that amendment to lead to ' interineddling or interference with the affairs of the Cuban Government . ' "                     