@@693566

txt A jury in the federal District court in Chicago has convicted two men charged with making and Belling liquor . The prisoners were not tried for violating the Volstead act , but for breaking the revenue laws . It is somewhat as if a man who hit his neighbor over the head with a borrowed hammer were to be tried for stealing the hammer . This is by no means the first intimation we have had of the difficulty of obtaining convictions from juries under the Volstead act . Recently in New York a conviction was obtained for violation of the customs laws when the obvious offense was dealing in liquor . The Chicago and the New York cases together suggest that juries have greater respect for the revenue laws of the country than for the Volstead act . That situation will no doubt continue as long as the department of justice does not use the alternative too often . Once the public becomes aware of tho new strategy , it is doubtful it prosecution of liquor law violators under other laws will be much more successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then will have to rely , as in the past . largely upon padlocking and prosecution of proprietors for contempt of court , neither of which requires a jury verdict . , The fact seems to be that in criminal prosecutions under the Volstead act juries in many sections of the country try the law instead of the defendant . Editorial of the Day , TILE " IUNGDOM OF CANADA .. ? The Globe , Toronto , Ont . There is something unique and unexpected in the revival at this late date by a western Progressive member , Mr. Garland , of the old idea of calling this country the " kingdom of Canada . " It may not be generally known that this title was put forward by Sir John A. Macdonald during the negotiations leading to confederation . Sir John was quite eager for the name kingdom and pressed his claims during the drafting of the British North American act in London early in 1367 . The sixth draft of the , bill contained the title , " Kingdom of Canada , " replacing the words , " United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John made every effort to retain the monarchical term . The change to Dominion of Canada was made at the instance of Lord Derby , then foreign minister , who , as Sir John said In 1 ? . ' 9 in a letter to Lord Knutsford , " feared the first name would wound the sensibilities of the Yankees . " Sir John in the same letter defended his proposal and said that , hid . it been accepted , he was sure the Australian coloniee would " have been applying to be placed in the same rank . " It la donbtfu/ if , after sixty years ' use of the trord " dominion . " there will be found any good reason for a change .                     