@@688446

txt German propaganda seems to come in waves . One if the most ponderous of these has been the proposition an American loan of not less than $1,500.000,000 . There is no doubt that Germany and her bankers , particularly her bankers , could find plenty to do with American money . But exactly what Germany - is it which is supposed to make itself responsible for the largest international loan ever negotiated outside of war ? What security could she offer that is not already preempted for the most reduced reparations that could be devised ? Does she propose to pledge internal resources like the railroads , now run at an enormous loss both on paper and in fact ? The fares and freight are paid in marks practically worthless , but the German government can not at least refuse ' to accept its own paper even if its citizens do . Customs receipts are collected in gold or its exchange equivalent and it is to be presumed that the same is true of what foreign vessels pay for facilities of Hamburg or other German ports . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ People who talk about a " popular loan " in the United States for the purpose of giving the German socialist government a little ready money have a curious idea of popularity . A German loan offered here as such would not reccivi a single ' cal subscription . A loan to Germany out of the United States Treasury , while it might be called highly desirable , if part of it were to be used in reparations , would only be desirable from the point of view of the people who are to receive those reparations . We arc exercised about what our European debtors owe us . We are sure of getting satisfaction from Great Britain , hope to receive something from France or Italy and are prepared to write off what Russia owes us as a bad debt . But to add another bad debt does not seem attractive finance , if only for the reason that there is no responsible government in Germany . This is said deliberately because the German finances are not in the hands of the German government . Germany 's bankers are doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If they choose they can put the country in a fair way to meet its obligations . But they ? bave moved every pfen.nig of German floating capital out of the country . They are financing imports of raw material from the Scandinavian countries and America and any other necessary . point . They are-neIrrnl. products abroad and returning to Germany only that part of the price which is necessary for maintenance and renewals of machinery . They are getting the cheapest possible labor and feeding it at the best exchange rates where it is necessary to import food . They are making immense- profits on the transaction , in which the German people are not participating , but are not averse from an American loan besides . If the German government is unable to regulate this , its only real source of financial regeneration , how can it pledge itself to the United States , not merely for the preposterous suns proposed but for any suns ? Until the German concealed assets arc put at the service of Germany the United States should not subscribe a single dollar to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her partner in a business of which any possible profits are hopelessly beyond our reach . Neither unionized labor nor the farmers nor the radicals nor the anti-saloon league " controls " Congress . Each controls a bit and swaps .                     