@@689222

txt An interesting speculation is added to the " ifs " of history by the niemoirs of General HOFFMANN , of which a first instalment is published by The Manchester Guardian . This stresses a criticism of LUDENDORFF for the failure to clear up the Russian situation in early 1918 while the task was still easy , and for concentrating , instead , on the great Spring drive on the western front . HOFFMANN , it will be remembered , was for a long time Chief of Staff of the German armies-on the Russian front . He distinguished himself by his arrogance at the BrestLitovsk peace conference . The General , evidently realizing too late that The violence of the Brest-Litovsk treaty robbed it of much of its value , advocated only two months after its signature that it be denounced and that the Germans march on Moscow , set up a new Russian Government in place of Messrs . LENIN , TROTSKY et al. , who were not yet firmly established , and , after . raking an alliance with the new Russia , embark upon a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admits that there were two elements of weakness in this plan ? " the increase in the " American troops and the threaten " ing possibility that the enemy might " succeed in imitating the new poison " gas " ( the words are his own ) . At the time , however , the American troops had not been tried , and the German authorities were inclined to look upon them with a disdain somewhat akin to their attitude toward the British troops in the first part of the war . The new gas to which the General refers was the " yellow cross , " or , as it is more popularly known , the mustard gas , which was the invention of Geheimrat HABER , a German chemist now in this country . This " clever inventor , " as the General calls him , had assured LUDENDORFF that the Allies could not make this gas inside of a year , but that after this time they could outdo the Germans with it , thanks to their superior productive capacity , and that thereafter the Germans would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole problem , involves the war-lethargy which was then so prevalent . He writes : Whether the peoples of the Entente would have had sufficient energy left to pursue the war if we had set up a new Government in Russia in May and June , had concluded an alliance with it , had held ourselves on the defensive in the west and had made a peace offer through our Government  --  an offer guaranteeing the restoration of Belgium and perhaps sacrificing a section of Lorraine  --  seems to me , to say the least , doubtful . LUDENDORFF would have none of HOFFMANN 'S counsel . He concentrated his troops for the attack on Amiens and began the great Spring offensive of 1918 , in which Germany was so nearly victorious . The result is now common history . The Allies , aided by the Americans , finally stopped the enemy and forced their retreat . From that day the fate of Germany was sealed . LUDENDORFF was mistaken , and lost the war  --  so HOFFMANN would have the world believe . The implication is , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have turned out differently . Yet it was the same HOFFMANN whose advice two months earlier to grind the Russians under the German heel had been accepted at Brest-Litovsk , doing the German cause more harm than any other action of the kind . HorriviAmt may have been right in March , 1918 , when he advocated breaking the peace which he had helped impose two months before . But if he was right in March Joe certainly was wrong in January , when he rattled his sabre at the table at Brest-Litovsk . This , however , is a line of speculation which the General does not seem to desire to follow .                     