@@690065

txt The selection of JEREMIAH SMITH Jr . of Boston as Commissioner General for Hungary under the League of Nations , to carry into effect the reconstruction plan , adds another name to the long and distinguished list , published in yesterday 's TIMES , of Americans who have been active in or for the League . Beginning with the name of President WILSON , at whose call the first meeting of the Council of the League was held , it included Er ... mu ROOT , who. had a part and a dominant part in drafting the statute for the Permanent Court ; JOHN BAssErr MOORS , who became a member of the Court ; ABRAM I. ELKUS , a member of the committee on the Aland Islands settlement ; ROLAND W. BOYDEN , for three years an unofficial observer in the Reparations Board , who also represented our Government at a financial conference in Brussels under the auspices of the League ; GEORGE ELLERY HALE , R. A. MILLI K AN and JOHN H. WIom ORE , members of the Committee on Intellectual Cooperation ; Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chairman of the Committee On the Memel Controversy , now settled ; and the names of scores of others who , under official designation of our Government or by invitation of the League , have associated themselves with one or another of the League 's activities . The League Council in conference with Hungary seemed determined to find an American for this particular service in Hungary . When Mr. HARDING found himself unable to accept the post and Mr. BOYDEN , to whom it was also offered , was obliged to decline , another American we sought and was found in the person of Mr. SMITH . He has already had an experience abroad that will be helpful to him in this responsible and delicate position . A lawyer by profession , in his younger days associated with Justice GRAY of the Supreme Court as secretary , he has had to do in a large way with financial affairs . After the war , in which he served as Captain , he accompanied the American Mission to Negotiate Peace as counsel to the Treasury Department and special adviser on financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any as yet undertaken by an American under the League auspices , he has an opportunity to make America helpful to Europe in a unique and very important service , even though America is not in the League .                     