@@687938

txt missing column yearly , the recapitulation of the receipts ! and expenditures of the national budget after the annual settlement and balancing of the German Government accounts I must be furnished . All Money Bills Supervised , The German Government undertakes ! to acquaint the delegates , at tlle same time.as the measures are presented to the Relchsrat. with , first , the budget estimates for the coming fiscal year ; second , all bills pertaining to flna'nelal measures ; third , all requests for additional or supplementary credits to these provided for in the budget with the exception of credits for less than 500,000 Marks : fourth . the monthly statements of expenses to be applied against credits I granted in the budget , and , fifth , statements at fixed regular dates regarding the measures adopted for economy and enforced by the recently appointed Under Secretary of State for Eeonomy. - The memorandum demands the right for the committee 's del- ? gates to investigate whether the expenditures of any department of the Ministry of Finance exceed the credits p.uthorize.d for it . The delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ministry of Finance till oughout Germany . The control , as outlined , is to be effective Nov , 1 , 1922 . Concerning the floating debt , the German Government , it is stipulated , must submit to the delegates , at all times requested , statements showing the exact ' standing of the floating debt and the measures for payment adopted by the Ministry of Finance to cover expenses . Copies of all the Finance Mini-try 's statements of expenses , and receipts must be furnished to the delegateil , as well as the rate of interest on outstanding bonds and the amount of paper money in circulation . Concerning the export of capital , representatives of the committee will he accredited to the Finance Ministry and kept fully informed of the movement of capital , but without access to information concerning the private fortunes or businesses of individuals . Regarding economic statistics , the German Government must supplement its monthly statements of exports and imports by a qua rt. , ? . tly publication indicating Germany 's trade with thy twelve States which In 1a21 had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invoiced ? in foreign exchanges and those billed In marks . Railroad , river , canal and ocean transportation reports are ? to he published and submitted to the committee as regularly and under the sonic torn as previous to the war . The German Government must also make public quarterly a full report of steel produc. tton . ? Statistics relating to the collection of taxes , including the income tax , ' aui.t he submitted to the committee within the shortest possible time . Rr ? port. ; on the custom showing the total amount in gold marks collected at the ports of entry must also be speeded up . Penalties , the maximum of which is two years in prh ; on and a fine of 1,000 , - 000 marks , are provided for against persons and firms guilty of violating the Measures adopted by the Garman Government against unlawful export of capital . These measures were satisfactory to the Committee on Guarantees . A special department in the Ministry of Finance is to be created . In it the committee will be represented and must investigate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by It . Only persons in possession of special authorization from this depart ! writ may engage in export trade . All export trade necessitating- the transfer of capital will go through the Chambers of Commerce , the members Of which will deal directly with the Special department supervising the export of capital . The Majority of the opinion in French financial ' circles expresses satisfaction with the plan adorted . A f'w extrembtu di , Are a more stritn. , ent control ,                     