@@692985

txt Miss Clarabelle Barrett of Pelham Manor , N. Y. , who took off here at 8 o'clock this morning in an ' attempt to swim the English Channel , was reported at 8:30 o'clock tonight to be only seven miles from the French coast . The weather conditions at that time were favorable . She struck out from the beach here amid an encouraging send-off and be , gan to use a fast and powerful stroke which took her through the water at a great pace . She made such remarkable progress that at the end of five hours she was twelve miles on the way Ito France . Heavy Fog Over Channel . She was still going strong tonight , although a heavy fog covered the channel . Otherwise the weather was excellent and conditions for the swim ideal . Miss Barrett is the giantess of Channel swimmers , standing 6 feet and strongly built in proportion . She weighs nearly 210 pounds . The course was mapped out for her by Captain J. Learmont and was adhered to very closely , as the tides were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much less than on an average Channel swim . She was greased down before the start by her nurse companion , Miss Leister , who also looked after the feeding arrangements . Captain Learmont had charge of the swim and the party on an accompanying motor launch which included Walter Brackett , who has been training Miss Barrett since her arrival here . Several English swimmers took turns in the water with Miss Barrett , who was in high spirits and swimming very strongly when the motor boat left the party in the afternoon to return to Dover . A fog came up in the Channel later and fog signals were being fired from the Dover . pier . The sea , however . was calm . Another aspirant for Channel honors to make a start today was Dr. George Brewster of London . He entered the water from South Foreland and in the first three hours covered five miles . but had made a long drift to the westward . After five hours his position became so unfavorable that the swim was abandoned . Miss Barrett started out on her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made the attempt to swim the Channel . Hampered by lack of funds , with little time to train for the swim . she was compelled to make her start'from Dover , considered by Channel experts to be much less favorable to her chances of success than if she took the water on the French side . Throughout the day Mrs. Clara Barrett , the swimmer 's mother , waited anxiously for bulletins from London telling of her daughter 's start . Late last night Mrs. Barrett , who with her son Nathan and several friends were preparing to stay up until they received final word of Clarabelle 's success or failure , was called to the telephone by some man whose name they could not distinguish . He said that the Postal Telegraph Company had received an unconfirmed report from London that the swimmer had landed on the French coast . When word was received at the ' Barrett home shortly before ten o'clock last night that the swimmer was within seven miles of the French coast , Mrs. Barrett was overjoyed . " I am sure that Clarabelle will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a powerful swimmer and now that she has gone as far as she has , surely she will be able to make the rest of the journey . " ' Last month Miss Barrett was almost compelled to abandon the swim because of lack of funds . With a companion , Miss G. B. Lesiter of Baltimore , she arrived in England on July 9 with a letter of introduction to Walter Brickett , the British Olympic Swimming frainer . Under his tutelage she made many practice swims at Brighton , and then moved her headquarters to Dover . When she learned the cost for an accompanying tug and attendants to watch over her in her att tempt she felt that her slender resources . would not be sufficient . Brickett , in answer to her appeal , gave his services without pay and superintended her final arrangements . A small launch was obtained in place of the steam tug that most of the other swimmers used , and late last week it was announced that she was ready for the attempt as soon as weather conditions were favorable . Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was faced with the necessity of earning her own living . She is now 32 years old and lives with her mother at 208 Young Avenue . Pelham Manor . Last June she attracted attention by her unusual speed and stamina when she swam ' from the New 1Rochelle breakwater across ' Long Island Sound to Sea Cliff , a distance of about eleven miles , in ten hours . At the start eihe was accompanied by several men , but they were all forced to drop out . Miss Barrett saved her own money for the expense of the trip abroad , and some friends also contributed various amounts . Two other American girls , both of whom failed , on previous attempts , are at present at Cap Gris Nez , on the French coast , awaiting a favorable opportunity . They are Gertrude Ederle and Lillian Cannon . In addition several men , chief among them Peing the giant Egyptian Ishak Helmy , are in training for the swim . Altogether more than 200 ? persons have made at least 1,000 attempts to Swim the Channel . Five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who by his feat in 1876 won for himself the title of being the greatest long-distance swimmer of the world ; Thomas W. Burgess , who followed thirty-six years afterward , and in 1923 Henry Sullivan and Charles Toth , both of Massachusetts , and Sebastian Tirabocchi , an Italian by birth and a naturalized citizen of Argentina : Gertrude Ederle , the world 's fasest swimmer over distances from five to fifteen miles , who swam from the Battery to Sandy Hook , a distance of twenty-one miles , in 7 hours and 21 minutes . was compelled to abandon her attempt last August after she had been in'the water eight hours and hari covered twenty-three and one-half miles . Last September Itelmy , the Egyptian , was compelled to give up when within three and one-half miles of his goal , after he had been in the water 14 hours and 23 minutes .                     