@@696684

txt MR . MACDONALD 'S VISIT . Mr. Dake Sees it as an Inspiration to Advance the Race . To the Editor of The New York Times : The visit of the British Prime Minister to this country reminds me that after the British Minister , Canning , suggested to President Monroe that he proclaim the historic doctrine which bears his name , the President referred the proposal to Jefferson and Madison . That was three years before the death of the author of the Declaration of Independence , when . in his retreat at Monticello , he was calmly surveying in retrospect the strenuous experiences of his country in which he had been one of the immortal actors . He returned the proposal of Canning to President Monroe with these comments : The question presented by the letters you have sent me is the most momentous which has ever been offered to my contemplation since that of independence . That made us a nation and sets our compass and points the course through which we are to steer through the ocean of time opening before us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us in this pursuit . She now offers to lead , aid and accompany us In it . Great Britain Is the nation which can do us the most harm of any or all on earth , and with her on our side we need not fear the whole world . With her , then , we should sedulously cherish a cordial friendship . Those words of Jefferson , written over a century ago , with the memories of our last war with England fresh in his mind , are as true and befitting today as when they were penned by the father of the Democratic party . Ou'r institutions of government , our laws and our literature drew their inspiration from England more than from all other countries combined . For over one hundred years the two nations have been at peace with each other , while millions of the sons of both nations have fought shoulder to shoulder to vindicate the principles that Jefferson expounded . Across our northern frontier , stretching more than 3,000 miles from the Atlantic to the Pacific , stands the figure of a Dominion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of the almost limitless natural resources of which has scarcely begun , and it promises to present an era of growth and expansion greater than any other part of the world . It is supremely important that with our neighbors north of us " we should sedulously cherish a cordial friendship . " In the spirit of fraternity , in their purpose to secure the peace of the world , and in their aims to maintain in increasing effulgence the traditions and ideals of the people of the mother tongue , which the visit of Prime Minister symbolizes , we may hope that his visit will be a fresh inspiration to those people in every land , as strenuous rivals in the arts of peace , to go forward in their mission to subserve and advance the welfare of the human race . B. FRANK DAKE.                     