@@685070

txt A noteworthy phase of the present meeting of the Supreme Council of the Peace Conference is the changed attitude toward Germany . In high diplomatic circles it is asserted that the conference- has come to recognize that Germany ruined would mean a weak spot , and a dangerous spot , in Europe . Great Britain , and personally Premier Lloyd George , are credited with being the chief forces in bringing about this new policy . The French peace delegation is described as moving toward this point of view reluctantly , although it is moving . It is asserted that the French are less unbending than when M. Clemenceau was Premier . How to set Germany on her feet is one of the largest questions the Council is now considering . It is regarded as probable that it will sanction an international loan to Germany , but the question of security is a basic one . It is expected that a plan will be arranged which will offer indticements to the rich smaller neutral countries to subscribe to a loan . Even England , her representatives believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's financial commitments .. . of various sorts arising from the war are greater than those of any other nation . One of tile ' conferees expressed the opinion today that German sympathizers in America might come forward with subscriptions . The question of finally fixing Germany 's war indemnities at a specific sum also is being discussed . The belief is expressed that the German Government can organize its finances and industries more efficiently if the German people know exactly what are their obligations and what they are to be called upon to pay . This question was one left by the treaty to the Reparation Commission , but the present idea seems to be that the conference will take it out of the hands of the commission . The purchase and allotment of raw materials and of food , which the conference is considering , and on which the necessity for a joint arrangement is recognized , is likely to involve consideration for former enemy countries . They probably will have a fair share in the distribution in accordance with the new policy of putting them on their feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by The New York Times Company . Special Cable to THE Nnw Tons LONDON , March ** manifesto which the Supreme Council is preparing in regard to the economic situation of Europe will probably not be ready for publication before Thursday . Great difficulty is being found in coming to an agreement . A British Minister said today that the object which was being aimed at was to create an economic league for the benefit of every nation and not directed against any one . To understand this statement properly it must be remembered that in some quarters the Supreme Council 's manifesto has been described as an attempt to set up an economic United States of Europe against the United States of America . At the present stage of the discussions the difficulties raised come chiefly from France . Italy takes much less of a national and selfish point of view . Pertinax , telephoning tonight to the Echo de Paris , after remarking that Professor Keynes 's arguments in his book , " The Economic Consequences of the Treaty of Versailles , " have strengthened the British Germanophiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictate to the Allied Governments both their domestic - economic policies and the attitude they should take toward the international conference which is being organized by the - League of Nations to arrange a system of international credits and modify the application of the reparation clauses of the Treaty of Versailles . " The manifesto begins with a long preamble stating the necessity of assisting in the economic reconstitution of Germany and Russia by assuring them of a sufficient supply of raw materials . " France succeeded in having It established in the preamble that the reconstitution of the devastated regions was a problem of the first international importance to the future of Europe . " In regard to this statement it may be added that , while the general principle of a loan to Germany for the purchase of raw materials was agreed upon , the French contention that certain claims for reparation should have prior consideration was accepted .                     