@@685209

txt Orders went out today to Federal District Attorneys to investigate the " unauthorized " railroad strikes in their districts to determine whether there has been any " joint action " designed , to interfere with the distribution of necessities of life or whether such interference was contemplated . Attorney ? General Palmer , who is at Savannah . said in making this announcement that such " joint action " would be unlawful . He added that the Federal ? Government would take no steps until a careful inquiry had been made to ascertain the exact facts . Mr. Palmer will be in the South several days and has instructed Assistant Attorney General Ames to act on his own judgment should the situation be found to warrant it . While Mr. Ames refused to discuss the situation , other officials of the department pointed out that two courses of procedure were Open if the Government decided to take a hand in settling the strike . The Government , they said , could seek criminal indictments under the Lever act because of interference with interstate food shipments or could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal strike . Although there has been no stoppage of the mails , according to reports to the department , it is known that officials are watching strike developments from that angle also . All plans will be held in abeyance , however , until the inquiry ordered by Mr. Palmer can be carried out . Should the strike of railroad employes threaten a paralysis of transportation the Federal Government would have to intervene , it was said by officials . The strike is not regarded as having reached that stage , however , and the Government officers who are keeping in close touch with the situation think that the authorized leaders of the unions will be able to control without Government interference . President Wilson is being kept advised as to developments . He is still at work on the choice of the Railroad Labor Board , but White House officials said that it was difficult to find the right men to represent the public who would give up their business to devote their time to the board 's work . The Senate Interstate Commerce Committee completed plans today for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday with John Gruneau , President of the Chicago Yardmen 's Association and leader of the striking forces in Chicago , as one of the first witnesses , Chairman Cummins announced . Others to be heard will include A. Whitney , Vice President of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen , and officials of the Chicago , Milwaukee &; St. Paul Railroad . Officers of the railroad shop crafts affiliated - with the American Federation of Labor refused to discuss the strike . Samuel Gompers , President of the Federation , has gone to Cleveland , headquarters ? of the Trainmen 's Union , to discuss the general situation with the Brotherhood Chiefs . Senator Cummins received today a reply from W. G. Lee , president of the Brotherhood-of Trainmen , to the telegram sent last night asking the names and addresses of leaders of the striking men . Mr. Lee opposed , any move by the committee which might be construed as a recognition of the strikers ' organization . Senator Cummins the calling of the strike leaders before the committee would not amount to recognition and that the hearing could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Specidi to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , April 10 . ? Representatives here of the railroads and the brotherhoods are alike anxious for the appointment of the labor tribunal . One of the chief contentions of the strikers , it is understood , is that they see no chance of the wage demands , made last Summer , being adjudicated at an early date . These demands were made in June , presented again in August and were deferred at the President 's request until something could be done to check the mounting cost of living . Conferences were held witit Director General . Hines , but eventually the railroads passed from the hands el . the Government . The wage demands were then ' considered by a bi- partisan board composed of railway executives and workers . The executives refused the demands on the ground that they did not desire the matter settled by a tribunal on which the public was not represented . The settlement was thus passed on to the labor board , which is - yet to be named by the President : Senator Cummins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board was " absolutely indefensible " and the underlying cause of the whole trouble . CHICAGO TALKS INTERVENTION . Clyne Summons Grunau , Who Re . mains Defiant . CHICAGO , April ** intervention in the strike with the possible utilization of the Illinois National Guard to protect property was forecast today by the action of District Attorney Charles F. Clyne , who , after an all'night conference with his staff and members of the Department of Justice , summoned John Grunau , leader of the strikers , to his office . It was said that definite instructions were received by Mr. Clyne from Attorney General Palmer in regard to the Government 's action in the strike situation . 31r . Clyne would not discuss possible Government action . " I will say , however , " he stated , " that the United States is not entirely powerless in a situation that affects the food and fuel supply of the country , and that drastic action will he inevitable unless conditions are altered materially within the next forty-eight hours . " Mr. Clyne was in conference by telephone with chiefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this morning . He wa s also in conference today . with Mr. Mitchell , assistant to Palmer , who arrived from Washington . One report said Federal intervention was likely unless the railroad strike was ended within forty-eight hours . At a. meeting of strikers late today Grunau ' told the men that Department of Justice officers were " spying on their meetings . " " I have just returned from a conference . with Mr .. Clyne , " he said , " and have found that Secret Service men have been watching our movements for the last week . There are probably a large number of Government agents here and we might as well dismiss the meeting . " The attitude of the strikers is that they have no objecttfons to the use of troops or any other agency to move supplies . They contend that they are not striking . We have just quit our jobs because we are not paid enough . " Grunau said . " We 're not interested in what the railroads do or what the Government does to relieve congestion . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Events Carefully . Special to The New York Times . SAVANNAH , Ga. , April ** in Savannah today A. Mitchell Palmer , United States Attorney General , is keeping a very close watch on the labor situation in Chicago .. A dispatch was shown to him saying that there was a strong probability of Federal intervention there unless the strike was ended . Mr. Palmer commented that any joint action designed to interfere with the distribtition of the necessities of life would be unlawful . The United States District Attorneys have been instructed to watch conditions very carefully to see if there was any such action or if it was contemplated . ? if so there would naturally be some movement by the Government . " I have wired Assistant United States Attorney General Ames at Washington to act on his judgment if the facts warranted him taking action , " Mr. Palmer added . " I sent him instructions to this effect by wire . He knows the situation better than I do from this distance . He will no doubt make a very thorough inquiry into the facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FEDERAL AGENTS HERE SILENT Refuse to Disclose if They Received Orders to Act in Strike . If any instructions to proceed against the leaders of the unauthorized railroad strike were received from Washington yesterday by the local Federal jauthorities , they were unwilling to disclose the nature of their orders . Reports that ' agents of the local bureau of the Department of Justice had been sent to New Jersey and the Bronx in search of the strike leaders could not be verified . George F. Lamb , who alone , it was said , was authorized to ? : lye out any information of the department 's activities , was reported to be out of the city . whether or not in connection with the strike could not be ascertained . In the absence of Mr. Lamb , his associates 4aid that any action he might take would be at the instigation of the United States District Attorney .                     