@@690208

txt Everything is not going to be plain sailing for the majority bloc of the Left in the new Chamber . and already difficulties have arisen which are causing much discussion . Although there is a ? majority against M. Poincare and the National bloc , this does not mean that it is by any means united within itself . There are five different shades of liberalism and socialism to be amalgamated and on two questions of great moment , relations with the Vatican and with Moscow . these five subdivisions of the Left all have very different , and sometimes very , riolently different , opinions . These questions , far more than reparations , will be factors in constituting the new Cabinet , and until the ground has been somewhat cleared by party ' discussions and the framing of party programs next week , all forecast 's as to the make-up of the Cabinet must be considered guesswork . Clamor Against lifillerand Kept UP . The demand for President Millerand 's resignation is still being kept up by the extreme Left newspapers , but M. Millerand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such drastic action . His constitutional position is much more analagous to that of the King . of England than to that of the President of the United States in that he is not the nominee of any one political party and it is customary for him to abstain from politics . From that custom M. Millerand has made slight departures in one or two speeches and newspaper communications in his desire to expedite revision of the Presidential powers for which he stipulated when he took office . His resignation now would , it is felt , create a precedent associating the Presidency with political issues , which would be very unfortunate for the country . and it is believed that in view of this argument the President will remain in the Elysee . Next week will be given over to party conferences at which among other questions will be discussed the possibility of Socialist cooperation , in a Government more moderate , with the Radical Socialists . Among the Socialists themselves there is , a very strong movement for participation in Government for the reason that they hope to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deprived Caillaux , their former leader , of the rights of citizenship , and give him the benefit of amnesty . It is such internal problems which are likely now to cause far more discussion and heat than foreign politics . Leon Blum , regarded as the most able leader of the advanced Socialist Party , announced today that his party , in common with the rest of the majority , would " accept sincerely the experts ' reparations plan , " and he added : " The German Nationalists will commit a grave error if they count on the new majority in the Chamber providing them with pretexts for opposing the plan and avoiding their obligations . " Premier Poineaxe had an interview today with Louis Barthou , President of the Reparation Commission , and it is understood that the work preparatory to putting the plan into operation will be pushed so that all will - be in readiness for approval by the Governments when the French Chamber and the Reichstag meet at the beginning of June . Anatole France , in a letter to the Oeuvre , the organ of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the elections . " I salute this great victory , " he says . " France has manifested her desire for peace . I do not , as I have often said , believe that war is an eternal human necessity . I wish , I hope , I foresee a future of peace and concord among peoples equal in culture . .. Let , us bring about this peace which Is so greatly desired . Let us beware of the ancient adage . In reality , if one wishes peace it is necessary to prepare for peace . " Such is our desire , such is our thought , such must be our work . Let us work for universal peace . Is it not a task worthy of the greatest , souls , of the greatest courage ? The Rome of the Caesars attempted it when she was queen of the universe . Let Europe of today accomplish it . "                     