@@687174

txt The discussion of " Birth Control  --  Is It Moral ? " which was supressed by the police at the Town Hall on Sunday night , was carried through last night at the Park Theatre  --  this time With police protection . With twenty policemen and twenty private watchmen on guard to prevent interruptions , the program arranged for Sunday night was carried out without any disorder , except outside of the theatre , where fully 8,000 persons , men and women , struggled to get into a place that holds only 1,500 . One woman , who said she was Dr , Nona Lowy of 1,264 Lexington Avenue , was arrested on a charge of disorderly conduct for refusing to move on when she was ordered to do so by a policeman . The police were there for a dual " purpose  --  to prevent interruption to the meeting so long as it was carried out In ' a lawful manner and to watch for any possible infractions of the law by the speakers themselves . For this latter purpose , representatives of - the District Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Police Department , were present . Police Commissioner Richard E. Eno right , in a letter received shortly before the meeting by Robert AleC . Marsh , counsel for the First American Birth Control Conference , under whose auspices the meeting was held , said : " Your inquiry under date of Nov. 17 , 1921 , was duly received and contents noted . You are advised that an adequate police detail will be present at the Park Theatre , Columbus Circle , on Friday evening , Nov. 18 , to preserve order , enforce the law and prevent any violation of the-law . " Only a Few Opponents . The discussion at the meeting proved to be very mild . After the set speeches , which were made by Mrs. Margaret Sanger , Miss Mary Shaw and Harold Cox . former member of the British Parliament , an opportunity was given to those who opposed birth control to speak against it . Only a few responded . Among them wqs Canon William Sheafe Chase of the Garden City Episcopal Cathedral . Shortly after 6 o'clock ' a crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an hour later there were several hundred people waiting for admission to the hall . Men , women and small children were in the crowd and many of them bore tickets from the committee in charge of the arrangements . Reserves from the Forty-seventh Street Station kept an aisle open on the sidewalk until the doors were thrown up , shortly after 7:30 . At that time Inspector Boland of the West Forty-seventh Street Station arrived with more reserves and the crowd had grown into several thousands . Many of them did riot know the reason for the gathering , but when they heard what it was they tried to push their way into the theatre . Among those who with difficulty elbowed their way to the entrance was a Catholic priest who refused to give his name , but said that he was there at the request of Commissioner Enright and Chief Inspector Lahey . Shortly after 8 o'clock , . while there were still hundreds of people jarnhting the walk attempting - to get closer to the entrance ' of the theatre , many of them waving tickets of admittance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police began to scatter the crowds which were still gathering . Episcopal Ca-non Locked Out . Canon William Sheafe Chase of the Dpiscopal Cathedral at Garden City , who had come with a written address which he had prepared to deliver on the tegative side of the question . was one ) f those who were locked out . After ' ailing in several attempts to gain en.rance through the front door of the heatre he found his way in by the stage door . Inside the theatre the police were ; tationed in all of the aisles . In addiion Inspector Boland , in uniform , sat n the audience and paid careful attenion to all the speeches . Assistant Cor ) oration Counsel Charles J. Druhan was also present , representing Corporation Counsel O'Brien . Three stenographers from the District Attorney 's office were seated behind the scenes to take down every word that was said . The meeting was in part a demonstration against the police suppression of Sunday 's meeting . There were frequent cheers for Mrs. Sanger and hisses for the police . Dr. Lydia Allen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the outset to Sunday night 's meeting . " Why did Mrs. Sanger persist In speaking and cause herself to be arrested , is a question that many have asked , " she said . " Mrs. Sanger said she had a right to speak . The police said she did not . Who shall say which was right ? Only a Judge on the bench could have decided that in an authoritative manner , and in order to do that the case must be brought before him in court . Mrs. Sanger , therefore , had to make a test . " What the League Stands For . Dr. de Villbiss declared that the American Birth Control League stood as opposed to " the promiscuous and indiscriminate dissemination of information . " " The league stands for the repeal of only harmful legal restrictions , " she said . - The Rev. Dr. Karl Reiland , rector of St. George 's Episcopal Church , who was to have been Chairman of the meeting at the Town Hall Sunday night , declared that he wished to register " an emphatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting . Dr. Reiland added that if the police had spent as much time suppressing " such rotten and salacious plays as we have read about during the last day or two as they had in interfering with meetings in the hands of representative people a the couPhilulths the results would be far more beneficial for the city . " Mrs. Sanger has determined , " said Robert McC . Marsh , " that the proceedings of last Sunday night shall not be overlooked . A peaceful and orderly meeting is one thing , but an outrageous violation of American liberties is another . and legal action will be taken promptly against those responsible . " Mr. Cox took up in detail conditions of population in several countries . If you merely continue at the rate of increase of the past forty yearn , " he veld , " in less than 200 years you will have over 4,000,000,000 people in the United States , or more than double the whole present population of the world . That you can work out for yourself . You can apply that same argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If any country maintains its present rate of increase it alone could fill the whole globe in a very brief period . " Mrs. Sanger submitted arguments fol birth control and Neal Dougherty , who spoke first in the general discussion , started an uproar when he replied to an allusion of Mr. Cox to the Roman Catholic Church . He was ruled out of order and was compelled to leave the stage amid hisses . Canon Chase was the final speaker from the audience . He said : " The birth control leaders are de ? ficient in moral and psychological insight . With their vague humanitarianism without God they plan to uplift people by resorting to mechanical means . With a paralyzing doubt in God , the birth control leaders despair of securing the betterment of the race by educating souls ill self-control and the development of power and occupy themselves too exclusively with outward and material progress . " Several Messages were read at the meeting . One of them was from the Malthuslan League of England , sending its " congratulations " on " the unjustifiable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who attended the meeting were Mr. and Mrs. L. L. Delafield , Mrs. Kenneth Blagden , Mrs. Donn Barbour , Mrs. Florence Guertin Tuttle , Mrs. Juliet Barrett Rublee , Mrs. George H. Day Sr .. Lowell Brentano , Mrs. Simeon Ford , Mrs. Charles Camp , Robert Lovett , Dr. Paul Kellogg , Mrs. William Austin Smith , Mrs. Ernest R. Adee , VirNniwa4Young and Mrs , William A , s                     