@@688116

txt It was a day of rest yesterday in the tennis camps of the nations . All the visiting players , including the defeated Australian challengers for the Davis Cup and Manuel Alonso of Spain , who expect to compete for the American championship in singles which starts at the Germantown Chicket Club near Philadelphia tomorrow , spent the day quietly at the Vanderbilt Hotel , the official headquarters for the visiting players . Gerald L. Patterson , Captain of the Anzac team , reiterated his satisfaction with the progress of his team through the tournament as a whole and also took occasion to add to his praise of the reception accorded the Australians in all their matches by the American public . " In my opinion . " said the Australian , " what Anderson accomplished against Tilden on the final day of the series showed that my judgment was not awry in picking him Instead of Wood for the singles , and this in spite of the fact of Anderson 's illness and comparative lack of practice . Anderson proved that he had at least a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all that , In the consideration of average form , we might have expected . On the other hand , Wood with all his steadiness would nut have had a chance against either . Wood never inaks any serious pretensions with regard to singles . He is a wonderful doubles player , but both Anderson and I have beaten hint NO often in singles that my choice of 3 line-up was practically compulsory . Wood himself is the first to acknowledge that his value ' to the team is more in doubles than in singles , and that fact is so thoroughly realized by followers of tennis in Australia that I would never have heard the last of it had I picked Wood instead of AnderSon to play against the Americans in the challenge round . " As it turned out , Wood might have hail a chance to take a few more games in each set against Johnston on opening day than Anderson did . Also he would have made a creditable showing against Tilden . But he could not have beaten either . For myself , when playing Wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he may have taken the first two sets of a five-set match , I can overhaul him at the finish . Tilden and Johnston could , On the other hand , there was always a chance that Anderson might he able to eat loose with one of those unbeatable streaks of his . That was the chance we took and I am satisfied that It was a good one . " Rudolph C. Wertheim , reserve member of the AustralaAan team , left for home yesterday and , of course , will not play in the singles championship at Philadelphia . Both Patterson and Anderson will be there , however . Their plan is to leave for home , completing their long journey around the world . a week net Sunday . Theirs has been one of the longest quests of sport laurels ever undertaken , as well as one of the most creditable . Patterson said last night that he had little expectation that either Anderson or himself would reach the final round of the singles championship . If either one he would be able to play it , provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sept. 18 . But if it should be necessary to hold over the play after that dale , he and Anderson would be unable to compete . They can not delay their departure after the 17th . Their plan is to travel by way of Canada across the continent on the way home . They will surely be back another season for another try at the cup , Patterson said . With regard to the growth of tennis in Australia , Patterson had a word to say about the new grounds which are being constructed by the New South Wales Tennis Association at Ituslicutter 's Bay , ten minutes ' ride from Sydney . It is altogether possible that these grounds will he the site of Davis Clip matches in the future . They will include ninety turf courts and will thus be the largest in the world . There are only some fifty or sixty courts at Forrest Hills . The site- for the grounds was bought by the New Zealand Association from the Government last Fall , and progress has already gone so far that a dozen of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parsons are being erected . Patterson answered a query regarding the correct name of the challenging team for the Davis Cup . It is Australasian and not Australian , for it represents all the Provinces of the Antipodes and not Australia alone . It is possible that New Zealand , in a. year or two , will send a separate team to compete for the Davis Cup , hut , even if it did that , there would still be a team representative more than one Province and hence properly called Australasian . The victory of the United States in this year 's series for the Davis Cup brings this country into a tie with Australasia for the number of years each has won . Each has held the cup seven times .                     