@@685093

txt Riding an eightymile gale , the storm swept New England in record fashion , adding new burdens to convalescing railroads , tearing down wires and holding shipping in port or to emergency anchorages . Locally the snowfall was light and turned to rain , but in northern and western New England the worst snow-drifts of the Winter laid down new blockades of railroads and trolley services . These conditions were reflected here with four to six hour delays on trains arriving from New York and points north and west . The Boston &; Maine Railroad , because of the conditions in Vermont , New Hampshire and Western Massachusetts , suspended all freight service . Shipping in Narragansett Bay was held up , and Long Island Sound steam vessels anchored to ride out the storm . In Springfield officials early announced that no attempt would he made to operate the intercity electric service . The larger stores there closed before noon and railroad service was practically annulled except on short runs . Holyoke reported the Connecticut River rapidly rising in its upper reaches . Pittsfield , blocked by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before , while North Adams , scarcely stirring , furnished the first storm fatality . Roderick G. White , war veteran , was killed by a Boston &; Albany snowplow , which struck him as he fought his way through the snow on his way to work . Worcester found itself in a bad way , telephone wires suffering especially in conditions that recalled the famous snowfall of March , 1888 . New Hampshire lilt Hardest . New Hampshire probably was hardest hit of any section . Hanover reported three feet of snow having fallen in ten hours . Dartmouth College suspended classes as evening approached with no sign of the snow abating . Concord faced the worst traffic conditions in years . The Tilton and Bristol branches of the Boston &; Maine Railroad were not operating at all and plows could not be forced through the drifts on the Claremont branch . Trains were reported stalled on the road 's main line and conditions to the north were described as " terrible . " All trains were suspended , trolley lines were blocked and an embargo was placed on business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After a day of rain , snow began falling at 10 o'clock last night , and had reached an average of a foot early today . Highways were impassable , cut- ting off all milk shipments . Work at the granite manufacturing plants was wholly suspended . The storm swooped down on Connecticut , held It stationary for hours , then at noon the blizzard passed and the sun shone . Snow plows went into action at once and the New York , New Haven &; Hartford managed to get sonic of its trains into commission . Business generally , however , was at a standstill . and the Southern New England Telephone Company tonight reported hundrcth , of lines down in every direction . The company reported many small towns completely isolated . Trains on the Central New England getting away this evening are barely limping along , reports Indicated .                     