@@690290

txt Governor LOWDEN is now strongly indicated as the choice of the Republicans for the Vice Presidential nomination . It was thought for a long time that he was much averse to taking the office . He was even quoted as saying that he positively would not accept the nomination if - it were offered to him on the proverbial platter . But now he refuses either to deny or affirm his unwillingness  --  an attitude which naturally prompts the correspondents to infer that he will at least Consider the question . It is not necessary at this time to discuss his qualifications . He was generally held fit for the Presidency in 1920 , and there can be no doubt that in most respects he would prove to be an acceptable candidate if he were chosen to go on the ticket with Mr. COOLIDGE . What is immediately interesting in this pressing forward of his name is the indication it gives that unusual care will be taken this year in the selection of candidates for the Vice Presidency . Apparently , events and prospects have brought about a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Too long has it been made the subject of slighting jests , and been treated in national conventions as if It were merely a pawn on the political chess-board . The signs that it will be more seriously regarded , both in the plans of politicians and the esteem of the public , are encouraging . We shall " " M better Vice Presidents when the VsOrS74e make up their mind that we ought to have them . Just now , in addition to a more correct feeling about the dignity and responsibilities of the office , we have a new element which is being magnified in order to make the Vice Presidency seem more attractive , as a political prize and opportunity . The point is highly speculative . It represents little more than a gambler 's chance . Yet it would seem that many minds are being impressed by it . As the self-determined candidacy of Senator La Foat.syrs for the Presidency appears more probable , the probability that the election may be thrown into the House is thought to be greater . If that should be the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then the likelihood is said to be that no one could get a majority in the House either , whereupon the Senate Would elect a Vice President who Would automatically fill the vacancy in the Presidency . Hence , it is argued , the lure of a Vice Presidential nomination this year is greater than it ever has been in our history . Some oracles of politics gravely declare that this is the main reason why Governor LOWDEN is willing to accept second place on the ticket on which he Was fighting for first place four years ago . It is an almost wildly hypothetical case , yet for that very reason is of the kind which political gossips love to play with in their corner-chairs . The Democrats are not left out of the Vice Presidential speculation . They , too , may face an inconclusive election in November , with Its resulting contest in the House of Representatives . Isf the Democrats can not Win there , they certainly could not Win in the Senate . But a door of hope is opened to them by the ingenious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following effect : There is one very simple way in which the Democrats , assuming that both the Electoral College and the House of Representatives are deadlocked , can almost certainly arrange for the final election of a Democrat . They can nominate for Vice President a radical Democrat who would ' se acceptable to the Progressives and whom the Progressives could endorse . In that event the Electoral College , even if it were deadlocked on the Presidency , would elect a Vice President who subsequently would become President whenever the House of Representatives finally failed to agree sufficiently on one of the major candidates . This is a beautiful sporting chance ! Perketts it explains the sudden esiasm of certain politicians for Governor BRYAN of Nebraska . He is " radical " enough to meet the specification , and is perfectly willing to take the Democratic nomination for the Vice Presidency . At present ambition goes no higher . Perhaps the family warning which he has had against aspiring to climb too high too quickly may have kept him frim a vaulting ambition . But can this BRYAN be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter has never been known to favor a candidate for the Presidency who stood any chance of election , and the . danger is that he might carry the same animus into the question of the Vice Presidency . At any rate , the Nebraska BRYAN would be well advised to find out in advance whether the Florida BRYAN will bear , unlike the Turk , a brother near the throne .                     