@@690893

txt For young men of ambition and for students of progress I hare set down the following , yet with a firm belief that every reader will find therein something new . Twenty-five years ago Henry Ford was an unknown mechanic experimenting in a back shed with a contrivance to abolish the horse on the highway . In the succeeding quarter of a century he has to date made this record : First ; taken leadership in motor transportation with a total production of nearly 11,000,000 cars , giving the world : the cheapest machinery per horsepower and the cheapest transportation machinery ever known . Second ; entered the high-class motor field , taking up the work of the Lelands and steadily perfecting the Lincoln car . Third ; to further displace the horse he has entered the farm tractor field on the same principles as with the Ford motor car  --  the largest output at the lowest possible price . And he is today the largest maker of farm tractors , with more than half the world output . Fourth ; he has entered the railroad field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put it on a paying basis and begun its electrification . Fifth ; he has entered the coal mining industry , investing ten millions in the Pond Creek Coal Mines , producing the highest grade bituminous coal . Sixth ; he has opened lumber camps in Michigan. ; and is economically cutting his own timber on an improved scientific basis where one lumberman now pro- ' ducts five times as much as before . Underbrush is cleaned ! up , by-products are utilized , forest fires eliminated and reforestation follows cutting . Seventh ; he is mining and shipping ore from his own iron mines . Eighth ; he has entered the iron and steel businers with big blast furnaces on the River Rouge , under all the latest scientific improvements for melting ore and producing iron and steel and utilizing the byproducts . Ninth ; he has entered the shipping business with his own vessels that take his products to various Unite , " States ports and to South America and EuropeSELII.V1Ck : BEFORE VILOS'IT These industries he has entered not for the purpose of profit , but for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tenth ; he is revolutionizing farming tot only by the motor and the tractor and scientific research , but by pioneering in the way of turning released farm labor in the unproductive season over to small factory units operated by developed electric power from harnessed home streams Eleventh ; he is growing flax on a large scale , aiming to supplant the use of cotton in automobile linings and tiresnosy-Kral . Twelfth ; he has built for Detroit one of the largest modern hospitals in the world , covering an area of 16 city blocks , and with an engineering genius and an operating plan that has astonished the medical profession . Thirteenth ; he is putting millions into Wayside Inns to teach history to the youth of our land by practical illustration ; the old family kitchen restored and set up in conjunction with the new family fireside enjoying the conveniences of electric light , heat and power developed from formerly unused natural resources . Fourteenth ; he has entered the field of publishing and editing and the moulding of public opinion , with a weekly paper that has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present the neglected truth . Here is a record of- fourteen points of achievement that leaves Henry Ford still active in the prime of physical and mental vigor at . sixty years of age , and seeking new fields of conquest in the domain of human endeavor  --  not for personal glory or profit , but for the fellowship of human service . Siffl  --  TING NO LIMITS He has still many scientific surveys , investigations and experiments under way and it is difficult now to set any limits to his activities and achievements . Some of the greatest discoveries and inventions have been made by men of from seventy to ninety-nine years of age . And Mr. Ford is making a survey of human sustenance with a view to prolonging human life and happiness . Ford is not only relatively young , but continually developing mentally . His head was not turned by political flattery . He was able to find a better man for Brestden.t. and support him handsomely . He denies the fundamentals of economics until he understands them . But he is learning . He sees the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see another side and get a better appraisement . At no point has Henry Ford stood still . He has successfully advanced the standard of wages for physical labor to a point never before achieved and with reduction in the cost of output . On these wages he maintains his Ford car before the public at below its pre-war price and plans to turn out next year more than 2,000,000 . He has promoted savings , profit-sharing , art in architecture and the surrounding landscape . Watt and Stephenson with steam , Washington , Jefferson and Lincoln with democracy , Morse with the telegraph . Edison with electricity . Bell with his telephone , and Rockefeller with research and oil , mark eras in human history and material growth . But the era of Ford , the first quarter of the twentieth century , is unmatched by f.ny previous tvienty-five years in the world 's material progress .                     