@@695472

txt ' The United States has granted full diplomatic recognition to the Na.tionalist government of China , it was admitted for the first time at the state department today . Recognition was granted on July 25 , when the American and Chinese governments signed a new treaty under which China was accorded tariff autonomy on a most favored nation basis , I Legal experts of the department . after exhaustive study , reported to Secretary of State Kellogg , that by signing the tariff treaty with the Nationalist government the ' United , States automatically recognized that regime as the de lure government of China . By this decision the United States " became the first government ' to extend full diplomatic recognition to the new Chinese government . It also marked the first time a Chinese government has been accorded full diplomatic recognition since Chang Tso-fin entered Peking more than two years ago . Kellogg Ms Been Silent . Although the United States baa been dealing with the Nationalists as the de lure government of China. , formal announcement that recognition was granted has not been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that effect , State department officials bold that no formed steps are necessary to give force to American recognition . It is considered probable that some time in the near future formal expression of American recognition will be given . It is possible this will take place when the American consulate at Peking is reopened at Nanking for the first time since the outrages against foreigners there a year ago . At the time the tariff note was signed Mr. Kellogg admitted the United States was dealing with the Chinese Nationalists as a de facto government , but declined to say whether or not the Nationalist regime was recognized as a de facto government . Russia Not in Same Boat . After the legal experts of the state department held that the United States by signing a treaty with the Nation:list government had by that act reoognized them , the question was raised whether ratification of the Kellogg anti-war treaty by the senate would carry with it this government 's rec. ognition of soviet Russia . State department officials immediateIY declared otherwise . It was argued that in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met and both signed the tariff treaty , Russia Is merely adhering to a treaty which the United States has signed and is not one of the signatories . Senator Borah Rep. , Idaho , chair . man of the senate 's foreign relations committee , who will lead the fight the senate for ratification of the antiwar pact , has contended that ratifica , ion will carry with it recognition of Russia and has asserted that he ex . Sects much of the opposition to the treaty in the senate will bo on that Found . Shortly after Secretary Kellogg returned from Paris , the senator , who for years has advocated rocogni ? tion of the soviet government by the United States , expressed to friends his conviction that ratification of the pact Would pave the way for an early opening of diplomatic relations between the two countries .                     