@@696868

txt ProhibiLion is going to be a major issue in the regular session of the Seventyfirst ' ' Congress which convenes at noon Monday . The battle , according to all the sighs , will be under way before the session is two weeks old with a promise of plenty of fireworks from both side 's of the prohibition fence . It will involve demands for legislation to indemnify the families of innocent persons killed by prohibition agents , the proposed law to make the purchaser of liquor equally guilty with the bootlegger and the appropriation of millions of dollars in excess of past outlays to finance enforcement activities . Two Major Anti-Dry Measures . ? There will also be the annual grist of bills which would make legal the sale of beverages of an alcoholic content in excess of the one-half of 1 per cent permitted under existing law . A woman member of the House , Mrs. Florence P. Kahn , Republican , of California , is expected to fire the first gun with the introduction of a bill to make the Federal Government responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A bill of similar nature , but applying to an individual case , will be introduced in the Senate by Senator Copeland , Democrat , of New York , who is seeking the payment of $25,000 to the heirs of Jacob Hanson of Niagara Falls , , why was killed in 1928 by patrol officers-along the : Canadian border . hard Fight Likely on Sheppard Bill . From the dry side will come the Sheppard bill to make all who purchase liquor guilty in the same degree as those from whom they buy it . This bill , drafted by Senator Sheppard , Democrat , of Texas , one of the authors of the Eighteenth Amendment , has the support of the AntiSaloon League and the Methodist Boarrl of Temperance , Prohibition and . Public Morals . It appears probable that in seeking passage of this bill the dry forces , ? for the first time since the ratification of the amendment , will find themselves with a real battle on their hands . Some of the ablest lawyers in Congress , most of them advocates of rigid enforcement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not mentioned in the Eighteenth Amendment . Senator Sheppard himself has said that the word " purchaser " was left out - because , in the opinion of leaders in the prohibition fight . at the time , public opinion had not developed to the stage where it . was considered wise to include the purchaser specifically in the amendment . Unless there is a decided change of opinion in Congress , it looks , now as if this bill might fail to reach a final vote in the coming session , with the result that the , battle would be continued into the Seventy-second Congress , which will be elected in November , 1930 . Kahn Bill for " Innocent " ' Victims . Explaining her bill for recompense to gunfire victims , Mrs. ? Kahn said : " This.bill does not seek to protect the law-breaker or his family , as much as I may feel sorry for the latter . But it ' does provide $25,000 damages . to be paid by the government to the families of those who are innocent victims of the bullets of prohibition agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this pathetic situation . and I , for one . feel that in such oases the government should be held responsible . " When prohibition agents fail to take the prefer precautions and , by so doing , kill innocent people , there is no excuse for leaving the families of the victims destitute . That is the only purpose of the legislation I propose and I shall do everything in my power to secure its enactment into law " The chief sponsor of legislation for increased appropriations for prohibition enforcement is Senator Harris , Democrat , of Georgia , who in the last Congress urged an appropriation of millions of dollars in excess of any sum ever before proposed . He will renew the battle in the regular seesion and the result will probably be an increased allotment .                     