@@688214

txt Allies and Turks reported to have signed agreement covering evacuation of Thrace and freedom of the straits . Agreement between France and Rue- ; Ma over freedom of the Dardanelles tends to free soviets of their most bit ' ter enemy among the power 's . Venizelos tries to induce the United States to put moral pressure on allies to prevent Turkish occupation of Thrace . Mme. Lebaudy , who killed her husband , " Emperor of the Sahara , " and her daughter marry Paris detective and his son , and thus release 110,000 , - 000 estate . Dr. Serge Voronoff to exhibit aged patients benefited by chimpanzee gland operations before French Surgical society today . LOCAL . Lake Shore Country club robbed of pay roll by night bandits . Charging Faherty 's bureau is countenancing looting of the city treasury that will eclipse the $2,700,000 experts ' grab , Aid . Anderson and Bowler move to have counsel check up on Ashland avenue improvement . Two are killed , twenty injured In record number of fires and explosions yesterday . Virtue Rohm , nephew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall machine , is scheduled to appear before the special schools grand Jury today to tell about insurance . American Sentinels , to guide youth of country into better citizenship , is formed with Dr. George T : Harding Jr. , brother of the President , and Rear Admiral Moffett as principal speakers . State 's Attorney Crowe 's detectives fall to find gambling at Hawthorne ; first day since races began no arrests Were made . Council delays confirmation of A. R. Seyferlich as new fire marshal until Oct. 18 ; ordinance creating fire commissioner introduced . Unified management of the Republican county campaign decides to give women an equal part on the campaign committee . Ald. Schwartz in council resolution demands reopening of " experts ' " income tax case and bares record showing testimony belies his affidavit in Washington . Council resumes whirl of legislation with the four virtues in painting and lettering glowing in renewed splendor . More streets become " through traffic " thoroughfares when measure passed by council last June becomes law without mayor 's signature . Charges against William W. O'Brien , criminal lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alter ? neys to " easeup " in prosecution of client . DOMESTIC . Soulful love letter of Evan Fontaine read to court in her plea to sue young Whitney for million dollar heart balm . Court reserves ruling . Opponents of branch banks win in national bankers ' convention . Reginald urges " definite postponement " of war debts owed to United States , that of Great Britain excepted. president Harding , in message to American Bankers ' association , tells how financial men may aid the country and world . , Senatbr Medill McCormick at Peoria , declares American economic recovery is duo to Republican politics . New Jersey couple claim sanitarium switched baby boy for a girl ; face abandonment trial . United mine workers plan to ask old wage demands at next session with operators . SPORTING . Gianth ' three run rally in eighth spills dope and beats Yankees , 3.2 ; Fullerton predicts Huggins men to even series today , 74 . Faber holds Cubs to 6.2 beating in first of city series . " Dark horses " win as record crowd of 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parl-mutuel betting heard as state senators and representatives appear in stands . Bad spills mark international pale game as Meadosri Brook , America 's " big four , " defeats Argentina . Ohio State will have strong offensive football team whicirwill be dangerous , Eckersall says . EDITOR ieT-S . Cancellation and Isolation ; Signs of , Life ; Reviving Problems of the Balkan Peoples .                     