@@692798

txt Iowa has been solemnly informed by six Radical Senators at Washington that " the eyes of the nation are upon the primary election " in that State today . There is nothing startling about this . The nation 's eyes always pivot easily In the direction of a political campaign in a dull season . The real question is what the eyes of Iowa are doing . Is the " rapt soul silting In her eyes " so much concerned with agitations in Washington as the Senators seem to think ? Not If human nature , especially farmer stature , in Iowa remains what It has been heretofore . However it may be with other restless and wandering orbs , the eyes of Iowa are usually fixed at this time of year pretty steadily upon the weather and the crops . The skies are scanned and the sun 's heat studied to discover signs that Iowa is to enjoy that condition which her Senator DOLLTVER used to describe as so delectable , " when it . is so hot that you can bear th , , corn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hog , who Is watched more tenderly than ever this year . The price of corn in the field Is not satisfactory , but corn on the hoof is selling at a good figure . If the eyes of Iowa see clear and straight , they will discover that the Iowa hog is more important to the State than one more Progressive or Conservative In the United States Senate . If Iowa 's eyes are lifted at all Ivens grewiag corn and grunting pigs , it is to be hoped that they will rest discriminatingly upon the Radical Senators appealing for their late brother in trouble-making , Colonel BROORHART . Those are not hills up to which Iowa may lift her eyes as to the source whence cometh her strength . By this time she ought to be able to see the futility of pinning her hopes to that dwindling band in the United States Senate . From among them her scrutinizing gaze will miss one figure . Senator BORAR is not a " signer . " Those who expected him to be able to agree with as many as six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his . lonely furrow . Nut we fear that his standing apart just now will confirm the belief once expressed hy a Western farm leader who was asked why he did not tall In behind Senator BuRAH . His reply IN as . " lioaAH ? Oh , he never . goes through . " Those who did sign the plaintive call to Iowa may be more willing to go through , but the chief tLing which they are most prepared to go through and rend to pieces is the unity and discipline of the Republican Party . Unless the eyes of Iowa are blinded to realities they will clearly perceive this , no matter who may win or lose in the Republican primary today . ' About the great excitement and terrible loss of words , The Emporia Gazette makes this just and philosophic comment : Why is Iowa so terribly afflicted with agrarian temperature and Kansas as cool as a dog 's nose ? The farmer population of Kansas is rather larger in proportion to the State 's population than that of Iowa . On the whole Iowa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value per acre than Kansas land . Yet Iowa is In red-hot farmers ' revolt , with a cyclonic primary election in progress , while the primary election in Kansas is gentle as a Summer breeze . Some experts have tried to show that Iowa farmers are not so badly off . but it wo n't do . They are bound to be distressed . BROOKUART is bound to be a more florid and wilder La j Follette the elder . He . too . would unite the laborers and farmers . lie keeps the furnishings of the old La Follette show , for which he worked In 1924 . He " repudiated " COO/MOIL Then conservative Republicans " repudiated " him . Presumably they will do so again , should he be nominated today . Republican and Democratic opponents of Mr. Coot-roan are awaiting hopefully the opportunity to howl joyously over " the overwhelming defeat Of Mr. COOLIDGE . " Mr. COOLIDGE scarcely comes into the picture , save as Mr. CummiNs supporta the Haugen bill , thus directly opposing the President 's course in that regard . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against " wealth , " are blown up red again in Iowa , the Republican Party must have anxious moments , but how is Mr. Connaos to blame ? He Is not responsible for false political economy and finance or for the vicissitudes of farming . Through the talk-cloud ? of the campaign , it Is hard work to make out how much the tariff and Its palpable burdens upon the farmer have teen stressed . At any rate , high tariff is orthodox Republican , and Mr. BROOKHART is more at home in the familiar mythology of " Wall Street . "                     