@@696587

txt FAIR PLANS NOT ABANDONED Chicagoan Misinformed Concerning New York 's Intentions . To Edi for " I The York Tmic , : Chicago , in thanking New York for the manner in which New York has announced its intention of withdrawing its proposed World 's Fair for 1932 " in justice and fairness to a century of progress , Chicago World 's Fair of 1933 , " is slightly misinformed as to New York 's intention . Officials of the New York World 's Fair Committee have contradicted the story sent nut from a non-official source that New York had withdrawn its proposed exposition and that it was scheduling a World 's Fair in New York for 1935 . Thanks are extended to Harry Edward Freund for the information contained in his letter to THE TIMES relative to the convention of official representatives of forty foreign nations in Paris last year , but his attention is called to the fact that he is evidently not sufficiently informed as to the conclusion of not only the Paris convention but a subsequent convention held recently in Antwerp . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to establish rules and regulations for the guidance of exposition directors throughout the world . In the first rules proposed appeared the first three sections or articles as quoted by Mr. Freund , but the fifteen-year ruling was killed for the reason that it was shown that this rule , proposed by Germany , would leave Germany the leader in the exposition field , and , further , a joker appeared in some of the following rules to the effect that expositions heretofore in existence , such as trade fairs , 87. c. , would not come under the ruling . As Germany has already established her Leipzig Fair , as well as others , she desired to continue . However , the rules were never adopted . At the more recent convention practically the same rules were proposed , but the United States has not officially joined this convention , stating that they preferred to allow the American manufacturers to determine the number of expositions they desired to hold . This would place us in the position of holding expositions whenever we felt so inclined . It would , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason that as an exposition could be held in each country only once every fifteen years the chances are that the United States would never he able to hold an exposition . and more especially as Article 8 of the convention 's proposed rules states that if a member country were to hold an exposition all member countries would be compelled to participate , even though the United States were to attempt to hold an exposition at the same time . It behooves the American manufacturers to form an association such as they have throughout Europe in order that they may have a voice in formulating these proposed rules before they are adopted . JOSEPH BROWN . New York , Aug. 31 , 1929.                     