@@690494

txt Fortyfive million pounds of powder was destroyed by fire at the Old Hickory Powder plant near here today . The loss , on the basis of present prices , is estimated at more than $2,000,000 . The powder was manufactured for the Federal Government during the war at a cost of approximately $22,300,000 for the 45,000,000 pounds destroyed . The cost of manufacturing the powder during the war , according to Major Oscar Krupp , United States Ordnance Department officer in charge , was 50 cents a pound . The present market value of the powder , Major Krupp said , is approximately one cent a pound and the total value $450,000 . Machinery and buildings erected by the Government during the war at a cost of more than $5,000,000 were destroyed by the flames , which swept over an area of forty acres in the heart of the plant . The total war-time cost of the ' Property and powder destroyed was estimated today to be more than $28,000,000 . The powder had been stored here by the Government as a war reserve . Onehalf of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direction of the Department of Agriculture . The fire was declared to be the greatest single loss suffered by the Government since the World War and was rated as one of the most destructive incidents in the history of Government munitions plants . No one was severely injured . At sundown this afternoon It was impossible to approach the area of the fire because of the intense heat . An official estimate of the loss , therefore , was impossible . All estimates were made from a distance by Government and private employes . Government Records Destroyed . The Government office and all surveillance records of powder and inventories were destroyed . Although great importance was attached to the Inventories , it is believed that duplicates arc or file in the War Department at Washington . By 12.30 P. M. the conflagration had exhausted itself and left in the araa nothing but a white-hot tangle of galvanized iron , brick and etherized powder . No dangerous explosions occurred . Several thousand rounds of small arms ammunition were ignited , but the bullets spent their force against the brick walls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fought the flames . At 10 A. M. two fire engines from the Nashville Fire Department were sent to the scene to aid in the work of firefighting . Women from the village , mostly ' wives and daughters of officials , volunteeref for canteen service and worked all morning feeding the.men who returned from the fire lines , and providing other comforts for them . The origin of the fire is undetermined . All loss is covered by insurance . The area destroyed is exactly one-half of the entire plant . The flames for hours threatened the remainder of the plant , and- the absence of high wind is believed responsible for saving it . The flames originated in Solvent Recovery House 8 , in the northeast end of the powder storage area , and leaped I from building to building until finally they died out . The powder house , considered the most valuable building of the plant , escaped the flames by a scant twenty yards . The numerous factories which have been converted or built since the war were not burned . The du Pont fibre silks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are about half a mile from the fire . Biggest Powder Enterprise . Building of the Old Hickory powder plant was the largest project of its kind ever attempted . The plans called for erection of a factory capable of producing 000.000 pounds of smokeless powder every twenty-four hours , the plant to be divided , into nine complete units of 100,000 pounds daily capacity each . The site , which since the war has been converted into a thriving industrial city , is at Hadley 's Bend , about eight miles from Nashville . - When work was begun on the 08.1 ' 4 there were no transportation facilities td the site and no housing accommodations for the workmen or their families . Materials had to be brought to the site , rainroads built . bridges constructed , houses , I barracks and hotels erected . At the height of the war work nearly 40,000 persons were employed . Old Hickory was built to have a capacity seventy-five times that of the largest smokeless powder plant in the United States before the World War . It was the largest plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specifications called for an outlay of about $85,000.000. and the work was 83 per cent . complete when peace came . When the Government announced that the plant would be sold , the Nashville Industrial Corporation , organized by business men here , bought it under a contract executed on Nov. 22. 1920 . Since then numerous factory sites and units of the plant have been , sold . The Southern Motor Body Corporation , the Nashville Pulp and Paper Company , the Food Products Corporation of Tennessee and the Old Hickory Toy and Novelty Company were among the first to begin operations after the war . This Summer 700 men had been cmployed by the du Pont Company erecting five new buildings for the du Pont Silk Fibre Attila , scheduled to begin operations hereby March 1 , 1925.                     