@@691644

txt President Coolidge in ? his first press conference at the Summer White House today repulsed the suggestion of Sir Josiah Stamp before the congress of the International Chamber of Commerce in Brussels that the United States in common with other nations should curtail production and lower tariff walls to enable Germany to pay reparations . In the most vigorous language he has used in discussing this international question Mr. Coolidge 's position was set forth unmistakably . His attitude is th4 the people of the United States would not undertake a plan or be a party to one that would result in making this country pay the reparations or cancel the debts owing to It . Standing on the lawn of White Court , in the sound of the breakers , the President frankly explained his position relative to reparations and the cancellation of the debt . He was brief , emphatic and almost blunt in what he said . At the same time he wished the world to know that the United States would bear its share in helping to restore the economic condition of European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff laws or reducing production here so as to give C ; ermany a larger share in our markets . Sees Moves to Have Us Pay Reparations . Mr. Coolidge had not read the speech delivered by the English member of the committee of experts that framed the Dawes plan . On the other hand , since coming here he has read editorial comment upon it and from what was said in them he learned the purport of the proposal . He thinks that it is another cne of the persistent efforts among European financiers and statesmen to compel the United States to pay the reparation debt and to have it cancel the war debts . In his opinion , there have been all kinds of left-handed efforts to saddle such obligations on the United States and Sir Josiah 's proposal is placed in that category by him . The policy of the United States is to help Europe in its own way and not to be forced to engage in her restoration through a program that would injure the United States or include any further leniency toward countries owing war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a domestic matter and is intended to protect American industry . It is a policy . he intimated , that will not be changed by the administration as part of any European conceived plan to make successful the Dawes plan or as an easement in a program of foreign countries to fund their debt to the United States , The President finds that American trade has increased 50 per cent . over the years preceding the war . Importations are about equal to normal times . This he considers an answer to the proposal that the tariff wail should be lowered to permit Europe to sell here . President Coolidge do 's not wish his Position misunderstood . The United States intends to aid Europe in every possible way , just as is has been doing while the war was in progress and since . In this world condition , with economic systems broken down and disorganized. the President feels that the people of the United States will bear their share of the burden and inconvenience resulting from the war . The American people , he believes , will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not . but sentiment in this country . in his opinion , will not agree to any plan or scheme which would make us pay the reparations or cancel the war debts . Vice President Dawes . en route to Boston to confer with Owen ID . Yeung , his associate on the committee c experts which drafted the Dawes Ian . halted long enough to pay his re , pects to the President and display his pipe and snapping eyes to the photographers . He remained with the President about half an hour , inspected the Summer White House and walked around the grounds . General Dawes declined to discuss in terristional problems and especially would not give his opinion as to the operation of the Dawes plan . He thinks . however . that ft is working well and appeared to be especially pleased with the position of President Coolidge toward Sir Joshua Stamp 's proposal . President Coolidge learned one thing from Mr , Dawes today and that was I how to cure a collie dog of chasing automobiles. - The one end of a rope about thirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other end to a stake in the ' ground . " Mr. Dawes said . " When an automobile comes along the road the ' dog will have forgotten that he is tied and will go leaping after the car . It is no use telling you what happens ! when the end of the rope is suddenly reached . for the dog comes to a verysudden stop . He only tries this twicel and after that lie pays no more attention to automobiles . ' The President appeared greatly interested and amused at the advice but did not say whether Rob Roy has such common traits as chasing automobiles . President Takes a Motor Ride . The President 's day was featured with a motor ride to Marblehead Neck , a distance of about two miles , accompanied by Mrs. Coolidge and Captain Andrews , commander of the yacht Mayflower . They stopped at the slip in front of the Corinthian Yacht Club and from there saw the Mayflower anchored out in the little cove . The President has intimated that he intends to go aboard for a cruise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will desire to go any distance out to sea . He may have his religious services on the yacht as there is a chaplain aboard . President Coolidge returned to White Court at 9:45 o'clock and with Mrs. Coolidge and Mrs. Stearns , walked about the grounds and among the flowers . Then the President went to his study and applied himself for an hour to a stack of papers , eight inches high , on his desk . He was thus engaged until I1 o'clock , when he received Edward F. Quinn . lilayor of Cambridge . his first official caller since his arrival at white Court . Mayor Quinn told the President of the final arrangements which had been made for the President when he speaks at the 150th anniversary of Washington 's taking command of the Continental Army , at Cambridge . on July 3 . Following the conference . the President and Mrs. Coolidge drove to Nahant , which was the home of Senator Lodge . Upon their return Mrs. Coolidge drove to Salem accompanied by Mrs. Stearns . There she did her first Shopping since coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as dish rags , which had not been sent from Washington . She bought these at a a and 10 cent store , where she was beset by many persons who spoke to her In a neighborly way . Some of the shoppers knew her well and called her - Grace. - Takes a Morning Walk , The President was up before 7 o'clock this morning and just as soon as he could hustle into some clothing was out in the open for a walk about the rocks along the shore In front of ' White Court . and then later he strolled along Puritan Road for about a mile and a half . The wind had shifted during the night and while brisk and chilly was not so cold as it was yesterday . The skies had cleared , giving every promise of an ideal day  --  the kind the North Shore people brag. about . The thermometer registered RS . Breakfast was ready when the President returned . He appeared greatly invigorated . There was a good color in his face and his gait was livelier than ordinary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already been benefited by his coming here . Some of the residents in Swampscott who had seen him during his previous visits say that while he had taken on little weight he looked pale and worn . They thought at first that he was not a well man . Major James F. Coupai , the President 's physician , who is staying near White Court for the Summer , soon dispelled this idea . He said this morning after seeing the President that he Is in the best of condition . An airplane flew over White Court-today and dropped a message from Governor Fuller that Massachusetts had raised its $325.000 quota for the American Legion endowment . Mr. Coolidge is Honorary Chairman of the fund and a modest contributor , If the President goes to the conference of Governors at Poland Springs . Me. , he will be asked to ride in one of the dirigibles , the Los Angeles or Shenandoah , which will be sent there by Secretary Wilbur , but it is not probable that he will venture to ride in the airship . President Coolidge confirmed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , July 4 , by motor for a brief visit to his father at Plymouth . It Is understood that he will leave the seaside early on that morning so that he can make the run into the Vermont hills in six hours , which would be required going at the rate of twenty-five miles an hour . Tomorrow he is going fog a ride to Cambridge and the surrounding territory . He invited the newspaper men to accompany him on his trip , which may take him to the navy yard .                     