@@691533

txt The United States will be able to enter the Permanent International Court of Justice through the support of Democratic Senators . Senator King , Democrat , of Utah , told President Coolidge today in a conference on this subject and the debt question , In the conference , which lasted more than half an hour , President Coolidge convinced Senator King that he would strongly recommend the Senate to ratify the Protocol in the next Senate and that he would have the support of leading Republicans , but not some of the prominent members of the Foreign Relations Committee . Senator King told the President that the Democratic members of the Senate were almost unanimous in favor of the Court and that with this support , if the President could force the issue to a vote , there was no doubt that the United States ' would join the Court . Senator King- asserted that out of forty Democratic Senators only two could be counted as against the Court  --  Reed of Missouri and Blease of North Carolina . Move to Avoid World Court Issue . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as for the Court . there are evidences that some of the leading Republicans of the bitter-end element on the League of Nations issue will be found opposing vigorously the attitude of the Administration . Senator Borah , Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee . is opposed to the World Court . contending that it would be useless until international law is codified . This position is interpreted by friends of the Court as a move similar to that assumed by Senator Lodge in his opposition to the League of Nations Covenant . President Coolidge does not agree with Senator Borah and the position of the Administration as reflected in a recent speech by Secretary Kellogg is that the United States should join the Court without delay . The President believes that if we waited until international law Is codified , we would never join the Court . Senator Borah is the leader behind whom the Republicans opposed to the Court will rally . He is recognized as resourceful and courageous and has been able in several instances to persuade the Administration to accept his views . He is credited with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foreign debts and bolds that the collection of the foreign debt Is the biggest thing before the Republican Party . Many other Republicans , while not so decided in their opposition to the Court , feel that the best thing the Republican Party can do in the next Congress is to devote itself to reducing taxes and collecting the foreign debts , declaring that these are the biggest issues before the party , in view of the bye-elections next year . Before going West on a vacation and speaking trip , Senator Borah conferred with President Coolidge today respecting the foreign debt and other international matters . It is believed that the President took occasion to talk about the World Court at this conference , which , following his talk with Senator King , gave him an opportunity to sound the -- Utah Senator as to the prospects of the Senate ratifying the Court proposal . Senator King had told the President that if the Court were defeated it would be by members of his own party , and he mentioned Senators Borah and Pepper of Pennsylvania as two Republicans who were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senator Borah declined to discuss the Court . except to say that he had not altered his view that such a court would be ineffective without a codification of international law . Senator Borah did say , however , that the President would be firm In collecting the foreign debt and indicated that there would be no wavering or further leniency toward the foreign debtors . In conference today it was indicated by the President that this country would not join the Western Europe security compact . He feels that this is entirely European question and ought to be settled there . In other words , he is of the opinion that sentiment in the United States would not sanction our guaranteeing France against an invasion from Germany and would be opposed to our joining such a compact with England , Belgium and France . President Coolidge wants to be helpful , it was declared , but is opposed to Participating in the political questions of Europe . What this country can do best for Europe is to aid in financial and economical problems , and this the Administration la @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               