@@696225

txt Twenty-seven persons , including nine children , were arrested yesterday afternoon when members of the Workers ( Communist ) party started a demonstration against alleged brutality of the police at the time the police parade was passing up Broadway opposite the Communist headquarters at 26 Union Square . Two thousand of those who hal been watching the parade turned their attention to the Communists . A riot call brought reserves from the East Twenty-second Street station . One Communist was sent to Bellevue under arrest and suffering from lacerations of the scalp and face and possible fracture of the skull . At their headquarters , after the fracas , Communists : aid they had three films of snapshots taken on the ground and from upper floors of the . building which will show that the alleged brutality was manifested yesterday . It was all over in twenty minutes . A huge sign stretched across the front of the building bearing the legend " Down With Walker 's Police Brutality " in red letters five feet high was the cause of the trouble . As the bottom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ windows of the building it was plainly visible to the crowd in the square . Communist . Organizer Arrested . Shortly before noon Lieutenant Patrick S. Hickey of the Seventh Division , who was assigned to look out for possible trouble at the corner of Sixteenth Street and Fourth Avenue , with the assistance of two patrolmen , arrested Benjamin Lifshitz , district organizer of the Communist party , on the second floor of its headquarters . Al the East Twentysecond Street station he was charged with violating the city ordinance which forbids the erection of a sign without a permit and with disorderly conduct , on the score that the sign held Mayor Walker up to contempt and tended to incite disorder during the parade . He was later released in $300 bail arranged for by Jaques Buitenkant , attorney for the International Labor Defense . Bert Miller , organization secretary of the party , said later the police had no warrant to enter the . building and arrest Lifshitz . When by 12:30 P. M. the police order for the removal of the sign had not been complied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and several patrolmen began to take it down . At the same time about fifty members of the Pioneers of America , boys and girls from 10 to 16 years old , who bad been holding a convention on the fourth floor of the building , descended to the street to jeer the efforts of the police . The Pioneers waved small red flags and placards reading " Down With Mayor Walker 's Cossacks . " While singing the " International " and " Solidarity Forver , " some of hem sought to hinder the police from removing the sign . Ringleaders Are Seized . As the crowd collected the Communists , who now included elders as well as children , grew bolder . A call for reinforcements brought Sergeant Marky and Patrolman William Carraher and John McCabe in a patrol wagon from the East Twenty-second Street station . The police say Patrolman Carraher was struck with an iron bar which knocked his hat off as he descended from the wagon . Selecting the older children and the ringleaders among the elders , the police filled the wagon and departed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elders , about 300 in all , booed this action . After a lull the demonstration was renewed when the radicals recommenced singing " Solidarity ForI ever . " A shoe thrown from the crowd is said to have hit a detective . Once more a dozen patrolmen concentrated on the ringleaders . Bei fore being ushered into the patrol wagons the prisoners were lined up on the sidewalk in front of the building . It is in the picture taken of this action that the Communists say they are especially interested . A second patrol wagon left with additional prisoners walking behind . They all sang until reaching the station house , where they were silenced . In all , three loads of prisoners were taken away , and in the process some police uniforms were torn . One Man Injured in Clash . Herman Habel , 33 years old , of 2,071 West Thirty-seventh Street , Coney Island , the injured man , was treated at the station by Dr. Milgram of Bellevue . At the sight of his head and face swathed in bandages one of the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milgram . The police say Habel received his injuries as the result of a misdirected blow from one of his comrades . The Communists hope their photographs will tell a different story . A book of stamps with the appeal on it , " Help send the children 's delegation to the Soviet Union , " was found on one of the children . The stamps were intended to sell for one cent each . Magistrate Fines Fourteen . When the prisoners were arraigned before Magistrate Brodsky in Night Court he imposed suspended sentences on Sylvia Gudisman , 18 years old , of 83 Herzl Street , Brooklyn , and Anna Levy , 25 , of 8 West 111th Street . Sarah Alloy , 23 , of 240 East Fourteenth Street , was discharged az not being connected with the disorderly group . Fines of 52 or one day in jail ! were imposed on Lydia Oken , 16 , of 789 East 106th Street ' the Bronx ; Mollie Piatruch , 19 ; of 482 Herzl Street , Brooklyn ; Nick Ziccorda , 23 , of 332 East 150th Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 212 East Twelfth Street ; Mae Cooperman , 23 , of 135 West 238th Street , and Lillian Cramer of 457 Vermont Street , Brooklyn . Fines of 55 or two days in jail were imposed on Jack Brounstein , 20 , of 624 East Eleventh Street ; Jack Tabb. 20 , of 723 Vermont Street , Brooklyn : Joseph Shandler , 22 , of 126 East 104th Street ; Herman Bindler , 20 , of 620 East 170th Street , the Bronx ; Herbert Morton , 18 , of 355 Crimmins Avenue , the Bronx ; Harry Mahon. 23 , of 127 West 119th Street ; Edward Scharfenberg , 25 , of 26 Union Square and Louis A. Baum , 60 , of 354 St. Anne 's Avenue , the Bronx . Nine Sent to Children 's Society . The children who were sent to the Children 's Society charged with juvenile delinquency were Jessie Taft , 14 , of 1,470 Wilkins Avenue , the Bronx , district organizer of the Pioneers ; Frank Batlison , 15 , of 709 East Ninth Street ; Bernard Kaplan , 14 , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 14 , of 1,271 Hoe Avenue , the Bronx ; George Gorchoff , 14 , of 599 East 141st Street . the Bronx ; Abraham Malakin , 15 , of the same address ; Irving Shavelson , 15 , of 788 Howard Avenue , Brooklyn ; Saul Wellman , 15 , of 136 Pulaski Street , Brooklyn , and Louis Levy , 14 , of 610 Howard Avenue , Brooklyn . It was said the children will be arraigned in Children 's Court on Monday . After the clash there were several mothers asking delightedly if their children had been- arrested at Communist headquarters .                     