@@688418

txt To President Harding : It is noted in the press that President Harding will make reward to whoever formulates a plan for such international settlements as will collect the Ten Billion due from foreign nations to the neonle of the United States . Plan is herewith submitted and no reward will be accepted : First : Let the United States call a convention in Washington of repre ; entatives of her debtor countries With request that they bring budget estimates for the future and balance sheets of present assets and liabilities . Most of these e , timates will naturally show- little expectation in the near future of a budget balance . Deficits have been domesticated in Europe . Second : Let the United States as creditor review , through its " World War Foreign Debt Commission " now headed by Secretary Mellon , these estimates and balance sheets . Third : Have the United States participate in a new world credit program on the lines set forth below . tacitliANY AS AN ASSET It will be found that a large asset behind our doubtful debtors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let the United States then provose that it deal with this asset and the possible recovery therefrom and propose to ali our debtor nations the problem as to how- far they cooperate to put Germany in position to become a realizable asset . If the answer of France and Italy is that they will do nothing in this diiection , the conference is ended and our Debt Commission can proceed with funding operations with debtor nations individually . If cooperation for financial reconstruction is found to be sincerely desired , it should be declared that the only basis upon which United States national or banking credit can be extended to Germany is with the guaranty of the European Allies . each for the individual amount he may receive , or be credited with , in the settlements . If it develops that Europe demands financial assistance without guaranties as security , there should be no further proceedings in this direction and the conference ends as above noted . us  --  rt:rtNA-rioN tr . MINDS 3117ST BE TAX  --  FREE Should the conference continue the next demand of the United States should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon international bonds tax-free in all participating countries , including Germany and the United States . This will be the crux of the whole matter . The United States can not afford to lend money for European reconstruction without expectation that eventually the bonds will be returned to European countries , and unless such loans are tax-free there can be no cooperation Such international cooperation must hold the fundamental lien upon the war-world . The right of any country to tax the bonds of such a lien narrows the market and depreciates the bonds , which must be taken most largely at the start by the United States and its citizens . If the proposal of an international tax-free bond is assented to , the solution of the world war debts and the restoration of Europe becomes very simple  --  a matter only of detail as to security and guaranties . SCALING REPARATIONS The United States . as the main creditor and hanker. should then propose that the interested nations agree in an order to the Reparations Commission to scale the indebtedness from Germany to a sum that is reasonably collectible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people and their above-ground properties . fILA VERYUNPROFITABLE However great the damage , a war indemnity can not he collected to any large extent from people yet unborn . Such attempted collection will he found unprofitable when it approaches national or human slavery , and history shows that slave labor is unprofitable labor and can not be depended upon to pay I.O.U 's . The main asset behind reparations and United States debt collection is willingness to pay . An exhausted , starving nation signing a treaty to pay ture , lies the possibility of full collection of the ten billion of indebtedness due to the United States . Collection can be accomplished under agreement to the above plan , together with improvement in international trade relations and the lowering of the cost of living by the enlarged world production that must follow . The United States today is world banker and can be world conservator provided it will broadly plan and be firm for justice and security . NIAINTENANCE O1 01 ; It STANDARDS We have grown great by peace and international trade and upbuilding . We should now give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or loss of protection to our labor or our productions , but through a sound , broad financial policy strengthening the assets and credits of our European debtors and of our own country . The United States is not so organized that it can proceed on any mushy plan of international brotherhood and world helpfulness by weakening itself to assist Europe to lessened work hours or greater case and comfort . Europe should be told most distinctly in international conference to pull itself together and by-its own labor and self helpfulness make sound security for international assistance . It must- be made clear to the world that in times of peace international assistance is the individual assistance ' of saving citizens seeking investment and security in their savings . Also it must be made clear to the world that nations are not creators of money , and that wealth arises only from the savings out of the labor of individual citizens . Such savings can be the hope of the world when properly secured by the world 's pledge , labor and security . In war time nations put obligations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . World peace requires that such obligations be supremely respected . It is not proper for any individual to set up as international dictator in seeking to extend sound principles of international finance and debt collection . countries . It should be no more taxable than international gold is taxable . The proceeds of such a loan , to be gradually ' paid in , would help in relief to the European ? udgets. - It should call forth world hidden savings in world relief . The third five billion should be held by the Reparations Commission or by the national treasuries with interest still further deferred , but with the principal to be first in collection as respects the part held by the public and the part held by our national treasury . A QUICK WAR SETTLEMENT The United States for the additional security it receives could well afford to open its financial markets and credit systems to such an international loan and defer its collection of principal , that France , Italy and England have prior right of way . The sooner these nations are paid , the greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public holding the balance , ten billion . Likewise the greater the security for world peace , and the greater the incentive within for Germany for ultimate payment . It might be provided that security be released to Germany in proportion as she paid . It should be a part of the undertaking that Germany and the European countries put their financial houses in order and proceed to balance their budgets . National deficits are not national security . CONCLUSION The above is the outline of what has been discussed privately for more than a year past in Paris , Berlin and London with bankers and statesmen of international reputation . Every feature and every difficulty has been canvassed , and no other proposal has appeared that rivals it in effectiveness or completeness . The collapse of Russia has threattr-eied the European food supply , although the big crops in North America have not made visible the WOI krt. food danger . Should the North American supply fail for a single sea-on the present dangee of the world under mod ' ern economic conditions would he quickly apparent to eeiybody . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plunging toward anarchy , with nor/d consequences ' no one can foresee . It is also clear that it is not in the interest of the United Santee or of Europe to permit industrial , agricultural or social chaos in central Europe if there are leammable leMedies at hand . The United Sotto : is the only financial power with the gold reserve . the banking reserve , the credit system and the ea , nine and swing ponce- to financially stabilize the world and set it at work v ? ith hope for the future .                     