@@685201

txt It is a truism to say that a people deserves the government it gets , but the far-reaching force of this is not so generally seen . There is no more democratic organization than that of a corporation , and it is equally true to say that the stockholders get the corporation management they deserve . It is foolish management indeed which does not welcome criticism and advice from the humblest stockholder . But the stockholder is not unlike the voter , who has so consistently failed to realize that the ballot is a means and not an end . In the appalling bungling and waste of Government management of ? the railroads , costly as it has been and must still be for an indefinite time to come , some useful discoveries were made . It was found that ? co-operation could bring about economies , even if under political management it failed to do so . The elimination Of meddlesome state regulation was an enormous gain , without offsetting loss to the public served . The pooling of business and cars to handle it opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are other respects in which a unification of railroad service was full of suggestive thought . One of the economies introduced was the union agency for selling passenger tickets . It is plain that this should have been supplemented by branch agencies , and that leases of the premises necessary in the great cities were unwisely surrendered by the Government administrator . It would ? indeed be a pity if the principle involved were lost , and with no desire to interfere with private management , already producing desirable effects in better discipline and service , it may be said here that some new departures under that management are not in the broad general interests of the railroads , or of the better service which is their best asset . It is even disheartening to hear that the Chicago and North Western and , the Soo are pulling out of the union passenger agency at Chicago , to handle their business independently , and that Missouri Pacific is doing the same thing in St. Louis . No doubt the passenger agents of these roads think that a few more fares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dearly earned , and the duplication of a service which should be unified Is a poor return for such a reactionary step . The idea of unified service is too good to abandon , and some day it will be extended to a unified and standardized freight car service , with each road renting what it needs . In the meantime the managements mentioned , and others with similar steps in contemplation , are moving in the wrong direction . They badly need a broader . vision .                     