@@696274

txt At the outset of the week in which Congressional leaders are to make an intensive effort to bring about an arrangement for a long legislative recess and an agreement that the Senate will vote on the tariff revision bill in the Autumn , the situation which confronts these leaders is filled with uncertainty . Signs of revolt over the provisions of the tariff measure passed by the House have taken positive form , especially in the agricultural Northwest . The falling prices of wheat are bringing worry , with discussion active as to whether the pending farm relief bill , if it were in operation , would be adequate to overcome the losses produced by the slump . Another point raised questions the wisdom of enacting the farm export debenture plan on the ground that if it were being applied now the great wheat surplus and the ' low price would cause , . wheat ; producers to dump these crops heavily . on the export market and thus get the benefit of the debenture ; . Amounting to 21 cents a bushel on all wheat shipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fixing a date in the comparatively near future for a vote on the tariff bill by the willingness of the Senate Democrats to agree to that double proposal . But Senator Borah is again the fly in the legislative ointment He makes known that no agreement to recess and vote on the tariff bill will be reached in the Senate by the usual method of unanimous consent Borah Prepared to Object . Only one vote is necessary to upset such an arrangement , and Mr. Borah indicates that he will furnish that vote . It is possible that the proposed arrangement may have to be carried out through application of the Senate 's limited closure rule , which requires a two-thirds majority . The wheat situation is so serious that some of the Congressional leaders are beginning to doubt their ability to obtain the necessary twothirds . All farm prices are dropping in sympathy with the wheat slump , and more and more the idea appears to be spreading among farmers of the West , according to some farm organization chieftains , that the tariff bill as passed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products , will also further raise prices of the things the farmer has to buy . But what can be done to relieve the situation if Congress remains in session is a question that has been raised . The Senate and Houso conferees on the farm legislation had a meeting today , but made little progress toward an agreement . The expectation is that they will harmonize all the differences between the two branches by the end of the week . With the apparent certainty that the farm relief legislation will be enacted into law soon , gossip is active already as ? to the man who will be chosen to bo chairman of the Farm Board which the law will create to handle the $500,000,000-revolving fund to be placed at the board 's disposition . Robinson 's Name to Fore . Henry M. Robinson of Los Angeles , banker and lawyer , close friend of President Hoover , who was associated with Charles G. Dawes and Owen D. Young as a member of the first commission of reparations experts which drafted the Dawes plan . Is most prominently mentioned for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculative gossip are Julius H. Barnes of Duluth , another friend of the President , who was the director of the United States Grain Corporation during the World War and the post-war period , and Fred E. Wells , a grain operator of Minneapolis . The Minneapolis Tribune , a conservative Republican newspaper , is furthering the protests against the enactment of the House tariff bill . It has called on farmers and business men of the Northwest to ap ? peal to Senator Reed Smoot , chairman of the Finance Committee , which will report the tariff measure to the Senate , to draft the revised measure so as to bring about parity between industry and agriculture . As the House bill stands , it is con- tended , it discriminates against the interests of the farmer by giving too many additional benefits to industry , which , it is contended , is contrary to the purposes for which the extra session of Congress was called by the President . The Minneapolis Tribune asserts that many farm organizations and other organizations devoted to the interests of agriculture in the Northwest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates that their membership aggregates 300,000 . A reflection of the dissatisfaction in the Northwest agricultural area was given in the fact that five of the nine Republican members of the Minnesota delegation voted against the tariff bill when it came up for passage in the House . Projects for Use of Fund Now . While the administration is viewing the wheat slump with conern , it is understood to have made no plans for meeting the crisis , which is accentuated by the prospect of another wheat surplus on top of the large surplus of last year 's wheat not disposed of . The wheat situation , however , has accelerated the desire of the administration and representatives of farm constituencies in Congress to get the farm relief bill on the statute books with as little delay as possible . Projects for employing the proposed revolving fund to meet the existing crisis already are being advanced . One of them is that $100,000,000 of It should be applied immediately to buy surplus wheat in order to prevent it from being sold at -a heavy loss on a sagging market . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money , and with the restrictions thrown around the Farm Board to prevent it from financing bad farm crop ventures , it might be contrary to the law for the board to authorize heavy purchases of wheat . All these factors tend to confuse the Congressional situation , but there is no evidence that the objection to a recess sponsored by Senator Borah is widespread . At the same time the wheat slump brings uncertainty into a situation which appeared to be on the verge of solution .                     