@@688747

txt To political Washington the only element of surprise in Attorney General Daugherty 's announcement at Miami that President Harding would be a candidate for renomination was that it came so soon . That the President ultimately would throw his hat in the ring was generally believed by those in his confidence and others with whom they discussed the situation in the Republican Party . Why the Attorney General should make the announcement at this time is a subject of comment here . It is generally agreed that no Cabinet officer would make a statement so important , particularly one so intimately concerning the President , without the President 's express authority . What caused this decision by the President is something that has not yet been disclosed in Washington , but there appears to be good reason to believe that it was the outcome of circumstances well understood in Republican political quarters . Recently there has been a recurrence of gossip that President Harding was inclined to withdraw from the Presidential contest of 1924 . This gossip was based largely on statements made by the President himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Capitol . It is a fair inference from what the President was reported to have said some time ago that he was hurt over the flareback in public sentiment after his overwhelming victory at the polls in November , 1920 . He found the duties of his office trying and full of unhappy incidents . Then came the dangerous illness of Mrs. Harding , with its depressing effect upon the President . In all the circumstances , it was said . Mr. Harding got into a state of mind that made him feel the game was n't worth the candle and that he would be far happier as a private citizen or again serving as a Senator from Ohio . Discouraged by Political Outlook . In a political way the outlook for the President appeared in a very discouraging light . Last Summer his official course was widely criticised , and it was apparent that many of those who had supported him in 1920 were saying unkind things of his Administration . There seemed to have been a country-wide switch of sentiment . Dissatisfaction with the so-called do-nothing Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling was reflected in the Congressional elections of 1922 , which , while they resulted in returning a Republican Senate and House , reduced the majority in the Senate from 24 to 10 and in the House from more than 160 to 1:5 . The President , however , was under ; stood to have been persuaded that It would be unwise for him to refuse to become a candidate for a second term . The campaign of 1924 , it was contended by his friends , necessarily would have to be fought on the policies of the Harding Administration , and no man other than the President could logically be expected to lead the party on these issues . Senator Watson of Indiana . close friend of the President , nagged by Senator Harrison of Mississippi about his own alleged candidacy for the Presidential nomination , made a statement to the Senate last month that Mr. Harding was certain to be renominated . That statement was taken to mean that the President had at last thrown off his fit of depression and would be a candidate in 1924 . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of groups of Republican Senators , which developed a very general opinion that the party would be obliged to renominate Mr. Harding . Even Senator Johnson of California , regarded as likely to contest the President 's renomination , was understood to have been convinced that it would be futile to enter the pre-convention lists against him . Further than this , it was said Mr. Johnson realized that if he should wrest the Presidential nomination from Mr. Harding he could not go before the country on a platform of the policies and accomplishments of the Harding Administration , and by that token would be certain of defeat , on the ground that the rank and file of regular Republicans would refuse to support a candidate who would repudiate the Harding Administration . Senator La Follette and his following in the Senate did not subscribe to this sizing up of the party situation . They kept their mouths closed . To Stop Retirement Talk . In the face of Senator Watson 's statement and the rather general agreement with it of Republican politicians here . there has been'recently a recurrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Harding was inclined to withdraw from the contest . There was a disposition here today to attribute Attorney General Daugherty 's announcement of Mr. Harding 's candidacy of these reports . That their continuous repetition might serve to encourage other party aspirants for - the Presidential office was a possibility . While there is a very general opinion that Mr. Harding 's renomination is cer- - tain in any event . it is realized . that it others entered the pre-convention primaries feeling might be aroused which would have a detrimental effect on party prospects . It was suggested here today that the intention to nip other candidates in the bud was responsible for Mr. Daugherty 's announcement at Miami . Mr. Daugherty said at Miami that President Harding would be opposed for the nomination " by no other candidate except one man who always is and always will be a candidate . " The newspapermen thought this referred to Senator La Follette . No statement has come from Mr. La Follette as to his plans for 1924 . His opposition to the Harding Administration has been manifast , but recently some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief that the President would favor the program of legislation which the group will put forward , in the House at least , - when it holds the balance of power in the next Congress . When President Harding left Washington for Florida on March 5 he had made up his mind that . unless something unforeseen and of vital public importance - occurred in the meanwhile , he would start for Alaska in the Summer , probably in June . That decision interlocked with the matter of his political intentions concerning the campaign of 1924 . To Meet the People Personally . The relationship of the President 's decision to visit Alaska to his candidacy - for the 1924 nomination lies in the opportunity his progress through continental United States on his way to Alaska will afford him of bringing his policies and his personality directly to the attention of the people . In urging " the President to make the Alaska trip some of his political confidants have stressed the necessity of a speech-making tour as a preparation for the preconvention campaign . In concurring with this view , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the continent would be valuable chiefly in enabling him to determine whether the people were anxious that he should enter the lists for a second time . The idea . in his mind , according to the impression carried away from the White House by his party intimates was that if he found that popular reaction was unfavorable it would be his duty to decline to be a candidate . It is not known that any of his consultants told the President this idea was unsound , but from what they have said since , there is no doubt they felt that he had obtained a wrong " slant . " to use one of his favorite terms , as to the bearing of a continental tour on his political fortunes . Their view was that Mr. Harding would be unable to determine definitely , no matter how extensive his swing around the circle , just how the electorate generally appraised him . There would be cheering crowds everywhere he went and plenty of enthusiasm so hearty that it could not fail to give satisfaction to the PresidentHe would find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would hear words of praise from those who presented him to the multitude . Shrewd politicians of experience say these signs would mean nothing more than the tribute which any President so personally well liked as Mr. Harding Nyman ! receive from the American people . They recall that no candidate for the Presidential office spoke to such immense crowds . or was more enthusiastically greeted than ' William J. Bryan in his campaign tours prior to his three defeats . Count on Effective Speeches . These politicians do regard the PresidAnt  --  s tour as valuable , however , in that it will give him the opportunity to explain his policies directly , to the people . Outside of their effect upon those who hear them his speeches will be published in newspapers throughout the country and will call for widespread comment As Congress will not be in session . his critics will not be in a position to . combat his utterances in any effective way . Such addresses as they may deliver at Chautauquas and in public meetings will not be telegraphed to the press generally- , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President will be able to talk with greater freedom than he has been able to do in Ins formal addresses to Congress . What he says in the speeches to the people will lay the foundation for the principles on which the party will go to tire country in 1924 with Mr. Harding as its candidate . In his conferences with political friends before he loft Washington . the President said he planned to make about twenty speeches . mostly in important cities . on his ' way to the Pacific Coast . These . according to the impression obtained , would be on a variety of subjects . but it is the expectation that Mr. Harding will stress his proposal that the - United States enter into full membership in the League of Nations ' Permanent Court of International Justice , his advocacy of the Ship Subsidy bill nd how it was defeated by the refusal of a bloc in the Senate to permit it to corne to a ' vote : the record of the Administration for economy under the workings of the new budget system ; the efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes of railway and mine workers . with some criticisms of railway executives for persistently refusing to make terms with t --  , rir striking sho ; ? rnen the enactment rural credits legislation and other things done for the benefit of the farmers , the action of the Administration in ( - ailing the Washington Conference on Limitation of Armament and the aceomplishments of that conference . and Possibly the efforts of the Administration to enforce the Volstead act .                     