@@696157

txt " 0 , dear , I ca n't remember for the life of me whether the month of May is spelled M-a-y , or M-a-e I Could you tell me which is right ? " This is what usually happens when the bride 's mother is a lone widow lady , not used to being alone . Like as not she will go on a trip to get used to Gladys not being ' round the house any more . And what with Gladys ' nuptials bringing back memories of her own wedding day , she will get feeling romantic and will start exerting magnetism on nice old gentlemen in the hotel writing room . Once the ice is broken , they have a beautiful time talking about the weather for this season of the year and rheumatism and neuritis and acidity . People who are sentimentally inclined love to imagine the bride 's mother on the wedding day , with a sweet sad smile , and the salt tears trickling down , imploring the groom to shield her birdling from the cruet world with its barbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasions , but more often than not a doting mamma will sneak the groom into a corner and say , " Now remember , Ashley , Hazel is far from perfect and her father and I have had to stand a lot from her . So do n't expect any saint ! " There seems to be a theory among brides that mamma likes nothing better than f : . - being sent out on an errand to the shops LYath a sample of something to matchtire idea being that it gives her some ; tking to do . " For goodness ' sake , Pattie , do n't get harping on your sinus , or the callus on your heel , or your indigestion , till after the honeymoon . Because he wo n't be the least bit interested . " " It 's been an hour in the fireless cooker already , and there seems to be a queer gray fuzz on the crust . 0 , mother , I do wish you 'd call a taxi and come over and look at it ! " " Helen , dear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baby feet resounds throughout these rooms . It will be such a joyous day when dozens of baby faces greet me with cries of grandma ! " The mother of the bride seldom realizes that a brand new son-in-law is very shrinking and easily startled . Those little heart to heart talks be t w e en mother and daughter should take place behind closed doors . h0 believe , Milton , that I never saw such a perfect piece of inlay work in all my days ! " A young husband atensely susceptible to flattery , and , be he ever so humble , a bride 's mother should manage to find something about 14tonin-law to admire openly .                     