@@692108

txt As a contribution to crowds in Manhattan and traffic difficulties all over the city , a fifty-six-story hotel on Fifth Avenue is insignificant compared with , a fifteen-story manufacturing loft on Seventh Avenue . If Manhattan Island ever reaches the saturation point and an automatic check sets in , it will not be because of the people who live on the Island but the people who come to work and do business on it . Since the year 1910 the residential population of the island has been declining . In the last fifteen years the population has decreased by something like 20,000 families . In 1910 Manhattan had 48 per cent . of the population of Greater New York . Last year it had 87 per cent . But this means only that residential congestion has been replaced br traffic congestion . The million and a quarter people the Greater City ha511 gained since 1910 live in the outlying boroughs , but nearly two-fifths of them travel to and from the old City twice a day . Twenty-five years ago probably a majority of the garment workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east side to the lower west side . Today they ride in from the Bronx and Brooklyn . If industrial centralization in Manhattan is to continue , it is doubtful whether the most elaborate schemes of transit extension will bring relief . Subways under every longitudinal avenue , subways under the two rivers every ten blocks of latitude , may only supply the incentive for forty-story garment and printing lofts and multiple-acre office buildings . The annual value of manufactures in Manhattan is about three billion dollars . Seventyfive per cent . is represented by lust two industries , apparel and printing and publishing , both of which are rapidly concentrating within less than a square mile of Manhattan between Twenty-third and Forty-second Streets , between Fourth and Eighth Avenues . And yet it is precisely this manufacturing life of the city that lends itself most easily to decentralizeItion . Finance , shops , hotels and recreation will always cling together and to the heart of a city . But there seems to be no inherent reason why Industry can not be carried to the outskirts of the city and near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habits that stand in the way , habits that threaten to become superstitions . Manhattan is far and away the greatest industrial centre in the United States . It might share that pre-eminence with the other boroughs with- I out losing in prestige or profit . It is a problem of geographically separating the production end of industry from the salesmanship end . Fifth Avenue was saved from engulfment by the garment manufacturers who Fere obsessed by the sales value of a Fifth Avenue address on their stationery . There was never any reason why clothes could not he manufactured anywhere in the city . The shift to the west side zone has obviously wrought no damage to the garment Industry .. A further shift to outlying Brooklyn and Bronx and Queens would bring no basic loss . The advantages of being close to . the hotels , the railroad terminals , the amusement centres , are either exaggerated or can else be retained on the sales side without the physical presence of the factories . At present , industry in New York is still firm In the grasp of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cobbler , it insists on carrying on its work in the front window .                     