@@696156

txt Administration forces carried into  --  the Senate today their fight on the export debenture plan of farm relief , opposed by President Hoover , when Senator Watson , Republican floor leader , announced that he would move soon to strike the provision from the bill . Senator Robinson , the Democratic floor leader , accepting the challenge , twitted Senator Watson and Chairman - of the Agricultural Committee for their past championship of the equalization fee and their present desertion of that principle , which is also objected to by Mr. Hoover . Senator Watson smilingly said he would explain later why he opposed both the debenture program and the equalization fee at this time . Senator also said he would explain later . After an hour and a half of debate on the farm bill the Senate adjourned until Monday to study a modified debenture proposal made by Senator Norris of Nebraska and intended to counteract to some extent the assertion that the debenture would stimulate the overproduction of farm crops . Under the Norris plan the Farm Board could estimate the size of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then reduce the amount of the export bounty , according to a fixed scale , should there be evidence of overproduction . Chambers ' Methods Contrasted . The legislative procedure of the Senate and House has been vividly contrasted by the manner in which the two bodies have considered their respective farm bills . The Senate took up its bill on Tuesday , and has devoted only half its time to the measure , with the prospect that debate will run on for two weeks . The House took up its bill on April 18 , and passed it last night . Today , when Senator Watson announced his intention to attempt to eliminiate the debenture plan , Senator Robinson asked him if he would support the equalization fee if the other proposal were rejected . " Will the Senator explain what has come over the spirit of his dreams in regard to the equalization fee ? " the Democrat inquired . At this point , Senator Watson said he would take the subject up at another time . There was " something mysterious , " the Democratic leader retorted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Ordinarily , " he stated , " he does n't care what he says . He says he will explain . Well , a Senator possessing the mental ingenuity of Mr. Watson can explain any inconsistency in his mental processes , to his own satisfaction at least . " - Accuses Watson of Politics . He accused Senator Watson of utilizing farm legislation for political purposes . " He wants to perpetuate it ; he thrives on it , " Senator Robinson continued . " It does not make any difference to the Senator whether the equalization fee fails or succeeds , so long as the farm relief question is in the politics of the country . " The Senator from Indiana and the Senator from Oregon were the champions of the equalization fee . They told us it did not matter if Mr. Coolidge had vetoed a bill em- bodying the equalization fee ; that provision was fait and just . " Senator Robinson in turn forced a statement from Senator that he would not support even the modified debenture plan of Senator Norris , nor the equalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I want to pass a bill that will not be vetoed , " Senator stated . " Well , we . have been dealing with the farm situation for twelve years . Let 's pass a bill and take the matter out of politics , " Senator Robinson replied . Norris Explains Ills Move . WASHINGTON , April 26 ( ' ) . ? Sena tor Norris in his discussion of - the farm question in the Senate contended that the debenture plan was an attempt to " put the farmer under the protective tariff umbrella . " " It 's a leaky one , " he said , " but it will help . " Other countries , he continued , have put the plan into successful operation , and , answering an objection from Senator Vandenberg , Republican , of Michigan . that foreign countries might retaliate through a tariff of their own , he declared that this country , in turn , could retaliate on them . " The object , " he said , " is not to give the farmers a bonus , but to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits of the protective . tariff . " Discussing his own amendment to the debenture provisions , which calls for a reduction of rates as production increases , Senator Norris declared that " it is quite evident that the present plan would result . in increased uroduction and some form of regulation is needed . " " I 'm not frightened at overproduction , even though I. can see some danger , " he said . " What we are trying to do is to give the farmer a better price . The farmers are unanimous in agreeing that something ought to be done to prevent overstimulation , and they realize that immense financial and political power is opposed to giving them the benefit of the tariff . The debenture plan would not be justifiable if we had no tariff law , but it is admitted by everybody that the present tariff law is not giving the farmer any benefit . " DENOUNCE BOTH FARM BILLS . Milk Producers See Bankruptcy for Stabilization Corporations . WASHINGTON , April 26 ( M ) . ? The protest , amounting , to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperative marketing agencies under the new farm relief bill , which was expressed by the board of directors of the National Cooperative Milk Producers ' Federation , was sent to members of Congress today . The forty-four member associations sharply assailed the measure which passed the House yesterday , as well as the Senate committee bill , as imposing upon cooperative associations a burden that they were loath to carry . The organization contended that since the stabilization corporations would be set up , owned , controlled and managed by cooperative associations , if they failed to bring agriculture to a basis of economic equality with other industries the failure would be attributed to the incompetency of the cooperatives . " If the stabilization corporation does not so function that domestic prices are above world prices , then no appreciable relief will be afforded agriculture ; and again the cooperative associations owning and controlling the stabilization corporation will receive all the blame . " the federation said . " The general public , including many farmers themselves . will therefore conclude that farmers can not manage big business , even with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it clear that the associations were proceeding on the assumption that the disputed debenture plan would be eliminated from the bill now before the Senate . That plan seeks , through the tariff , to deal with crops in which exportable surpluses are produced . " If the exportable surplus is to be so segregated that it may not depress prices of the entire crop . " the resolution said , " then it will be necessary for the stabilization corporation to purchase and hold all of such exportable surplus , or so much of it as will permit domestic prices , under the operation of the law of supply and demand , to reach and be maintained on a level of prices above the world 's level . " This , they contended . would bring the corporation into possession of a large part of the crop surpluses . which it would be forced to sell at a loss abroad . " Nowhere in either bill is there any provision for the payment of these losses , except from past or subsequent profits , " the federation said , adding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renewed criticism upon the cooperatives . " If this be the result , the whole cooperative marketing movement will receive a blow from the effect of which it will take decades to recover , " the communication contended . " If , when either of these bills becomes a law , there is no provision by which surplus losses may be recouped other than from past or subsequent profits , then the government should have the courage to , assume the responsibility for results and not shift that burden to the shoulders of cooperative marketing associations . " The communication said that while the stabilization corporations probably would cause price fluctuations to be less violent , they could not raise the general level of prices , " and the result of the operations might easily be lower net prices to producers over a series of years , "                     