@@693201

txt Queen Marie of Rumania , with her royal suite , arrived in Washington by special train from New York early this evening . She was received with distinguished honors by representatives of the United . States Government and escorted to the Rumanian Legation . There Queen Marie , smiling and bowing , won the crowd assembled to welcome her with a little unscheduled speech of twelve words spoken from the balcony of the legation . The crowd , which grew to 4,000 persons , had waited for hours outside the legation at Twenty-third Street and Massachusetts Avenue , braving the threat of showers . It greeted the Queen tumultuously when she was driven up to the legation , at the end of her triumphal entry , watched her go inside , then hesitated , hoping seinething more might happen . A matt walked out on the small balcony which overlooks both streets , straightened the folds of the Rumanian flag , and made as if to go back in . The crowd watched him , then began shouting for the Queen . It shouted and shouted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and smiled down upon the packed thousands . They waved hats and handkerchiefs and begged her for a word . " It 's so kind of you all to come , " the Queen said at length in her rich voice . which carried clear to the fringes of the throng " Thank you very much . " Then she waved a jolly farewell to I them , and went back into the legation . She had n't said much , but the way she said it won the crowd . Her First View of the Capitol . 11 Queen Marie 's first view of the American Capitol could not have been more beautiful if a stage director had planned it . She passed through the heart of the official district of Wash , ington , and its blazing avenues were the more impressive for the murky atmosphere which hung over them . The Capitol , its gray dome flooded with lights standing out against the black background was the first sight which greeted her as she stepped out of the Pennsylvania Station into the car waiting for her . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . The royal train arrived promptly at 6 o'clock . Secretary of State Kellogg and Mrs. Kellogg , Under Secretary Grew and Mrs. Grew , Mrs. J. Butler Wright , wife of the Assistant Secre- tary of State , and members of the Rumanian legation staff were waiting on the platform when the train drew In . The Army was represented by Its acting ranking officer , Major Gen. Fox . Connor . who was accompanied by Mrs. Connor ; the Navy by Admiral Edward W. Eberle , Chief of Naval Operations , who was accompanied by Mrs. Eberle , and the Marine Corps by General John A. Lejeune , with whom was Mrs. Lejeune , Brig . Gen. S. D. Rockenback , commander of the military headquarters district of Washington , was also present . A war strength squadron of cavalry was drawn up in front of the station , and a guard of honor of marines stood in two files , forming a lane for the Queen and her escort to pass through from the station to the automobiles . Welcomed by Secretary Renogg . As the Queen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train Secretary Kellogg welcomed her in be-half of the President . The exchange of courtesies was brief . Then the party moved toward the exit , Secretary Kellogg escorting Queen Marie . The party paused a few moments in the Presidential room at the station . through which Marshals Foch and Joffre , Lord Balfour ; President Wilson , at the conclusion of the Versailles conference , royal visitors and others meriting the highest dignities Washingtearecan bestow have passed on their entry to the capital . Several thousand persons were massed in the broad plaza in front of the station . The Queen smiled and waved her hand at the faces packed tightly against the grilled iron barriers . The cavalry squadron moved out and the automobiles filed within the private portico and followed slowly down Delaware Avenue . The way led directly toward the Capitol . A more impressive route could not have been found . Through the Capitol grounds , past the Peace Monument and up Pennsylvania Avenue the column progressed , keeping a slow pace to allow the crowds gathered along the line of march to see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The procession turned at the Treasury Building and passed the White House . Then it went up Sixteenth Street to Scott Circle and along Massachusetts Avenue to the Rumanian Legation. which will be the Queen 's home while she stays here . Arrival at the Legation . The crowds in front of the Legation were the most fortunate of all the thousands who tried to get a good view of the Queen . It was several minutes after her arrival before she passed from view behind the doors of the Rumanian Building . She wore a full-length coat of gray astrakhan and a gold turban with a dark pWme . Her dress was of brown silk , witE a flounce of red . Her shoes and stockings were gray . She carried a large bouquet of roses in her arms . Princess Ileana , whose car arrived a moment after her mother 's , was wrapped from neck to ankle in a gray squirrel coat , which entirely hid her dress . She wore a black turban hat . Neither the Queen nor the Princess wore gloves . Prince Nicholas was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were there in force as the Queen arrived , and as she stepped from her car there was an explosion so loud that many among the spectators started . It did not disturb the Queen , however , for already she had become used to flashlight barrages . The royal party dined privately at the legation at 8 o'clock . The Rumanian officials normally resident there have moved out to the Wardman Park Hotel , at which also are staying several members of the party of Americans who came on the special train . It was stated that Queen Marie was retiring early because a heavy program awaited her and her party tomorrow . At 9:30 A. M. tomorrow the three members of the royal family , accompanied by Mr. Diuvara , the Rumanian Charg ? d'Affaires , the Queen 's aides and Mr. and Mrs. J. Butler Wright , will leave the legation in automobiles for Arlington National Cemetery to lay a wreath on the tomb of the Unknown Soldier . They will have a military escort and a royal salute will be fired by artillerymen . Thence the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queen . the Prince and the Princess will go to the White House to be officially received by President and Mrs. Coolidge . A half hour later , at 4:30 P. M .. President and Mrs , Coolidge will return the call at the Rumanian Legation. timing their visit to last exactly as long as the Queen 's visit to them . At 8 P. M. the members of the royal family will be guests of the President and Mrs. Coolidge at dinner at the White House . Watches From Car Window . Tired as she was after her early rising on the Leviathan and the gratifying but wearying welcome in New York , Queen Marie ignored the opportunity to rest in her stateroom on the journey from New York and sat all afternoon in a corner of the royal family 's car watching America unroll before her . It was an entirely different America from the city of roaring canyons inhabited by gentlemen in top hats and black lacquer canes which she had just seen , and Queen Marie appeared to enjoy every mile of it . Factory windows were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Queen waved back at them ; railroad men in overalls gazed up at the royal special whirling through the yards of New Jersey towns and were rewarded with smiles . Flappers in the streets won a ' greetin when their waving handkerchiefs caught the Queen 's eye . Just north of Baltimore the train , running slowly , passed a group of negro track workers , They knew the Queen was on the train and waved frantically just as she looked up from a sheaf of welcoming messages and smiled pack at the rrA broadly . " Oh , they 're delightful ! " she exclaimed . " I love these colored boys . They remind me of the gypsies of my own country . " Only twice on the way from New York to Washington did the train stop Once was at West Philadelphia , and it was for only three minutes . A sizable crowd had gathered on the embank. ment overlooking the little suburban railway station . A hundred or more passengers waiting for the next train The city 's paper shower in lower Broadway for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family and Captain Hartley on the Leviathan . Left to right , the Princess Deana , Prince Nicholas , Queen Marie and Captain Hartley . to Washington on the track level hurried to the rear of the special train to see the distinguished travelers . It was 3 o'clock . and luncheon was just being completed in the Queen 's car . In answer to the shouts from the crowd Princess Ileana , a graceful figure in pale blue , came out to the rear platform and beamed upon the welcomers . Her brother , the slender young Prince Nicholas . laid down a bulldog pipe and came out and joined her . The crowd cheered them and called insistently for the Queen . ' " Mother is very busy , " explained I Princess Ileana . But even as she made the apologies her mother appeared from inside the car , as smilingly as ever , and waved a greeting to the people . She said a few words in appreciation of the welcome , but they were lost in the cheers of her audience . At Baltimore there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out on the platform to smile upon the crowd , which kept growing as the train waited . Even though she spoke very little each time , the Queen 's voice grew hoarse toward the . last . Queen Marie was in a gay mood from the moment she stepped on the train . at which moment she came offically tinder the direct protection of the United States Government , The platform along which the special train stood at the Pennsylvania Station in New York was guarded by a dozen policemen under personal command of Lieutenant John Collins , and they excluded all except those with official business in connection with the Queen 's departure . A handful of officials of the Pennsylvania Railroad paced up and down the platform and inspected and reinspected the cars . making sure that the last final touch was perfect . At the moment the approach of the Queen was signaled , two minutes past one , an ill-advised porter started to enter the royal car , armed with mop and pail . He was immediately pounced upon by three officials , two policemen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vestibule platform , which already was shining . After being hustled to the end of the platform he found a piece of brass to polish , and so consoled himself . The waiting officials suddenly formed a protective lane as the elevator containing the royal party descended to the train level . Mayor Walker . at her left , was escorting Queen Marie . He must have said something very amusing in the elevator . for Her Majesty was laughing and the Mayor wore a pleased grin . Queen Pleased With Her Car . The Queen , the Prince and the Princess were taken at once to their car . the American and Rumanian diplomats and aides filed into the preceding Pullman and the train pulled out at 1:08 . The car occupied by the Queen appeared to please her exceedingly . It , is the business car of General E. W. I Atterbury , head of the Pennsylvania System , and has carried many notable personages , among them Marshal Foch when he toured this country . The little lounge in the rear part of the car was lined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood on the tables and on the mantel . A huge basket of fruit decorated the writing desk . Down the corridor was the Queen 's private stateroom , with a large bed and a bath . Princess Ileana , Prince Nicholas and Prince HohenloheLangenburg each had a smaller stateroom . In the Queen 's room was a huge basket of giant yellow asters , and in Princess Ileana 's were white ones . The dining room was decorated with a mammoth floral piece of asters of many colors . The Queen 's party was under the immediate care of Esbone Pierce . an Emilishman , who is chief porter for General Atterbury . He perhaps was the calmest person involved in the day 's arrangements . for he has officiated many times for royalty . He was King Edward 's cook before Edward 's coronation . Since coming to this country he has accompanied Presidents Coolidge and Harding on trips . He was on the car when it carried Marshal Fnch . Helping him were other porters of equal experience in ministering to the wants of the famous . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Assistant General Passenger Agent of the Pennsylvania , who is accompanying the party . Other officials of the Pennsylvania and of the Pullman Company also were on hand . Besides the car reserved for the royal guests , there was a compartment Pullman and a chair car for the other members of the party , a dining car and a baggage car . A drizzling rain was falling when the special train emerged from the tunnel and sped across the New Jersey meadows . If Queen Marie had had time to see much of the early part of the journey she might have been surprised at the ugliness of much of the industrial district through which she was passing . But she was engrossed at first in a great pile of telegrams , letters and radio messages of welcome and she looked up only when her attention was called to people waving at her from factory windows or streets . Shortly after the journey was well under way luncheon was served in the private dining room . Those at the table were Queen Marie , Prince Nicholas , Prince Hoh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mr. Wright . The lunch was thoroughly American . It began with oysters on the half shell ? and its chief dish was broiled squab guinea hen . Other items were creamof-fresh-tomato soup , filet of white fish au gratin , small potatoes in cream , new peas , hearts of roniaine , with roquefort dressing , corn muffins , French vanilla ice cream with maple sauce , cakes and cheese . After luncheon the Queen , instead of grasping the opportunity to rest , returned to the lounge and esumed her ' seat next to the observation platform . An elaborately decorated grayer-plano had been installed in the car with a full complement of rolls , covering both the classic and the jazz field . Princess Ileana and Prince Nicholas busied themselves with this and spent most of the afternoon at it . They tried a few of the classics , but experimented mainly with American music and laughed over " Why Do You Roll ' Those Eyes ? " and " Thanks for the Buggy Ride . " And once , when the door at the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the car ahead  --  American male voices singing " Hail , Hail , the Gang 's All Here . " Reports that the Government would pay the entire railroad expenses of the American tour of Queen Marie were denied today by Government officials . It was explained that the expenses of the trip from New York to Washington would be paid out of the State Department 's fund for entertaining distinguished visitors . According to a high railroad official familiar with the arrangements , no effort has been made to obtain free passage for the Queen and her party on the railroads of this country . It was explained that no such request had been made  --  and that , if it had , the railroads , under the Interstate Commerce act , could not have given ' the party free transportation . The only persons who can be carried free by the I railroads under this act ure officials ' of the railroads . The Presidents of railroads , it was declared , could not I carry the Queen and her party in their private cars without paying fares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to New York  --  is being arranged through Samuel Hill , son-in , law of the late James J. Hill , The Queen will go to Maryhill , Ore. , to dedicate a fine arts museum at that place built by Mr. Hill and delicated to his mother-in-law and his wife . According to the railroad officials through whom the trip across the continent is being arranged . Mr. Hill requested that the railroad tour be arranged . and It is expected that he or someone connected with him will assume the expenses . The Government will have no further responsibility for entertaining the Queen after she returns to New York .                     