@@686278

txt Premier Briand granted me an interview on the'eve of his departure for the'London conference . I submitted a list of questions and these are quoted in order to preserve the context and make clear the meaning of the Premier 's important declarations . . I first asked M. Briand what action by the new Administration would most please France . The Premier replied that in the present circumstances France would welcome with the greatest joy the news that America , her friend , was about to tale her place once more at the conference . Close collaboration between the two countries would offer the safest guarantee of peace and insure the triumph of those principles of right and justice for which the two countries fought side by side . " Can you authorize me to say to America , " I asked , " that while France is preparing for all contingencies , it is solely with the desire to enforce the Versailles Treaty and is not inspired by a militaristic spirit ? " " France has no militaristic ambition whatever . The sanctions provided represent only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt to France . " ' ' Does the Paris accord give France any new sanctions not included in the Versailles Treaty ? " " The war came a t , . , n end tw , years ago , and France has as yet only received a small fraction of the reparations granted to her by the treaty . ' Departments in the north are destroyed . French industry is paralyzed . France Is impoverished 1.4 the loss of 1,500,000 men and the country is burdened with a formidable debt . The time has come when the reparations granted to France by the treaty must be made over to her . The perverseness and ill-will shown by Germany compel France to take measures to prevent the Versailles Treaty from remaining a dead letter . " In a Position to Enforce Treaty . " Is France in a position to take military measures without her allies if Germany failed to carry out the undertakings which she has signed ? " " France does not in any way desire to act independently of her allies , nevertheless she is in a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Versailles Treaty which provide for military sanctions . " " if Germany accepts and carries out the Paris accord , will , this enable France to carry on and eventually get rid of the burdens of the war ? " " if Germany carries out the condi- ferlority in which Germany placed her by the deliberate destruction of all her industrial plants in the north . " is the preservation of the League of Nations very important to France ? " Confidence in the League . 4 " The interests of France have suffered from the fact that America , who has no direct stake in European politics , has abstained from taking part in international conferences where practical interpretation of provisions of the treaty ' , ? is defined . The League of Nations will 's certainly prove an effective instrument for the maintenance of peace in the world . Whatever may be the viewpoint ! of America with regard to the general aspects of the political situation , I am convinced that she must think with us that the principles of which the League of Nations is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " Does n't the covenant of the Leagur of Nations contain clauses which wil do away with the danger of renewe. aggression from Germany ? " Yes , the League of Nations certain1-. , offers the possibility of maintaining peace and forestalling the revival the militarist spirit in Germany . " " The American public has heard . of the suffering of the people in Austria . Is it true that the economic revival of Austria would be to France 's interest ? ? Will the Austrian question be laid before the conference in London ? " " The means of restoring the economic existence of Austria are 1now being studied . A decision will be taken in a. few days . It is certainly to France 's interest that Austria should live and thrive . The question wo n't come before the conference in London . " tions imposed upon her , France will just be able to restart her normal economic life . The effects of the war will take long years to obliterate . For many years to come France will remain less prosperous than she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give a reasonable security against the possibility of future aggression by Germany ? " " France must always bear in mind the possibility that the spirit of aggression may awaken again in Germany . With time the spirit of Germany may be - Modified , but for the present France must be on her guard . " " Germany having made a war of conquest and been defeated , is it possible to renew historical precedents and attempt by . every means available to render her incapable of fresh aggression , if with the , return of economic prosperity her warlike spirit were to break out once more ? " " France does not wish to crush Germany , but she is firmly resolved that Germany must make good the damage she . has done . France has fresh proofs that Germany is attempting by every means in her power to evade payment of fair reparation provided In the treaty . Evidences of this danger which threatens France come ' to light every day . Quantities of ammunition are being found in Germany and ammunition is still being manufactured there . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prudence both to exacting payment of Germany 's debt and in keeping ' herself on her guard against all attacks of the Pan-German1 ist and militarist party . The present Garman Government is weak . Perhaps with the revival of economic prosperity the thought of revenge will fade , but for the present there is danger of a revival of the Pan-Gerrnanist spirit . ' France must therefore keep in a position to enable her to carry out if necessary ' the sanctions granted to her . " " Is it true that the present Ministry was called into being by the general will of the people of France , especially of the farming class , to obtain full and prompt application of the Versailles Treaty ? " " Last Effort In Favor of Peace . " " The present Government represents the last effort In favor of peace . France has reached the extreme limit of what she can consent to with the view of aiding the economic restoration of Germany . Germany is as a matter of fact well on the road to recovery and gives undoubted proof of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America that a tax on total turnover be substituted for the 12 per cent . on exports . Has this method been considered ? " There are widespread confusion and error concerning the proposal of the 12 , per cent . tax on German exports . The ' , proposals , of the Paris conference are made up of a determinate and an indeterminate item . That is to say , a fixed annuity calculated on the present condition of Germany and a further payment of a sum equivalent to 12 per vent . of the total figure of German exports . The foreign credit of a country s dependent upon the value of her exlorte . German industry has not suffered directly through the war and it is only ' list that if her exports attain a total ) f say 25,000,000,000 francsa year France should take a percentage on this total I , a nmmenaafInn for the condition of inBRIAND COUNTS ON TAX . Expects Money From Exports to Shorten Reparation Time . PARIS , Feb. 18 ( Associated Press ) . After a three-hour conference which Premier Briand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate today , at which the Premier explained fully the Government 's foreign policy on the eve of the London Conference , the committees assured the Premier that he could mint on their unreserved and loyal support . Innumerable questions were put to M. Briand and he answered them all . The Premier pointed out that when the Allies came to the Paris Conference they were convinced France cherished imperialist views as regards the Rhine . He said he proved them unfounded and showed further that the . work of the Reparations Commission had been hinlered consistently by all the Govern- I ments during the last year . He declared also the Allies were convinced that the industrial development if Germany would be so great and the 12 per cent . tax would bring in such Awns that there would be no need to continue the annual reparations payments for the full term fixed . The conviction was held in America , he added , that the tax , would affect the world 's trade . Referring to the Near East question , M. Briand asserted that the British had shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had told the British , however , that he did not see how the French Parliament could ratify the treaty while Constantine occupied the throne at Athens . The British , he said , then compromised by asking that the Greek and Turkish delegates be summoned to London at the same time . He gave ' It to be understood that while the Constantinople Government was n legal one , Angora , also was one , in fact in very much the same way as that of Constantine at Athens . As the French Government was moeanxious to get in touch with the Angore delegates he had accepted this compromise . which appeared to him to he ; a confo-mitt ' with French interests .                     