@@696207

txt A more stringent enforcement of the rules restricting street parking , the use of tags to be attached to offending vehicles In lieu of summonses to be served upon owners , the restriction of street repairs and street cleaning to night hours and the establishment of " hotels for cars " in the midtown district of the city , were recommendations submitted to Mayor Walker yesterday in the report of the Citizens Street Traffic Committee . W. J. L. ' Bambara of the Board of Trade , who is president of the committee , was accompanied by a score or more of its officers and directors when he delivered the report to the Mayor in the City Hall . Mayor Walker expressed his thanks and said the report would be reduced to memorandum form and submitted to the Board of Estimate tomorrow for consideration by the board as a whole . Some recommendations may require charter amendments or amendments to the penal code , he said , and these will be studied by Corporation Counsel Arthur J. W. Hilly . Assail " Motor Squatters . " For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of street traffic congestion based upon existing facilities , without considering such drastic construction measures as the building of ramps and underground highways , which , the reports says , doubtless will have to come later . In discussing the parking evil the committee said : " A check of over 100,000 cars in midtown Manhattan area disclosed the fact that approximately 75 per cent of parked cars observed the police regulations of one hour ur less . The remaining 25 per cent were parked from one to eight hours . " It is at this 25 per cent , the " motor squatters " who take more than their share of the parking privilege , that the recommendations are aimed , asking that existing regulations be strictly enforced . Tags instead of tickets will be more efficient , it is believed . The report continues : " Under present police regulations officers are put to the necessity 3f serving summonses personally upon drivers of cars who have violated the parking regulations . In the belief that this procedure is cumbersome , consumes too much of the officer 's time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommends the adoption of serving summonses to violators by mechanical means on the automobile itself . The committee is advised by its counsel that authority is already vested in the Police Department to follow this course without the necessity of additional legislation . " Failure to respond to the ticket summons would be made to result in revoking the violator 's license . Want Zoning Laws Altered . ' With the reduction of parking in congested areas , the committee declares , comes the problem of what to do with the cars which can not be taken care of at the curb . Under the present zoning laws , it is declared , it is impossible to provide adequate garage facilities in the districts which most need them , the congested areas such as Fifth Avenue and Broadway and the streets bordering upon them . Amendment of these zoning regulations is urged by the committee to make possible the erection of " hotels " for automobiles . The Board of Estimate is petitioned to " amend the present zoning ordinance by creating several new districts in convenient locations throughout the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' which may be accomplished by designating portions of certain streets within the midtown area and elsewhere where automobile storage facilities of suitable construction and equipment may be erected without unreasnable and unnecessary restrictions , and in accordance with the Fire and Building Department 's regulations , and at locations which will alleviate congestion . " Utilization of night hours in making repairs ; decking over trenches in the street which have been dug up for repairs ; rushing through of repair jobs which can not be planked over , putting them on a twenty-four , hour schedule ; making streets under repair one-way streets ; eliminating all parking opposite repairs , unless there is a clear space of thirty feet or more and requiring streets to be kept open during rush hours  --  these ' arc some regulations which , the committee - declares , would eliminate much congestion . Proposals on Loading . An intensive study was made of congestion caused by the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles . It was suggested : " That no passenger cars be permitted to park in any space necessary for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the receipt and delivery of merchandise or supplies . " That all commercial or industrial buildings shall have a space within the property line commensurate with the size and use of the building , for the receipt and delivery of merchandise or supplies . " Merchants should be required to remove all merchandise promptly from sidewalks as received , it is urged , and not use the sidewalks to store goods awaiting shipment . For the future , the committee proposes that buildings be required to provide shipping and receiving facilities within the property line , and that They also provide parking space for trucks within the property limits . The committee strongly recommends that all cleaning , hosing and flushing of streets be performed at night . Another recommendation was to remove all signs from the highways except those authorized by law . The citizens ' street - traffic committee was organized a few months-ago by a group of citizens who felt that since the people were responsible for traffic congestion , it was up to the people themselves to solve this problem . Its membership includes merchants and manufacturers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as representatives of the various business associations of the city . ' C. Stanley Mitchell of the Bank of United States , president of the Central Mercantile Association , is treasurer of the committee ; M. D. Griffith , general manager of the New York Board of Trade , secretary ; Harry B. Chambers , counsel , and Lewis Buddy 3d , general manager .                     