@@690942

txt Anthracite producing companies are actively engaged in getting out as much coal as can be produced with the forces and equipment at their command , " says the Miners ' Bank . " Notwithstanding the continued mild weather conditions that have prevailed , the demand for the household sizes of anthracite has been very good indeed . Most of the companies are working at or near a capacity basis and , except for the steam sizes , of which oftentimes a considerable surplus exists , there is a growing demand for all the coal that is mined . The inquiry has not been as insistent , however , as it would have been with zero temperatures prevailing at the great consuming centers . " But everyone realizes that the season is approaching v.-hen the country 's fuel consumption is very large and when " hurry calls " for coal are the order of the day . All the distributing agencies have been helped by the extraordinary service rendered by the railroads as a consequence of the favorable weather conditions and the unparalleled efficiency with which the transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that no section will suffer this winter from a coal shortage , although it is evident that many consumers have delayed tilling their bins because of the mild weather and the disinclination of many people to make seasonal purchase ; before they are actually obliged to do so . The anthracite industry as a whole is going strong and there are even better days ahead . The season of acute demand is at hand . " There is " till a large building shortage to be made good in the Wilkes-liarre district . This means that construction work Ns ill be heavy for some time to come in the tffort to provide for the estimated $7,4100.000 rc : - idontird a ba nt.ed , for it will not Le possible to reduce rentals requirements and the ** shortage of huciness and publ ; rs ? - uctures which must be supplied soon . This is a ? , preciably until the available supply of dwellings and apartment structures has been increased .                     