@@696309

txt General Charles G. Dawes , the ' new American Ambassador to the Court of St. James's. arrived in London this evening . To-* morrow , accompanied by Arthur Henderson , Foreign Minister , and Ray Atherton , - Counselor of the.Embassy , he will go to Windsor Castle to present his credentials to King George V and be formally received as persona grata to the British Empire . Tomorrow night he will depart for the village of Forres , Scotland , where Prime Minister Ramsay will meet him on Sunday afternoon for what promises to be one of the most notable conferences in the history of America 's international relations . Mr. , who is going from his holiday retreat at Lossiemouth , Scotland , to greet General Dawes at Forres , has said it is going to be one of the most informal but perhaps one of the most momentous discussions in the annals of AngloAmerican affairs . Forres has been selected because that is as far as the Scottish train from London runs on Sundays and it is only seventeen miles from . Lossiem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's plan to motor to Forres instead of having General Dawes motor to him - is the delicate and courteous equivalent of meeting the Envoy from a friendly nation half way . Forres was the northernmost point which the Romans reached in the time of the Caesars . Centuries later it was a continuous battleground between the Scots and the English . However , the place has at least one precedent in Abe way of peace , for there is a stone there to mark the friendship treaty between Malcolm II and the.Norse King Swein . General Dawes and Premier are expectedy. to furnish the occasion for another such stone . Because of the King 's illness , tomorrow 's meeting at Windsor Castle will be made as simple as possible and the usual ceremony , in which the whole embassy staff participates , will be eliminated . General Dawes , accompanied only by Mr. Henderson and Mr. Atherton , will drive from Windsor Station to the Castle in the royal carriage , and after the brief ceremony return at once to London . When General Dawes arrived at Southampton this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose head , heart and briefcases were all filled with vital matters which he could not reveal to the scores of eager Americans and Englishmen who met him . All these things had to be withheld for the audiences with the King and the Prime Minister . After that , on the occasion of the Ambassador 's speech at the Pilgrims ' dinner on Tuesday night , the rest of the world may know the outline of the new chapter in Anglo-American relations . This chapter will contain much concerning the reduction of naval armament but Prime Minister is to read it first . Issues Formal Statement . The only formal statement which the Ambassador permitted himself to make today was : " I fully . realize the confidence shown in me by my appointment to this responsible position and I will endeavor in every way to faithfully perform the duties it involves . You will exceuse me , I know , from attempting to discuss them before I am better acquainted with them . " From radio messages from England , received on the way over , I quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructions on various matters , but I have no doubt it concedes my wisdom in my declination to be interview upon them . " It is with happiness that I look forward to meeting once more the dear English friends whom in war and reparations work I came so to admire and love and trust . I do not feel a stranger here  --  none could , after such associations  --  and I hope I am not regarded as such . " I have never been a diplomat . I have many faults , but somehow I am sure you will put up with them as have my own people . " The foregoing statement was issued to the English press on the ship . Later , on the train , Mr Dawes said , more informally , what he did not know about diplomacy would fill many- volumes . But despite that modest statement he showed the first qualification of diplomacy , which is reticence , when , one of , his enthusiastic friends at Southampton assured him that America would have a much better ' chance to improve its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have had if Sir Austen Chamberlain , of the , Conservative Cabinet had continued in the post ' of Foreign . Secretary . General Dawes gave no sign that he had even heard the remark . However , despite his reticence , the new Ambassador managed to make a good many people happy in the course of the continuous ovations with which he ' was met between the docking of his ship , the Olympic , at Southampton , and his final arrival this evening at the London Embassy , to which he was accompanied by Mrs. Dawes , his daughter , Virginia , and his nephew , Henry Dawes . Greetings Started at Cherbourg . As a matter of fact the ovations began at the French port , Cherbourg , where the ship touched on her way to England . There he was met by Colonel Francis Drake and Albert B. Cudebec who had served under him with the Seventeenth United States-Engineers in the World War , and by John M. Savage , American Consul at Southampton , and by M. H. Pugh , mayor of Southampton . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the departure of Ambassador Houghton , boarded ' the Olympic at Southampton as the head of the official party of greeting and there was a ceremony on the ship at which General Dawes insisted Captain H. W. Parker , commander of the Olympic , sit beside him . Mayor Pugh assured the Ambassador that the work ahead of him was the greatest and most vital that had ever been undertaken by any American envoy sent to England . In response , General Dawes merely recalled his affectionate memories of Southampton when he first entered that port in command of the regiment of American ? engineers . They came on board a cattle ship to take part . with the English in the World War . On the train ride , to London with a group of American and English correspondents , the General staved off all naval reduction talk and other vital questions by a continuous string of good stories . His only intimation as to what he would do in England was on the social side . " For four long weary years , " he said , " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the American administration . I can assure you that for the first few months in London I want to devote all my Social leisure to seeing my old English friends of the war and reparation periods , such men as Sir Josiah Stamp , Reginald , Lieut . Gen. Travers C. Larke and Colonel Henry Maud . Smokes His Famous Pipe . An Englishman in the party asked him about his famous underslung pipe which he refilled a dozen times between Southampton and London . " Do you want to know now or later ? " asked General Dawes , " becatire.I assure you I am never going to mention this pipe more than once in England no matter how . long I stay here . " The questioner said he would like to know immediately . ' " Very well , then , " said the Ambassador , " I will now explain for the millionth and last time that this pipe catches . all the liquid nicotine in the bottom- so it can not go through the stem and poison me . This is positively my last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last word on the Ambassador 's supposedly strong language . Mr. Atherton , the proud father of a daughter born on the eve of General Dawes 's arrival , assured this correspondent officially today that the baby was not to be named Helen Maria . At Waterloo Station , in London , Ambassador Dawes was met by Sir Robert Van Sittart of the Prime Minister 's secretariat ; his old Washington friend , Baron De Cartier , now Belgian Ambassador at London ; Colonel John R. Thomas , Military Attach ? at the embassy , and Albert Halstead , Consul General . ? Premier Prepares for Visit . LOSSIEMOUTH , June 14 tn. ? The Prime Minister has completed arrangements for meeting Ambassador Dawes at Forres on Sunday and it was understood that their conversations would be held at Logey House . the Highland residence of Sir Alexander Grant , who has ' been a lifelong friend of the Prime Minister . Mr. will meet General Dawes at the Forres station and drive him directly to the handsome white stone house on an eminence seven miles away , hidden among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can have the talk both so eagerly await . Forbes , a historic and royal norough seventeen miles from Lossiemouth , is a little Highland resort nestling peacefully amidst the pineclad hills overlooking Moray Firth . From Cluny Hill , within its precincts . can be seen the fringe of Cromarty Firth ; where lies the Invergordan naval base . The British and American fleets were sheltered there during the great war and part of Lord Jellicoe 's fleet steamed from there to the Battle of Jutland . Those strenuous days were recalled a fortnight ago by naval manoeuvres in Moray Firth , just outside Lossiemouth , birthplace of the Prime Minister . The Lossieniatith Town Council has decided to invite Premier to dinner on Tuesday night when Ambassador Dawes will be the guest of the Pilgrims ' Society in London . Canadian Premier Questioned . OTTAWA , June 14 ( Canadian Press ) . ? Premier Mackenzie King gave a negative reply when questioned again in the ? House of Commons today as to . whether he had received an invitation to join President Hoover and Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Send Cable . The New York Board of Trade , through its president , W. J. L. Banham , cabled Premier an expression of the hope . that his proposed visit to ? the United States might become a reality , and that the representative business ? organizations of this city may . have an . opportunity to greet - him and cooperate in his " amicable mission . " The cable states  --  the ? opinion that strengthened friendly relations between England and America will " assure that peaceful growth in material prosperity which is the only Practical condition for spiritual prow . perity , " -                     