@@691134

txt The Republican Steering Committee of the Senate met late this afternoon and selected nine measures to be acted upon before Congress adjourns March 4 . The nine measures in the order listed by the Steering Committee are as follows : German commercial treaty , to follow the Isle of Pines . The bill for the reduction of Interest on outstanding loans by the Government to the railroads . The Stanfield Civil Service Retirement bill . The Hale Naval Reserve bill . The Branch Banking bill . The Brookhart Game Refuge bill . The bill for the reorganization of governmental departments . The French spoliation claims . The Wadsworth proposal to place a restraint on amenements to the Constitution . Success of Program DonbtfuL Of these measures , the leaders appear to be- hopeful of obtaining adoption of the German commercial treaty and the bill for reduction of interest on . railroad loans . The success of the others is admittedly extremeful doubtful in the minds of the leaders . The French spoliation claims were before the Senate today and what amounted to a filibuster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Republican , insisted on the full text of the bill being read . This took up all of the time available for the discussion of the bill today . The governmental reorganization bill was virtually sidetracked in the Senate on Saturday , and leaders admit that it has no chance of adoption . The Wadsworth bill was put on the calendar simply to keep it before the Senate as a live measure , and not in the belief that there was any chance of obtaining final action . It is possible that the Civil Service Retirement bill and the Naval Reserve bill may go through , but both will invite lively debate if they are taken up . The Branch Banking bill , initiated in the House by Representative has many enemies in the Senate as well as friends , and if an attempt is made to force it through , a debate may be brought on that will threaten other more important measures . The bills for the purchase of the Cape Cod Canal by the , : overnment and the Federal Roads bill now are before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Failure to assign a place to farm relief legislation does not necessarily mean Its doom , as it will be possible to move for action on such legislation as soon as a bill ie reported out of committee . The postal rate and pay bill also is likely to start trouble in the Senate after the House committee completes the operation of rejecting the bill passed by the Senate and initiates its own legislation . No mention of World Court proposals was made by the steering committee . Confers With Coolidge on Farm Aid . WASHINGTON , Feb. 2 ( Associated Press ) . ? Legislative recommendations made by the President 's Agricultural commission , the World Court and the Crampton bill for reorganization of prohibition enforcement machinery were omitted front the list of measures drawn up today by the Senate steering committee for action before the final adjournment of Congress . Agricultural relief measures recommended by the President 's commission , It was explained by Senators , were omitted because they still were in a formative stage , with hearings on them yet to be held by the Agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Coolidge today by Chairman Snell of the House Rules Committee , which holds the whip hand over procedure on the House side of the Capitol . Mr. Snell presented a long list of measures clamoring for attention . but Mr. Coolidge insisted that agricultural r , lief and the governmental reorganization bill should be kept out in front . The Crainton bill , passage of which , it has been indicated , might be followed by the retirement of Commissioner Haynes and other changes in the prohibition enforcement personnel , also still is in committee . The commercial treaty with Germany . , , xplainerl at length today to the Foreign Relations Committee by Secretaries Hughes and Hoover , will be taken up in committee tomorrow , with a view to prompt report to the Senate . The agreement , negotiated as a model for similar conventions with other nations , has drawn opposition from some Senators because of provisions against discrimination by either nation in favor of its own nationals over those of the other shipping goods in its merchant ships . In addition to the steering committee 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the $75,000,000 Good Roads bill and the Bursum measure for retirement of disabled emergency - 17World War officers . The Isle of Pines Treaty also is actively under discussion , but with little prospect of action at this session . Initial steps were taken by the House Agriculture Committee today toward drafting Into legislative form the recommendations of the President 's Agricultural Commission . Ralph P. Merritt , a member of the commission , discussed the various proposals and explained in detail the benefits which the commission hoped they would carry to the farmer . A brighter outlook for the cattle industry was seen by Mr. Merritt , who dwelt at length on this subject He said he could not endorse the proposal to regulate production as a. means of increasing prices of farm products , and attributed the failure - of many cooperative marketing organizations to meet expectations to a lack of definite plans , inadequate financing , defects in management and failure to organize sufficient numbers of producers . Mr. Merritt said the President 's commission would hare no further recommendations at present , as it believed as much ground already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this time . The committee has called another meeting for tomorrow for further consideration of the recommendations , planning to hear briefly as many witnesses as desire to testify . The Senate Agricultural Committee also plans to meet tomoprow to take up the commission 's report , and it has been suggested thasessions two-Mit arrange to meet ln joint latergh in the week In an effort to expedite legislation on the subject .                     