@@687829

txt Impressions current in the financial district and intimationsin a part of the press that the country faces a possible tic-up of the railroads apparently ignore the fact that strike votes are being taken only by the shop forces , maintenance of way workers and clerk ? . While these classes together embrace a large proportion of all railroad workers . none of them man the trains . Throughout the present discussion of a possible strike not a word has come from the leaders of the four train crew brotherhoods as to the part they might play in any such movement . Railroad men point out that the train employes took a strike vote last fall , but that their leaders did not exercise the authority thus put into their hands . At that time the train employes had issues of their own at stake , whereas , at the present time . their - wage scales and working conditions are in no - wise affected by the Labor Board decisions which have given rise to threats of a strike . Railroad officers further point out that none of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the movement of trains . The railroads could operate dor an indefinite time without the maintenance of way men , and could probably recruit emergency forces for that work without great difficulty . The clerks could likewise he replaced , executives say , though perhaps with somewhat more difficulty and some temporary loss of efficiency . A walkout of the shop forces would not at once stop train movements , and would not stop the transportation of necessities for some weeks . The ultimate effect of a shop strike would depend upon the extent to which new mechanics could be obtained under the prevailing condawns . While railroad executives generally are reluctant to discuss the prospects of a strike among any of the employes , several of them have expressed the opinion that the men recognize too clearly the advantages they have obtained through the Labor Board 's handling of wage questions to strike against its decisions . Some of them say that a few local , strikes are not unlikely to take place before the matter is settled , but do not expect these to spread or to last long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintenance of way and shop craft workers , a prominent railroad man said : " Whether these men strike or not , the railroads will continue operating as at present . There can be only one result from such a strike  --  the loss of it by the men . " The four train-crew brotherhoods will not lend their support to any strike by the maintenance of way workers and the shop craft employes . " The south does not expect a railroad strike , according to the president of a large coal carrying road , who says southern newspapers arc discounting possibility of a strike . In some railroad towns , he says , sentiment is decidedly against striking over the wage reduction , since employes realize wages of their neighbors have been reduced more than their own wages . This executive believes public sentiment is so strongly opposed to a strike that union officials as well as workers will be impressed with the futility of combatting it . He does not look for support of trainmen in the event of a strike of shopmen. and says : " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sounds well for Mr. Lewis to pledge support to railroad workers , but he is only making such an advance in an effort to get a return pledge from the brotherhoods . I do not believe the bituminous strike will be settled before September 1 , and railroad employes will have nothing to do with it . "                     