@@688008

txt Governmerit operation of railroads serving the producing mines and if necessary Government seizure and operation of all the coal mines in the ? United States will have the approval of the Governors of Minnesota . North Dakota , South Dakota , Wisconsin and Iowa ; according to resolutions adopted at the conference of Governors in St. Paul tonight and forwarded to President Harding . The conference was called by Governor J. A. 0 . Preus of Minnesota to discuss methods of meeting the coal emergency in the Northwest . Governor Blaine declared the coal situation in Wisconsin had reached a state where the domestic life of the State was threatened , as dealers were unable to fill orders for fuel in the homes . In addition , hundreds of factories might have to close unless the emergency was met . He urged the ' policy of Federal seizure of coal mines . " We can not , sit idly by and see our industries and our homes go without fuels because the operators and miners are unable to reach a settlement in a wage dispute , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act . We have no power to contract privately with any mine to supply us coal whatever price we might be willing to pay . It is the Federal Government 's problem and it must settle the strike to satisfy the demands of all the people and not merely the demands of those actively t engaged In mining . " Ivan Bowen , Minnesota Fuel Administrator , presented to ' the conference a statement showing that there was on Aug : 1 at the head of the lakes 660,9 tons of bituminous coal and that the companies owning this coal had obligations amounting to 934,850 tons . show : ing a deficit of ' 4273,862 tons for current orders alone . Governor Preus told the conference that he had received a telegram from H. B. Spencer , Federal Fuel Distributer , declaring that the railroads had greatly improved their service in the past few days , and that the dumpings of cos. : at Lake Erie ports would soon be materially increased . The Governor charged that ? ' some of the operators and dealers are taking advantage of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The supply of coal at the head of the lakes , the Governor declared , was 8,000 , - 000 tons below normal . Senator Kellogg of Minnesota condemned the price gougers in the present emergency and declared his belief that establishment of the Hoover price would not be sufficient to control the price to the ultimate consumer . The Federal Administration , he said , must invoke embargoes against mine operators and dealers who attempted extortion because of. , industries being hard pressed ' - for coal . Senator Kellogg said that he was opposed to Government operation of railroads as long as they themselves were able to operate . He expressed the hope that the roads serving the non-union fields and Lake Erie ports would rapidly improve their service so as to make direct operation by the Government unnecessary.s , Governor Kendall of Iowa declared that regardless of what action was taken hundreds of Industries in the Northwest would be closed for lack of fuel and thou.s.nds of men thrown out of employment . Iowa , he said , had only two weeks ' supply of coal oil ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had mines capable of producing 1,000.000 tons of coal a year . He declared that unless union miners could be induced to return to work it would be impossible to operate the mines in his State . He saw no relief save in Government operation of mines . Following these statements and additional . declarations along the same line by . Governors of South Dakota and Nestos of North Dakota a ? - ; well as by others attending the conference , these resolutions - were adopted : " Whereas , there exists an aeut .. : scarcity of coal due to labor disputes , which have suspended the working of many minesand interrupted the fumetions of railroads , and . " Whereas , this famine of fuel threatens tile health and happiness of our people and imperils the prosperity of our business , " Therefore , be it resolved , that we . the Governors of Minnesota , North Dakota , South Dakota , Wisconsin and Iowa , do hereby assure the President of the United States that if from information at hand he believes it to be wise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nc. 23 , or , if he believes It is necessary to take over coal mines in order that the necessities ' of- life of the people during theperiod of the present emergency may be- provided for , such action will have the hearty approval of the Executives of these five States and , we believe : , of the people Whom we represent . " ?                     