@@689065

txt That the son of a wealthy oil man and some of his associates are back of the , drive to depress crude oil prices , and tluit the raids on the market have been the result of advance information supplied to stock Jobbers , Is the opinion of Senator Charles Curtis of Kansat . Senator Curtis said today that he had received so many complaints from small oil producers and refiners in Kansas and in Oklahoma about what seemed to those producers and refiners to be a fictitious condition in the oil inc:ustry that he had made a study of the situation . " From the information he has received . " says a statement issued froin Senator Curtis 's office , " and from what he has seen in the metropolitan Press , such as The Wall Street Journal , he has concluded that the depression in the price of crude oil during the last three months was primarily for the purPose of stock jobbing , and that certain stock jobbers have systematically been placed in possession of advance information iegarding reductions to be made in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the public press have made open charges that the present condition was started and has been fostered by the son of a very wealthy oil man and his associates for the purpose of raiding the stock market . " Time after time the country has been flooded with ' rumors ' of cuts in crude oil prices . Each time the ' rumor ' was found to be exact as to the date and amount of the cut and each time the ' rumor ? was accompanied by ' raiding " of the stock market . " Instead of one cut in crude oil prices to meet changed conditions in the industry there were many gluts , so timed as to aid in stock market operations , and it is a Ileaed that advance informa ? tion was received by several brokerage firms . Short selling of the oil stock encouraged short selling or other securities , and as prices of stocks continued to decline uneasiness among actual holders brought more and more liquidation . The result has been disastrous to thousands of people without justification other than the desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is described as one of the most wholesale stock jobbing campaigns in the history of the country . " While Government control of the petroleum industry may not be desirable , it is certainly true that the cause of those who advocate Government control has been greatly advanced by the fact that a small group of men has been able to foretell and to bring about a series of cuts in petroleum prices in such a way as to unstabilize the industry and at the same time to reduce the entire securities market to a state of demoralization . If the petroleum industry is to be subjected to the whims of stock market operators , some means must Se found to put a stop to such practices . "                     