@@687484

txt DWINDLING EXPORTS AND IMPORTS . To the Editor of The New York Times : Our imports and exports are dwindling ; employment in producing them . and handling them , and for most other functions , is falling off ; enterprise is crushed ? by taxa ? tion ; we have built tariff walls against ports , so they can not be sent us to buy exports ; our farmers are overloaded with produce for lack of which much of Europe is starving ; ? - she can not buy it , largely because , in her condition , we can not extend the long credits needed to enable her to produce goods to pay us for it , and also be . cause her industries are much restricted to those which can he utilized for defense ; all nations are in fear of war . War is feared because there is no Power among nations , as within nations , to restrain rapacity and peaceably. settle disputes . In each civilized nation , that power is the community as against the individual . Such power has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , courts and police . Such a power among nations , where all can compel each ; exists but in germs . The late war has led to altogether unprecedented efforts to develop , concentrate and organize these germs : for that purpose the League of Nations was formed by the best minds available in the world . It is not a. perfect measure . Neither was the Constitution of the United States ? although Gladstone called it " the greatest work ever ' struck off at one time by the mind and purpose of man , " and Bryce has just called it " the greatest single contd. button ever made to Government as an applied science . " Yet in forming it there was more haggling , competition and self-seeking among our States than there was among the nations in forming their League ; and it required ten amendments before it was . five years old , and ha ' s had eight or nine more since . Ignorance of these simple facts , or indifference to them , has led many people to mistrust the League of Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many politicians to seek party capital or to vent personal spite by preventing the . United States joining the League , Without the United States , the League 's effeetriPeness- is limited  --  even more limited than , the primitive conditions made inevitable . - Our only contribuSion toward the results It seeks is a limiting of armaments . There is danger of basing too much hope on that .. It may discourage aggression , but a long limiting of their armaments did not prevent-England and , the United States from fighting Germany . . Men will fight , and with whatever arms they have ; take away pistols and they will use knives ; take . away knives and they will use ' clubs ; take away clubs and they will use fists. , The only real remedy for war is in courts and police . So far , instead of joining the other Nations in attempts to provide them , we have jabbered about making an " Association of Nations " of our own ? an association of one . That far we are responsible for the falling Off hi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , the poverty and overwhelming taxation throughout the world , the paralyzing dread of war , and the starvation of blameless millions . Our joining the League of Nations would at once restore confidence , relieve this paralysis , and set industry and commerce in ' motion . How long are the American people going to stand the awful responsibility of staying . out ? How long are they going to keep in power the party upon which that responsibility primarily rests  --  the party whose opponents generally sin in ignorance , while itself sins with knowledge ? - ? HENRY HOLT . New York , Feb. 23 , 1922.                     