@@685168

txt While a minute search of the city is being made at the instigation of Mayor Hylan for all vacant lofts where the furniture of homeless citizens may be stored ,  - -  there are 18,000 vacant tene-. ments and 15,000 vacant single family houses in New York City that might give shelter to thousands of victims of profiteering landlords , according to Edward P. Doyle , representing the Real Estate Board . Mr. Doyle gave these figures to a reporter for Tile Times yesterday afternoon following his appearance before the Board of Estimate , whose attention was called to these thousands of vacant tenements and dwellings . The board was asked to start a move for the amendment of the tenement house laws which would give private contractors wider latitude in undertaking to remodel them . These vacant tenements are available in practically all parts of the city , but the greatest number is on the east side , according to Mr. Doyle . There are many of them on the lower west side , in the Greenwich Village section , and likewise they are to be found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason that 18,000 tenements are now vacant , said Mr. Doyle , was because , as they stand , they are uninhabible . Practically all are without water systems , except for standpipes in the ground floor , and their former tenants were put to the necessity of going from upper floors to the ground floor to get their water for cooking purposes , as well as for family washing and bathing purposes . Very few of these tenements are provided with means of sanitation . In most cases the . toilets are entirely outside the buildings , though in a few the toilets are in the hallways . Mr. Doyle cited the case of one landlord who had five tenement houses which were vacant because prospective tenants would not consider living in places where the toilets were in the hallways . Mr. Doyle contends however , that they could be reconstructed at least to furnish a temporary shelter for homeless people during the present stringency , and that it - is far better to have such people ' housed than thrown on the streets . Figures gathered by the Real Estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York 60,000 apartments in which more , than one family is living . As a usual thing these double families consist of six adults and six children . With no improvement in the building situation in sight , conditions are expected to be far worse next Winter , because the city 's population is growing at the rate of 125,000 yearly . Factory Boom in Queens . That the housing situation will be more acute next Winter is indicated by conditions in Queens , Mr. Doyle said . In the last two years $21,000,000 has been spent in the construction of new factories . These factories will draw thousands of new workers into that section of the city , and they must be housed . It is estimated that for every dollar spent in the erection of new factories four dollars must be spent for housing facilities . This would mean that $84,000,000 would have to be spent for houses solely for the new factory work , ers who are swarming into Queens . The people who have deserted the tenements , according to Mr. Doyle , are the unskilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They lived in wretched conditions simply because they were forced to . Now they are making good wages , and the longshoremen , for instance , who are earning much more than they formerly did , are demanding more modern places in which to live . An experiment in ' remodeling some of these old tenements is now being made under the direction or the State Reconstruction Commission , and the real ? estate operators , according to Mr. Doyle , are ready to go ahead in the same direction as soon as they are permitted to do so under a change , in the tenement house laws . As soon as Mayor Hylan can bring about an agreement between the building contractors and the labor unions , Mr. Doyle suggested , that the first move to meet the housing situation should take into consideration the utilization of the 18.000 tenements. and the conversion . of the 15,000 single family dwellings into apartment houses . When he appeared before the Board of Estimate , Mr. Doyle said that the Real Estate Board had been instrumental in preparing a bill for presentation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give relief to landlords who will suffer from falling markets in event of the passage of the present rent bills pending in the Legislature . Suitable rents , conforming to . ' the cost of property maintenance , will be provided in the drafted bill . Robert E. Dowling , Chairman of the Legislative Committee of the Real %Estate Board , warned the Board of Estimate that the bills before the Legislature would not solve the housing problem , which must be met by the construction of more buildings . He urged the necessity of bringing capital . labor , architects and building material interests together as soon ' as possible . To List City 's Vacant Plots . A report of the Committee on General Welfare of the Board of Aldermen , approving proposals to have prepared lists of city-owned property available for building purposes , the securing of plans for dwellings and the authorization for renting such buildings to citizens , was referred . by the Board of Estimate to the Committee of the Whole . The resolution of President Curran , requesting the Corporation Counsel to give an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriate $10.000,000 to construct houses which might be rented to citizens was received ; and the Corporation Counsel was instructed to furnish an . opinion on. the question . to the Committee on Finance and Budget at its meeting in the Controller 's office next r Monday . The board refused to open the-proposed , building scheme . DavidHirshfield , Commissioner of Accounts . said that . a study of the rent bill introduced by State Senator . Giblis had disclosed that the measure would legalize a charge of per cent - interest on mortgages , and that it would have a grave effect upon the building situation . He will ask Mayor Hylan. the Mayor 's Committee on Rent Profiteering and tenants ' organizations to oppose the adoption of the measure . Solomon A. Lewinsohn , Assistant Chairman of the Mayor 's Committee on Rent Profiteering , suggested that the rent relief program ' should provide ? city , bank balances to be used in making loam to builders , that landlords be compelled to give tenants three months ' notice of a proposed raise in rent , that there should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should ' be empowered to fix what ist a reasonable rental , and that valuations on new buildings should be made for the purpose of taxation with as much consideration forthe builder as ' for the tenant . Two Landlords Pined . Harry S.- Proctor , President of the Acme Realty Improvement Company , owners of an apartment- , house at 434 Central Park West , was fined *250 on a charge . of forcible entry by Justices ' Moses Herrman , ' Arthur C. Salmon and Frederic Kernochan. in " the Court ' of Special Sessions . He was convicted on this charge before the same Justices last December , on the complaint of Mrs. Anna Reed . Proctor paid the fine and gave notice of an appeal . A similar fine was imposed in . Special Sessions on the West 190th Street Realty Company of which Harry Gillman Is Secretary , charged with violating the Sanitary Code in failing to furnish the required heat in an apartment house at 335 Wadsworth Avenue . The complainant was John ' F. Barry , a sanitary inspector of the ' Health Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 families in the building . Justice Harry Robitzek , in- the Second District Municipal Court , the Bronx , summoned Julius Tobias , an attorney , 1,926 Crotona Avenue , and Mrs. Alice Cavanaugh , interested in the defense of Bronx tenants . to appear before hini this morning at 10 o'clock . to show causewhy they should not be prosecuted for criminal contempt of court growing out of an exchange of blows at a session of the court last Wednesday . The Justice will sit as a committing Magistrate .                     