@@696732

txt Without regaining consciousness from the relapse suffered earlier In the day , Edmund M. Dunne , Catholic bishop of Peoria , passed away at 9:45 o'clock this evening at the St. Francis hospital . A second paralytic stroke suffered within a year proved fatal to the prelate , who has presided over the Catholic churches in this section for the last twenty years . lie was stricken last Saturday while seated in the library of hi palatial home here . Extreme unction , the last rite of the Catholic church , was administered to the bishop a few hours after he was taken to the hospital on Saturday afternoon . Physicians at that time regarded his condition serious , since he suffered from a similar stroke less than a year ago . III for Two Years . Ill health for the last two years had weakened , his vitality to such a point that he lacked the necessary strengths to conquer in his fight for life . Fu-i neral arrangements have not been I made . The bishop 's only immediate relalives were two cousins , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishop Edmund M. Dunne 's career in the Roman Catholic church , in educational and civic enterprises was one of rare accomplishment . Bishop Dunne as head of the Peoria diocese did not accept salary for his twenty years of service . He lived on the wealth inherited from his parents and maintained a palatial home on North Glen Oak avenue , overlooking ' ' the city and the Illinois river valley . Born in Chicago . Bishop Du n no was born in the Holy Name parish neighborhood in North Franklin street near Division on Feb. 12 , 1864 , the son of Irish -- parents.who had come to Chicago soon after their marriage . The " bishop 's father : ? Maurico Dunne , was one of the city 's lead- I Mg business men in the 60s and 70s . Educated at St. Ignatius college , , West 12th and May streets , Niagara university , and in institutions . in Belgium and France , Bishop Dunne was ordained at the age of 22 years a Catholic priest while attending Gregorian university , Rome . Made Bishop in 1909 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Holy Name cathedral at one of the largest assemblies of dignitaries , prelates , and priests ever to be gathered here . Bishop Dunne 's charitable work was known throughout his diocese , which comprises 28 central Illinois counties . In addition to the construction of churches and parochial schools over his territory , he was instrumental in the building of the Guardian Angel irphanage in Peoria which houses 200 MUdren.                     