@@696242

txt It became known last week that the Reserve banks of New York and Chicago had voted in favor of raising their official rediscount rates from 5 per cent to 6 , that the proposed new rates had been sub- Mated to the Federal Reserve Board and that it had decided against the rise . The incident was not analogous to that which occasioned the controversy of September , 1927 . The Reserve Board itself then proposed reduction in the rate from 4 per cent to 31 and the Chicago Reserve Bank objected ; whereupon the board itself announced that a 31/2 per cent rate " has been established " for the Federal Reserve Bank of " Chicago . " Mandatory action by the board on rates , not being recognized by the law , was : commonly regarded as overstepping its authority . But the act itself provides that rates " established " shall be " subject to review . and determination of the Federal Reserve Board . " Nevertheless , the general view in conservative banking circles was that last week 's affair was unfortunate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was plain . The present 5 per cent rediscount rate was declared last July when the Wall Street open-market rate for rediscountable commercial paper stood at 5 per cent and the rate for short-term loans on collateral security at 5% and 6 . Since then the Wall Street rate for commercial , paper has . risen to 6 per cent and for collateral loans to 91/2 . Thus the Reserve banks have lost control of the ' money situation , and an inevitable tendency had displayed itself for private banks in the system to rediscount eligible paper at the lower Reserve rate , in order either to enlarge or maintain their own loans on Stock Exchange collateral . The Reserve : Board has taken a strong public attitude in opposition to this practice , which it rightly described as contravening the express purposes of the . Reserve law . Its admonitions to member banks have produced result's. : But the anomaly of an official . rediscount rate 1 : per cent ' under the openmarket charge for merchants ' paper and .4 per cent under that paid fur three months ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessive diver= sion of credit into the speculative markets ' and it tied the hands of the Reserve banks . - ? ? . The grounds on which the board overruled the vote of the Reserve banks for a higher rate have not been stated .. Doubt may have been felt how the advance would affect either home trade or foreign banks and money Markets . On the other hand the attitude of the two Reserve banks was that , since existing official rates are wholly out of touch with .. actual credit conditions and therefore ineffective , the situation would ? not really be changed by their adjustment to such conditions . Last Tuesday , moreover , a new factor entered the seemingly deadlocked controversy : The Advisory Council of . the Federal Reserve , made up of representative business men , selected from each of the twelve Reserve districts and instructed by the law to " confer directly with - the Federal Reserve Board " on the business situation , had already approved the board 's attitude toward speculative loans . It now reasserts that view with equal emphasis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise the re " discount rates to 6 per cent to " those Federal Reserve banks re " questing it . " That action , it ' declares unhesitatingly , would result in steadying finance in the larger sense and in " safeguarding commerce , industry and agriculture . " It is not easy to see how this counsel can be rejected  --  more particularly since the judgment or . virtually all bankers . in touch with the situation is that the higher bank rates would in any case soon become inevitable through force . of circumstances . Once before , in the Autumn of 1919 , the Advisory Council gave similar advice under similar circumstances . The Reserve Board of , that day ( largely because of the . Treasury 's attitude ) delayed several months in acting along Lhe lines thus recommended ; with the result that , when action eventually had to be taken , the situation bad become difficult to control .                     