@@685858

txt Unless Judge Miller of Syracuse does not want to run far behind the national ticket in the coming election he will come out flatly for a business-like administration of the state of New York . Thoughtful citizens realize that Governor Smith has not succeeded in getting any housing legislation , in the special session he called , which does not make the situation far worse than it was before in respect of both landlord and tenant , and impossible in DToriding new housing accommodation . But Judge Miller displays evidences of weakness where Governor Smith has been commendably strong . The state of New York requires a drastic reorganization of its business such as Governor Lowden gave to Illinois when he reduced an ill-co-ordinate muddle of some two hundred departments , each with power to waste the taxpayer 's money . to less than twenty , cutting out duplication and waste and actually reducing both the tax rate and the tax levy . This is what a state governor should do . and it has been done in the country 's history by state governors irrespective of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He thinks " it is wrong to put too much power in the hands of one man " . Or . in other words , he would leave the power in the hands of our horde of taxwasting , unrelated , irresponsible state departments and shirk the duty of a governor 's direct responsibility to the state electorate . In this respect Governor Smith 's reorganization scheme , which Judge Miller naturally does not approve , is incomparably better Ilion anything Miller has to offer . He thinks that the business of this state has " been pretty well managed " . If he thinks that , there are few business men in the state with the least knowledge of the present method of conducting state business who will agree with him . As a matter of record and proof , the mismanagement could not have been worse . The utterly improper $30,000,000 surplus in the state treasury and the unneeded income tax speak for themselves . Judge Miller is no lover of budgets . in spite of our desperate need for one . He " will find out whether we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project " . Appropriation bills for " projects " merely indicate a source of taxation to pay for them . Is that all Judge Miller considers necessary ? He has barely four weeks before the election . Does he intend to take a ride on the shoulders of Harding ? If he will not give us better pledges than this it is a certainty that the state ticket will be slashed by voters for Harding , if for no better reason than preference for the &VI!; they know . If your conscience does n't reproach you fur not registering , you have none . No " hundred per cent . American " is complete without one .                     