@@696746

txt Though the vote of want of confidence in the Briand Ministry yestcday came so suddenly as to be a surprise , signs of . a political combination forming against him have not been wanting for some weeks past . It has been based not so much upon opposition to him personally , or to any of his announced policies , as upon a general restlessness of the political groups in the Chamber , together with a manifest desire to start up again the game of politics in France . ? For three years that amusement has been ruled out of order . Ever since M. POINCARE took hold of the desperate plight of French public finance in 1926 , political squabbles and bickerings have been kept very much in the background . It was felt to be unpatriotic to upset or even criticize too sharply a government working heroically to pull France out of her financial troubles . POINCARE presented the anomaly of a Premier without an avowed party backing in the Chamber , yet able by the authority of his character and the urgency of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to win support from nearly all parties . Yet even before he fell ill and resigned this past Summer , it was evident that the politicians were beginning to act again after their kind . He had stormy weather himself two or three times in the Chamber , with narrow escapes from defeat . Now the enmity of the politicians has been wreaked upon his successor , M. BRIAND . They would not have been hardy enough to attempt to overthrow him unless they felt that France had won her way through to a position of great strength and security . The currency has been stabilized ; the public revenues have been rising even to the point of creating an unwieldy surplus ; French credit has been restored , with the gold in the Bank of France reaching a high level , not to speak of the power of France through the foreign exchanges to draw more of the precious metal from London and from New York whenever she wishes ; industry and trade are flourishing ; unemployment does not exist  --  why should not the politicians conclude that the stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their old performances ? They seized the first convenient occasion to do it . Bitiaism 'S fall was purely on a question of procedure , not of policy . He insisted upon having the budget taken up at once and postponing discussion of foreign relations until the middle of November . Making this parliamentary order of debate a matter of confidence , the Premier found himself outvoted . It is an old experience for Mani= BRIAND . It should not greatly shake the aplomb of the man who has been oftener voted out of power , and then restored to it , than any living Frenchman . At least a recasting of his Cabinet is foreshadowed . BRIAND himself is hardly the man to throw up his work in disgust , especially with several highly important international questions , in which he is wrapped up heart and mind , still to be decided .                     