@@693747

txt Administration leaders are considering a new farm relief plan that will embody ideas acceptable to conservatives , with the hope that it will also satisfy the farm bloc , which advocated the bill . The plan originated with Senator I Fess , an Administration spokesman on farm relief matters , and has the active support of President Coolidge , who conferred with Senator of Oregon last week and suggested that he tour the farm sections and sound sentiment on legislation without the equalization plan , but with a compromise that would give some practical relief to the farmers without being economically impracticable . The bill has not been agreed upon in its definite features , but , as outlined by Senator Fess , following a con ' ference with the President today , it would extend the scope of the cooperative marketing associations and clothe them with authority and a Gov , ernment appropriation that would per , mit the associations to control prices to some extent and aid farmers by buying their product and holding it until trade conditions were more favorable . Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who I have discussed the plan propose that ' the Government shall make an appropriation of $250,000,000 to the cooperative marketing associations , which could be loaned to farmers not only for marketing purposes but also to hold farm products until prices were satisfactory . Senator Fess said this would take the matter out of the hands of the Government and lodge it entirely with the farmers . Under the tentative plans for the bill , Senator Fess said the cooperative marketing associations would be able to advance 75 per cent . of the funds necessary to the farmers for their products and store wheat and other products in warehouses until prices improved instead of throwing all the product on the market at one time . The farmer , under this scheme , would have to assume 25 per cent . of the risk , the cooperatives , In which the farmers would have investments . assuming 75 per cent . Senator Fess regards this ' Ls a feasible proposition and one that ought to win the approval of the farmers of the West who are now suffering . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to the equalization proposal in the bill , and the only way by which relief could come would be through some compromise acceptable to the East , as well as the less radical farm advocates of the West . to Gauge Sentiment . It is understood that Senator , in his conference with the President last Saturday night , agreed to tour the West and gauge sentiment on I a compromise which promised to carry some element of the bill in that it would-authorize a private corporation to hold farm products for better prices . Senator Fess believes that easy credits afforded to the cooperative marketing associations would meet the situation and that in time the West would accept the plan . In his opinion the amount the Government would advance to the cooperative associations might be increased to $400,000,000 , and If the situation called for additional funds they might be obtained through other means on easy credit . While it was said tonight that the Administration had not worked out the compromise bill in detail , it was added in official circles that a farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the CurtisCrisp and bills would appear in the next Congress . The plan is not to be worked out conclusively until farm leaders and the Administration experts hear the reaction in the West to the tour Senator has undertaken . Secretary Jardine will also sound sentiment and report to the President . The Administration , which had always ' expressed a desire to aid the farmers , it was said in behalf of President Coolidge today , had not changed its position on the equalization plan or the placing of the Government in business . The President believes that unless the farmers get relief shortly business conditions generally may suffer , and that American prosperity can not continue indefinitely unless the farmers are taken care of properly .                     