@@694782

txt Ten men are ' known to be dead and between thirty-five and forty ? burned and injured as result of the explosion of ten oil stills which this afternoon wrecked machinery and ' buildings overemore than an acre of the Beacon Oil Company 's refining plant at Everett , set afire more than 500 , - 000 gallons of oil in various stages of refinement and caused damage estimated at more than $75,000 . The explosion occurred without warning , rocked homes - and buildings in surrounding cities and towns over a radius of ten miles and trapped 500 or more employes engaged in their various duties ? either in the yard about the stills or in the buildings alongside the - . . still batteries . A heavy , pall of black , impenetrable smoke settled down over the scene immediately following the blast , making the work of rescue next to impossible and driving the rescuers back again and again as the gases filled their lungs and forced them to crawl- through the mud to clear air . 200-Foot Flames Seen 50 Miles . Above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for more than 200 feet and were visible at sea and at land points more than fiftysix miles away . Most of the dead and insured were at work in the machine shop , about 100 feet removed from the , still battery which let . go , in the . areaway alongside the shop or under and on the stills . ? They were showered with the blazing oil which was hurled in all directions and only their cries resulted in their being found in the darkness IV the ' rescuers . ' When the shock . of the blast had passed , the company 's fire department was rushed into action , and alarms were immediately sounded . As the stream of injured began to pour out of the ' burning area , the company office building , out of the danger zone , was thrown open as a hospital and emergency calls were sent out for doctors , nurses and ambulances . Help Called ' from Cities Near By . Meantime ' the flames , mounting higher , threatened the entire . plant with destruction : and Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summoning additional apparatus from Boston , Malden , Chelsea and Revere . The streets surrounding the plant were - quickly jammed with motor vehicles and spectators , and while the latter were pressed into service to aid in carrying-the injured out of the danger zone , the vehicles likewise were used to take them to various hospitals . Steady lines of such conveyances were soon on their . way , the MassachusettS-General Hospital ' in Boston receiving ' the greater number of the more seriously injured , others going to hospitals in Everett , ? Chelsea and Malden . As the firemen ' laid their lines and prepared to back up the company employes who , in a very few moments , were attacking ? the ? flames with foamite , several ' minor - explosions . occurred from oil . pouring from broken Stills ' before ' the ' . pressure could be cut off and . forming in pockets .. Each explosion served to spread the fire over a larger area and the fire- men several times were forced to abandon their positions and move back . Four Everett firemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burning gases : More than a dozen of the company fire fighters were likewise overcome and following their removal their places were taken by other employes with gas masks . The first blast is attributed to stills 62 and 63 ( two of a battery of ten running from low to high pressure stills , their contents ranging from crude oil to the highest of refined gasoline . The first two which let go are known as vaporizers and are smaller than - those surrounding them . Bits of flying metal , puncturing the larger stills , released the oil , which quicky ignited and caused the fire to spread . Blazing Oil Rains on Workers . The workmen had no chance to escape . The blazing oil dropped on them like rain and even those who escaped injury or being thrown from their feet in the first blast found themselves unable to get away . With their clothing aflame , they dropped to the ground and attempted to save themselves by rolling in the slime and mud . Many succeeded in extinguishing their blazing clothing in this manner . Others attempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' to the first Foamite crew to respond , who turned their stream on the victims before attacking the fire . In the machine shop all windows were blown in and a stream of blazing oil from one of the broken stills flowed in across the floor . The men were trapped before even a warning could be shouted , and many were forced to run through a pool of blazing oil before they reached the edge of the fire , where they collapsed . It was in this building and in the space between it and the stills that practically all of the fatalities occurred . Most of the ten known dead were charred . The men , boilermakers , pipe fitters , steam fitters and experts in other trades rated high among the other workmen . Many of them were thb'heads of large families .                     