@@690170

txt Agreeing with President COOLIDGE land Governor General WOOD that the Filipinos are . not ready to assume the responsibilities of full independence , Chairman FAIRFIELD of the . House Insular Affairs Committee proposes legislation to quiet discontent in the islands and to improve relations between their people and the United States . He also has in view ' protection of the interests of Americans doing business in the Philippines . The choice , he thinks , is either to let the Jones law stand as written , modify it to " require the Assembly to subordi " nate itself to the judgment of the " Governor General , " or grant further autonomy to remove causes of friction between the Legislature and the Governor General . A bill introduced by Mr. FAIRFIELD provides for a larger measure , of selfgovernment for thirty years , at the end . of which time the Filipinos are to decide by a plebiscite whether they desire complete independence . In place of the Governor General a Resident Commissioner would be appointed by the President . The Filipinos would be allowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Resident Commissioner to suspend executive and legislative acts until the President had passed upon them . Trade relations with the United States would be regulated from Washington . The Filipinos would be permitted to draft their own Constitution , subject to approval by Congress and the President . Loans to the Philippine Commonwealth , as the Fairfield bill calls the new autonomous State , could be made only with the President 's approval . Mr. FAIRFIELD believes that acquiesce cence in the Jones law would be a happy solution ? of the Philippine problem , " but unfortunately there is very " grave disagreement as to the admin " istration of the Jones law , and ' it " seems to me imperative that a " change should be made . " A change could very well be made for the worse . If the Filipinos elected their own Governor , how could it be expected that the American Resident Commissioner would get along amicably with a native Governor and a Legislature to whose acts he . might object , referring them to the President for sanction or . disallowance ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Filipinos , the Resident Commissioner would have to be shorn of many of the powers now vested in ' the Gov , governor General , who , MANUEL QUEZON maintains , is a figurehead . As President COOLIDGE has pronounced the judgment that failure of the Legislature to cooperate with the Governor General Is evidence that the Filipinos are not ready for independence , the Fairfield bill is not likely to te well received in Congress . Amendment of the Jones bill would seem ' to be the intelligent course to pursue . Basically it was good legislation . Why not build upon it ? It is significant that the proposal of Representative FAIRFIELD to give the Filipinos independence at the expiration of thirty years has the approval of MANUEL QUEZON , although he came to the United States to urge immediate independence . Before the House Committee on Insular Affairs on Monday he pleaded that something be done to end the present unrest and uncertainty . In many respects the provisions of the Fairfield bill did not suit him . He asked , for changes that would practically make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty years of probation : That a ' compromise would be acceptable to him indicates that Filipino politicians were never in earnest about complete separation from the United - States.                     