@@691148

txt The idea seems to persist in many quarters , not only that the recent accumulation of superfluous gold in this country threatens inflation of prices , but that such inflation is already under way . Mr. MCKENNA of the Midland Bank of London found that the dollar was declining under this process , instead of the pound sterling rising- . Mr. GOODENOUGH of Barclay 's Bank suggested to his shareholders that " inflation . " due to the putting of gold certificates into circulation against part of our imported gold , " may have been the cause of the rise of prices " in the United States . Even some of our own economic experts have declared that the recent advance in American prices means only that " the dollar 's value has declined . " Yet t he " price averages " themselves offer some difficulties in the way of this reasoning . Between April . 3923. and June , 1921. the general trend of the American price average was downward : therefore the gold accumulations could not then have been causing " inflation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measured by Dun 's " index number , " the average has risen about 111/2 per cent . up to the beginning of this month . Mere , would apparently be prima facie evidence of American prices forced up by the increased gold supply of the United Statat . But that inference would have to be modified ( if not abandoned ) on the discovery from further study of the figures that it was almost entirely the rise in breadstuffs prices , due to perfectly well-known causes wholly unconnected with the stock of gold , that had lifted the general average . Eliminating breadstuffs , average prices have risen only 5 per cent . since June , 1924 , which is about as much as they had fallen in the five preceding months . Even metals , a market traditionally sensitive to " inflation , " average only 4 per cent . above last June . and slightly less than last April Breadstuffs alone , however , have risen 42 per cent . Are we then to assume that gold importations have " inflated " cereal products but not metals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the yardstick of wheat and corn and rye but has remained virtually unchanged when measured in textiles ? One may suspect that the plain business man will brush aside such subtleties impatiently , and . ans  --  er that grain prices rose because of foreign harvest failure , that the decline and subsequent moderate recovery in metal prices were due to production in excess of trade demand a year ago , followed by revival in normal demand last Autumn , and that the dollar , redeemable in gold , is worth exactly what it was worth last Summer . That world ' prices are in the long run affected by such an influence as an abnormally increased world-production of gold is denied by nobody . But the " inflation " doctrinaires are perpetually confusing this gradual and world-wide influence with the enhancement , in a single country , of prices quoted in Irredeemable paper money when that paper is itself depreciating in terms of gold . Between the two processes there Is no analogy whatever . The familiar remark that " the dollar has been cut in two " since 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may with most people be merely a figurative way of expressing an everyday fact ; but when the same or similar phraseology is adopted in economic discussion , it merely indicates slovenly economic thinking . If any one can not get along without It , he should at least be consistent , and remark on the " 20 per cent . rise in the dollar " since 1920 when he simply means that average prices have fallen to that extent .                     