@@687490

txt With the opening of debate in the Senate today on the four-power Pacific treaty , Senator Hitchcock , ranking Democratic member of the Foreign Relations Committee , spoke against the compact , which lie said he would not support in its present shape . He condemned the secrecy that surrounded the negotiation of the agreement , which he styled " the quadruple Pacific defensive alliance , " and insisted that it bound the United States to go to the aid of any other signatory . Senator Hitchcock voted yesterday for the Yap treaty , which was ratified . 67 to 23 . Four , and possibly five , other Democratic Senators , who likewise favored the Yap agreement , are teported against the four-power treaty . Those who want to see the four-power treaty rejected asserted tonight that on the basis of these changes the treaty , If ratified , would have a margin of nor more than two votes above the required two-thirds of the Senate . The four Democratic Senators besides Hitchcock who favored tae Yap treaty but are said to be opposed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Stanley , while Senator Jones of New Mexico asked questions today that seemed to indicate that he was " doubtful " as to his course . Senators La Follette and Shields , Who did not vote yesterday , are against the four-power treaty , and should six Democrats change over the treaty would be ratified by a vote of only 66 to 30 . Wants " Unprovoked Aggression " Stated . In his speech Senator . Hitchcock declared that it was essential that a reservation giving Congress the right to pass on any action token under the treaty shall be part of the instrument of ratification . He indicated that unless the obligation clause was amended tr a reservation was adopted to show that the United States was obliged to help another signatory only in the case of " unprovoked aggression , " he would not vote for the treaty . Senator Borah expressed doubt whether any amendment or reservation could be framed that would meet his fundamental objection to the treaty in its present form . Senator France declared the treaty was nothing but a direct invitation to war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted to ratify the treaty between the United States and Japan relating to the Island of Yap . At a , future day I expect to vote to ratify the treaty providing for the limitation of naval armament and the treaties regarding China . On the pending Four-Power Treaty , however , I have reluctantly reached the conclusion that I can not vote for its ratification unless changes are made . " This Four-Power Treaty was conceived in secrecy . In that respect its genesis suggests an old-fashioned alliance . Every precaution of secrecy was taken in advance , and every device of secrecy was employed in its execution . This treaty was not mentioned in the call for the conference . When the agenda were published this treaty was not included . The President has admitted to us that , strictly speaking , this treaty was not upon the agenda . Thus the public neither looked for nor expected this treaty . " How , then , was the treaty negotiated ? Was it discussed at meetings of the delegates  - -  of the four signatory nations ? Apparently not . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject among themselves , appear to have secretly selected one of their number to act , and to act secretly , without keeping notes or memoranda . Not only were the proceedings behind closed doors , but even the fact that the meetings were being held was kept from the public , and no cornmuniquas were given-to the.press . But in the meantime the public was liberally supplied with endless information about the naval proposition and the negotiations rerating to China . Indicate Whole Matter Was Bidden . " Everything was done to keep the public attention fixed on Shantung , poison gas , submarines , Chinese tariffs and other matters , while a month of secret negotiations was held on the four-power treaty , designed to , take the place of the Anglo-Japanese alliance . " My first impulse was to accept the treaty . My first shock was the discovery that even the President did not understand the treaty and had not learned that the term ' insular dominions , ' in the case of Japan , meant homeland . While that ambiguity wak cleared up by A subseqa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in inspecting the minutes of the negotiations . I was greatly pleased when the President came before the Senate . My interest was in the minutes of the negotiations which culminated in this treaty . When the President addressed the Senate the big pile of manuscript . tied in red tape and occupying a prominent place on the desk , looked significant . In my innocence I supposed it contained the minutes of the four-power treaty negotiations . " The manuscript was printed in due time . I examined the document and found that there was not a word in it that had not already been printed in the newspapers . The data related almost exclusively to the threadbare details of the Chinese treaties and the particulars of the naval disarmament pact . It was a joke . The printing was a waste of money . The President had given us nothing that was not already public property . " So the Senate adopted a resolution requesting the records of the negotiations of the four-power treaty . Tii6 President replied that little or nothing had been recorded , and , besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply the Senate with even chat little . " What was the conclusion to be drawn from the President 's reply ? Why must the records in this case be kept secret , while the records relating to the other treaties were ostentatiously made public ' ? Obviously , it must be because this treaty differs in character and nature from the other treaties resulting from the conference . The others were open treaties of peace and concord . This treaty certainly much more resembles an a Hance of four powers , bound together not only to keep the peace among themselves but to monopolize the islands of the Pacific as against the rest of the world . " As this treaty reads and as it was negotiated , it might be called the quadruple Pacific defensive alliance . Under it , if Australia or New Zealand is threatened with attack , we would be ' bound to join the other three powers , in a conference for the purpose of agreeing on the " most efficient means " for their defense , and this would be true , even though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provoked the attack . " Under this treaty , if Russia attacked or threatened the Japanese possessions in . the Island of Saghalien or Formosa , we would be under the same obligation , even though Japan had provoked the agIgression , as indeed she is now doing by Iher action In seizing the Russian portion of Saghalien and maintaining 60,000 men in Siberia . In my opinion , we should not agree to co-operate or even to consult with these nations in the event of aggressive action against their possessions , unless that action is unprovoked , and I think the ' word ' unprovoked ' should be written into this ' , treaty . " Nor do think we should leave in the hands of the President the author ' ity to arrive at an understanding with the other signatories as to the most efficient means to meet a threatened aggression . The consent of Congress should be stipulated . " Mr. Hitchcock remarked that the Republicans had been " very liberal " in proposing reservations to the Versailles treaty , but now Mr. Harding* wanted these treaties ratified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the crossing of a ' t ' or we would be discredited . The Senator went on : " Baron Uchida has just informed the Japanese Parliament that the fourpower treaty was not intended to abro , gate the Anglo-Japanese alliance , but rather to widen and extend that alliance , and if Japan interprets it as an alliance she will be likely to act under its provisions all an alliance . This difference between the President and the Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs is almost as significant as was the difference between the President and the Secretary of State on the meaning of the expression ' insular dominions . ' If Japan only gave up the Anglo-Japanese alliance in order to get a larger alliance a very serious question is presented to the Senate Sees No Gain for America . " I see very little that the United States gains under this treaty , no matter what interpretation is placed upon it . It is different with Japan and Great Britain , who have the islands taken from Germany . I see no more reason for ' guaranteeing their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guaranteeing French possession of Alsace-Lorraine . We do not need any guarantee as to our Pacific holdings , and I do not like the idea.of guaranteeing Japanese and British possession of the former German islands in that ocean . " " My principal objection to this treaty , " said Senator Borah , " is that it does not can upon us to act until some act of ' aggression has taken place . You have a political connection here . When the conferees meet to deal , say , with an aggreseion , and they agree to meet it with a counter-attack , what then will be our position ? " " Yes , I am afraid it is too much in the nature of an alliance , " replied Mr. Hitchcock . " For the President to come here and simply ' state that it is not an alliance does not change the facts . " The only reason we went in was to let Great Britain have a way to get out of the ' Anglo-Japanese alliance . She would have gotten out anyway . However , personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a danger to us . " Senator Lenroot asked Senator Hitchcock how he harmonized his position on the treaty with the position he took tiff the treaty of Versailles and the League of Nations . " There is a vast difference , " Senator Hitchcock answered , " between an association of nations , to preserve the peace of the world and an agreement to guarantee a group , or groups , of Pacific islands . "                     