@@696399

txt Perhaps no previous national holiday saw so many expressions of good-will for the United States as did this last Fourth of July . The most notable demonstrations came from England , as was natural , but other nations were , in their own way , not far behind . From Paris to Buenos Aires the note of cordial friendship was sounded . The peculiar emphasis in Great Britain was laid upon the beckoning opportunities for cooperation in the future . Eminent public men in London vied with our own Ambassador , and American visitors like President HIBBEN of Princeton , in pledging an . d exalting Anglo-American harmony and hope . All this is highly gratifying , but what is to come of it ? ' An impulsive resolve ? to swear eternal friendship amounts to little if the emotion is not followed up by action . There is in all this an international danger something ' like the one which sometimes besets individuals . It has often been said , for example , that habitual theatregoers. are in peril of a subtle kind of demoralization . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mimic misfortunes or tragedies , but there is no practicali result . A fine gushing and sentimental time can not often be indulged in without injury to the moral fiber , unless the stirring of the emotional nature leads to some new resolution , some higher purpose , some strengthening of character issuing in a better actual life . Similarly it may be argued that for Englishmen and Americans to fall into each other 's arms on great occasions will leave them , and their international relations , worse off than before unless they put their heads and hearts together to do something worth while . In the great drama of nations , too , there should be the kind of moral clearing and quickening Which ARISTOTLE declared to be the highest effect of acted tragedy . The positive steps which ought to be taken are clearly indicated . First of all , both nations should press forward rapidly and intelligently ' with their efforts in the cause of disarmament . On the main question there is already agreement . What President HOOVER has said is heartily echoed by Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimous on the point . Whatever aspirations Americans utter for a reduction in the burden of naval armament , Englishmen reciprocate . There is no. lack - of ; admirable sentiment . Friendship seems to ooze from every pore . But there must be action , speedy and concrete , . or England and A.merica will be left looking , in the eyes of ? the world , like inconsequential sentimentalists .. ? ? Other aspects of our international conduct press for a similar judgment . The United States is not called upon to limit its affection and confidence to England . Hands held out to us by other nations must not be . ignored . And if they raise hands in deprecating protest agemt what they fear we may do , we are bound to ? take notice and dissipate the apprehension , if it is within our Dower to , do so . Good-will from other ' countries is a splendid national asset for is , but it can be squandered . We may ' , roceed so blindly in a mistaken attitude mci mistaken legislation as to forfeit a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant and encouraging that ? resident HOOVER appears to be fully dive to the ? need of keeping what we lave in the way of. , respect from other , nations , and ? adding to it , if- feasible . ; ere again it is ? a case of translating emotion into action . Our governmex would Jose a great deal if it . were , ready to follow up good-will , which . ix ' pleading sentiment , with the good deed which bind nations . together as wit links of steel .                     