@@696926

txt After the first reading of the transportation franchise for Chicago in Its tentative and incomplete form , the aldermen here have arrived at the three major conclusions : 1 . It is Impossible to have an ordinance until a reorganization has been agreed upon and a scheme for future financing has been worked out . That is the task of the present companies . 2 It Is impracticable to Substantially increase the amount of Chicago 's rapid transportation without a Subway through the central business district . This IS the Job of the city . 3 . There is uncertainty among the aldermen here , , J. B. Bowler , Arvey and Nelson , on sundry phrases in the ordinance draft which will require explaining by lawyers or considerable redrafting if the aldermanic suspicions are well founded . iVant More Power for City . The attitude of the aldermen on the Incomplete ordinance is based on a fr.elingthat the city should have more power than they believe this draft contains . It is their present opinion that the city will have much less influence over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have not studied the ordinance sufficiently to point out the particular spots where the city 's power has been curtailed , and they are not informed explicitly wherein the enabling legislation obtained from the last general assembly may have reduced the authority of the city . . The result is a feeling of tmeertafnty . The aldermen would like to be certain that the elevated loop is removed when sufficient subways are built downtown to adequately take care of all traffic . Language Is ' Uncertain . The proposed ordinance confers upon the new local transit commission the power to order the removal Of any tracks and structures when no longer necessary . Aid . Arvey thinks that it grants sufficient authority to the commission to order the loop torn down . Ald. thinks It might be worded in plainer language . Another feature of the ordinance which has aroused some aldermanic suspicton is the space it devotes to subways and elevated extensions . More pages are devoted to what the city shall do with reference to subways than what the companies niall ' do with reference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of approaches to subways , which the aldermen surmise will run into several million dollars . " The ' city has not enough money to build all the subways they desire , and why are they trying to tack on several millions riiore , " commented Mainnun . meramoush. which summarizes the committee view . Another Ambiguity . The aldermen desire more informa. tion on the section of the ordinance which provides that the cost of removing the public utility pipes , wires , and conduits In the streets shall be a part of the expense of building subways . As they interpret the ordinance as now drafted , this expense , estimated at $1,000,000 a mile , will fall . upon the city . If the city takes on that burden the aldermen want the utilities to agree in advance that they will locate their pipes and wires in the subways to be built on the streets involved and pay rent for space utilized . Nor do the aldermen understand why a provision was not written that the new company shall pay 3 per cent 1 of Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present cm- , panies have said they are willing ! to do . The portion of the ordinance relatMg to the transmission of electricity is to be referred to the city electrician for comment and criticism . One section provides that the company shall have authority to transmit electricity for light , heat , power , " et cetera . " That is a Latin phrase meaning ) . glog " . an " and other things , " which the aldermen look upon as loose phm it is the present intention of the subcommittee here to start work immediately on subways , that the city may not be to blame for unnecessary delay .                     