@@687171

txt Who formulated and executed the call for the armament conference ? Who evolved the American proposals for naval limita-tion ? The country has been asking these questions for the last week and has been hearing a variety of . answers . The best " inside story " in Washington today has all the earmarks of being the correct answer . President Harding , on one of his week-end cruises down the Potomac early this autumn , so the story runs , locked himself in his stateroom one evening and left word that he did not wish to be disturbed , because he was writing . Hastily Sketched on Boat . A little later the President called to hid room , one by one , some of the close friends in public life who had accompanied him , and Ihid before them some sheets of paper on which he had written with lead pencil , and with frequent corrections and interlineations , something which they all read with amazement and greatest interest . It was the invitation to the nations to the arms conference . After sonic conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forward the text to Secretary Hughes , and the yacht Mayflower , laid up for the night in the waters of a secluded cove In the reaches of the river , buzzed off front her wireless that night to the state department the words which later were to ring It round the world . Substantially Unchanged . Of course , the preliminary diplomatic feeler was transmitted to the nations concerned , but it is said that the text of the flnal'and , formal invitation as It later went out was substantially the same as President Harding had conceived it that night while resting on the yacht Mayflower down the river . The evolution of the concrete American proposals for naval limitation  --  Secretary Hughes ' bombshell  --  also heard around the world at the first session , is still another story . Some admirers have ascribed theta to Secretary Hughes alone , while some other persons have declared they were the composite effort of four American delegates , of whom Mr. Hughes is one . Seven . Men " In " on Secret . Everybody seems agreed that they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left out President Harding , until today 's " Inside story " ' began to circulate . The great secret , to which Arthur Balfour referred so artistically in his address of Tuesday , must indeed have been well kept , because between seven and ten men knew it . That number includes the four American delegates and President Harding . The others worked on various phases of the proposal . It is known , of course , that It was based on memoranda called from the navy department and It was carried into execution by the American big four which Secretary Hughes heads , but the " big idea " on which the plan is built , the " inside story " says , came from ' resident Harding .                     