@@684925

txt The chief witness before the committee was Samuel Gompers , president of the American Federation of Labor , who denounced all pending bills . Objects to Word Force . ' Mr. Gompers in discussing the Graham bill objected particularly to the use of the words " force or violence . " He said that the courts would be sure to construe the word " force " as including moral force and that such construction would make unlawful peaceful gatherings seeking changes in the fundamental laws of the nation and would in effect tend to destroy labor organizations . . " Strikes are nothing more nor less than an inspiration of the working people for a better life , " Mr. Gompers said . " You will 1izd strikeS dolleptIvely.only in the highest civilized countries . ; - You wilriihd-nO.Strikes They are growing in number In Japan . Fears Effect of Measure . " It is my judgment , after a lifelong Study and experience , that this species of legislation is not going to prevent the things that it is ought to prevent . On the contrary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carolina , asked how the bill would prevent men from striking . " By the provislOn making assemblages eta certain character illegal , by inhibition of free speech , free press , free discussion , " replied Mr. Gonmers . " Is it advantageous to our country to have such a bill ? " Mr. Gompers 2ontinued . " Will It bring about a greater spirit of unity and solidarity among the people of the United States ? Dr will it work the very opposite of these desirable results ? Cites Lessons of History . " Has history no value to us ? Is this character of legislation in other countries to have no influence upon our judgment and our course ? Is such legislation calculated to tranquilize the minds and activities of the people of the United States , to contribute to the spirit of progress , of evolution , to make this country of ours even a better country than it is now ? " Others appearing against the proposed legislation included P. Weston of Seattle , representing the ' American Publishers ' association , who objected to provisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publications , and Prof. Zachariah Chafee of . Harvard university , who said there is sufficient law at present to deal with the slit's. tion . The hearings before the rules committee had been arranged chiefly to give Attorney General Palmer an opportunity to present his views , and his failure to appear in person occasioned considerable comment . Will Enforce Any Law , " I have read with great care both bills , and feel impelled to say that neither accords with my views as to what the legislation ought to be , " Mr. Palmer 's letter said . ' . ' Of course , the form which legislation shall take is for the congress exclusively . The bill which I have quoted was prepared by me only because requested to do so by a senate committee . It is unnecessary for me to add that the department of justice stands ready to enforce whatever legislation the congress shall see fit to pass . "                     