@@685361

txt Entirely confident of victory in the Presidential contest , the Republicans felt , a few months ago , that no Democrat in the country could seriously challenge any candidate they might put forward at Chicago ; in their minds there was no room for doubt that the next President would be of their party . The country was of that opinion . The State primaries of the Republicans got all the attention ; Democratic primaries were quite unconsidered . Men felt that it was of no great moment what the Democrats did at San Francisco . All that is changed . There was then but a rift in the Republican Party . It has widened to a chasm . In carrying out their policy of wrecking the Treaty and of defeating General WOOD , the old organization Republicans encouraged the pretensions of HIRAM JOHNSON , put him forward , made him a coadjutor . He has outgrown them , he is no longer their in. strument , he is almost their master . He takes no orders , he asks no terms , he demands obedience and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The leaders of the party are alarmed , they are actually frightened , they are trying to prevent division , but division is not their greatest danger . The more evident peril that hangs over the party in its coming convention is compromise . An attempt at a miserable patching up of the quarrel would probably be disastrous to the party , it might be a disaster for the country . The differences between the opposing - Republican factions are irreconcilable . The conservatism of a great body of the Republicans , and in that they are representative of the temper of the country , can not be yoked with the radicalism of HIRAJOHNSON and his motley but undeniably large following . The Republican Party was founded upon principles and convictions by men of courage . Compromise with- HIRAM JOHNSON this year would bring about its moral ruin . It will compass its defeat at the polls if the Democrats nominate for President a man who. will command the confidence of the country . It is not a year for small men or for common men , not . a year to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tnn TIMES is very little given to the practice of urging candidates upon the Democratic Party or upon any other party . It is independent of all parties . It hopes that both parties will nominate men of the highest character and ability , men of steadiness and courage , of broad xnderstanding and of ? constructive minds . We feel , therefore , that it does not lie outside the newspaper province and privilege to urge upon the attention of , the Democrats the name of a man whose distinguished ability and standing are attested by the high honors he has already received from the party , a man who is qualified not only to pass the tests and challenges of a trying campaign , but to discharge with credit to himself and with advantage to the country the duties of the Presidency . We mean JOHN W. DAVIS , at present Ambassador of the United States at London . The record of the offices Mr. DAVIS has held , honorable as it is , can not be - considered as the measure of his qualifications . Yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his marked ability , to the respect and esteem and confidence of those who know him best . Mr. DAVIS is 47 years old ; West Virginia is his native State ; he was born at Clarksburg , April 13 , 1873 ; he is a graduate of Washington and Lee University . He was admitted to the bar in 1895 , and was Assistant Professor of Law in his university when he was 23 years old . At 26 he " was a member of . the ? West Virginia House of Delegates and was a Chairman of the Judiciary Committee of that body . The Congressional district in which Mr. DAVIS lived , the First West Virginia , was strongly ? Republican ; no Democrat had carried it Reproduced with permission of the since 1896 . But in 1910 Mr. DAVIS was elected to represent that district at Washington , . and Served in the Sixtysecond and Sixty-third Congresses until he resigned to become Solicitor General of the United States in 1918 . He was appointed in 1918 as the American Commissioner to the conference at Berne to arrange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their treatment It was in that year that he was appointed to his present post as Ambassador at the Court of St. James 's . During his service of lets than three Years in the House of Representatives Mr. DAVIS 'S legal ability won universal recognition . lie attracted and commanded the respect of the House , even of its veteran members . Speaker CHAMP CLARK , we are told , " regarded him as " having one of the most remarkable legal " minds in the House membership . " He served on the Judiciary Committee and proposed or spoke in favor of many measures amendatory of procedure in the Federal courts . When NATHAN GOFF of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals was elected to the Senate , the entire membership of the Judiciary Committee and . practically all the members of the House , Republicans and Democrats alike , joined in recommending the appointment of Mr. DAVIS to the vacancy . It was a remarkable attestation of his qualities , of his standing in that body . Justices of the Supreme Court spoke of Mr. DAVIS in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solicitor General , when he presented before the court many cases in behalf of the Government . Men holding high places in administrative departments at Washington , prominent Republican members of Congress , as well as Democrats , speak with admiration of him as a jurist and with respect for him as a man . His popularity is not of the kind that comes by artful seeking , it has been won as the consequence of the universal recognition of his very high ' character , of his great abilities , of his most agreeable personal qualities . If we refer to the pages of the Congressional Record during Mr. DAVIS 'S term of service in the House we shall find that the reputation he won is sustained by his utterances in that body . One of his earliest speeches , printed m the Record of June 16 , 1911 , was on the wool schedule of the Payne tariff , that memorable chapter of a tariff act which the Republicans recall with vain regrets as one of the causes of their defeat in 1912 . President Tarr said of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woolen " schedule is indefensible and I propose " to say so . " Again he denounced it in his Winona speech . That schedule , as Mr. LA FoixerrE pointed out , was obdurate and resisting  --  neither the petitions of the people nor the pledges of the Republican platform sufficed for the promised revision downward . Mr. DAvis 's speech was not only impregnably sound democratic doctrine , the doctrine of the old faith , it was sound economics as well . In this day we have almost forgotten the tariff  --  income taxes are incomparably more fruitful , they are easier of collection , they suit the temper of the politicians . But the tariff was a topic very much alive in 1911 , when Mr. DAVIS : , poke upon it with full information and strong convictions . His speech showed a statesmanlike grasp of the subject He knew the history of the woo/ tariff from the days of the famous Syracuse Conference of 1865 , where the compact was entered into between the wool growers and the manufacturers . He was familiar with that other compact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican Party . He asked : Was the failure to revise this schedule two years ago the fault of struggling statesmen striving in vain to a Just conclusion . or was it in fact the work of a sinister power too strong even  - -  for this chamber to resist . which postponed the hour of common jus-tice ? That whole speech is worth any Democrat 's reading , for he will find in it advocacy of principles for which the Democratic Party fought for more than half a century . Mr. DAVIS 'S learning in the law , his broad mastery of legal principles , found scope for application and exercise in his speech , reported in the Congressional Record of May 14 , 1912 , upon the bill amending the Judiciary act to provide that injunctions should not be issued without previous notice and an opportunity to be heard and with other provisions intended to restrain abuses of the injunctive process , notably in labor disputes . The principle of the bill was that in such disputes injunctions should not be issued " unless necessary to pre " vent irreparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party making ? 4 the application , for which injury there " is no adequate remedy at law . " Mr. DAvis spoke directly to the question before the House , and his argument for a reasonabl ? and only reasonable exercise of the power of injunction was supported by abundant citations from decisions of the courts ; he showed a detailed cequaintance with the history of the dispute , with instances of what be deemed to be ' wrongful use of the process . He had no leniency toward lawlessness or violence ; there is no trace of demagogy in his utterance , which is more than can be said of some other speeches delivered at the same time and upon the same subject . He contended for justice to all parties , for right and reason . Mr. liens is not a man of nostrums . ? He referred to the demand , vociferously made in that year of Progressive activities , for the recall of Judges . Upon that subject he said : When the great Chief Justice JOHN MARSHALL . uttered his solemn and oftquoted warning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he rightfully drew no distinction as to the evil emInganCe of the three vices- namedrnor Can I do so , unless the-Poison of dependence be the most deadly Of all . An Ignorant Judge may be informed . a corrupt Judge may be detected and exposed , but a Judge Cowed Into impotence or tempted to excess by dependence on the constant favor of the appointing power or the continued smile of public approval is of all men most pitiable and most dangerous . We have an impression that that sentiment will command the approval of a vast majority of the American people . Certainly it will not be called in question by men who know the place of the judiciary in our system of government , who Understand the profound interest of the people in the complete independence of Judges . Again Mr. DAVIS 'S legal knowledge , attainments and experience found opportunity for service and exercise when he appeared before the Senate as one of the managers appointed by the House in the impeachment proceedings against Judge ROISERT W. AlICHBAIA ) of Pennsylvania . His complete mastery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he had equal command of principles and precedents applicable to the case before the Senate . The grounds of the impeachment of Judge ARCHBALD involved tome discussion of ? the line of distinction between acts criminal in their nature and acts of indiscretion sufficiently grave to compromise the dignity and impartiality of the bench . Recalling JOnN RANDOLPH 'S characterization of " the great Chancellor of Virginia , Geonaa Wrriw , " as " the incarnation of justice , " Mr. DAVIS continued : Who is there that will declare this rule toe rigid or this Ideal too high ? If any such there be . at least even he must admit that the Judge should scrupulously abstain from bargaining with litigants before him or from using the prestige of his lofty station as a means of procuring financial favors . If this were not so , think how many subtle byways of approach and influence would be open ; how quickly and surely litigants would trace the outcome of their causes to something other than a fair application of the maxims of the law : how easily a gift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : and how restless would be the suitor when compelled to submit his cause ? for adjudication to the favored friend or business ally of his adversary . Indeed . since Judges at their best are merely human . ? tv far might the poise and balance of their judgments be thus disturbed by a bias and prepossession not confessed even to themselves ? We have before us a more recent utterance of Ambassador DAVIS , an address delivered by him before the Oxford University British-American Club on Feb. 20 of the present year upon " The " Treaty-making Power in the United " States . " The Ambassador told his audience that the limitations imposed upon him by virtue of his office precluded any discussion of political questions , they left " their unfortunate subject little secure footing outside " the realm of palaeontology or the higher " mathematics . " But he delivered a most enlightening address , admirable in form and clear in expression , upon the scope of the treaty-making machinery . He made plain the respective functions of President and the Senate in the process and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not fail to note that there were unsettled questions of the scope of the treaty-making power , particularly in its relations with the matters left by the Constitution to the control of the States . We quote the concluding paragraph of this Oxford address : Such in meagre outline is the treatymaking power of the United States , and the machinery by which it operates . An unfriendly critic might denounce it as complicated and cumbersome . ill adapted to the complex demands of international intercourse , slow in action and uncertain In outcome . The requirement of a two-thirds rather than a majority vote In the Senate he might criticise not unjustly as a dubious excess of caution . He might point his moral and adorn his tale with many instances of sharp and frequently bitter discord . between Presidents and Senators . Of this audience , however . I ask only that if you think it like ROB ROT MAcGacooa " ower bad for Dieming. " you pronounce it also " owcr good for banning . " For believe me. the American people are like for many years to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checks and balances by which it is surrounded , the free and full debate which it allows . are in their eyes virtues rather- than detects . They rejoice in the fact that all engagements which affect their destinies must be spread upon the public records , and that there is not . and there can never be , a secret treaty binding them either in law or in morals . Looking back upon a diplomatic history which Is not without its chapter of success . they feel that on the whole the scheme the fathers builded has served the children well . With a conservatism in matters of government as great perhaps as that of rtny people in the world , they will suffer much in inconvenience and run the risk of occasional misunderstanding before they make a change . In this review we have merely glanced at some of the things Mr. DAVIS has done ; we have indicated the Nature of his public services and have quoted front what , upon occasions , he has said . An Ambassador , at his distant post , no matter how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by those who fix their eyes upon figures actively moving in their immediate field of observation . Mr. DAVD3 is not a man to be overlooked or to be put out of mind at any time or anywhere Iiy those who know him . We have sought to bring his name , his personality and his qualifications to Um* attention of his party at a moment when , in our judgment , his party and his country have need:of him . ' The San Francisco lists , fortunately , are not closed . There are Democratic , aspirants to the honors there to be conferred on prohibited without permission . who have deserved well of their party , men fit to be considered among the possibilities . - Of none of them do we speak a. word of disparagement Bat In all candor we ask Democrats , we ask Republicans and all men competent to form opinions upon the matter , if Joni. ; W. DAVIS is not fully the equal of the most deserving of those ? whose names have come to the fore in the pre-convention contests and rivalries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . whether , indeed , critical and impartial judgment would not rank him above most or all of them , as a candidate sure to command great strength in his party , even beyond the lines of his party ; as a man who , if elected , would bring to the executive qfflee high qualifications of character , learning , cultivation , long experience in public affairs , full knowledge of the processes of the Government and personal qualities that have won for hint the friendship , confidence and admiration of all with whom he has been associated . We express an opinion widely shared in this country when we say that JOHN W. DAVIS is a great man , a great American , a great Democrat The Democratic Party would inunensely strengthen itself in the confidence of the country by giving its nomination to a man of his mental stature , his statesmanlike amplitude and qualification .                     