@@692487

txt The University of Michigan has received from the Cadillac Motor Car Company a standard chassis cut open and prepared for laboratory studies . It will be used in the mechanical engineering ' department for students of internal comlitistion engines and those who are specializing in automotive study . Under the latest Ford reduction , which became effective Feb. 11 , any of the Ford closed cars can be purchased for less money than it  --  cost to buy an open Ford car of relative size in 1920 . Early in 1920 , before the company reached more than 1,000,000 a year production , a Ford two-passenger runabout ' cost $30 more than it costs today to buy a Ford Tudor sedan , for five passengers . George Stowe , manager of the Reo branch in this city , announces that the Reo Motor Car Company has made the new tax reduction rate effective at once , and will absorb the 2 per cent . difference at the factory . It is not officially effective until the end of the month . Announcement is made by William D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chrysler cars , that all Chrysler mbdels will now carry the reduction of 2 per I cent . in the Federal excise tax . The New York Hupmobile Agency announces that it will absorb the 2 per cent . differential between the 5 per cent . automobile ' war tax now prevailing and the 3 per cent . which becomes effective under the new law March 28 , thereby giving present buyers the benefit of lower prices at once . Models of the new Pierce-Arrow custom-built coaches are being shown at the Harrolds Motor Car Company 's salesrooms , Fifty-fourth Street , west of Broadway . They present a new de- velopment in automobile body design . The bodies are of northern white ash and hand-hammered aluminum , the same as all Pierce-Arrow bodies . They are offered in six choices of color . All are mounted on the standard six-cylinder chassis . Samuel A. Marks , Vice President of Cutting , Larson Company , has returned from the Peerless factory in Cleveland . He reports that the demand for the Peerless light six-cylinder models is far ahead of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1925 shoWed a gain of more than 18 per cent , over the previous year , according to E. T. Strong , general sales manager . In 1925 a total of 200,042 cars were delivered , while the deliveries in 1924 were 168,920 cars . The Paige-Detroit Motor Car Company announces that- it will produce 45,024 cars in the first six months of 1926 , comprising 20,934 Jewetts and 24,090 Paiges . This will he 5,910 more than the production of both models in. 1925 . Demand for the new Pontiac car has led to plans for increased production . A daily output of 450 cars is scheduled for this month , which will be increased to 500 cars in April . The Chevrolet production schedule this month calls for more than 57,500 passenger cars and trucks . President W. S. Knudsen announces that it represents an increase of more than 14,000 over March of last year . In his Gobi Desert exploration trip Roy Chapman Andrews of the American Museum of Natural History and his party will use Dodge Brothers cars as a means of transportation . The fleet will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Peking , and five new cars , which were shipped several weeks ago , from the Dodge factory in Detroit to Peking . The City Sales Company , 1,922 to 1,928 Broadway , at Sixty-fifth Street , Willys-Knight and Overland dealers , through . President John J. Timmerman , announces the appointment of F. H. Warrick as retail sales manager . The Textile Color Card . Association believes that automobile manufacturers have not exhausted the possibilities of brown as a motor car color , in its endless variety of subtle tonings and rosy casts . The whole bois de rose range , with its endless gradation of wood shades , is said to be conservative , practical and smart , and the association predicts its introduction for next season 's version of what the welldressed automobile will wear . FERRY TO ALPINE REOPENS ON SATURDAY AN announcement of interest to motorists is that the Yonkers ferry , crossing the Hudson River from Yonkers to Alpine , will resume operations on March 13 . Service will commence each day at 6 A. M. and continue until 12:15 A. M. the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having a capacity of twentyseven vehicles and several hundred passengers . Important improvements to the roads on the Jersey side leading to and from Alpine have been made . In addition to the new concrete Closter Dock Road between Alpine and Closter three and one-half miles of the Sylvan Avenue boulevard in Alpine has been rebuilt of concrete . which was opened to traffic last Fall . A lighting system has been installed in and around Alpine , making it more convenient for night driving . By traveling south froni Alpine along the Hendrik Hudson Drive , Englewood is reached , from which place good roads lead to Jersey City , Hackensack , Newark , Paterson and all Jersey shore points as well as to Trenton and Philadelphia . For the motorist desiring to go to Nyack , Bear Mountain , Newburgh , Suffern , Tuxedo , Middletown , Binghamton , the road to Closter ( two and one-half miles distant ) should be taken and at Closter turn north for the Hudson River points , westerly to Suffern for all other New York State points , as well as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fronts on Alexander Street , between Babcock Place and Wells Avenue . At Alpine the landing is at the foot of the Palisades , where there is a road direct to the Hendrik Hudson Drive with a grade of about 6 per cent . for half a mile . MANY LICENSES REVOKED In Maryland during 1025 , licenses of S27 owner operators and chauffeurs were revoked , announces Motor Vehicle Commissioner E. A. Baughman of that State . In addition , 2,305 licenses were suspended and 1,937 applicants were refused licenses for varying periods . A total of 11,819 drivers were warned or reprimanded .                     