@@691532

txt A me. mentous decision that it is feared by many Presbyterians may be a wedge fog a wide split in the Church was made to . day by the Presbyterin General Assem. bly , which ; sitting as . a high court , up . held the complaint of the Rev. Albert D. Gantz , who challenged the right of the Presbytery of New York to license ministers who did not affirm positive belief in the virgin birth . The sweeping victory of the extreme Fundamentalists stunned the commissioners from the New York Presbytery . Tense and nervous with excitement . Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin , a liberal leader of the New York commissioners , hurried to the platform and firmly declared that the Presbytery of New York would con. tinue its policy of licensing candidates , standing upon the constitution of the Church , " which forbids the ' Assembly to change or add to the cnoditions for en . trance upon or continuance in the holy ministry without submitting such amendment to the Presbyteries for con. current action . " Dr. Coffin 's virtual defiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate for the ministry must positively affirm the truth of the virgin birth was followed by the ? announce . merit of the Rev. Joel Hayden of Cleve. land that he would circulate a petition of protest against the decision . One hope for the avoidance of a split i in the Church , which It is admitted by the commissioners would have tragic consequences , rests in a commission of fifteen , which Dr. Charles R. Erdman , the Moderator , will appoint " to study the present spiritual condition of our Church and the causes making for un . rest and to report to the next General Assembly , to the end that the puritY , peace , unity and progress'of the Church may be assured . " The appointment of this committee , It was said , would automatically suspend the carrying out of the decision in the Gantz case until next year 's General As . sembly . In the meantime , the extrerne Fundamentalists and the liberals will line up for whatwill be a historic battle next year in the General Assembly at Baltimore , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Church , whether it will be united or whether it will split into Fundamentalists and liberals . Dr. Macartney Explains Decision . Dr. Clarence E. Macartney , the retir. ing Moderator , praised the work of the Judicial Commission in the Gantz case and said that everything for which the extreme Fundamentalists had been con. tending had been decided in their favor . " The Judicial Commission , in its de . cision concerning , the complaint against the Synod of New York , has done a great service to the Presbyterian Church and the cause of evangelical Christian .. ity throughout the world , " said Dr. Macartney . " It is impossible to over . state its far-reaching and profound sig. nificance . It establishes the following disputed points  --  that is , disputed by the Modernists and Liberalists in Presby. terian churches : " The absolute right of the General As . sembly as to review and control over the actions of the Presbyteries . It es . tablishes the fact that the Presbyterian Church is a constitutional church and not a loose federation of Presbyteries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presbytery in licensing men who refused to affirm certain doctrines have maintained that the Presbyteries are not subject to review and control by the assemblies , so long as they license within the bounds of their interpreta. tion of the constitution of the Church . The decision of the Judicial Commission now determines that we have not sev. eral hundred creeds and governments corresponding to the number of our Presbyteries , but one creed and one government . " The decision makes It clear that it it irregular and unconstitutional for a Presbytery to license men who say they can not affirm certain doctrines . The de . cision points out that the constitution of the Church requires complete and en . thusiastic affirmation of the doctrines of the Confession of Faith . " The virgin birth of , our Lord Jesus Christ by decision of the highest court of the Presbyterian Church is declared to be an essential doctrine of the con. fession of faith . No Presbytery any . where can dare to license men yaw re . fuse to affirm their faith in the doe . trine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The decision has splendidly pointed out that the Confession of Faith rests upon . the Holy Scriptures , and that no man- can deny the narratives of St. Matthew and St. Luke and the incarnation of God in Christ without denying also the con. fession of faith . " The other two complaints now go back to the Synod of New York , and In view of this decision the Synod of - 1443w York can not do otherwise than condemn the Presbytery . " All that we have been hoping , striving and praying for and witnessing to in the face of widespread ridicule , misrepresentation and opposition , has been magnificently vindicated . The great docttines of the Presbyterian Church and of all evangelical churches are thus ? solemnly setforth by the decikon as necessary portions of the Christian faith . " There is still ii God in Israel and the government sand doctrines of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America still live , praise God from Whom all blessings flow ! " Liberals Defeated After Victory . ' The defeat of the New York liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three less important cases . The first was that of Dr. Walter D. Buchanan of the Broadway Presbyterian Church and a group of extreme Fundamentalists against the Presbytery of New York , alleging failuee by the First Presbyterian Church to dispense with the ervices of Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick , Baptist " guest " preacher , promptly upon last year 's decision of the General Assembly that Dr. Fosdick should subscribe to the Presbyterian creed or leave the First ' Church . The complaint , considered by the Permanent Judicial Commission , was dismissed on the ground that there was nothing to show that the Presbytery of New York was guilty of " contempt of court " or that there was any intent by the Presbyterye to defy the General Assembly . Two ' complaints by Dr. Buchanan and his associates against the Presbytery of New York for licensing Cameron Parker Hall and Carlos G. Fuller , on the ground that they failed to affirm belief h. the . virgin birth , wet4e dismissed by the Judicial Commission and the General ssembly on the ground that the petitioner did not appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Assembly . The dispoeltion of the three cases against the New York Presbytery served to work up the greatest interest in the outstanding case ? that of Dr. Gantz against the Synod of New York , opposing its right to license Henry P. Van Dusen and Cedric A. Lehman as ministers . Although they failed to affirm the Virgin birth , the candidates did not deny it . This complaint originally was made against the Presbytery of New York and was appealee by Dr. Gantz to tile Synod of New York , which upheld the action of the Presbytery . Judge Henry D. Burr of the Permanent Judicial Commission , the supreme court of the Church , in outlining the decision in the Gantz case said that representatives of both sides admitted that the candidates for the ministry named in the complaint stated that they could neither affirm nor deny the virgin birth . Church Constitution Involved . The case presented two serious questions involving the constitution of the church , said Judge Burr , " the right of the General Assembly to review the action of a Presbytery in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ licensure . " Judge Burr said the Church 's form of government gave the Presbytery the power to examine and license candidates for the ministry ; but this power was subject to review , else " each Presbytery would be a law unto itself . " In 1910 , he said , the General Assembly took action on complaints against the Synod of New York in licensing and ordaining candidates . The Permanent Judicial Commission . Judge Burr continued , held that Section 5 of Chapter 12 of the form of government gave to the General Assembly " the power of deciding in all controversies respecting doctrine . " Having ruled on the constitutional power of the General Assembly in the case , the decision discussed the next question , the candidates ' belief in the virgin birth . " It is not a question as to the character uf the applicant , his education , his amiable qualities , or even his piety , " the decision continued . " The candidate was not required to state his views as to the mystery therein contained . He was not required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he believed in the virgin birth , his attention being called to the narratives as contained In the gospels of Matthew and of Luke , and he declined to affirm , stating he could neither affirm nor deny . He was in doubt as to the truth of these portions of the Holy Scriptures . Hence , he was unable to affirm his belief in positive , definite statements in the gospels regarding the virgin birth . - Defines Meaning of Questions . " Constitutional question 1 , regarding belief in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament , means the Scriptures as defined and described in Chapter 1 of the Confession of Faith . Constitutional question 2 , requiring the candidate to receive and adopt the confession of faith of this Church as containing tee system of doctrine taught in the Holy Scriptures , means the Confession of Faith , including , Chapter 8 thereof , dealing with the Incarnation . " Thus , while he answered these constitutional questions in the affirmative , his affirmation ' is qualified by his doubt hereinbefore set forth . He gave his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virgin Birth and the , narratives thereof . as contained in the gospels and as declared and defined in the confession of faith , and knowing the Presbytery knew he could not so affirm . " The General Assembly , under the constitution of the Church , has the power . and it is its duty , to review the action of lower judicatories . In the discharge of his duty , in a case regularly brought before it . the General Assembly is exercising . its power as a court and as the highest judicatory in the Church . and its decisions regarding doctrinal matters In such a case is therefore binding until modified or reviewed , or until the constitution is amended . " In 1910 the General Assembly , in an action on a complaint against the Synod of New York in sustaining the action of a Presbytery in licensing candidates who. while not denying the Virgin Birth of our Lora , failed ' to affirm it with the same positiveness as for some other doctrines , ' said that ' no one who is in serious doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minister . ' " The General Assembly has repeatedly passed upon the importance of clear and positive views regarding this doctrine . It is the established law sof the Church . The Church has not seenfit to alter It and your Judicial Commission sees no reason for amending the Constitution by judicial interpretation . Holds the Presbytery Erred . " The aplicants ' being each uncertain as to his belief , and being unable to affirm his belief in the virgin birth of our Lord as set forth in the Gospels and declared in the Confession of Faith , the Presbytery erred in not deferring the licensing until the candidates were certain and positive , no matter how amiable , educated or talented the candidates may have been . " The action of the synod in failing to sustain the complaints against the Presbytery is reversed and the complaint against the Presbytery is sustained . ' This matter is remanded to the Presbytery for appropriate action , in conformity with the decision herein rendered . " The decision was put before the General Assembly by the Moderator and was adopted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the negative . It was pointed out that the action of the Assembly was its only recourse unless it wished to try the case itself . The severe blow to the Presbytery of New York took the New York commissioners by surprise . Although they had prepared themselves for any contingency , they did not believe , they said later , that the commission would reach such an extreme decision . New York Presbytery Protests . Pale and trembling with excitement . Dr. Coffin mounted the rostrum and read the following protest : " The sixteen Commissioners of the Presbytery of New York , on behalf of the said Presbytery , respectfully declare that the Presbytery of New York will stand firmly upon the constitution of the Church , reaffirmed in the reunions of 1STO and 1906 , which forbids the Assembly to change or add to the conditions for entrance upon or continuance in the holy ministry , without submitting such amendment to the Presbyteries for concurrent action . ROBERT W. BOYD , THOMAS GUTHRIE SPEERS , GEORGE B. AGNEW , EDWARD H. K7t0,11 , T. N. PFEIFFER , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WYLIE , HAROLD S. RAMBO . JOHN H. FINLEY , REGINALD L. . WILLIAM P. MERRILL , NORMAN J. MARSH , A. EDWIN KEIGWIN , GEORGE H. RICHARDS , HENRY SLOANE COFFIN . The protest threw the Assembly into a Lever el excitement . , &aro; a voices were raised demanding the floor and Moderator Erdman , confronted by the crisis which he bad used all his means to avoid , rapped for order . Dr. John F. Carsdn , an extreme Fundamentalist , of Brooklyn , declared that Dr. Coffin 's statement was out of order , as the Assembly still was sitting as a high court , Synod Also Files Protest . The court was adjourned , and then J. V. Oldenhauser , for the Synod of New York , hurried to the platform and filed the following protest against the decision : The committee appointed by the Synod of New York to defend its action before the General Assembly based its argument upon the constitutional power of the Presbytery To determine the fitness of . candidates for the gospel ministry . We , the members of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's decision , and our conviction hat the Synod of New York end its , constituent Presbyteries must continue ' to maintain the rights of Presbyteries in all matters of licensure and ordination . J. V. OLDENHAUSER , ROBERT- HASTINGS NICHOLS . RALPH nicicox . T. N. PFEIFFER , HENRY SLOANE COFFIN . Protests filled the air against the action of Dr. , Coffin and Mr. Oldenhauser . Moderator Erdman then tried to pour oil on the troubled ecclesiastical waters by suggesting the appointment of a commission of fifteen - to look into the whole matter of the spiritual condition of the Cherch . A New York commissioner made a special - point of seconding the proposal , which was adopted unanimously . Dr. Joel Hayden of Cleveland offered a protest against the decision of the Supreme Judicial Commission . It bore his name alone , and he said he would circulate it among the commissioners tomorrow . The body then tabled permanently the Chester overture , calling for the exscinding of the New York Presbytery and the demand of the Presbytery of New York for vindication of its stand in the Fosdick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After leaving Lie floor Dr. Coffin made the following statement to reporters In explanation of the attitude of the New York liberals : " We interpret the decision of the Supreme Judicial Commission as an attempt to add to the Constitution by judicial decision , and thus to alter the requirements for entrance into the holy ministry . This we hold to be a violation of the Constitution . " If they wish to make categorical acceptance of the virgin birth a requirement for entrance into the ministry , it must be submitted to the Prebyteries for concurrent action . as it is an addition to our standards , which , neither in the Scriptures nor in the Confession of Faith , mention the virgin birth as essential . " The Scriptures and . the Confession mention many things which are not regarded as essential . for example , the creation of the world In six days . If the virgin birth is to be made essential because it is mentioned in both the Scriptures and in the Confession , then it follows that the creation of the world in six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made ridiculous in the eyes of the world . " While me Presbytery of New York has been singled out for complaint in this matter , it is common knowledge that many Presbyteries have licensed students from various seminaries who do not categorically affirm the virgin birth . It is a well-known fact that many clergymen of the Church hold , the same position . " We will continue to assert our rights , and there will be no weakening in the assertion of our rights . " " The Commission of Fifteen is in the nature of an attempt to prevent the evil consequences which might ensue on the rendering of the Judicial Commission 's report . " - Dr. Coffin was asked whether the Presbytery and the Synod of New York would " bolt the decision . " " Not until the last door is closed to us , " he replied . So far as the two ministers named in the Gantz complaint are concerned , it was said that since they had been ordained licensed ministers there was no way of revoking their licenses unless they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two Reports on Chester Complaint . A majority and a minority report on the overture of the Presbytery of Chester , which asked that the Presbytery of New York be esscinded , was reported by the Committee on Bills and Overtures this morning . The majority vindicated the Presbytery , recommending that no action be taken , on the ground that there had been no sustaining testimony presented . The minority called for the appointment of a special judicial committee to investigate the charges , as well as all the unrest in the Church , the committee to have power to summon witnesses and to make a complete investigation " of the alleged unrest based upon the alleged acts of the Presbytery of New York . " The minority report was signed by A. Gordon D. Wilson , A. Wildberger , M. M. Iorelock , George S. Patterson , John , R. E. Williams and A. G. Patterson . In a report on his mission to the Jews , Paul L. Berman of the Department of Jewish Evangelism of the Board of National Missions declared that the articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult for those who were engaged in the work of carrying the message of the Presbyterian Church to the Jews in the United States . " You can not succeed in solving the Jewish problem by persecution and antiSimitism , " he declared . " The Egyptians tried by attempting to drown the Jews , but they found they were waterproof . They threw some of them in the fiery furnace , but they soon found they were also fireproof . In the days of Haman they thought the best solution was to hang the Jews . but they found that they were stiff-necked . " The only way to solve the Jewish problem in America and the world is through Christ . Today 4,000,000 Jews are stretching out their arms to you , pleading that you help them . Please do n't neglect them . " DECLARES SOVIETISM KILLS JEWISH IDEALS Russian Regime Destroying Soul of Race , Sliosberg Dinner Speaker Says . Attacks upon the Soviet Government and denial that members of the Jewish faith were responsible for Bolshevism were made in speeches last night at a dinner in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hotel Astor . Dr. Sliosberg is returning to his home in Paris at the end of the week after study- , ing conditions here and describing his attitude toward the present Russianl Government in a number of addresses . " The fear has often been expressed that the overthrow or the downfall of the Bolsheviki will be accompanied by 1 the worst wave of pogroms ever known . " said Herman Bernstein , editor of The Jewish Tribune , " because it is believed by . anti-Semites that the Jews are responsible for Bolshevism . Those who express that fear do not seem to realize that the greatest wholesale pogrom of the Jewish spirit and of Jewish ideals is taking place in Russia right now , under the Soviet regime . It is a bloodless pogrom . But it is the worst possible pogrom , for the victims are turned into living corpses with dead souls . " Dr. Nathan Crass , rabbi of Temple Emanu-lfl , called the guest of honor " a gigantic argument against the un , warranted assumption and pernicious propaganda that Elie Russian Jews in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anarchy . " Dr. Kress then launched into a eulogy of Dr. Sltosberg 's work in Russia . He was joined by Supreme Court Justice Joseph M. Proskauer , Dr. Samuel Schulman , Reuben Brainin , Dr. A. J. Rongy , Jonah J. Goldstein and Leon Savage . Dr. Sliosberg reviewed his own activities , and in speaking of his impressions of this country , said : " I was pleasantly surprised to note the efforts made for the religious education of the youth . The time is near when the centre of Judaism will definitely pass from Europe to America and herein lies the reason for the vast responsibilities at American Jewry . "                     