@@689932

txt Publication today in London and Paris of the recent letters exchanged between Prime Minister and Fremier Puincare shows that the British Premier 's friendly communication to hiS French colleague expressed the British viewpoint with a frankness unprecedented in any known diplomatic document . British suspicion of French action and motives since the war is set forth without any attempt at circumlocution . Mr. for instance tells M. Poincare that the British people do not understand the reason why France maintains such a great aerial fleet and view it with distrust , ; . He explains that he seeks to reach a complete mutual untlerstan4ing-mr-all- ' outstanding questions between the two countries through an unreserved recital of " the difficulties with which I am faced and - the manner in which I envisage the situation . " Hopes for American Cooperation . Mr. also shows that hp hopes by united Anglo-French action so to re-establish the affairs of Europe that the United States can be induced to cooperate in the general reconstruction . M. Poincare in his reply , which also Is couched in friendly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete accord on all issues between Great Britain and France . He disclaims any idea of annexing a Particle of German territory or of obtaining for France anything whatever that she is not entitled to under the treaty , as Mr. had suggested she was trying to do . and expresses his utter inability to comprehend how the British people could suspect the French of any " fratricidal " intentions toward them . The French Premier agrees with Mr. that the question of inter Allied debts is connected with that of reparations and says it is infinitely to be desired that they should be settled at the same time . TEXT OF CORRESPONDENCE . Following is the text of Mr. BlacDon -- aid 's letter to M. Poincare : Feb. 21 , 1924 . My dear Premier : I din encouraged by the friendly nature of the ? reply which you returned to my letter of 29th January to try and carry to a further stage the exploration of points that have raised some difficulties in the relations between our respective countries . I desire in my present letter to prepare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without reserve the difficulties by which 1 am faced and the manner in which I myself envisage the situation . I shall at this stage neither enter into detail nor advance any specific proposals ; my purpose is merely to make it clear to you that to my mind the differences and altercations of the past were in most cases not wholly unavoidable. , and to assure you of my readiness in future to re-examine the whole problem in its larger outlines and in its more essential elements . Sympathy for French Opinion . In the exchange of letters which has already taken place between us we haveboth laid some stress upon the exigen- ; cies and importance of public opinion in France and England . I have myself endeavored not merely to interpret the views and desires of my own counl , trymen , but sympathetically to realiZo. the opinions and needs of France . It is widely felt in England that , contrary to the provisions of the Treat ; ' - of Versailles , France is endeavoring to create a situation which gains for . it what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of this section of my countrymen is that , , that ? policy can only perpetuate the uncertainty and dangers of a condition not of peace , but of war , and that in the , end it will destroy whatever temporary security France may gain . , . " ' .. x ; , ' There were many people in Fran* who Imagined that with the complete ; defeat of Germany they would auto maticaily be freed forever from .. IR menace . which I fully realize wasreal Some thought that in order to - .. a.4 ... * absolute security the frontiers of , Frarieel should be , extended to the Rhine : . : A They were disappointed . in this*exPes- tation ; they were offered inateatV:fii ? : joint guarantee by Great Eiritaiiatici4 the United States of America : : ; - ' .. 7- ; WitA the abstention of America . thisAiffei7AM : self lapsed , and the . French people have ; since , -with.some:justification , , . Ifeez . . - , : ? ; .. - , ; : : : P.1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ing for other and more tangible safeguards to take its place . In regard to reparations also the French public have suffered disaPPOint'latent . Neither the virtually unlimited expectations aroused at the moment of victory nor the more . specific assessment made in 1921 bear any real relation to the economic situation as it stands today . England 's Interests Imperified. - The position of this country is entirely different . Our security on land and sea remains unmenaced , but our economic existence has been gravely endangered . owing not to the inability of Germany to pay a certain sum in reparation , but to the acute and persistent dislocation of the markets of Europe occasioned mainly by the uncertainty in the relations between France and Germany , the continued economic chaos in Germany , Shown so clearly by the violent fluctuations in the value of currency , and the ultimate uncertainty of the relations between France and ourselves . Thus it has come about that people in this country regard with anxiety what appears to them to be the determination of France to ruin Germany and to dominate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences to a European settlement ; that they feel apprehensive of the large military and aerial establishments maintained not only in eastern but also in western France ; that they are disturbed by the interest shown by your Government in the military organisation of the new States in Central Europe , and , finally , that they question why all these activities should be financed by the French Government in disregard of the fact that the British taxpayer has to find upwards of ? 30 , - 000,000 a year as interest upon loans raised in America . and that our taxpayers have also to find large sums to pay interest on the debt of France to us , to meet which France has herself as yet neither made nor propounded , so far as they can see , any sacrifice equivalent to their own . Must Seek " Camie of Malady . " Such popular sentiments , erroneous though they may be , are factors which both you and I are bound to take into consideration . In my judgment , it is these states of opinion which have vitiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two Governments to indulge in altercations regarding the symptoms of the malady without endeavoring with clarity and good sense to investigate the causes . It is a thoroughly unhealthy condition , which gives me much concern and which I venture to believe , disturbs you , too . I am heartily anxious that you and 1 together should try and give both these sections of French and British opinion some sense of confidence that the basis of their fears and resentments is being removed . It is not , however , my present purpose to enter at any length into such questions as the Ruhr and Rhineland occupation or the Palatinate beyond saying that no One who has to observe British opinion today can afford to overlook the urgent necessity for coming to arrangements reagarding them without delay . I fully realize the difference of opinion which has manifested itself in respect of these problems Is a symptom of a larger lack of mutual confidence . I see little prospect of our being able to attain any agreement in such matters unless we are first able by frank and courageous discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which these problems are merely subsidiary . For when I coneider our relations in their wider aspect I do not feel that our essential objects are so divergent . The French people desire security , the British people cherish an identical Ideal . but whereas France conceives of security as security against Germany alone , the British Empire attributes to the word a far wider significance . What we desire is security against war . To my mind , the problem of security is not merely a French problem , it is a European problem , and one which interests alike England and Germany , Poland and Czechoslovakia , Hungary and Yugoslavia , Russia and Rumania , Italy and Greece . Present Task to Allay Suspicion : It may well hu that some later decade may see the coming of universal disarmament end universal arbitration . Our task . meanwhile. , must be to establish confidence . and this task can only be acnieved by realizing and by allaying international suspicions and anxieties which exist today . Whether this object can be partially achieved by processes of local demilitarization and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutralized territory under mutual or even collective guarantee and supervision , or by some other means is a matter for careful consideration in detail . It is a matter I believe in which the League of Nations , both by discussion and eventual action , might play an important part . It is a policy in support of which the aesent and good will of every European country would have to be enLiaed , but it is a policy which can only be initiated if France and England are agreed . Similarly the French people desire reparation . They conceive of it mainly in its concrete form of payments by Germany for physical damage occasioned upon French territory . The British people also ardently desire to repair the devastation of the war , but for them this devastation is to be interpreted In wider terms ? in ruined markets , in vanished purchasing power , in the decline of shipping and foreign trade , in fallen and fluctuating currencies , in unemployment . Our devastated areas may be more difficult to visualize and to define , their reconstruction will be less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as cruelly as they exist for France , and so long as no remedy is found the present sufferings and anxieties of this Empire will continue . Before we can discuss this problem , however , we must clearly await reports 1 of the two expert committees , and I doi so with the hope that they will draw your country and mine together . Believes Problem Can Be Solved . see no reason why this problem , if approached from its widest aspect , if I considered in conjunction with the cognate problem of interallied debts , should not on an early day be solved in such l a manner as to give to England the hope ' of economic stability in Europe and to France assurance that her just requirements will be met . Here . again , if France and England ara but agree , cooperation of other European countries will be assured and It will be possible for us to approach the United States of America , not asdebtors disputing one Witth another , but as a united Europe . anxious by mutual sacrifice and arrangement to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering . It is on such a basis I should wish to discuss with you our outstanding problems . If we can achieve an agreement on the main principles which inspire us and if these principles can be explained to our respective peoples Ems ' to public opinion of the world , then I have little doubt that the many subsidiary problems , intricate and thorny , though they have become , will not prove Impossible of solution . If on the other hand we allow ourselves to be entangled in the mass of detail which has arisen around such Rhineland and Palatinate , then our ultimate objectives will again become obscured and we shall relapse into the old wearisome round of controversy and altercation on points that may be important'but are not fundamental . It is in the hope of avoiding any such retrograde movement that I have endeavored in this letter to indicate what I consider to be essentials of the problem . I repeat , my dear Premier , the condition of Europe , can only , I feel convinced , be remedied by joint action between France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements and with wise regard for the interests of the world at large . For such cooperation I am fully prepared . I . am , &c.; J. RAMSAY . PREMIER POINCARE 'S REPLY . M. Poincare 's reply follows : Feb. 25. 1924 . My dear Prime Minister : It is with keen pleasure I have read your very frank and friendly letter . I am in full agreement with you both as regards your review of questions to be settled and as regards the methods which you contemplate for their solution . No more than you , do I wish at this stage to enter into too much detail or to formulate concrete proposals but I am anxious to assure you I am ready to begin with you examination of these great outstanding problems and that I shall enter upon this examination in that spirit of conciliation and loyalty with which you yourself are animated . You are right in saying that public opinion has often taken up different points of view in our two countries , but I think that with mutual good-will we should succeed without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the signature of the peace treaty France has been obsessed by two legitimate preoccupations . She aims at the restoration of her material losses and at the definite establishment of her security . ? On her side , Great Britain . whose economic life has been profoundly disturbed by the war , desires above all the revival of the European markets , the general resumption of work and stable international relations . Says Interests Are in Harmony . Far from being irreconcilable , the interests and desires of our two countries are altogether in harmony and both can only be satisfied by the same means . When we demand our reparations and our security we are not giving way to narrow and selfish sentiments . We are simply seeking to create conditions of durable peace in Europe . Without that peace , founded on justice , the commercial and industrial life which England wishes to see reborn would unfortunately not be possible . On the other hand , on the day that France Ls indemnified for her ruins and sheltered from attack , the whole Continent will have a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those of your fellow-countrymen who believe that France dreams , or has dreamed , of political or economic annihilation of Germany are mistaken . As the creditor of Germany . France is not so mad as to wieh to reduce her debtor to poverty . It is in the interests of France that Germany should work , produce and recuperate , and if France does . not mean this recovery to develop into hegemony she has not , so far as she herself Is concerned , any ulterior motive of continental supremacy . No more does she harbor ambitious designs which are sometimes attributed to her in England and which are in contradiction with all the principles of a democratic republic . No reasonable Frenchman has ever dreamed of annexing a particle of German territory nor of turning a single German into a French citizen . At no time , either during the peace negotiations or since , has any pretension of this nature been put forward . France , who fought side by side with England for the liberty of nations , Is as incapable as England of infringing on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rhine as a frontier . We have only asked that Germany should no longer be in a position to use the Rhine as a military base in fresh attacks against France . We have asked that in the general interests of Peace that river should form a barrier against aggression . Wanted Longer Occupation . That was the thought expressed by Marshal Foch on the morrow of the armistice . Neither the Commander-inChief of the allied armies nor the French Government of 1919 had ; for a single moment , the idea of incorporating in French territory one square inch of German territory . I , myself , who was at the time President of the Republic , clearly expressed my opinion to President Wilson and Mr. Lloyd George in a letter dated April 29 , 1919 . In my opinion it would have been prudent to prolong the occupation of the left bank of the Rhine until the treaty had been definitely carried out . I considered it was the surest means of inducing Germany to obtain her freedom . She had , moreover , herself employed this method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , of course : , as I am " to , day , opposed to any form a annexation . Whatever disappointments she may I have experienced , the existence of which you are good enough not to dispute , France has never soughOanything that was not recognized to be hers by the treaty . If that treaty had been ' carried out she would never have complained . On the day of victory she did not conceive boundless hopes . She did not . count on impossible reimbursements . She simply hoped she wbuld be paid what was her due . She simply counted on the signatures being honored . Among the errors of appreciation concerning ourselves which a section of the British Public opinion commits , one which is to us most incomprehensible and which saddens us is that regarding our military armaments . Are there really Englishmen who suppose that France would be capable of ' baking fratricidal preparations against their country ? Our military and aerial establishments are exclusively designed to defend us against attempted German revenge . We have suffered invasion often enough to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishments are scattered throughout our territory , It is because our administrative organization and our mobilization requirements do not allow us to concentrate them in the east , but our army and our air force are no more signs of defiance to England than the aerial and maritime fleets of Britain are in your view threat to France . Policy Toward Small States . Our policy toward the States of the Little Entente has always been of the same peaceful character . Pending the grant to us , if it be possible , of more effective guarantees for the mainteaance of peace , we have been anxious to keep of Europe has arisen . In that there is nothing which can give umbrage to England . , For the last four years we have never ceased to proclaim that we should consider her adherence to this group of friendships as the best guarantee of peace . Moreover , in lending to the Allied States of Central Europe resources necessary for their defense , we have done nothing which could impoverish ourselves or prevent us from paying our own debts , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to in exchange for positive pledges . On all these points I am convinced that straightforward explanations given openly will put an end in our respective countries to inaccurate interpretations and will destroy prejudices inspired by erroneous or incomplete information . To bring our two public opinions more surely back to a just appreciation of things I think , like.you , that we must rise above questions of secondary interest and , above all , keep in view the future of our countries and the welfare of humanity . Why the Ruhr Was Occupied . We occupied the Ruhr in order to induce Germany to settle with us and to conquer the stubborn resistance. , of the German industrial magnates . This method of pressure will cease , as we have announced , on the day when Germany pays off her debts . On the other hand , the occupation of the Rhineland will come to an end when the conditions laid down in the treaty have been fulfilled and our security is guaranteed . It will doubtless not be long before the experts present their report to the Reparation Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective competence . examine the opinions given by the experts . We shall then be able , I hope , to arrive rapidly at a comprehensive settlement and to insure that Germany carries it out thank you for telling me that you look upon the question of inter-Allied debts as connected with that of reparations . It is infinitely to be desired that they should be settled at the same time . The Government of the Republic . like the British Cabinet , firmly intends to strengthen and magnify the role of the League of Nations . If it had depended only on us the League would have had from the beginning more powerful means of action than those with which it was endowed . We pray that it may find in the growing confidence of the States a-ho compose it all the authority it needs to fulfill its mission effectually . May the progress it makes and the development of international arbitration soon justify the associated nations in proceeding to a ' coordinated limitation of armaments . which will not expose the most peace-loving to enterprises of the most ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether it Is a question of the increasing prestige of the League of Nations , of the hastening on reparation of the disasters of war , or of consolidating the peace of the world , I share your conviction that the closer the entente between our two countries the more rapid and successful ) will be the result . I am grateful to you for having affirmed this se clearly yourself . No more than you am I able to imagine an England and , a France separated from each other , or even indifferent to each other . It is not only France , it is not only England , who would have to pay the price of such dissensions ; it would be the whole of Europe , the whole of humanity . We owe it to civilization to remain united . Since our two Governments are conscious of this duty it is impossible that we should not act together to carry it out . Accept , &c.; POINCARE.                     