@@688297

txt WOMEN 'S QUESTIONNAIRE . Its Usefulness In Supplying Information to the Novitiate . To the Editor of The New York Times : Some days ago THE TIMES commented editorially on the refusal of Governor Miller , whose example was followed by a few other Republican candidates , to answer the questionnaire of the League of Women Voters , and commended the Governor for his stand . The reasons given were that after a candidate had spent much time answering the questions " if the inquirers did not like the result they might throw the document in the fire , " and that a candidate should not promise to favor a bill without seeing it . THE TIMES concluded that the questionnaire , " being more often than not the device of an enemy , deserves to be viewed askance . " This is such a direct challenge to the League of Women Voters that it should have an answer . It is hardly necessary to say that the only purpose of the questionnaire as used by the league is to help women ( and men , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seize the information obtained by the questionnaire shows how valuable they find it . The questions are carefully chosen and are a serious effort to get helpful information as to the attitude of candidates on leading public questions . No specific legislative measure is ever involved , as it would be obviously unfair to ask a man to endorse a bill not yet drawn , but he is asked about principles . As you say , the Governor has answered practically all these questions in his speeches and the public could read what he says and judge for themselves . We agree with THE TIMES in wishing that people would give sufficient time to public questions to read the many columns of speeches with which the papers are now filled , but they wo n't . They like the information in tabloid form . Each year since the league was organized , in 1917 , both men and women begin asking for the league information weeks before election , and many voters take it with them to the polling Places . Of course , a candidate is quite within his rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be justified if he refuses to vote for a man who either has not made up his mind about such questions or who will not take the time and trouble to answer them thoughtfully . GERTRUDE FOSTER BROWN . New York , Oct. 30 , 1922.                     