@@689564

txt A matter very likely to come to the front this winter in the New York State legislature will be whether or no it is necessary and advisable to establish a theatrical censorship . With the lack of business sense by some managers and the fondness of the politicians for creating new offices , it is quite within possibility that a law will be passed putting that curb on theatrical activities of a certain sort . Suppose that there was a censor and that there was no question of his honesty , his knowledge of the theatre , his good intentions and his common sense . What would be his duty in the CaS2 of " Spring Cleaning ? " It seems to be a play which is a valuable theatrical property . This property would be destroyed by adverse action of the censor . That consideration should not enter his mind except as one of the many which should make him cautious even if fearless in reaching his decisions . If the decisions rested on preliminary reading of manuscripts , the property element would be only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this ease it is necessary to know a little more about " Spring Cleaning . " It has to do with a husband who without actually neglecting his wife has permitted her to find her amusement in a . fast set where the seventh commandment is held in small esteem . He realizes his mistake just as the wife is about to compromise herself with one of the most successful wifestealers in this gay and polite social coterie . He remonstrates tactlessly and she defies him . This occurs as she is about to give a dinner to the friends of her choice . He is still enough master in his own house-to direct that two more places be set at the table . Just asPthe original party is seated he enters with his guest , very obviously a streetwalker . The others are outraged and start to leave , but he has locked the door . Then there are interesting situations and exceedingly frank talk in Mr. Lonsdale 's smartest manner , the topic being mainly the comparison of the amateur and the professional woman . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the remainder of the comedy concerns itself with a contest , ingeniously and wittily carried on , for the wife 's affections . In this the rival is made to appear more brainy and attractive than the husband , but in the windup , which is a most inexpert piece of dramatic work by Mr. Lonsdale , the husband comes out winner , at least he retains his rather fool wife . There were moments when the audience almost hoped he would leave her to her pinheaded associates and go off with his more human temporary guest . Here is a play which , though full of improbabilities , is undeniably witty , laughable and making its appeal to the smart rather than the general public . It is well stag 'd and well acted by a company of artists , including Mr. Arthur Byron , Mr. A. E. Mathews , Miss Estelle Winwood and Miss Violet Homing . Its characters are well mannered in ' spite of their moral lapses , even the street girl 's type being indicated mainly in looks . The talk is free , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the needlessly objectionable portrayal of one of the minor characters , there is nothing vulgar . Taking everything into consideration , what should a censor do with a piece like this , which could not be materially edited without destroying it ? If he belonged to the Volstead party he would order it off without a moment 's , hesitation . A common-sensible censor might decide that in a case like this the harm the piece might possibly do is offset by the public 's right to decide for itself in amusements where vulgarity , immorality or indecency were not the main attraction . What would you do if you were censor ?                     