@@686476

txt The second annual ? dinner and reunion of the British War Missions to the United States was held tonight in London under the Presidency of Arthur J. Balfour , It was attended by a distinguished company , which included many Americans now . In London . A greeting was sent to .. the King in the course ' Of the dinneF , to which his Majesty replied , expressing warm thanks and saying : " It is his Majesty 's earnest hope that the happy relations and close intercourse with our kinsmen across the seas during the great war may be , further extended and encouraged in days of peace . " Several messages were read , including one from President Harding , who expressed ' his " high appreciation of the association 's ' praiseworthy object , to promote a good understanding and better acquaintance between the people of the United States and Great Britain . " The message added : " Desirous as I am that friendliness and good will should always exist between the peoples of the ' two great English-speaking nations , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an organization whdse avowed purpose it is to contribute to this desirable end by seeking through kindliness and instruction to remove misconceptions and to bring the two peoples to a better knowledge of each , other . " A message from Admiral Sims voiced his entire sympathy with all associatioi'l which had for their mission the removal of misconception regarding the United States and Great Britain and the bringing about of a more complete understanding and co-operation , for , in his opinion , the peace and prosperity of the world would not be fully assured until the English-speaking peoples , standing together for liberty , justice and the square deal . General Pershing praised the work the association was doing to perpetuate the cordial relations developed during the war . Lord Reading in his message said he hoped these annual dinners would continue to receive support , for in bringing together so many people who shared memories of the unfailing kindness and hospitality of the United States the union was making a valuable contribution to the high cause of Anglo-American friendship . Mr. Balfour , in proposing the toast of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profound believer and earnest worker for that great cause . " The more I see of the world , " he said , " the more I am brought into contact in political life with statesmen of various countries , so much deeper is the conviction forced on me that we of the English-speaking peoples more readily understand each other 's modes of thought , more readily accept each other 's ideals , more fully comprehend the instinctive judgment which we pass on contemporary events , than the statesmen of any other two countries . If that is true , and I firmly believe it is , then surely Anglo-American amity stands in no danger . We know perfectly well the sort of differences which have arisen since that unhappy struggle which turned the English-speaking colonies into the great United States of America . " Those difficulties are real ; they are played upon by all sorts of alien forces . Nevertheless , beneath and beyond all these forces  --  perhaps I ought to say above them  --  there is this fundamental and intellectiial and moral similarity which , unless our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been in the past , convinces me that the wishes expressed ' by the King will be fulfilled , and that at no ? distant date the peoples and statesmen of tilt two countries will feel that whenever the destinies of the world are in danger . whenever perils around us begin seriously to menace the interests of mankind , England and America will be found on the same side , fighting the same battle and fighting it with the same success as they were united together in the great war ' which has recently been concluded . " One of the features of the even'in'g was a speech by a young Harvard man named Grant , who is now at Cambridge University . He made an excellent impression upon , the company and was afterward complimented by Mr. Balfour . LONDON , April 22 ( Associated Press ) . ? Among the guests at tonight 's second annual dinner of British war missions to the United States were Lord Desborough , Sir Campbell Stuart , R. Newton Crane , Hugh Chisholm , Robert P. Skinner , the American Consul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pence , respectively Military Attach ? and Assistant Naval Attach ? of the American Embassy , and Adolph S. Ochs of New York .                     