@@691565

txt A settlement between Paris and London in reference to the German security proposal is reported from both capitals . Like so many other ' agreements since Versailles , this latest accord has recourse either to the League of Nations or to the spirit and methods for which the League stands . The specific issue between London and Paris has concerned the neutralized zone along the Rhine . It was the Berlin contention , supported by Great Britain , that the neutralized zone must be a barrier to French armies as well as to German armies . France refused to accept that interpretation because it would prevent her from going to the aid of her Polish or Czech allies against a ' German assault . France insisted that the obligations of the neutralized zone shall run only as against Germany , that security on the Rhine can not be purchased at the cost of abandoning the nations of Central Europe . To this Great Britain has finally consented . She has found the reason  --  and a good reason for doing so ? in the League . London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France any additional rights to those she already enjoys under the Covenant , in case of aggression against a member of the League . Between those who are described as supporters of the Treaty of Versailles and those who have denounced it from the beginning the gulf is not so wide , in one important respect , as is commonly supposed . There were comparatively few people to deny the severity of the terms imposed upon Germany in 1919 . But supporters of the treaty accepted it because they saw in part of the treaty ? namely , the Covenant  --  a device for ultimately mitigating seventies and injustices . In this they have differed from the treaty opponents , who have denounced the Covenant as part of an unholy document . Events have steadily been justifying the believers in the Covenant . Were the reparation terms imposed upon Germaily in 1919 impossible ? They were the only possible terms at a time when the soberest of bankers indulged in fantastic reparation billions . Those vast sums have already been revised down toward something like actuality by the Dawes plan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League , who created it as an instrumentality for the encouragement of sober second thought . Germany naturally chafes under the allied occupation of the Rhine bridgeheads . It is now suggested that in return for her treaty of guarantee on the western frontier Germany may ask for the withdrawal of the armies of occupation . That demand would gain force if Germany entered the League and so assumed additional and general obligation to refrain from aggressive war . German wrath against the League as part c.f the Treaty of Versailles has blinded the Germans to the advantages they might have long ago secured as equal partners in the League . The most difficult of all revisionary problems has to do with the frontiers laid down in the peace treaties . Yet here , too , the League or the League spirit offers a chance for softening irritations . Competent observers who have enumerated German grievances with respect to Poland declare that the chief source of bitterness is not Silesia nor Danzig , but that famous Polish Corridor which is detested in Germany more as a nuisance than a wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by buying it from Polish Silesia find it intolerable that their train journeys to East Prussia should be made uncomfortable and humiliating by the Corridor . And yet that is obviously a problem that can be solved by the methods or in the spirit of the League .                     