@@685728

txt Everywhere ' in Australia there Is a deep rooted fear of Japan that is rapidly , becoming almost an obsession . Along with the radical labor discussion this fear is the leading topic of conversauon . White Australia is determined to keep out the yellow and brown menace and fears that her millions of acres of rich unsettled lands must act as a magnet to Japan 's surplus population . Denied entrance to America , finding the Siberian climate uninviting , and I with China already overcrowded , Ailstraha ) clieves that the . Japanese will turn their eyes toward these fertile spots . Turn Eyes on America . By some strange reasoning , Australia looks to America for protection from the yellow races . All over Australia scores of men have asked me : " Would America help us ? " Despite the fact that 75 per cent of the Australians are born Britishers , there is an undercurrent of feeling that Great Britain may discourage their ironclad " white Australia " policy . They say that Englishmen can not understand their color feeling and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white if this determination and policy should interfere with the foreign policy of Great Britain . Against Anglo-Jap Fact . America , Australians say , understands the dangers of yellow immigration and faces similar problems within her own shores . Many Australian thinkers feel that the Anglo-Japanese agreement should be renewed as a safeguard , believing that if allied with Japan , Great Britain would be able to control , at least partly , that nation . The rank and die of Australian population , however , are dead against the beet and want Great Britain to stand squarely as does the United States with regard to Japan , They believe , however , that in her world policy Great Britain has little time to consider the individual needs of her far flung dominions , and , consequently , there is a distinct feeling of political isolation here . For Actual Exclusion . Australia pictures herself us fighting Japan with her back to the wall , Her white Australian policy is twenty years old only , but is immeasurably stronger than its youth would indicate . Its policy is actual exclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' dn . qualified educational tests . The laws would apply equally to British Indians , Japanese , and Chinese , and Australia asserts that no power , Great Britain not the league of nations , could make her change such laws . When the great war looked blackest for Great Britain , many Australians declare Japan approuched her with the request that the empire recognize race equality . Great Britain , it is stated , passed this request on to Australia , where it was emphatically refused in a secret session of the Australian parliament . That was in tho dark days of 19lt3 . Today Australia stands defiant . White Australia is almost a religion .                     