@@686496

txt Secretary Hughes gave the French Government today an opportunity to express its opinion as to whether the German note offered a suitable basis for reparation negotiations . Tonight instructions went forward to Ambassador Jusserand to reply in the negative . Under these conditions Paris does not expect Washington to forward the German proposals to the allied Governments , and.unless better proposals are forthcoming from Germany before next Sunday it may be taken for certain that the Ruhr region will be occupied before May 10 . Secretary Hughes 's action was in conformity with his promise to do nothing ' which would displease the French , Government . Fie made no official communication of the German note , but saw that Ambassador - Jusserand knew its contents within two hours after its . receipt in Washington . M. Jusserand notified Paris , his message being received early tonight . Premier Briand 's reply should reach Secretary Hughes tomorrow . Thus would end American intervention , unless it undertook to get ' further offers from Berlin . Reckoned as Only Half of Demand . The reasons for ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1 ? The German offer of 50,0001 000,000 marks gold current value , 200,000,000,0001ultimate value , is regarded as insufficient . It is reckoned at 50 per cent . of the total of the Paris accord , which called for the payment of 226,000,000,000 gold marks , plus 12 per cent . of the value of German exports . It is about 35 per cent . of the Reparation Commission 's total of one hundred and fortyodd billion , current value , which *ill be notified to Berlin on Saturday . The German offer to pay only 1,000 , - 000,000 of the 12,000,000,000 marks , the Allies contend , is due of 20,000 , - 000,000 t ' be paid before May 1 . ( 2 ) The reservations with which Germany surrounds her offer are judged unacceptable . France can not agree to give up the sanctions which she regards as the only way to make Germany pay ultimately . The French Government furthermore can not consent to take away its power : " of supervision of Germany from the Reparation Commission . ( 3 ) The French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . as ridiculous , inasmuch as the French Government had to pay 9 pe : cent . in America . Although the text of the German note is not entirely clear on the point , it is the understanding of French officials that 50,000,000,000 marks represents the sum total 1 , all she would pay , and would include the value of whatevr she handed over for actual reconstruction work . British Probably Not Consulted . It is probable the French Government acted in rejecting the German proposals without conferring with the British Government , Premier Briand 's reply having been sent within three hours after the receipt of M. Jusserand 's message . The French Foreign Office had received from the French Embassy in Berlin a summary of the German note at 8 o'clock this afternoon . The full text =ached Paris only at 10 o'clock-tanightt 35/hea , the . groyp-ot diplomats read Germany 's declaration that " to . show her good faith " she would pay the 1,000,000,000 marks demanded by the Reparation Commission , they laughed , for it is 12,000,000,000 marks and not 1,000 , - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it is in three months Germany would pay . As for the other 11,000,000,000 marks , Ger . many appears to have forgotten all ? about it . Premier Briand made an address in the Chamber this afternoon before he knew the contents of the German note , declaring he was confident the United States would do nothing to prejudice the interests of France . " Germany , " he said , " after having solicited on all sides and having failed turned to the United States and asked arbitration . Our friends in America replied in ' the proper manner . Now , we learn new proposals have gone to Washington . I have too much confidence in the per ' spicacity of the Government of the United States to believe they will take any initiative to which it is certain we would not agree . " France Stands With Allies . Continuing the Premier said : " We have taken all measures for a showdown . We are ready to take the ' necessary steps which will put in our hands rapid means of executing the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aidl of our allies and their consent . And when the Allies meet on April 30 they will have in their hands the means to take the steps we believe essential . As I told Mr. Lloyd George we are not going to do this as a reprisal , but as a means to bring to terms a bad debtor . " M. Briand said it was not a question of bringing pressure to bear upon the German Government , tottering and weak , but upon the big industrial interests which controlled that Government . These " interests concentrate in a certain region , and when they feel our direct control probably they will find means of payment they have not found heretofore , " M. Briand said . The only question was whether , when the Allies meet on April 30 , they would find acceptable proposals before them . If not , then action would be taken . " I am sure , " he said , " we will have the enthusiastic support of all our allies . " Today 's Paris Papers Ridicule It . Wednesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " in the Echo de Paris , says : " ? At last we know Germany 's famous proposals  --  famous because they caused such a lot of conversation before being produced and because they led to so much cleavage in the Government and parties in the Reich . The men of Berlin . to begin with , offer to sign a recognition of debts to the amount of 50,000 , - 000,000 gold marks . Repeating the statement issued March 3 by Dr. Simons , they pretend that this capital more or less corresponds to the present worth of the annuities stipulaed by the Paris agreement of Jan. 29 last . " The annuities referred to totaled 220,000.000,000 marks gold in forty-two years , to say nothing of a 12 per cent . tax on exports . Our adversaries take good care to make it clear that in no case shall their payments surpass 200 , 000,000.000. which is equivalent to saying that , to establish their reasoning , they reckon on a basis of capitalization at a very high rate when it is a question ' of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when their own project is in question . Why two weights and two measures ? " Have the terms that they are prepared to offer to subscribers to an international loan become particularly profitable ? No. they are simply ridiculous . Interest at 4 per cent . in case the loan is to be issued immediately  --  while in New York the normal price of money ? is reaching 9 and 10 per cent . And for the rest of their debt interest and amortization suited to their ' capacity for payment . ' duly calculated by an international commission . ' Moreover . what they give us with one hand they take away with the other . To obtain the fine advantages thus described we are asked to renounce all penalties , all guarantees anti pledges , all - right to direct proceedings that the treaty gives us . J , other words under the pretext of paying us Germany wishes to Induce us to withdraw from all means capable of forcing her to perform her engagements . The debtor declares ' that he will meet the creditor 's bill if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As for the matter of 12,000,000,000 marks , gold which Germany got out to place in our cash hos. before May 1 , it is swept aside lightly . They promise us 1,000,000,000 , of which 330,000,000 is to be paid In cash right away . The reserve of the Reichsbank is today 1,200,000,000 gold marks . Let us remernber that in 1871 our Bank of France had to hand over to the enemy half of its gold reserve . Of those eleven other billions not one word . They evidently ask us to sacrifice It . No Improvement on London Proposals . " We have scarcely need to seek now if this proposal is really better than that submitted March 3 to the London conference by Dr. Simons . Germany in reality offered only the capital sum of 30,000,000,000 gold marks . But for the portion of this sum not immediately mobilized she promised to give interest at ri per cent. , and she promised five annuities of 1,000,000,000 each , which were ' to be deducted , it is true , from the total interest charges . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon exports . lt did not seem to the : allied - Ministers that the plan was worth discussing . They repulsed it . " It is enough to show that the latest communication from Berlin is of the fame kind as that presented two months ago to make clear what its fate will be . " The German note reached Washington March 25 . The attitude of Mr. nughes was all that we could desire . ' He had resolved to embarrass us in no way . He conformed to the o ? inlon which the Ambassadors of France and England expressed . He will not communicate to us officially the paper from Berlin , which thus falls into the sea . " On the eve of the London meeting the German offer then nstrengthens our resolve . We wash Germany clear of all payments laid down in the Paris agreement , including the tax of 12 per cent . or Its equivalent . We are resolved to collect the 12,000,000,000 due May 1 and , not being able to trust the signature of a debtor notorious for so many failures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupation of the Ruhr the guarantee of Germany 's future promptness . " Matto Says : " By No Means Acceptable . " The Matin says this morning : " The German propositions are by no means acceptable . and that for reasons so clear and so evident that one can come to this conclusion after reading them once without being accused of levity . They are far below those of the Paris agreement , that is to say the agreement to which the French Government consented to facilitate the re-establishment of economic peace and give to her allies proof of her spirit of conciliation . " The Paris agreement provided for fixed annuities of which the total amounted to 220,000,000,000 , and also for mobile annuities representing 12 per cent . of the value of German exports , of which reasonable calculations fixed the total at 90,000,000,000 gold marks in forty-two years . " Germany offers 200,000,000,000 in annuities to cover everything .. She supposes that these 200,000,000,000 with interest calculated at 4 per cent. , which she refused , will exceed or equal 30,000 , - 000.000 at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annuities . This proposition scarcely exceeds that made is London , since e'st is specified that by their acceptance all other obligations of Germany with regard to reparations would be wiped out . " That seems to indicate that the payments alreac7y supplied , which , ? according to the Reparation Commission , amount to 8,000 , - 000,000 gold marks , ought to be deducted from the total offered by Germany , so that in reality Germany offers to pay only 42,000,000,000 present value . " But that is not all . The Allies would have to give up the system of penalties . ? The present basis of German production should not be further reduced . ' which signifies clearly that Upper Silesia ought to remain German . Commercial equality must be re-established for Germany and the private property of Germany abroad freed . " It is well understood that it is by an international loan that the Allies must receive their money , and Germany would content herself by paying , in addition to the charges of this loan , interest at 4 per cent . only plus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Reparation Commission would be replaced by an international commission of experts having to fix Germany 's capacity for payment at any moment . So . then , not only does Germany suppress the mobile annuity of the Paris program and 26,000,000,000 of fixed annuities. but she frames her proposal essentially in such terms a.at there is no longer any Treaty of Versailles , no longer any right to penalties , no longer a f.dr settlement of the Upper Silesian ccuret ; as , that France , which , according to the Reparation Commission , ha the eight to more than 300,000,000 ; - 000 gold marks for her recovery , would get only a spore of billions at best , or a fifth of what is due . " The agency dispatches indicate that these offers have produced a favorable Impression on the American Cabinet . We must await precise and official confirmation of this news before believing it . Mr. Hughes in the last few days has not allowed it to be supposed that he deems satisfactory proposals imposing upon France the sacrifice of about 8 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergone . ' ' In any case , the declaration made yesterday , both In the Chamber and the Senate by M. Briand , shows that the French Government has absolutely decided to have the rights of the country respected . It is henceforth beyond doubt that France from the beginning of May is going to take in hand real pledges whose possession will oblige Germany to pay and eventually furnish to the Allies the possibility of paying themselves . In ' any case , our English , Belgian and Italian allies will not ask us to agree to a reduction of more than 40 per cent . of our claim that has been voluntarily reduced by the conference of Paris . " ' The London conference , which will open Saturday , should be , according to general opinion , of very short duration and close with irrevocable decisions . "                     