@@694929

txt Nobody gavo her a chance  --  so she manufactured her own . Nothing could be more indicative than that , of the personality on which Agnes Nestor of trade union Jame has built a record many a man might envy  --  and many do . It started her out at the age of fourteen to bolster the family finances with her wages as helper in a glove factory . It has carried her , at this writing  --  to the Democratic candidacy for state representative in the Sixth senatorial district . That her prospects of nomination and election are at least equally good , with those of her opponent demonstrates how well she has blinded , and how firm was tho foundation  --  though her educational background consisted of only eight grades of grammar school . Mielnis Point to Record . . If you count that a drawback , consider tho record her friends are promulgating in the interests of her ambition to serve as representative . Consider also that in the making of that record she matched mentalities with such women as Dr. Anna Howard Shaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they did not find her wanting . Then it becomes evident how ably she overcame her educational handicap , and trots It came that she got her chance . Instead of the zenith of her career , her present candidacy represents , if anything , a downward curve from more important things . The brightest chapter in her achievements was written , for instance , when , during the War , she was accorded the highest recognition of the government and served as a member of the women 's committee of the council of national defense . She headed the department of women in industry , and she was the only woman member of the advisory COMmitteo to the secretary of labor . She was appointed by President Wilson in 1914 as a member of the commission to consider federal aid for vocational education . She now is a member of the executive committee of the American Association for Adult Education . Wins as Trade Unionist . But to Chicagoans , Agnes Nestor is first , last , and always associated with trade unionism  --  through which she got her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She is now first vice president of the International Glove Workers ' union , and since 1913 has been president of the Woman 's Trade Union league of Chicago . In 1918 the American Federation of Labor sent her abroad to study labor conditions .                     