@@691049

txt Although the coming visit of the Prince of Wales to the Argentine Republic is apparently a matter of small concern . to this country , its significance and consequences may easily be underestimated . From the day on which he sets foot on the steamer taking him to Buenos Aires ' until the moment of his return to England , the London , provincial and colonial newspapers will chronicle his every movement , and competent writers will describe in detail the scenes of his voyage . English magazines throughout the empire will eagerly solicit contributions relating to every phase of Argentine national life . Regarded as an educational campaign , this flood of popular literature should be extremely potent . As an advertisement for Argentina its effect must be tremendous . Stolid business men who have made their pile and settled down , to pass their remaining years in ease and comfort , will realize for the first time that a voyage of from two to three weeks on sun . Aer seas to the great metropolis of South America is not a - inky and troublesome adventure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safer than the suburbein trolley car . They will learn that Argentina is not a tropical country , and offers all modern facilities for tourist travel . British manufactured goods have always been well liked in Argentina . They will now become the rage . Britishers who extend% their journey into the interior will learn to drink yerba-mate . Investment opportunities will be taken as never before . British shipping interests should benefit exceedingly , and trade betwen the two countries will be greatly Stimulated : American news distributing agencies , now admittedly supreme in South America , will participate in this propaganda work , and American business should reap some advantage from the flood of publicity . Citizens of the United States also stand in need of more information about this progressive foreign country in our own hemisphere . The English language is a powerful bond linking American and British goods in the eyes of the Argentines . In some lines of Argentine imports we have nothing to fear from British competition . Argentines who buy English clothes require American automobiles . Even British bankers in Buenos Aires use American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We may cheerfully admit that the . Prince of Wales is a great little salesman .                     