@@693034

txt It was said the other day by an ingenuous member of the ardent Civil Liberties Union that there is no longer any trouble about free speech In the United States . The real difficulty , he mournfully added , is to get people to listen to speeches , free or otherwise . Politicians are beginning to notice the name obstacle to their plans . They can lead an audience to the water , but can they make it drink ? Senator WADSWORTH has been remarking lately on some of his own experiences as a speaker In this State . He takes up topics of Federal lawmaking and administration , of State Government and finance , only to find his hearers giving little attention . But let him begin to debate prohibition , especially to refer to the coming liquor referendum in New York , ane they at once sit up with erect ears . We are going to have a good deal of this , selective listening in politics before the year is over . Probably an unprecedented amount of political oratory will be broadcast . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid the flow without appearing to show discourtesy to the speaker . It is one thing to get up and walk wearily out of the hall ; quite another merely to ring off and none the wiser . But even those who are bodily present under the witchery of campaign speeches will quietly make up their minds what interests them and what does n't , what party issues they regard as important and what they think of as the merest piffle . This incalculable attitude on the part of those who hear is certain to multiply the perplexities of those who speak . Congressmen are already starting up the old entertainment of telling the people just what they should consider the paramount questions of the campaign In Pennsylvania . Representative OLnitELD gravely informs those who listen to him that they must keep Republican corruption uppermost in their minds . But will they ? They may think new bridges and county jails and court houses and the Sesquicentennial far more vital . In Massachusetts , Senator BUTLER professes to have discovered a dastardly " plot " of the Democrats to discredit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporter , BtrrLER himself . Will the Yankees listen to this without an unbelieving grin ? We doubt it . So do we doubt that the farmers in Iowa and in Kansas can be got to listen with renewed gullibility when told that the tariff is the real source of all our pros ' perity , and that what is needed now is merely to adjust it or stretch it in one direction or another in order to make agriculture bloom again all qver the West . Public men will , like Falstaff , go on talking . But their success , as with the prosperity of a joke , lies in the ear of the listener . And evidence is accumulating that political listeners in this year of political confusion and uncertainty are going to present inscrutable faces , and perhaps an adder-like deafness , to.Party orators.                     