@@688370

txt Isa Kremer , who is advertised as an " international balladist , " made her first appearance in Chicago at Orches ? tra hall last night . The qualifying noun would seem to mean that she sings the songs of many nations in the tongue of each . Questions of definition apart , she is an uncommonly interest Mg artist . She is a small person but a good deal of a personality , compounded of I flashing eyes and teeth , rolling R 's , and singing and acting ability . One infers that English has been the latest addition to her international vocald ? Wry , and this addition is not complete as yet . merely approximate . But it you can follow her through Russian . French , Italian , and Yiddish , or if you are content to follow at the distance imposed by a descriptive synopsis of her texts , you will find something to interest you . To those who regard command of foreign languages as the sign of superior culture , Miss Kremer must be one of the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a high mezzo , and she uses it quite as much for acting as singing purposes . Once or twice she indicated an ability to - sing in the conventional sense rather well , but mostly her voice was used for projecting texts ? in melody , of course , but with the word values uppermost . She evidently has an acute sense of showmanship , for the varied the mood of her songs con ? scantly . Once it was a song of mourn . ful farewell , then a serenade , again the experience of a girl reading a letter and learning that her lover had been lost in battle , or , and this was utterly charming , a bit of a French cradle sung , with the child finally dropping off to sleep and the , singer stealing away on tiptoe . She will come here again next month . It has been a long time since th ' Chicago Opera had a novelty that scored heavily enough to go into the regular repertoire , therefore the success of " Sniegurotchka ? " which cam , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an evident matter of congratulation . The cast was unchanged , and the performance ran smoothly to the audibly evidenced pleasure of a large audience . Too late for insertion in Sunday 's music calendar came the announce ? ment that Cavalier Fernando Villa tenor , will make his first appearance in America at Orchestra hall tonight . The notice accredits him with having Come from the San Carlo theater of Naples . His program will be largely operatic . Ettore Clorjux will be at the piano .                     