@@686002

txt Immediate revision of the present method of disposing of surplus Government stores to prevent speculators from buying Federal property from one department , and reselling to another branch of the Government at a higher figure , is recommended in the annual report or major Gen. J. L. Chamberlain , Inspector General of the army , to the Secretary of War , made public today . The necessity for the proposed action is indicated by a recent investigation which disclosed that one department of the Government sold surplus cement for $1 per ton to a civilian who immediately resold , the same cement to a branch of the War Department for . $6 a ton , the report states . Concerning hazing at the Military Academy at West Point , General Chamberlain said that while the practice had not yet been entirely eliminated , considerable favorable progress had been made to that end . Criticism of the hospital facilities at Camp Henning . Georgia , is voiced in the report , the equipment there being characterized as " entirely inadequate . " Prompt measures to check abuse of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian authorities have not always co-operated to stop such abuse . " Other recommendations of the Inspector General include : More care with regard to promises made to recruits , particularly with regard to the army 's educational courses , in order that all pre-enlistment promises may be fully complied with . Abandonment of civilian instructors at army schools . Renewal of the clothing allowance system for enlisted men , a change in the type of collar on the service coat and more care in seeing that each recruit has one new , well-fitting uniform . Revision of the post exchange system . Replacement of temporary , buildings with permanent structures at all permanent camps . Consolidation of air service units as far as possible and replacement of civilian employes in this branch with enlisted personnel . Adoption of suitable headgear for service in the tropics . Revision of the property accountability system . Favorable progress is being made in building up army morale after the depression incident to the demobilization of the emergency forces , the report says , and discipline has greatly improved owing to the eradication of unsatisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forces in Germany by the Inspector General with the exception of proficiency at target practice . The defect is due , he says , to the large percentage of new men and the lack of experienced officers to supervise their training .                     