@@685299

txt The cable brings to The Sun and New York Herald a plan for providing the world 's suffering peoples with food and raw materials by the issue of an interallied currency to serve as the basis of exchange between countries , and to be legal tender in allied countries . The wish to sell goods at a profit for such a worthy purpose is so strong that there is a temptation to approve any practical plan which ' will promote it . Yet there are difficulties in the way of this plan , although it comes from so respectable a source as a forfner President of the British Chamber of Commerce in Paris , WALTER BEHRENS . The fundamental objection is that the only sort of currency between nations which any country will accept in exchange for its goods is a currency convertible ? into gold . Only one of the allies now redeems its currency in gold on a scale comparable with international trade , and that country is finding the task none too easy . The guarantee of countries which can not maintain the convertibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed paper promises . They are to be redeemable in the currency of any allied country only after five years . It may be assumed that they will be worth more after that lapse of time , but it is necessary to ask who will accept them in payment for spot goods . Commerce between nations involves transportation over long distances , and credit correspondingly long in time . That does not alter the fact that international trade is essentially barter , the exchange of goods for goods on the spot . The use of currency , ships and railways does not alter the . fact that international ex. : changes are regarded as closed when the bargain is struck , as though the parties were dealing personally together . The purchase or sale is covered-by- qwq the variations of exchange are such that otherwise a profit might be turned into a loss before the goods could be delivered or the price collected . When trade is of that character there is reason to doubt that the proposed allied currency would be an acceptable substitute for the ordinary bills of exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficiency of paper that more is needed , of whatever sort . There is no deficiency of bills of exchange . The deficiency is in goods . The increased production of goods would produce all the ' interallied currency needed . There is more need of improving the quality of domestic currencies than of increasing the quantity of international currency .. In proportion that currencies are made convertible into gold they will be incteasingly acceptable in exchange operations between nations . There is no need of making such currencies legal tender , and the making of the proposed interallied currency legal tender wilt not make it acceptable at par in international trade , not dven within the countries which might adhere to the plan . Within any one country it could not have greater value than the domestic legal tenders , which are depreciated and superabundant ' now . Outside the issuing country it could not derive from the guarantee any value not to be found 4n the ordinary mercantile merchants ' bills . It fs ? necessary for the United States , as the world 's chief purveyor , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hunger for gold would set the tide hither of any paper which could get gold for goods , at almost any discount . There are advantages in being a par country , but also there are dangers in temptations to stray from settled customs of trade . When sterling exchange becomes what it used to be , a great volume of trade will prefer it ? to any interallied paper . Meanwhile , dollar exchange is preferable to any other , for tie single and sufficient reason that dollar exchange needs no explanation to anybody , anywhere . It is no better than any other convertible currency , but it is superior to all inconvertible currencl-sz , irrespective of their guarantee .                     