@@687338

txt Henry Ford declared in a statement tonight that Secretary of War Weeks apparently was delaying settlement of the Muscle Shoals proposition , and that " the fertilizer trust , the power and chemical interests of " Wall Street , the money brokers , and other interests that fear to have Muscle Shoals developed along lines that will serve all the people most , are deluging Weeks and Congress with literature that grossly misrepresents tilt facts . " - " This is not a political matter , " Mr. Ford added , " to be jockey=ed and juggled about . Why dLys n't Secretary Weeks take it or leave it , ' yes ' or ' no , ' as he would a private business matter . I mean that now , after six months , he is still asking what appear to me as irrelevant questions and delaying the settlement of this matter . " - We did n't want Muscle Shoals for selfish purposes in the first Place . Hanged if we care very much whether ' or not we get it now . " We did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was- an industrial philanthrophy which we offered ? an offer based on a desire for great public service . " A subsidy means getting something from the Government for nothing . We 're not asking the Government for a nickel . Instead , we are giving the Government ' an offer unprecedented for its generosity . If the fertilizer men think this offer means a subsidy , why do n't they go and talk to Major General Beach , Chief of the Army Engineers . Say , those fellows would climb the Washington Monument rather than get the Army Chief 's figures . ' Says Edison Agrees With Him . Discussing charges that he could not make fertilizer at Muscle Shoals on a profitable commercial basis , Mr. Ford declared that Thomas A. Edison " says we can . " " I 'm not a chemist , " he added , " but Edison has been down there and knows every detail of this proposition . He is working on this thing right now in his laboratory at East Orange . He says that with Muscle Shoals we can give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they have ever had before . " Why , if we ca n't make a good cheap fertilizer down there , why does the fertilizer trust flood Congress with statements that if we get Muscle Shoals we 'll wreck the monopoly ? We 're going to the mat with them and make them prove , before Congressional committees , every statement they make . " We have never needed Muscle Shoals . The Government invited us , although we did not think we wanted it , to make-a bid for the property . And we finally did bid because , as we saw it , it gave us an opportunity to awaken the whole American people to what they can do if they will only study and utilize ' the waterpower possibilities of the country . And the more we investigated the thing the more - we saw the great wastes going on . We believe it is our duty to remedy , if we can , some of these wastes . " Question in Three Parts . .. ine question oz disposing or the government 's properties at Muscle Shoals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or agreement to complete was divided today into three separate parts . Law officers of the War Department were directed to begin work of fitting into legal phrases a contract involving Secretary ' Weeks 's desires with regard to the proposal of Henry Ford , which . the War Secretary has announced , will be submitted to Congress with " comments " as soon . as the papers are prepared and Mr. Ford 's signature affixed . The offer submitted by C. C. Tinkler of San Francisco was being rushed to that city for modification to include a provision for the manufacture of nitrates after the plants and dams had been completed . Mr. Tinkler left Chicago yesterday for San Francisco . After conferences there with officials of the Construction Company of North America , of which he is President , he is expected to return here and formally present his ' proposal to the Secretary of War . As a third part , Frederick Engstrum , President of the Newport Shipbuilding Company of Wilmington , N. C. , and engineers assisting him were engaged in making slight changes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to include a more definite provision for nitrate manufacture at Muscle Shoals . - Secretary Weeks reiterated today his determination not to announce what " comment " he . would make in submitting the Ford offer to Congress . He was insistent that his decision in forwarding thti question to Congress dia not , and couldnot , imply Hs acceptance or endorsement of it . Mr. Weeks explained that he did not have authority to accept the offer and that existing laws made it impossible for the War Department to dispose of any real estate over which it had jurisdiction without first obtaining Congressional authority .                     