@@687151

txt Announcements of reductions in wages affecting more than 750,000 employes of the fifty-two railroads comprising the group in the classification territory  --  east of the Mississippi and north of the Ohio Will be made in a clay or two , according to L. F. Loree , President and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Delaware &; Hudson Railroad . Mr. Loree , as Chairman of the Eastern Presidents ' Conference , made this announcement yesterday after the meeting of these executives at the Metropolitan Club , preceding a meeting of the Association of Railway Executives of all the member roads at Grand Central Terminal . The Me.stern roads decided to " back up the entire program adopted by the Association of Railway Executives at Chicago on Oct. 14 , " Mr. Loree said . This move for quick action in the posting of notices of wage cuts by the Eastern carriers follows a similar announcement by the Western roads on Monday that an " immediate posting cfnotices of wage reductions " would be made . The Western reads included the Santa Fe , Chicago Great Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Northwestern , Northern Pacific and Great Northern . The m oads in the southeastern and southwestern territory are planning to follow this course " identically , ' it was stated yesterday , and the wage cut notices 1v111 be oested iii " a few eays . " Situate Cuts to Be Concurrent . " The foregoing action , " it was stated by Thomas iee'Witt Cuyler . Chairman of the Association of Railway Executive:3. at the meeting in Chicago , " will be taken upon the understanding that concurrently with such reduction in wages the benefit of the reduction thus obtained shall , with the concurrence of the Interstate Commerce Commission , be passed on to the pubic In the reduction of existing railroad rates , except in so far as this reduction shall have bean made in the meantime . " ? More than 1,650,000 railroad workers in the country will be affected by the wage cuts , according to the latest estimates of the present working forces of the railroads . These include 300,000 employes on carriers in the southeastern territory , 600,000 in tile western and 760,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complete and anal understanding of the sit ration as it will affect rates tire rail heads yesterday authorized the Executive Committee of the Association of Railway ' rsxecutives to confer with the interstate Commerce Com:else:eon in Washington on Saturday and to resees te a further meeting of the meiebes roads next Wednesday afternoon , IS ov. 16 . The oonference on Saturday is at the request of the commission . " The program of the railroads , adopted at their meeting . in Chicago on Get . 14 , has not been moukied in any detail , and is in full force and effect . Executives Wile Wilt Meet C. c . " The Executive Committee , which will confer with the Interstate Commerce Commission , consists of the following : Thomas De Witt Cuyler , Chairman , Association of Railway- Executives ; E. N. Brown , Chairman , St. Louis-San Francisco and Pere Marquette Railway Companies ; Howard Elliott , Chairman , Northern Pacific ; S. M. Felton , President , Chicago Great Western : Hale Holden , President , Chicago . Burlington and Quincy ; J. Kruttsdemitt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman , Union Pacific ; Samuel Rea , President , Pennsylvania ; A. H. Smith , President , New York Central ; W. B. Storey , President , Atchison , Topeka and Santa Fe ; Alfred P. Thom , General Counsel Association of itailwqy E : , - mentives : Daniel Willard . President , Baltimore and Ohio ; Henry Walters . Cnairman , Atlantic Coast Line . In addition to the Executive Committee , it is undeestood that the feilowing traffic officials will join in the conference : Edward Chambers , ice President , Atchison , Topeka and Senta Fe ; George H. Ingalls , Vice Ibre.sidunt , Now York Central ; George D. Dixon , Vice President , Pennsylvania ; B. Campbell , yice President , New York , New Haven and Hartford ; L. J. Spence , Director of Traffic , Southern Pacific ; C. R. Capps . Vice President . Seaboard Air Line ; W. C. Maxwell , Vice President , W ab'msh ; W. P. Kenney , Vice President : , Great Northern . Executives said yesterday that they expected . the wage eases would come before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a widespread impression that time Labor Doard announced that it would - not be ready to take up any application for further wage reductions before next July , railroad officials asserted that the Board had made no such statement . In clearing the air for a settlement of the threatened rail strike last month , the board stated its intention to clear its docket of cases involving rules and working conditions before taking up new wage scale applications , which means , according to the rail- heads , that the board should be ready to take up such new matters some time in February or March at the latest . In railroad circles it is agreed that the matter of scaling down present wage schedules has come to a head much sooner than was at first anticipated . ? " This is the showdown , " said the head of one of the large Eastern roads yesterday , " and we mean to pusn our plans vigorously . "                     