@@687377

txt Soldiers ' bonus legislation has been indorsed in principle by President Harding , by a large group of United States senators and representatives , by a vast majority of the 4,000,000 American world war veterans , by innumerable civilian organizations , arid , we believe , by the majority of Arneri ? can citizens whose homes , lives , institutions , and property these ' soldiers defended , at the risk of their own lives and at the sacrifice of their own material prosperity . It is virtually assured . Secretary Mellon 's statement that $050 , . ) 00,000 " burdensome additional taxation " will be required in the next two years to finance the initial pay ' ments of a bonus and that " the taxes already 111 force are too onerous for the country 's good " therefore appears in the light of opposition to a project morally approved . It was such opposition , extended through the President , that postponed passage of the bonus bill a year ago . It should not again prevent settlement of the country 's just debt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by pointing out the burdens and difficulties of financing it , ' Mr. Mellon would do better to seek , find , and suggest methods of raising the money . Payments of debts are always irksome . But that does not relieve the obligation of the debtor . It merely forces him to extraordinary efforts , and perhaps to sacrifice , to raise the funds . That is the necessity confronting this country . As secretary of the treasury it is not Mr. Mellon 's duty so much to point out the difficulty of his position as to seek means for relieving such difficulty . It is , of course , within his rights to oppose waste and unnecessary expenditure , but once an expenditure is authorized , as the bonus will be authorized , . he should be prepared with an adequate program for providing the wherewithal Ms comments on the expense of the proposed bonus indicate not only that he is'not so prepared but that he is not preparing . His statement that European debts can not be safely or properly used as a aource of the necessary funds'undoubtedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it more incumbent upon him to seek other methods . Mr. Mellon is an tible man . If he goes to work at the task now instead of attempting to scare the country away from the paying of just obligations he probably will have a concrete , practical , and generally acceptable program ready by the time the bonus is authorized . Let it be soon .                     