@@696655

txt A request that Congress take ex* tion on the pending tariff bill that will dispel the " blighting uncertainties " of the commercial situation was contained in a resolution adopted by the board of directors of the National Association of Manufacturers at their quarterly meeting , and made public yesterday . Noting  --  that the tariff bill had been pending five months , the statement added that " on an average of every six years during the past fifty , the country has witnessed the same unhappy spectacle at Washington . " The statement , signed by John E. Edgerton , president . of the board , ' has been sent to PreSident ' Hoover , . to members of . his Cabinet , ; and to members of both Houses of Congrets . It reads in part : " For five months this vital economic question has been on the political operating table while the legislative physicians have haggled over a correct diagnosis and proper treatment . " In the meantime business has been making time , and in many instances plans for industrial extension and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day of this uncertainty witnesses the increasing slowing - up of our economic pace , for there are few things with which it is more difficult for industry and business to cope than with the uncertainty of political action upon A basic economic issue . " On an average , of , every six years during the past fifty ; the country has witnessed the same unhappy spectacle at Washington and has suffered the same anxieties and suspense as it is witnessing and suffering now . Unlets some effective remedy is agreed uponand applied , it may be reasonably expected that the future of our developing industry and business will be marked . by. , even . more frequent period3 of such political disturbance . " It is for reasons clearly manifest in the light of these facts that the National . Association of *Manufacturers haS been consistently ; Ansisting upon more adequate flexibility of our tariff administration . and for such up-to-date machinery in government as will make our tariff requirements more responsive . to constantly changing economic ccinditions . " We are , therefore , heartily in favor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , believing that all of the departures from present fnethods embodied in the new propcisal are " absolutely essential to our ' further industrial progress and economic welfare . " It is ' our firm belief " and Contention that these proposals contain nothing which any man of either of the major political parties ' can not support . In the flame , therefore , of all American industry , we call earnes ? ly upon the national : Congress for the earliest possible enactment of a tariff measure which ? shall contain without substantial change the ' f1= Bible provisions now pending . "                     