@@685130

txt The farce is over and the streets are deserted . The upstart rump ' government of Junkers and militants has gone unconditionally . Dr. Kapp , General von Ltittwitz and his misguided colleagues are now in Government motor cars , fleeing through the night , in the rain and mud , from the scene of their astounding coup to some unknown destination . I was at the Chancellor 's palace at 6 o'clock this evening when Kapp and a few friends entered a gray antemobile , heaped with luggage and bundles of documents . Out through the huge gates it went , scarcely any one in the crowd of civilians and soldiers being aware ? of who were in the car . Not a single soldier saluted . They , too , were on the point of departure . Already some of the Under Secretaries and officials of the Bauer Government had put in an appearance and there were many handshakes of welcome . Inside the palace door a small crowd of people was waiting to see the end . Near at hand was a young woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left behind after five days which to her must be almost as a delirious dream . She turned to the little group of people and said bitterly : " Now you have triumphed . " But hers ' are not the most bitter ' tears in Germany tonight . Luettwita the First to Go . Somewhat earlier General von Ltittwitz had fled . An almost farcical formality was kept up to . the end . A deputy of the Chancellor , it was pompously announced , had received and accepted General von Ltittwitz 's resignation and Major Gen. von Seeckt had been appointed commander of Berlin 's troops . What . a scene it was in the Chancellor 's palace and in other government offices ! Most of the rooms , even in the palace , which is surely haunted by Bismarck 's ghost , had been strewn with straw and were housing soldiers . Some of them actually slept through all the final scenes . Documents were littered about in many rooms . Officials of five days standing were packing up their belongings . Confusion was everywhere . Orders were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were being packed up . Here and there a motor car would whirr and dash away into the gathering gloom . Slowly the streets became deserted as the rain began to fall more heavily . Night and the rain -- -it was a fit settingfor . the final scene in one of the maddest , . saddest *and clumsiest revo- lutions ever staged . There has been nothing picturesque about it . A Central American Republic could have staged something more thrilling . ' As I watched this amazing scene I could not help thinking one thing . I have been watching revolutionary Germany for rather more than a. year now and have always said that Junker rule was impossible . If this five days ' farce has proved nothing else it has proved the accuracy of that belief . Kapp represented unofficial Junkerdom . He was put forward to see how the business would work . He obtained pcssession of the complete machinery of government in Berlin . If there had been the slightest chance of success the official Junkers would have taken their cue . Ludendorff , indeed , studied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advice which was finally accepted , that the piece which had been stage so dramatically could not be trusted to be popular . All the Junker leaders , Dr. Helfferich , Count von Westarp and the others , saw the impossibility of the whole thing . The Junker has had his day . Junker rule can not be . As Kapp 's automobile drove through Berlin he carried with him into exile and extinction the last Junker hopes of rule . The day of the Junker had come to its close and is now shrouded in black night . The Junker vanishes with Kapp as a ruling factor in the Fatherland . From that point of view the five days of militarist melodrama has perhaps been worth while . The abject surrender of the upstarts was unconditional . They had brave words . They were to save Berlin in particular and Germany in general from ' Bolshevism . They themselves have been the chief agents of Bolshevism should that be in store . They lied heroically right up to the end . They tried even to make terms with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were . At the suggestion of von Liittwitz two leading lights of the military party , Colonel Bauer and Captain Pabst , the latter for long one of Noske 's right-hand men , went to Ernst Daumig. ? leader of the left win , . , of the Independent Socialist Party , and actually proposed that a Soviet Government be set up under the protection of she military . But even that desperate remedy was of no avail . There was nothing for it but unconditional surrender and the flags were pulled down in the Wilhelmstrasse . In spite of the lying news ' service which the Kapp regime kept up there have been absolutely no negotiations between the two Governments . Throughout the five days the Bauer administration , held to the one posttion that the Kapp regime must go without conditions and it went without even arranging amnesty for itself and for those who were ? foolish enough to throw in their lot with ' it . This afternoon various National Assembly parties met and passed resolutions with the following three points : , First , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest ; second , that the election of a Presi'dent of the republic must take place " by direct vote of the people according to the constitution ; ' third , that reconstruction of the , Cabinet was advisable . . General von Seeckt. has orders . to maintain order till the Bauer Government is reinstalled . The troops will then be removed with all possible speed from the capital , and the Baltic Province soldiers of adventure , who are the real mischief makers , will be disbanded at the earliest possible moment . Popular wrath against them is very- great . Especially , do the military police of Berlin harbor a grudge against them , and it may yet be difficult to avoid a fight between the military police and these desperate soldiery , who are distinguished by a Swastika sign on their steel helmets . It is only natural that the working population should be seriously angered , and trouble with them is feared . But von Seeckt is taking the greatest possible precautions against disturbances . He has plunged the city into darkness . Cannon command the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entanglements with strong guards of troops . As I write guns boom out from somewhere in ' the night . It is understood that the Bauer Government with President Ebert will be back in Berlin tomorrow ( Thursday ) night . Instructions have been received from Stuttgart ordering all the restrictions imposed by the Kapp regime to be regarded as out of force . Negotiations are now taking place with a view to immediate resumption of work . It is believed that the workers will agree to return by a vast majority . All political parties are about to issue proclamations severely condemning the Kapp regime and calling for adequate punishment of the rebels . But it will be a sadder and wiser Government that will return to the capital . That it can continue as if nothing had happened is out the question . There is no doubt that there will be great changes . The retirement of Noske is regarded as certain . Just as I am writing this part of my message truckloads of troops are proceeding westward out of the darkened city . There have been incidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place- SO far as I can learn unity among all parties of the National Assembly would suggest tl.it there will be no great opposition to the course which events are now taking . In some circles it was argued that tonight when the Kapp regime had gone and the Bauer Government was not yet reinstalled a . unique chance presented itself to the Spartacides or Independent . Socialists to indulge in a coup , but it is doubtful whether they have the necessary force at their command and whether one night of corn- , plete darkness would be sufficient for them to do enough to establish their position in the heart of the city . If ? tonight passes in tranquillity , then the situation may -- be saved . - In the midst of the strange confusion three things Stand- out . One .1 have already mentioned , the death knell . of ? Junkerisrn . The second is the demonstration of the enormous- political power of  --  the general strike . ? The third should in- justice be recognized . It is that the five ? days of militaristic madness have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course . without accurate information as to what has happened elsewhere in the country , but this much must in common fairness be admitted . For long and weary months it has been constantly insisted that Germany was really , Junkerist and militarist . It has been said by all kinds - of people that the heart of Germany was unregenerate , that down at the core of her being . she was unrepentant . Those five amazing days , have proved the reverse to be the case . The Junker power captured the central government , yet not one single party ; despite all the bragging , and flag wagging of a few self-elected spokesmen , rallied to the Junker banner . " The whole country rose against the old order of things . The reactionaries were left stranded without the slightest support . The very troops by means of which Kapp and his supporters achieved power saw the Junkers ' rump administration go without - the slightest protest . The people from the workers to the highest officials rose as one man against the upstarts . Their failure has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the highest degree improbable that a Junker will ever try his luck again . ' Monarchism has become an idle dream . Kaiserism has developed into an absurdity . It remains now for the reconstituted government to bring back popular government and they will certainly be forced to make the sovereignty of the people more secure than ever . Reactionaries Left Helpless . The decent Germany has been justified . The old disturbing elements have suffered a decisive defeat . Helfferich 's conceit , Ludendorff 's , swagger , Hindenburg 's stupidity , Reventlow 's bluster  --  all these things have been made to look foolish . If there is any statesmanship left in Germany the Fatherland should arise , signally purified after these five days of confusion . and disgrace . The next few days will , therefore , prove decisive in her history . To make this story of the fall of the Kapp regime complete , I should hark back to the events a little earlier . Last night passed without alarms . A conference of Deputies was held lasting from 7 o'clock yesterday evening to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right wing of the Independent Socialists , arrived and presented an ultimatum demanding a government of Independent Socialist Party members . The Independents , he declared , would support neither Government and he added the proletariat were . armed . ? This ultimatum was to have expired this evening and was the subject of lengthy conferences of the Government that has now disappeared into , the night . The execu  --  tives of the trade unions also declared themselves desirous of an Independent Socialist Government . - The Independent Socialists issued handbills signed by Daumig declaring the general strike must continue and the old ' Government must not come back. - A ? Communist leaflet was also distributed stilling that the workers must hold out till Soviet rule had been established . As a matter of fact the Socialists and Communists have been at logger heads and there is said to be great lack of unity among the ' workers . An airplane from Stuttgart early today dropped leaflets stating that the Bauer Government did not for a moment contemplate negotiations with Berlin . I am now , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the old regime this evening . The day has indeed been one of suppressed excitement . The crowds in the streets were not so dense and here and there it appeared as though a larger number of people were at , work . The general strike , however , continued effective to all intents and-purposes . Kapp 's Last Efforts to Save Himself . It had been feared that last night might possibly prove disturbed , but apart from stray shots heard at various times , nothing serious occurred . Wilhelmstrasse spent . a busy night . Various efforts were made to arrive at some sort of compromise to stave off the utter and complete downfall of tonight , while Berlin . slept fitfully . Cohn 's ultimatum to the conference of sixty Deputies of the National Assembly already referred to naturally caused great excitement . A deputation of Deputies conveyed it to Kapp in the early hours of this morning and urged him to resign . - Apparently this hastened his decision , but although he first sent Liittwitz with two other officers to announce his resignation , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a telephone message to the Deputies . Conferences between the Deputies and Kapp followed . During the negotiations Ludendorff was very active in endeavoring to bring about a compromise , and he was apparently responsible for the suggestion that the troops in Berlin should be placed under his command with powers to restore order everywhere . As I write one of the handbills dropped by the airplanes of the Bauer Government has come into my possession . Though it refers to the situation now passed , it appears worth quoting as a part of the history of these few troubled days . It says the position is similar to that of 1910 when the Government went to Weimar . It does not contemplate any other policy than the restoration of the constitutional position . It added that the Bauer Government was assured that the Kapp Government was not recognized by the Allies who , on the other hand , had sent representatives to Stuttgart . The handbill was signed by the whole Govermbent with the exception of Schieffer , Minister of Justice , who has remained in Berlin . There were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displayed on sheets at the branch offices of various newspapers .                     