@@684858

txt Drawing attention to the significant fact that last year the United States produced less oil than it consumed and exported , GEORGE OTIS SMITH , Director of the Geological Survey , warns the country that the domestic supply ' will be exhausted in less than twenty years , unless we " either reserve the " domestic oil fields for American de " veloprnent and thus prevent foreign " acquisition of what is needed at " home , or encourage our capital to " enter foreign fields to assist in their " development , thus insuring an adds " tional supply of oil for our needs . " The alarm has been sounded before , by Senator PHELAN of California and by VAN H. MANNING , Director of the Bureau of Mines . , In 1918 the product of the American wells was 356,000,000 barrels , or , to quote the Director of the Geological Survey , " more than " one-twentieth of the amount esti " mated by the survey geologists as " the content of our underground re " serve . " In 1918 our storage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home needs and export obligations 24,000,000 barrels were drawn out . It is true that the United States is the largest oil producer in the world by many millions of barrels , but it is also true that this country uses 75 per cent , of all the oil produced in the world , and that the domestic demand Is rapidly increasing . Our new dreadnoughts and destroyers are oil burners , and the American merchant marine may be a failure unless oil is available for the engines of the largest ships . If American aviation , military and commercial , is ever to be in the van of progress , there must be an ample reserve of oil . American automobiles , motor trucks , and tractors can not always be produced in quantity unless there is gasoline for them , or a substitute . American manufact-. uring is dependent upon petroleum and its by-products . Mr. GEORGE OTIS SMITH 'S " first method of handling the oil problem , " reserving the American fields by legislation , would be only a temporary solution of the problem . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned by British firms and companies whose title is sound and unassailable . According to Senator PHELAN , " the British Empire debars " foreigners or nationals from owning " or operating oil producing proper " ties , " and he calls for retaliation by the United States . Of far more Importance would be the vigorous competition , not counting cost , of Americans with the Europeans and Japanese to acquire and develop oil lands all over the earth . Among our rivals the British have a long lead with their genius for exploration . In Mexico they own some of the most valuable oil properties , and in Central and South America they have obtained concessions in territory , 18,000,000 acres in area , where there is promise of oil . And British nationals are busy in Persia , Egypt , Turkey , Rumania , Galicia , Syria , Algeria , and French West Africa . Their companies are organized in such a way that no oil is to be diverted from British requirements . " England 's policy , ' declares Senator PHELAN , " is to control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also the policy of the United States to take a large part in that trade . Then it must enter and keep the field wherever a well can be drilled , and use its far superior financial resources to win in the competition . Today the great oil producing countries are the United States and Mexico . Alarm about the immediate future , so far as this country is concerned , should not be taken tragically . The question that may soon confront the oil-using nations of the world is whether the supply will hold out for another generation when every known well is pressed into service .                     