@@694821

txt In a series of exercises the situation and prospects of Yale University were laid before several hundred graduates assembled today for the fifteenth annual university alumni day . President James Rowland Angell , in a discussion of a proposed " third college " to meet the situation caused by the large numbers in the undergraduate schools , and Professor Andrew Keogh , Yale librarian , with a description of the $7,000,000 Sterling Library , now under construction , were the principal speakers at the general meeting in Sprague Hall . Professor Charles Seymour , provost of the university , presided at the session . President Angell , after announcing that the Endowment Fund had been oversubscribed by more than $1.000,000 , said : " We have been able to provide in our budget of the coming year for substantial salary advances in the academical divisions of the university alone for somewhat over a hundred men , four-fifths of them in the ranks of associate professors , assistant professors and instructors  --  the groups in which , in general , the financial difficulties of our present salaries are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the subject of the project for a " third college " in the undergraduate department , Dr. Angell said : " Numbers have grown , and , despite the limit imposed in 1921-22 , the numbers now in our undergraduate schools are too large for any one man in a college class to know all his classmates . " Throughout the current academic year there has been a committee of the Undergraduate Faculties giving continuous attention to these issues in the search for devices which might promise some alleviation of the conditions . " Some fifteen years ago the late Professor George Burton Adams suggested the wisdom of creating a third college which should stand parallel with Yale College and the Sheffield Scientific School . In recent years substantially the same - proposal. has been renewed in several variant forms . Dean Mendell in his admirable address delivered a year ago in this ' place expressed his enthusiastic belief in such a - college ; and the committee to which I have just referred has canvassed with a good deal of detail three or four of the rossibilities related to a solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a considerable numb9.r of members of the Faculty and of the undergraduate student body . It has not yet framed its report . " Sterling Library to Open in 1939 . Professor Keogh , speaking of the progress on the library , said that " it will probably be ready for Alumni Day two years hence , or at the latest by commencement of that year . In that case we shall move during the Summer of 1930 and be all ready when college opens in the Fall . " The alumni luncheon in the university dining hall , at which Carl A. Lohmann , Secretary of the university , presided , was devoted to consideration of undergraduate affairs . The speakers were John M. Cates , Director of Athletics , and Arthur C. Robertson , ' 28 , Chairman of the Student Council in Yale College . The Charles E. Coxe Memorial Gymnasium , the new indoor track and baseball building , situated at Yale Field , was opened for inspection at afternoon exercises and dedicated . The building was accepted on behalf of Yale by Professor George H. Nettleton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Athletic Association . A special performance of " Pueblo , " a play in three acts by Covington Little , formerly of the Department of Drama , was given by students of the department in the university theatre .                     