@@685442

txt Wall Street was surprised at the choice of Warren G. Harding as Presidential ? nominee on the Republican ticket . Old-time Wall Street men were arch supporters of General Wood , with some of the younger element leaning toward Hoover . Bankers , generally , while expressing surprise at the result , believe that Harding 's sterling qualities and his out-and-nut Americanism will return him the victor . Wall . Street hears that Harding . if elected , will surround himself-with the brainiest-Republican Cabinet.avaih , ' able in the country . Advises from Marion . 0 . , Harding 's home town , state that this is the candidate 's plan . Calvin  --  Coolidge , his running mate . bankers say , would have been a much stronger candidate for first place .. However , as he is coupled with Harding on the Republican ticket . his impregnable position is expected to make partisan attacks on Harding unavailing . Bankers say that what we need today is a man who can grapple with the world 's important problems during the next four years . They say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . Harding , hacked by a powerful , brainy cabinet , may fill the bill . " An admirable selection , " says Francis L. Hine , president of the First National Bank , when speaking of the nomination of Warren G. Harding . " Dignified , experienced , amiable , I consider Harding eminently fitted for the office if elected . Ile is an approachable man , a natural man . Not a man with ideas so lofty that he ca n't he followed by the ordinary people . It is- not against him that he has not committed himself strongly on some issue . To my mind that is in his favor . Be comes before the voters unspotted by calumnies . " You know , they said of that he had one car to the ground , and Harding always struck me as bearing a strong resemblance to . The President of the United States is the servant of the people and it seems to me that the President gets on best when impressed with this idea . We need as President of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences of a hundred million people . Such a man was Mel:inky and such a man I believe Harding to he . When met his untimely end was there ever a more universally loved and respected President ? " As for Coolidge I think the choice is also excellent . He lends great strength to the ticket .. It is a pity that a greater responsibility does not fall to the office of the Vice-President than is the case . " Walter E. Frew , president of the Corn Exchange Bank , said : " I am very well pleased with the nomination of Senator Harding and Governor Coolidge . It is *a strong ticket , safe and sound . It represents sufficient . progressiveness , and at the same time it is conservative enough to instill confidence in the responsible elements of the country . The nomination should prove satisfactory to every business interest .. " I heard Senator Harding talk at a recent dinner of the Ohio Society , and I am not alone in the opinion that he made the best impression of any of the speakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it is of principles ; both Harding and Coolidge represent principles dear to every American . ' Yes . I am pleased with the nomination . " Hubert T. Parson , president of the F. NV . Weol  --  erth Co. , says : " Harding will gain in popularity as the campaign progresses and the public becomes more acquainted with him and what he has done . I have heard him speak but once , but he made a very fine impression . Governor Coolidge 's record is widely known and he undoubtedly adds great strength to the ticket . Radicals have no place with him , but on the other hand his . record shows that everyone gets a fair show and a square deal . " A steel manufacturer commented as follows on Harding and Coolidge : " Harding is a conservative and a man of great- executive ability . This country is confronted with great problems and Harding is a good man to solve them . We are tired of radicals and spendthrifts . Harding will make friends with the laboring element . He is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He will grew stronger as the campaign progresses . If  --  Cfx is nominated by the Democrats Harding will brat him in Ohio . Never  --  before have the Republicans had such a strong man for second place . Coolidge will he a second Roosevelt so far as vote getting is concerned . " Edgar L. Marston says of the Republican nominees : " They furnish a- very strong combination and one that will grow in popularity as the campaign progresses . " " I view with favor the nomination of Senator Watrea G. Harding as the Republican Presidential candidate , " says R. D. Benson . president of the Tide Water Oil Co . " I have heard Senator Harding speak several times within the last two years . and he impressed me as the type . The financial interests of the country were never more fairly treated than during the Presidency of . Senator Harding should make a good- President . also because he is not ' above ' his party. - He is a man the people can understand . " YOUNGSTOWN PLEASED WITH NOMINATION Youngstown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential candidate is welcomed by leading industrial and financial interests . Joseph G. Butler . Jr. , vice-president of Brier Hill Steel Co. and a director of the American Iron and Steel ins. , itatc , , was a delegate pled ged to support Harding . Harding 's pronounced Republicanism. his opposition to what he terms " Wilsonism , " his firm stand again4 radical union labor and the bolshevists who would overthrow America , have appealed with peculiar force to industrial leaders .                     