@@694781

txt Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh took to the air again today and for fifteen minutes played around over the city , showing United States Ambassador Judah , Mrs. Judah . and their two children the white and pink buildings of Havana from an altitude of about 1,500 feet . It was his first hop since he arrived here . He expects to go up again tomorrow and take up several officials of the Government and friends of Ambassador Judah . The plane he used was a Fairchild cabin monoplane owned by the PanAmerican Airways Company , which operates the air route between Havana and Key West . This plane is not one of those used on the route , which are three-motored Fokkers , but a smaller plane used for photographic and surveying purposes . It was a duplicate of-the plane Colonel Lindbergh used in Mexico City ' . when he took up President Canes for ' his first flight . Colonel Lindbergh hopes that he will have the opportunity of taking up President Machado of Cuba also . The flier 's day was a busy one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State , Martinez Ortiz , he was presented with the medal of the Province of Havana . The build : ing was filled with people who had come to see the famous young airman , and he was greeted with great applause as he ascended the stairway . This was only the , first of three presentations which he:redeivea dur- , ing the day , the buSles4 pay he has had in Havana . . Throng Fills City Park . After leaving the State Department building he drove along - the Malecon for a few minutes until he was due at the Central Park , where he was presented with the keys of the city by Mayor Gomez . The park was jammed with at least 50,000 people . They filled the plaza , the balconies of hotels and clubs , and even the roofs of buildings which adjoined the square . When Colonel Lindbergh arrived a great shout went up which drowned the music of the bands . Colonel Lindbergh waited a few minutes before entering the stand , until the car of President Machado arrived ; then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a line of policemen and firemen to the place where he was to make his speech . He was saluted by Mayor Gomez with a friendly address praising his flights , and then received the keys to the city in a large case . Colonel Lindbergh responded briefly , saying that he hoped the islands of . the- Caribbean would soon be linked by airplane communication , and that when the opportunity came the people of Cuba would cooperate by giving their support to the new means of transportation . From the Central Park he was driven to the Automobile Club , where he was a guest at a luncheon of the Aero Club of Cuba , comprising the Cuban pilots and other men in Havana interested in flying . Looks Over Own Plane Again . He also spoke a moment there on aviation and then went to the flying field , where , after looking over his own plane , he took . Ambassador Judah and his family up in the Fairchild . Tonight Colonel Lindbergh was the guest of President Machado at a grand banquet in the National Theatre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delegates to the Pan-American Conference and prominent Cuban officials were present . The boxes were filled with women and decorated with the flags of Latin-American countries . At the head table Colonel Lindberg sat with President Machado , Ambassador Judah and Orestes Ferrer a , the Cuban Ambassador to Washington . Here he received the greatest honor in the gift of the Cuban Government , the Grand Cross of the Order of Miguel de Cespedes , which has only been bestowed upon five or six men , most of them prominent in international- affairs . It was the first time it had been . given to a nian who was not head of a ' nation or a leader of public affairs . Colonel Lindbergh thanked the Cuban Government for the honor which had been shown him and said that he hoped his flight would do something for international good-will and for the advancement of ' aviation . Crowd Shouts " Viva Lindy . " HAVANA , Feb. 10 ( PP ) . ? Crowds such as , within the memory of Havana police officia/s , Cuba has never seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this afternoon . Cubans most of them were ; but there were Americans , too , enough of them that , when island military bands played the " Star-Spangled Banner , " an audible chorus could be heard singing the refrain . Cuban youths climbed about the dais of the statute of Jos ? Marti to put themselves head and shoulders above the masses that thronged the Prado , while the city 's firemen , armed with long spiked poles , maintained lines in a semblance of order so that Colonel Lindbergh , President Machado , Ambassador Judah and others of the official party might pass through to . the pavilion in the centre of the famous parkway . When . after Mayor Gomez had presented the American flier with the keys to the city , the Cuban Ambassador to the United States . Orestes Ferrera , translated Colonel Lindbergh 's speech of thanks into Spanish for the benefit of the assembled multitude , it broke into renewed cheering , of which " Viva Lindy ! Viva Lindy ! " was the only cry that could be distinguished . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand and appeared on the verge of giving him an " embrazo , " but smiled and spoke with him for a moment instead . Cheering drowned out what they said . Fails to Glance at Girls . Again at the ceremony this morning at which Colonel Lindbergh received the gold medal of the Province of Ravana from the hand of Governor Nuelan , throngs in the street awaited the reappearance of the flier . of whom they had seen only a little as he entered . Colonel Lindbergh was all smiles , but it was orgy for his hosts and the Cuban people as a whole that he brightened . A : group of Cuban beauties who thrust themselves to the front had their trouble for nothing , it seemed . The flier passed them without so much as a glance . The medal of the Province of Havana was cast in commemoration of Colonel Lindbergh 's transatlantic flight . Au outline of the Atlantic Coast lines of America and Europe , with small arrows tracing his route from New York to Paris , was engraved upon one side . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donated ' by the Province of Havana to Charles A. Lindbergh for his heroic service to the science of aviation . " In a short introductory speech Benito Chatez , member of the House of Representatives , recalled Colonel Lindbergh 's flight to Paris and the American flights which he has just completed at Cuba . Colonel Lindbergh has been obliged to decline an invitation to visit West Palm Beach , Fla .. as he will make no stop on his return trip to St. Louis . The American Embassy . announced tonight ' that , although the flier would have been glad to accept the invitation , his plans , decided upon several weeks ago , prevented alteration of his schedule . For the same reason , he was forced to decline the invitation of Ambassador Judah and Cuban officials to remain an extra day in Havana . He has definitely set Monday as the date of his departure from Havana and his arrival at St. Louis ..                     