@@686792

txt The council subcommittee ? Ald. Schwartz , Guernsey , and Woodhull ? appointed to investigate expert fees , hit a new trail yesterday . This digcloses for the first time some of the banks In which the five experts placed a part , at least , of the 52,742,000 which they received from the city treasury , according to , the subcommittee . One alderman said that he is confident that the subcommittee will be able to follow the trail into the banks and there ascertain whether the fees have remained In the banks , and if not , when and how the.money was taken , out of the banks . Where They Put Their Money . The subcommittee 's information shows that the various experts deposited fees obtained from the city in the banks designated : Frank II . Mesce , building expert ? Harris Trust and Savings bank , First National bank , and Fort Dearborn National bank . Austin J. Lynch , building expert ? Harris Trust and Savings bank , Fort Dearborn National bank , and State Bank of Chicago . Edward C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank , Central Trust company , and Standard Trust and Savings bank . Arthur S. Merigold , real estate expert ? Fort Dearborn National bank and Standard Trust and Savings bank . Ernest H. Lyons , real estate expert ? State Bank of Chicago and Standard Trust and Savings bank . It will be noticed that three of the experts used three banks each , and two of the exports used two banks each . Expert Lyons , when before the committee last week , testified that he used the two banks designated , which the subcommittee has later found to be correct . But the committee hag information that some of the other experts used more banks than indicated in the above summarization , but the names of these have not been made public . Probably the reason for withholding the information is the fact that the four remaining experts have been invited to appear before the committee this afternoon at 2 o'clock , Lyons having testified last week . Dupee Fails to Appear . Eugene H. Dupee , special attorney in street improvement cases , was tho witness called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statement giving his views of the qualifications of experts and some information regarding other points in the legal end of street improvement cases . It was read in full . Then Lawrence Cohen , one of the attorneys for the committee , commented : " That is not satisfactory . We have n't been given all the Information to which we are entitled . I do n't understand why Mr. Dupee failed to appear . " " I Indorse what Mr. Cohen hap said , " remarked Attorney Louis Hart . " Mr. Dupee owes it to the city , as well as courtesy to the committee , to appear . " " He promised to return when he was last here , " said Ald. Guernsey . " He should bo given another opportunity . " ? Ask Him to Appear Today . Accordingly the committee wrote another letter to Mr. Dupee , asking him to be on hand this afternoon ' at 2 o'clock . The mandamus ' to compel Deputy Controller Goaselin to permit the aldermen to see certain vouchers and warrants showing payments to the experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday : " I shall be guided entirely by the advice of the city law department in answering the mandamus . " It was announced at the corporation counsel 's office that it has not decided what its course will bo with reference to the application for a mandamus . Brooklyn Salesman Found Dead in Loop Hotel Room Louis Von Spaden , 472 Decatur street , Brooklyn , N. Y. , a salesman , was found dead yesterday on the floor of his room in the Brovoort hotel . Heart disease is believed to have been the cause . House Detective Peters found the body .                     