@@695011

txt The common opinion in Washington political quarters is that Governor Alfred E. Smith 's sweeping victory ' in California 's Democratic Presidential primaries yesterday makes certain that the Governor will be his party 's nominee for President in the Houston convention next month . " Nothing can stop him now " was the view very generally expressed by Democratic Senators , Representatives and other Democrats at ? the Capitol today . While this appraisement of the pre-convention situation in the party is not unanimous , it is so widespread as to be impressive . An immediate reaction to the California result may be the withdrawal of Senator Thomas J. Walsh of Montana from the contest for the Democratic Presidential nomination . Mr. Walsh declined to comment on the Smith victory over Senator James A. Reed of Missouri , and himself , but he is credited with seriously considering issuing a statement tomorrow which , in addition to taking him out of the race , may be equivalent to an acknowledgment that Governor Smith is assured of the nomination , although perhaps not going so far as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Act . Close friends of Senator Walsh in the Senate urged him today to recognize the inevitable and make the running easier for Smith . The understanding is that he was convinced that his candidacy had no chance , and that he would consider what was the best course for him to follow in the circumstances . Mr. Walsh - Is a pronounced dry , both politically and personally , and is opposed to having the Democratic Party nominated a wet for its candidate for President . Chiefly on that account , but partly because of Gov -- ernor Smith 's Tammany affiliations , he has not been friendly to the movement to name the latter to head the Democratic national ticket this year . If he should declare publicly that it was now inevitable that Governor Smith would be chosen at Houston , and thus inferentially indicate that he was to be counted in the Smith column , it would cause much surprise . No comment was obtainable from Senator Reed , but from the Reedfor-President headquarters came a statement that he had made " a splendid showing in California with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the announcement that " the fight for Reed would continue unabated and with renewed vigor . " Acclamation Move Revived . Today witnessed also a revival of the proposal that Governor Smith should be nominated by acclamation . When this matter was first discussed among national Democratic politicians , the understanding was that no attempt should be made to reach a definite agreement until after the California primaries . This understanding carried with it that if Smith should win in Cal ' ornia , his nomination at Houston would be assured and those who were opposed to him should abandon that opposition for the sake of party harmony in the certainty that the outcome of the balloting would be a Smith victory . It was the expectation at the Capi- tol today that the acclamation suggestion would now be taken up seriously . There does not appear ? to be any great prospect that it will be successful , because of the disposition of Senator Reed 's backers to keep him in the race , and the anti-Catholie element in the delegations from Alabama , North Carolina and some other States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good chance of an agreement among leaders of a considerable number of delegations nominally opposed to Smith to throw no obstacle in the way of his nomination . Short Convention Expected . In view of the California outcome , the generality of opinion among politicians today was that the Houston convention would be short-lived . The apparent certainty that there will be no repetition of the situation which prolonged the Madison Square , Garden convention four years ago is extremely satisfactory to leading Democrats , who are anxious to give the country the impression that the party-is now a harmonious entity and will go to the convention , this year with a united front . Most of the opinion expressed today as to the probable length of the Houston convention fixed Governor Smith's-nomination not later than the third ballot . It took 103 ballots to choose the Presidential candidate in Madison Square Garden . Some insisted that Smith 's strength would be such at the outset of the convention that only one ballot would be required to give him the prize , but this view is pr . ty generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insist upon giving a ballot or two to their " favorite sons " will be sufficiently strong in votes to prevent Governor Smith from receiving the two-thirds necessary to a choice . From now on , according to what was said by many Democrats here today , a rush may be expected to the Smith band wagon .. Politicians found many significant angles of the Smith victory in Calffornia . Outside of the apparent assurance that the result paves- the way for making Governor Smith the Democratic nominee for President , the chief significance of his victory , according to political opinion , lies in the setback administered to William G. in his home State . EXPECT RUSH TO SMITH . to the Governor , and likely to come to him without effort , adding eightynine to the Smith bloc and placing his ultimate strength , first line and reserve , at 8721 ; votes . The twothirds vote , necessary for nomination is 734 , the total number of delegates in the convention being an even 1,100 . Only 2271/2 votes are conceded by the Smith men to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is divided as follows between eleven States : Alabama 18 , Colorado 4 , Florida 7 , Georgia 28 , Kentucky 26 , Mississippi 20 , North Carolina 12 , Pennsylvania 61/2 , South Carolina 18 , Tennessee 24 , Texas 40 and Virginia 24 . Total 2271/2 . George R. Van Namee , Chairman of the Smith Pre-Convention Activities Committee , made the following comment on the result of the Democratic primaries in California : " The result in California exceeds our expectations . It indicates the intense enthusiasm which exists throughout the country for Governor Smith and which makes itself manifest whenever the people have a chance to express their preference for the Democratic nomination . This enthusiasm will manifest itself even more as the time for the convention approaches . " CALIFORNIA LEAD IS WIDE . Smith Is 74,000 Ahead of Reed in Poll . SAN FRANCISCO , May 2 ( iP ) . ? A smashing victory by Governor Smith of New York in yesterday 's Democratic Presidential preference primary over Senator James A. Reed of Missouri and Senator Thomas J. , Walsh of Montana today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Democratic voters of the State gave delegates pledged to the nomination of the New York Executive more , ballots , than they recorded for his , two opponents - combined . The fact ' that Reed was second choice was a blow to the forces who advocated the nomination of Walsh , a " dry . " William G. headed the Walsh list of delegates . If he goes to the Houston convention he must go as an observer and not as a delegate . Some Smith leaders in the State today predicted that was eliminated as a national Democratic leader . Returns from 8,090 precincts of the 8,753 in California for the Presidential primary gave Smith .. 132,006 Reed 57,586 Walsh 45,572 Secretary Hoover , the only Republican running , received 548,978 in the same precincts . The following telegram from Secretary Hoover , thanking his supporters for their votes in the primary , was received today : " I would be glad is you will express my heartfelt appreciation to my friends for the magnificent tribute which they have given to me and have shown to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First ' Ballot Idea . While the sweeping , victory won by Governor Smith at Tuesday 's Presidential primary election in California is regarded by persons identified with the management of his pre-convention campaign as the prelude for a precipitate rush to the Smith band wagon by Democrats in States which still remain to be heard from , thus opening the way for his nomination on the first ballot , there is little likelihood that any initiative toward the realization of this desire will be taken by his campaign managers SWEEP ASSURES SMITH 'S NOMINATION By RICHARD V. OULAHAN. // here . While it was said yeriterday at Smith headquarters in the Hotel Siltmore that no statement to that effect would be issued , a ' least not until the full extent of the victory California was known , it is understood to be in line with the plan of his campaign managers to afford the fullest opportunity to all favorite son booms to have their run at Houston , now that the nomination of their own candidate ' no longer remains in doubt and all need for aggressive action at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision not to do anything to offend the sensibilities of favorite sons by pressing for a hasty decision that would place all booms except that of the Governor in eclipse , is with a view of harmony , both at and after the convention . Governor Smith 's friends now believe that he will enter the Houston convention with about 800 votes pledged or friendly to.his candidacy . With the twenty-six votes from California the Governor is now assured of 527% votes from States where primaries and conventions already have been held , which are either pledged to him or so firmly committed that no doubt remains of their being cast for him . In addition , there are , in the aggregate . eighty-two votes from three other such States , Arkansas , Nebraska and I Ohio , which will surely come to Governor Smith after pledges to favorite sons have been redeemed . These , added to those actually pledged or committed to the Governor , make a total of 611 . From States where the election of delegates has not yet been held , 174 more Smith votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : Alabama 6 ; Colorado , 8 ; Connecticut , 14 ; Delaware , 3 ; Florida , 5 ; Maryland , 16 ; Monti-tie. , 8 ; Nevada , 6 ; New Jersey , 28 ; . New Mexico , 6 ; North Carolina , 12 ; Oregon , 10 ; South Dakota , 10 ; Vermont , 8 ; West Virginia , 16 ; Wyoming , 6 ; Canal Zone , 6 ; District of Columbia , 6 . Total , 174 . The remaining three votes from Delaware , thirty from . Indiana , twenty from Kansas and thirty-six from Missouri , which on the first ballot will be cast for other candidates are regarded as not unfriendly                     