@@684981

txt One topic leads all others in the gossip of Santa Barbara polo circles and Montecito society , according to a Los Angeles dispatch last night . It is the story of the recent alleged attempted elopment of Deering Davis , son of Dr. and Mrs. Nathan S. Davis of 8 East Huron street , and Miss Geraldine Graham , heralded a few months ago as the most beautiful woman In Newport society . Greater interest is vested in the story in view of the fact that only a few weeks ago southern California tea tables hummed at the prospect of Miss Graham 's marriage to a foreigner of noble birth . Relative Nips Romance , Young Davis has been prominent In various Chicago society fetes and is one of tho most popular polo players In Santa Barbara . Despite a game knee , he served with the flying corps on the Italian front and spent many weeks In an army hospital in Rome as a result of an accident to his machine . Love of horses is said to have been the common ground on which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had a romantic , climax , but for the interference of a relative in a high powered car . Miss Graham is aproficient horsewoman and was known as the " most beautiful girl of the riding set " at White Surphur Springs , Va. , last summer . According to the story told in the dispatches , young Davis and Miss Gra , ham decided on an elopement , but they had not obtained a good start before Earl Graham , the young woman 's atepbrother , . learnad ... Of it . lie overtook the couple between Del Monte and San Francisco , it is said , and carried his stepsister back to Montecito In high dudgeon . This was not accomplished , however , so the story runs , without a physical encounter with young Davis . Girl 's Mother Upset . Mrs. William Miller Graham , the girl 's mother , who is said to have been much in favor of the prospective alliance of the family with a title , was so upset over the whole affair , dispatches say , that she made every effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might reach the . ears of the nobleman and injure her daughter 's chances for the match . Both Dr. and Mrs. Davis Sr. are in Santa Barbara . Dr. N. S. Davis Jr. , brother of Deering , said last night he had had no letter from the latter since Christmas . He had heard nothing of the affair . " I do n't know Miss Graham , " he said . " I have heard nothing of it . from father or mother , so , you see , I can neither confirm or deny it . "                     