@@693500

txt The new position created in China by the refusal of Eugene Chen , the Cantonese Foreign Minister , to sign a treaty with Great Britain while troops are being concentrated at Shanghai was discussed by the Cabinet this morning and again at a further special meeting this afternoon . No official announcement of the decisions reached was made , but it is stated that new instructions were sent to Charge O'Malley at Hankow in an effort to break the deadlock and that no step will be taken at the moment to modify the measures the British are taking to protect Shanghai . As regards the report which reached New York that the British troops now en route to China may be diverted from Shanghai to Hong Kong and Wei-Hai-Wei , it is declared that the British Government has not taken any action in that direction , and in any case would only agree to such alteration in the movement of troops on condition that the Cantonese Government gave real and adequate guarantees that British life and property and other legitimate rights would be protected from mob violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are directed toward getting such assurances from Chen . Despite the suspr ' on of the negotiations by Chen and the tone of his message to the Independent Labor Party here , it is not thought in official circles that hopes are ended of a general settlement on the basis of the British proposals . In connection with Chen 's statement wherein he singles out Britain as the only power to send armed forces to Shanghai , it is printed out that the number of United States marines in China now far exceeds the number of British , while Chen , it is claimed , has not realized the strength of the United States naval forces in or near Chinese waters . Text of First British Proposals . The text of the first British proposals which were handed to the rival Chinese Governments at Hankow and Peking were given out here today and shows that Britain is prepared to relinquish many privileges in China , but is not willing to give up complete control of the concessions . While it is willing to transfer police control of them to China , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is willing to allow Chinese law to be substituted for British . The text of the proposals is as follows : I. His Majesty 's Government is prepared to recognize the modern Chinese law courts as competent courts for cases brought by British plaintiffs and to waive the right of attendance of a British representative at the hearing of such cases . 2 . His Majesty 's Government is prepared to recognize the validity of a reasonable Chinese nationality law . 3 . His Majesty 's Government is prepared to apply , so far as practicable , in the British courts in China modern Chinese civil and commercial codes , apart from procedure codes and those affecting personal status , and the duly enacted subordinate legislation as and when such laws and regulations are promulgated and enforced in the Chinese courts and on Chinese citizens throughout China . 4 . His Majesty 's Government is prepared to make British subjects in China liable to pay such regular and legal Chinese taxation , not involving discrimination against British subjects or British goods , as is in fact imposed on and paid by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government is prepared , as soon as a revised Chinese penal code is promulgated and applied to Chinese courts , to consider its application to British courts in China . 6 . His Majesty 's Government is prepared to discuss and enter into arrangements , according to the particular circumstances at each port concerned , for modification of the municipal administrations of the British concessions so as to bring them into line with the administrations set up in former concessions , or for their amalgamation with former concessions now under Chinese control , or for the transfer of police control of the concession areas to the Chinese authorities . 7 . His Majesty 's Government is pre- pared to accept the principle that British missionaries should no longer claim the right to purchase land in the interior , that Chinese converts should look to Chinese law and not to the treaties for protection , and that missionary , educational and medical institutions conform to Chinese law and the regulations applying to similar Chinese institutions . Beady to Deal Leniently . When communicating these proposals to Eugene Chen , the Cantonese Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Alfaires , prefaced them as follows : " When a satisfactory settlement has been reached with respect to the British concessions at Hankow and Kiukiang , and when assurance 's are given by the Nationalist Government that they will not countenance any alteration except by negotiation of the status of the British concessions and the international settlements , his Majesty 's Government will be prepared to concede at once along the lines indicated in the enclosure hereto part of what is desired of them by the Chinese Nationalist Party . So liberal and generous a step can not , in their view , be regarded otherwise than an earnest of the fair and conciliatory spirit with which they are animated . " British Labor leaders received today the following message from Eugene Chen , dated Feb. 1 , in reply to one they sent him on Jan. 26 : " I have to assure you of the desire of the Nationalist Government to negotiate a peaceful settlement with the British Government , not only on the specific question of the Hankow British concession , but on all other issues involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China 's independence . " Pursuing this diplomacy of peace , we rely on British Labor to assist in controlling the adventurous elements in the British Government of today and in avoiding British decisions for action which might dig deep into the mind of the Nationalists enduring resentment and hostility toward the British . " I have sought to arrange a settlement of the question of the Hankow concession , apart from the general important issues pending between Chinese nationalism and British imperialism , which would both satisfy the British Government and Nationalist self-respect . Such a settlement can be reached at once if only there is a cessation of the war atmosphere and the war neurosis created by the menacing concentration at Shanghai of the most powerful naval and military forces any nation has massed in China since the opium war . " The object of these warlike measures are said to be to guard British lives and property against being put into jeopardy by forcible Chinese seizure of th international settlement at Shanghai . If this he the real aim and purpose of the British concentration , there ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point in view of the categorical statement I have made today to the British representative who has engaged in negotiations with me . " If . however , the massing of armed forces in the direction of Shanghai is an expression of the type of governing mind that feeds on the bodies of slaughtered men , then it is to be feared that the disablement of British trade and commerce may have to continue until British Labor is entrusted by England with the task of arresting the British decline in Far Asia by substituting the statesmanship of peace and productive work for the Tory statesmanship of imperialism , war and Byzantine glory . "                     