@@686890

txt JOSEPH CONRAD laments the- ' = passing " of the old sailing ship , but the pressure of the fuel problem bids fair to brine ' it back . High cost of opera- ? tion is the main obstacle ? to the development of the suddenly acquired American merchant , marine . The demand is for larger merchantmen with smaller crewt This is met largely by the American type of super-schooner with five , six and even seven masts , and an equipment of steam steering and hoisting gear . Even in speed these schooners often show a clean pair of heels to many freight steamers . The old clipper ships occasionally made better time than the steamers . But the new ' Yankee schooners of five to seven masts have far outstripped the clippers . Furthermore , many of these super-schooners carry auxiliary power for use in zones of calm or against head winds . All told , the advantages of-the sailing ship , with modern la or-saving devices , contrasting with tie difficulties that the steamer incurs from the passing of the era of cheap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to predict more and more stoutly since the war a return of the sailing ship to its old predominance as a freight carrier . Coal and oil must be saved for the navy . A design was presented not long ago , at a meeting of the Institution ... of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland , for one of these super-schoonerei with minimum requirements of crew . and fuel , as a solution of the present shipping situation . The design includes the use of upper and lower gaff ! sails , for easy handling , and of steel wire rope for all running gear , led to an independent drum ; . and motor winches operated by electric switches from the quarterdeck . A Diesel en ? gine will drive a single feathering propeller , when wind falls , and always supply electric light , heat and power throughout the ship . The author of this design is . a progressive naval architect and yacht designer who " served an apprenticeship in this country under HERRESHOFE , and in offering this model he asserted the economic necessity of reviving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - one thing that has not changed in price . The old clipper ships were capable of 13 to 15 knots an hour , being thus above the speed of the average steam freighter of today . The mew super-schooners , with the auxiliary equipment proposed , would be much faster . A deck watch . . consisting ' of the officer , who will " operate the switches for , pulling . ropes ; and a man at the wheel will represent an immense cut In operating costs . '                     