@@685069

txt FOR THE PEACE OF TURKEY To the Editor of The Noe York Times : Much that is being written concerning the present situation in Turkey seems to be based on two misconceptions  --  one that the Turk , whatever his past crimes may have been , can be driven out of Europe and out of Asia , and the other that any division of the resent Turkish territorr among the natleps now endeavoring to occupy it will V  --  s followed by a lasting peace . Ttsa , e can be no satislactory solution of tiss ? Turkish problem which does not take into consideration the wishes of the people now living in Turkey . The majority of these are Turks , the others are Armenians , Greeks , Syrians , Arabs and Kurds . To divide Turkey among the Italians , whose only claim to Turkish territory is because they want the area to the north and east of Adalia up to and including the Konia Plain ; the French , who wish Syria and the Cicilian Plain ; Greece , which wishes Thrace and Constantinople to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the so-called Armenia under some protectorate , will bring no real and lasting peace . As the chief medical adviser of the Near East Relief I have recently spent ten months in Turkey traversing all of its railway systems and Some two thousand miles into the interior , and covered the entire area from Adrianople on the Bulgarian frontier M Mardin on the edge of Mesopotamia and from Aidin to Samsoun . The Turks are free to admit that alone they are unable to regenerate their country . An independent Armenia is not at present feasible , as in the so-called Armenia there are now more Turks and Kurds than Armenians . The occupation of Smyrna and the country toward Aidin by the Greeks only aroused bitterness and resulted in much bloodshed . Everywhere the people of all classes , Turks and Christians , expressed the wish that America might take the mandate for the whole country . An army officer formerly under Mustapha Kemal , the Nationalist leader , expressed this same desire to me and said that America was the only one of the great nations who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For nearly a century American missionaries have brought education to Turkey and not the sword . They have not engaged in political propaganda and they are trusted by all classes , Moslems as well as Christians . The only way to settle the conditions at present evident in Turkey is by an American mandate , for not less than fifty years . This would allow two generations to grow up together and with the aid of a new taxing system and a new system of education and the introduction of transportation and modern agriculture a new Turkey can be built in the same manner that we are building a new Philippines . This can be done without destroying the native people and with their help and not their to the habits and needs of each group end with a central Congress and State ? lake the District of Columbia , at Constantinople . Roughly , these States shou:d be Thrace from Bulgaria to within a few miles west of Constantinople , a district which is very largely k : Anatolia , mostly Turkish ; Smyrna with the region around it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the district from Ar7 ien'a to Mesopotamia . If possible , and Russian Armenia should b inthuled in this group of States . Syria may be mandated under France , which has many interests there . The language of Syria is Arabic , and there is a definite delimitation of this country from Mesopotamia on the west and Anatolia and Cilicia on the north . Mesopotamia is already being developed by England and should be contiuued under her . These mandates should be taken with the sole idea of developing the country for its own people and not for conquest . I can not see that Italy has any just claim on any of this territory , and , considering the feeling of the Turks toward the Greeks , it would be better if Greece as a Government should not have any part 1n the partition of Turkey . Constantinople and the strait must he internationalized , and all of the various peoples should be able to live in Constantinople in peace . This plan involves fairness to the religious point of view of all the peoples and no plan will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into account . A mandate by America would be welcomed by all of the peoples in Turkey even if not by the European powers . It would stabilize the situation and would allow the development of the material resources of the country , now very largely undeveloped . It would not require a large army , and this could be very largely native . Turkey has been ruled for centuries by the sword ; it is now time to try another *clan GEORGE L. RICHARDS . Fall River , Mass. , Feb. 25 , 1920.                     