@@696534

txt The election at the September sessions of the Assembly and Council of the League of Nations of Sir Cecil Hurst and Henri Froinageot to fill the vacancies on the Permanent Court of International ' Justice ( World Court ) bench , caused respectively by the deaths of the British member . Viscount Finlay , and the French member , Andre Weiss , appears fairly certain from the list of nominations of candidates released by the Secretariat today . Both received by far the greatest number of nominations , twenty-one countries naming Sir Cecil and nineteen M. Fromageot , including the United States in both cases . The election of these two would place legal advisers of the foreign offices of both Britain and France on the Hague bench , Sir Cecil - and M. Fromageot having now occupied that post for some time . Both were members of the committee of jurists which last March drew up recommendations for the revision of the Hague statute and the terms for the acceptance of the American reservations to the World Court . Sir Cecil being part author with Elihu Root @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long period of prominent roles in the League 's juridical affairs to their credit and M. Formageot is also president of the Anglo-American arbitral tribunal on pecuniary claims . Italy Backs Neither . Sir Cecil and M. Fromageot were each nominated not only 11. both Britain and France , but 12130 by Germany and all the other great powers except Italy , which is backing neither . Italy named Jules Basdevant and Joseph Barthelmy. both Professors of Law on the faculty of the University of Paris . for the vacancy caused by the death of ' M. Weiss and for the late Lord Finlay 's place split its vote between Lord Buckmaster and Lord Hailsham . These nominations for judges , however , are not made by the governments , but by " national groups " composed of the men of each cowl ; try who are members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration established at The Hague in 1899 . The Americans are able to nominate judges for the World Court , to which the United States does not adhere , because ' it belongs to the older tribunal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Charles Evans Hughes , John Bassett Moore and Newton D. Baker . Though the groups in several countries nominated more than one man for each vacancy , the four Americans were unanimous for both Sir Cecil and M. Fromageot . For election a judge must be the choice of both the Assembly and the Council , voting separately . Though the statute leaves both bodies free to choose a judge from any nationality , the practice is for British and French vacancies to be filled by citizens of those countries . Haiti Names Two Haitians . Many members of the national groups used the privilege , however , of naming men of other nationalities to replace the dead British and French judges . Judges of nine or ten nationalities have been nominated to succeed Lord Finlay and M. Weiss , respectively , nearly all of them , however , receiving only the courtesy of votes from their own country , like the two Haitians nominated by Haiti . Aside from Sir Cecil Hurst , seven other Englishmen have been nominated for the Finlay vacancy , none , however , receiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who has four backers , and Lord Buckmaster , who has three , the other Britons , Lord Hanworth , A. Pearce Higgins , Sir Frederick Pollock , Marquess of Reading and Sir Leslie Scott got only one nomination each . Eight Frenchmen besides M. Fromageot were nominated in a similar way for the Weiss post , M. Basdevant being supported by some members of six national groups and M. Barthelmy by four , Professor G. de Laspradelle by two and Ambroise Colin , Jean Dreyfus , Charles Dupuis . Louis Le Fur and Ernest Lfimonon having one backer each . Not all the nominations are in yet , but the results cited are unlikely to be changed materially .                     