@@695547

txt Adolph Kraus , Jewish leader and former editor and public official , died in his sleep today at the age of 76 in his apartment at the East End Park Hotel . Born in Blowitz , Bohemia , of a prosperous family of merchants , Mr. Kraus emigrated to America at the age of 15 , arriving with only $10 . After clerking a few years in smalltown stores in Ohio , he came to Chicago in 1871 , just after . the great fire . He found a position in a law office , studied for the bar and in 1877 was admitted to practice . In the next two decades he was a member of two firms . Early in this century he became a partner of Judge Samuel Alschuler , now on the Federal Appellate bench here . In 1891 Mr. Kraus was appointed a member of the Board of Education , serving six years , two as President ; In 1893 he was manager of the Democratic campaign which resulted in the re-election of the elder Mayor Carter H. Harrison . He soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1897 , when the task of reorganizing the civil service was given to him . Learning as President of the Civil Service Commission that a furniture trust was charging the city exorbitant prices , he telegraphed every furniture manufacturing concern in i the country outside the trust , inviting bids . The hold of the trust on Chicago was at once broken . When the elder Harrison bought The Chicago Times in 1891 Mr. Kraus became the only other stockholder . Under Mr. Harrison 's management the paper was a losing venture . After Mr. Harrison was assassinated in 1893 his sons took charge . The losses continued , so Mr. Kraus became editor , changed the policy of the paper , expanded it and after a year sold it . In 1905 , when the Russian Imperial Government was persecuting Jewish subjects , Mr. Kraus became a member of a commission of American Jews who conferred at Portsmouth , N. H. , with Sergius de Witte , representative at the Russo-Japanese peace conference . The members of the commission were 0 . S. Straus , former American Minister to Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of New York . Mr. Kraus was for many years international President of B'nai B'rith , independent Jewish order . On Jan. 6. 1927 , the society bestowed on him the Supreme Order of the Covenant . On his seventieth birthday Mr. Kraus received congratulatory telegrams from every State and from England , Germany , Austria and Palestine . Ex-President Taft was one of the speakers at a dinner in his honor at the .. Hotel La Salle . On his seventy-fifth birthday President Coolidge telegraphed congratulations . Mr. Kraus married Mathilda Hirsh of Chicago in 1877 . Mrs. ' Kraus , a daughter , Mrs. Paula Weil , and three sons , Albert , Milton and Dr. Harry Kraus , survive him . Funeral services will be held on Wednesday at 1:30 P. M. in Isaiah Temple . Burial will be in Rosehill Cemetery .                     