@@689793

txt In his message:to Congress President Common said of the plan to reduce the burden of high taxes : " To neglect it , to postpone it , to obstruct It by " unsound proposals , is to become un " worthy of publics confidence and " untrue to public trust . " This sounds almost prophetic in view of what is going on in Washington today . Nor can it be said that attempts to delay tax reduction are confined to the Democrats in Congress . Too many Republican members have from the first been hail-hearted in the business , and are so conducting themselves as to make it seem probable that the original Administration bill will not be passed at this session and that the whole affair may be thrown into the Presidential campaign . What is the harm if that is done ? That question is asked /33 politicians in both parties , and they are weighing the chances of making political capital out of the tax issue if It is postponed until after the election . They say that there is no great hurry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if enacted , affect the paying of taxes this year . And clever calculators are trying to convince the Democratic managers that they would stand to gain more than the Republicans from delay . On this point there ought not to be much room for doubt . The Democrats would be held up before the country by their opponents as the party that had prevented the relief so overwhelmingly demanded by the taxpayers . and the Republicans would have an immense tactical advantage in pressing the issue of which Democratic fumbling had made them a present . The true Democratic policy is obvious . It is to make haste to sponge the tax issue from the slate , and go to the voters with other subjects uppermost . The fundamental question cuts deeper than any nice estimate of partisan gain or loss . There is a large public interest which the politicians are forgetting , and which would suffer from Postponement of a decision when to begin the lowering of taxes . Thousands of , business men and manufacturers and bankers are always in the attitude of MErrseNicn , who said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " They must make far-reaching plans long in advance . With them it is not a question of the ups and downs of taxation for a single year , but of a fixed program which they may be able to follow through a series of years . Here is where the great mischief of needless delay would show itself . It would bold up projects running far ahead , and would cause suspense and uncertainty to come as discouraging elements Into the planning of great industrial or commercial enterprises for the future . That this would be bad for all concerned is as clear as daylight . Everybody can see it , unless it be the members of Congress . It is for public opinion , by every means of expression at its command , to make them sos it and act upon it .                     