@@687660

txt Mr. Lloyd George had it announced tonight that before the end of the Genoa conference a meeting would be held here of the powers signatory to the Versailles Treaty . This takes on considerable political interest when it is known that the British . Prime Minister 's purpose is to ask the French what it- is Premier Poincare intends to do May 31 if the Germans . do not accept the conditions laid down by the Reparations Commission of a 60 , - 000,000,000 mark papet : nterior German loan to balance the budget of the Reich , with an allied commiss ; on to control toe ) German efforts to pay reparations . M. Poincare said at Bar-le-Due the day before yesterday that if by May 31 the Germans had not accepted the conditions , France either in concert with her allies or alone would take steps to bring the Germans into line . May Put Trance in Sad Position . To raise this question in the atmosphere of Genoa where Mr. Lloyd George is trying to produce a " peac4 compact " and bring quiet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a bad position . It will mean that England , France ; Italy , Japan . Belgium , and also Brazil , Poland , Jugoslavia , CzechslovaIda , Portugal and Rumania , Will consider the situation of Germany 's resistance , and it is certain that none of the other countries takes exactly the same view as France unless it be Belgium . The French . ? as witness the occupation of Frankfort , have always held that any country had a right to act alone to preserve its interests ill the Treaty of Versailles ! ' ' It has been the British point of view that the Allies should always act together . Certainly it would seem the British point of view ? is stronger at Genoa than that of the French . There may be a connection between Mr. Lloyd George 's calling this meeting and his plans for a non-aggression com Pact , because - while the French want it - stipulated that nothing in the agreement shall . prevent her acting to enforce the treaty Mr. Lloyd George wants it provided that nothing in the compact shall hinder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a difference , as is shown by the restraining hand England has so often laid on France in the past three years . And again Mr. Lloyd George may - wish to make sure that within a few weeks after signing his compact of non-aares " Sion one nation 's army shall not go gayly marching into another country 's territory , for instance the Ruhr . That might well bring the result that . Germany and the nations sytnpathetic to her would at once ? say the agreement was , broken . As for Ihn non-aggression compact itself , it is still in the making . Difficulties arising over the Russo-Japanese Siberian dispute and the Russo-Rumanian Bessarabian dispute , as well as - the Rhine issue , still hold it up . It was stated . by the British today that the . alleged text of the document sent Out from London yesterday . by a news agency was incorrect . ' It is stated that the agreement had not been- written . Several tentative drafts have been circulated for consideration . The French . are very skeptical about the compact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use it as an argument for the reduction of armies .. The French say that a pious resolution without penalties means no practical protection ' and is an unsound reason for reducing their army to 180,000 , which Mr. Lloyd George 's disarmament plan sets for them . They fear being put into a disagreeable minority at Geneva in September because of the existence of such an agreement . There were today numerous conversations among English . French , Russians , Rumanians and Japanese over the non-aggression agreement . The questions at issue are difficult of solution . As at Washington , the Japanese do not wish to give any commitments abuut Siberia and are seeking to avoid signing the compact by saying it is a purely European affair . Needless to say , the Russians do not share this point of view . The powers ' note to Russia answering the Russian refusal to make compensation for foreign-owned property nationalized by the Soviet was not ready today , Mr. Lloyd George seeking to have the note contain terms which the Russians will accept . There was a discussion among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to see how far they could go in shaping what it is said will be the limit of concessions to the Soviet . The note will point out toe the Russians that all ' their hopes of outside assistance will fail if they continue refusing to recognize the conception of property held by those whose aid they seek . As a British diplomat pointed out today , whatever English business is done in Russia will be done by Englishmen who formerly dealt in Russia . and they will have no disposition to make new investments if What they formerly acquired'in Russia is not returned . It is believed the note will be handed to the Russians tomorrow or the next day and that they will be invited to reply within forty-eight hours . Although the Russians still maintain they will make no agreements unless they get a Government loan , it is stated officially on behalf of the British delegation that no project of a loan to the Soviet is being seriously considered at Gehoa . The Russian delegation is going to get , far less than it expected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this knowledge of the reality will have in ' Moscow . As M. LitVinoff expressed it today : " How do you expect us to go back to Moscow with nothing in our pockets except our prbmise to saddle Russia with a foreign debt of 50,000,000 francs ? We must go back with more than that . " All of which comes back to the proposition that the Russian delegates will sign on almost any dotted line , put before them . if they get their price . Italians More Hopeful Than Yiver . GENOA , April 25 ( Associated Press ) . ? The Italian spokesman today showed himself more optimistic than yesterday . He said the difficulties now confronting the economic conference were more , in the procedure than in the substance . " The Russians are right in ? certain things , " he continued , " wrong in others . They are right when they say ' we , being a communistic state , can not repudiate the Communist principles by restoring to foreigners property which we deny to nationals . ' " They are wrong when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreigners , they use the elastic phrase : ? Foreigners will be compensated when possible . ' They again are right when they say that the western countries must let them know what concrete things they intend to do for the reconstruction of Russia . " As last week , the main question was the recognition of Russian debts , this v ? , elt the pivot of the discussion is to find guarantees for foreigners and their properties in Russia . " The Italian representative thought it would not be difficult to find such a form as could be adopted by both Communist and capitalistic regimes . Recognition of Russia de jure , he declared . would be the crowning work of the conference , but recognition should not necessarily imply solution of the Russian frontier difficulties , especially ' evith the Caucausus countries . M. Tchitcherin discussing today with the Italian delegates the question of tau economic resurrection of Russia , declered that if Italy would grant Russia a credit and goods . Russia in return could supply Italy with the 7,000 tons of oil monthly which Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from the high cost of American oils and freight , gradually nelp her to substitute oil for coal and thus free her from the ? necessity of purchasing coal and oil in England and America . " France does not necessarily want military teeth put into Mr. Lloyie George 's non-aggression compact , " said one of the French leaders today , " but certainly some method of pressure must be devised if the proposed compact is to be of real use . " Naturally no nation would refuse to sign a compact not to attack its neighbors , but the agreement must go further than that . Belgium 's neutrality had been promised : but Germany violated it . If some power in the future violates the Lloyd George compact , the remaining powers must have some means of enforcing their will on the offending nation . " At least the agreement should contain some provisions like , the four-power Pacific alliance that the sigeatoriem should consult one another in case the peace of Europe was endangered . " The allied and other leaders were at present informally discussing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to clear the ground before a public discussion in the conference . The members of tee . Little Entente were especially concerned , believing . that some guarantees should be formulated so as to afford protection to the smaller States - ; f Europe . As previously stated , France was ready to adhere to the compact , but the recent Russo-German Treaty made precautions regarding the text doubly necessary . Conditions Russians Must Aeceid . LONDON April 26 ( Associated Press ) . ? The allied note to be presented to the Russian delegation at Genoa tomorrow , says an Exchange Telegraph dispatch from Genoa , will be practically an ultimatum demanding unequivocal replies on four principal points : First  --  The payment of war debts , either entirely or with a reduction based on Russian capacity to pay . Second  --  Tile payment of pre-war debts , with the granting , if necessary , of a reasonable moratorium . Third  --  Indemnity- for all damages caused to foreigners . Fourth  --  Restitution of " confiscated property . Three other points , adds the dispatch , will be drawn up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to force Russia to reply , at the earliest possible mo ment in order to bring the conference to a close before May 10 , when Prime Minister Lloyd George and others of the leaders expect to be obliged to leave Genoa , owing to the pressure of home business . Poincare May Attend Allied Meeting . PARIS , April 26 ( Associated Press ) . ? The Foreign Office has not yet been advised of efr . Lloyd George 's intention to summon the Supreme Council . In any case , Premier Poincare would be unable to go to Genoa before May 7 or 8 , after the return of President 1 , fillerand . If an earlier date is necessary for the meeting it will have to be held in Paris . It appears likely that in view of the special atmosphere created by the presence of the Russians and Germans at Genoa . M. Poincare would have some hesitation in attending a meeting of the Council there until the Economic Conference closed and the Germans and Russians departed . This in no way justifies the inference that M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Council . On the contrary , it is considered probable that he would avail himself of the opportunity to bring forward various questions arising from the attitude manifested on several occasions by Germany toward the Versailles Treaty . Thus the Rapallo Treaty would not be the only subject of discussion , and other alleged violations of the treaty in all probability would be brought up .                     