@@685410

txt In his letter to Senator HALE upon navy reform , Assistant Secretary FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT says of the proposal that the authority of the Chief of Naval Operations should be increased that " Congress in its wis " dom has from the earliest days of the " Republic established the principle of " civilian control at the head of the " naval establishment . " There is not a thoughtful officer of any grade who would have it otherwise . Whatever reforms are made in the department and in the service , the Secretary should be a civilian . If the officers of the navy were polled they would be almost a unit against putting any man with Annapolis antecedents at the head of the department . They would rather be ruled , if the expression may be used , by a civilian than by one of themselves . They would be uneasy if an Admiral were made Secretary , for Admirals do not agree about the merits of officers , and ' , besides , have their friends and partisans . There are cliques.in the navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safer with a plain citizen in control . Nevertheless , more authority in technical matters could be given the Chief of Operations without relegating the civilian Secretary to the rear . There is no conspiracy to transfer his ascendency to the Chief of Operations , as- has been charged . It may be ventured that Mr. ROOSEVELT does not believe that a plot exists to make a dummy of the Secretary . It is true , however , that forward-looking officers would like to see the navy fully prepared for war , and : his consummation is not possible Nithout staff reorganization and a workable distribution of powers . Mr. ROOSEVELT says that he is opposed " to any action by your sub " committee looking to changes in the 1 existing organization . " He would aardly like to be understood as meanng that the sub-committee should not wake recommendations in its report . Action , of course , is for Congress to andertalce . The investigation , now aappily closed , should be followed by r , summing up of the evidence with ' onclusions enlightening the people about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One side or the ) then in the controversy was wrong : Was the navy , ships and personnel ready for war in April , 1917 ? Has plans been carefully worked out tE meet any emergency , a submarinE campaign by the enemy , for instance ' Was the staff organization such that it could work smoothly and effectively ? These questions ought to bE answered , fearlessly and without color of partisanship , by the Senate subcommittee . While it is the case that more than one officer who offered his testimony had given many years of study to the question of organization and the committee listened to seasoned judgments as well as to ' casual opinions , the problem should be referred to a commission appointed by Congress with instructions to make a report as a basis for legislation . The Assistant Secretary says that " the most serious " trouble with the navy now , as it has " been in the past , is Congress . " He describes the system - of making legislation and appropriations as " archaic . " Much of the trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reorganized and properly co-ordinated . The present relation is loose , if not haphazard , and Congress gets its information about the needs of the navy from any source available , legislating more to suit itself than for the welfare of the service . Both the Secretary and the Assistant Secretary have too much to do and too great a responsibility to carry .                     