@@695115

txt To say that the present countrywide interest in securities recalls to mind the heyday of the bucketshop. now conspicuous by Its absence , sounds paradoxical but there is a case for the comparison . There has never been an instance of a great bull market , and this one is the greatest of record , when bucket shops flourished so weakly . It is to the everlasting credit of the New York Stock Exchange that the bucketshop has become nearly extinct . In the face of surreptitious opposition by " practical " politicians , who sought to protect the fake dealers in securities , the New York Stock Exchange carried on its campaign to drive them out of the field . It is a pity that some organization of citizens can not as completely emulate that body and drive out of existenc e the parasites of politics and others who build up reputations by pandering to ignorance of economics and government . But if the bucket shops are in eclipse , other means are being devised to attack the savings of the multitude by those who care little how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the law . Tipster services are capitalizing to the limit the length and strength of the stock market advance . They inveigle the untrained to pay substantially for " information " about market movements which the tipsters do not possess ; for if they did they would use it themselves or sell it at high prices in Wall Street . Hand in hand with the tipster letters thousands of citizens all over the country are receiving attractively printed and numbered " invitations " to become stockholders in new enterprises , promoted by " prominent " business men of the district or of the state . It may flatter the vanity of the inexperienced to be invited to become " one of a limited group to whom this privilege is extended " but after all the profits of flattery . if there are any , usually go to the flatterer . A long list of directors may look impressive to the recipient of the invitation to invest . But it would be profitable to consider what training the own.i.r of the largest drug store in an adjacent city has received to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surety company . insurance organization , a so-called investment trust or a financial holding company . The same thought might equally well be applied to the other directors  --  perhaps an unknown state senator , the head of a small construction company , the local manager of the electric light plant or one of the owners of a decayed lumber yard . Conducting successfully a small , local business is no warrant to assume capacity for directing the management of the funds of others and in an entirely different field . One of the most valuable maxims to the investor is the comptehension that a little learning is a dangerous thing . Fools rush in where angels fear to tread .                     