@@696918

txt Major Gen. Smedley D. Butler has been calls on by the Navy Department fo#Wfrofficial report of a speech he delivered on Dec. 5 in Pittsburgh . Fragmentary reports . of , the speech have " indicated that General Butler expressed criticism of the policy of the United States ? in Nicaragua . Following newspaper references to the marine General 's remarks , he was requested by Secretary Adam 's to render a full account ' of what he said . This much was admitted at the Navy Department today , but beyond that officials refused to go , in discussing possible action ' that might be taken against General Butler , should the unofficial reports of his address be substantiated . His account of the speech has not yet reached Secretary Adams . ? The speech was made at about the time that the government was Much concerned with Haitian affairs ; and when the use of marines in Latin America promised to be aired both in Congress and in the press of Central and South America . According to the accounts of his address which reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militarists with considerable ease when he was stationed in China during the revolution two years ago . But it was his purported account of Nicaraguan affairs that perturbed officials here . " The opposition candidates in Nicaragua were declared bandits when it became necessary to elect our man to office , " General Butler was quoted as saying . ? Speech Called " Loose Talk . " Informally , . State Department officials characterized this alleged statement as " loose talk . " . Stimson , however , declined to . comment except to say that he could not profitably follow all the statements of General Butler . There was also some mystification ' here , as General Btitler apparently did not name the ( ) erasion he had in mind In discussing Nicaragua . He was not stationed there during the recent revolution , but was there during the revolution of 1912 . Director of Public . Safety in Philadelphia a few years age , during a leave of absence obtained from the Marine Corps , General Butler is one . of the most colorful officers in the American military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major general . Enlisting in the corps at the age . of 16 , he is now only 48 , and will not reach the retirement . age until 1945 . The holder of many decorations for heroism during the China relief expedition of 1900 and - elsewhere , he gamed universal approbation for cleaning up Brest during the World War . His services are looked upon by his associates as invaluable . but should his official report hear out the press accounts of his Pitthurgh speech . it is believed that he will he disciplined in some way . when it became necessary to elect a candidate . Concerning one election he said : " The fellow we had there nobody liked , hut he . was a useful fellow to use , so we had to keep him in . How to keep him in was a problem . " We looked up the election laws and found that the polls had to be open a. sufficient length of time ( at least . that 's the way we translated it ) and that a voter had to register to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district was then canvassed and 400 were found who would vote for the desired candidate . Notice of the opening of the polls was given five minutes beforehand , he said , the 400 voters were assembled in a line , and when they had voted in two hours , the polls were closed . The ether citizens had not . registered and therefore were ineligible to vote . Described Trneerilire . S-prria7 to The , live York Timm PITTSBURGH , Pa. , Dee . 14.  - -  General Butler , speaking at the . banquet of the Pittsburgh Builders Exchange on Dec. 5. said . in referring to elections in Nicaragua . that the opposition candidates were declared bandits                     