@@684879

txt Senator Lodge today furnished the climax to a second day of unusual activity in behalf of a treaty compromise by demanding a showdown from Democratic Senators on reservations proposed as the basis of compromise . Mr. Louge sent word to Senators and Kendrick , coauthors of the recently submitted Democratic reservations , that unless they could present assurances of substantial Democratic support for their proposals further discussion of a compromise upon this basis Was useless . Senators with whom Senator Lodge discussed the matter said that the Republican leader had called upon the Democrats to decide whom they would follow  --  whether President Wilson , insisting upon interpretations as the limit of concession , or Mr. Bryan , counselling ratification upon any basis found practicable , even though that , Involved Democratic surrender to the Lodge forces . In spite of Mr. Lodge 's position , practically everything that took place in the Senate wing of the Capitol today with reference to the Peace Treaty deadlock indicated that President Wilson 's warning that he'would call for a " great and solemn referendum " of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was modified other than by " interpretations " has had the effect of stimulating rather than retarding efforts at compromise between the opposing groups of Senators . William ' J. Bryan 's appeal for compromise does ' not figure in the negotiations . His at-1 titude in the situation 18 looked upon as negligible . Still Hope for Harmony . To say that the divergent views of President Wilson and Mr. Bryan have " killed " , the treaty and the accompanying covenant is to go beyond the reasonable expectations born of the renewed attempt to harmonize differences between the Senate groups . Friends of the treaty , a good many of whom may also be classed as friends of the President , have by no means given up hope that harmony may result from what earnest Senators on both sides are now undertaking . It is equally deaf - that neither side , witir-tife exception of the ' comparatively few irreconcilables , de- , sires to take up the President 's challenge to appeal to the people if the pending reservations are attached to the treaty . That the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's attitude as outlined in the letter from him read at the Jackson Day dinner in Washington on Thursday night does not mean that there is sympathy with Mr. Bryan 's contrary course . That Mr. Bryan advocated the thing that most appeals to the majority of Democratic Senators and apparently to the generality of his party elsewhere , judged by the comments in . Democratic newspapers , has not given ' Mr. Bryan any greater prestige among Democrats . That he took a position differing from that of the President is regarded by them as unfortunate from a party standpoint , but not as having any veering on the existing treaty situation in the Senate . It Mr. Bryan had not expressed his views on tue treaty at the Jaskson Day dinner the attitude of Democratic Senators in the direction of compromise would not have been changed by the President a letter . The great deterrent to harmonizing the differences over the treaty is that those Democratic Senators who are seeking a solution that will establish formal peace with Germany and enable the United States to enter the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not know whether the President will accept any compromise that they may reach with the Republicans . The President is inaccessible . If he would discuss the treaty situation with representatives of his party in the Senate in such detail a , s to enable them to go to their colleagues and the Republicans and state exactly what he would accept in the way of " interpretations " or what lie would reject ; headway would be made . But as matters stand , the Democratic and Republican workers for harmony have no assurance that any agreement reached by them will be accepted . Lodge 's Talk with Senators . At a conference late today Senator Lodge took up with Senators , Colt and Lenroot , representing the mild reservationists , the Democratic reservations submitted early this week . Mr. Lodge at once asked whether the reservationists had been informed how many Democratic votes could be obtained for the program , or a modification of it . The reply was that they had not been informed and the party leader again pointed out to his colleagues the mainematical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no more than thirty-five Republican votes can be promised for any set of reservations , and that therefore twenty-nine Democratic votes must be obtained . He said that while he favored a compromise and was willing to entertain any proposals it would be a waste of time for the Republicans to discuss any proposition to which strong Democratic support would not be accorded . He therefore asked that the reservationists ascertain without delay just how many Democrats were with Senators and Kendrick on the essentials of their program . These essentials , as has frequently been pointed out , are Article X. , voting power and the preamble , with Article X. as the ultra-essential . At the same time Mr. Lodge indicated his position with respect to certain features of the Democratic proposals . As a result Senators and Colt , who later on saw Senators Kendrick and , were able to tell the Democrats that Mr. Lodge and the mild reservationists were willing to make certain concessions which the program seemed to require . The mild reservationists , at a brief conference held before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were willing to make , and said afterward they found Senator Lodge willing to accept these . They declined at the present time to detail what points were covered by these concessions . Following the session with Senator Lodge , Senator Colt declared that " substantial progress has been made . " He expressed the utmost confidence that an agreement would eventually grow out of the discussions now proceeding , and said he expected to be able to tell Senator Lodge next week how far the Democrats would go toward meeting the Lodge view on Article X. Democrats Show Hopefulness , . On the Democratic side of the Senate chamber more optimism was displayed today than at any time since compromise began to be talked of as a basis of ratification . The reason for this , as explained by a number of Democrats , is that the men of President Wilson 's party have read into his letter to the Jackson Day dinner a meaning not given it by Republican Senators . These Democrats  --  and among them are some of the most earnest workers for adjustment  --  think Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wanted the treaty ratified by the Senate , and did not desire to be forced to carry It into the campaign ; that he merely insisted that the ratification should show that the United States was a friend of and cosponsor for the treaty , and not a suspicious and hostile ratifier . Therefore , Democratic compromisers have redoubled their efforts , because they believe that there exists enough sentiment in the Senate for President Wilson 's kind of ratification to make it a fact . While a score of conferences were proceeding on the Senate floor and in the cloak rooms today , Joseph W. Folk , who was host to Mr. Aryan at a dinner here recently , at which serveral Democratic Senators were guests , appeared in the Capitol , and announced that a , " arca movement " was afoot to convire Democrats that Mr. Bryan was tl leader they should follow . Mr. Folk saw Dome Senators , but little taste has been shown for M Bryan 's leadership that his conference , were not long nor very numerou Democratic Senators while they sa they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty should not g into the campaign , declared their afire ment stopped there .                     