@@693719

txt Under the municipal caption appear obligations of the special assessment variety which while they constitute a relatively minor portion of municipals outstanding are found in large tax exempt accounts where exclusively legal and high grade securities are not required . Cardinal feature of this type of bond is that it does not represent initially at least , a general obligation of the issuing municipality but is secured through taxation on particular property which is held to have benefited by improvements effected through funds derived from sale of the bonds . Basic theory is that enhancement in property values brought about through improvements can be taxed to provide service on the debt incarred for this purpose . In ' Most eastern states , including New York and New Jersey , special assessment bonds while payable in the first instance from levies on benefited property arc ultimate obligations of the municipality under supervision of whose officers and in whose name the bonds are issued . This , of course , greatly strengthens the position of such bonds and places them contingently , if not actually , in the category @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlimited credit ) ( if the municipality have been pledged . The latter phase of security holds true as between the investor and the municipality , but as between the property owner and the municipality the former must assume full liability . CITIES V. 1ITHO UT RES roNsusturrt Examples of special assessment bonds outstanding . where the city assumes no responsibility , that is , which are payable solely from assessment taxation on benefited property , arc plentiful . It is conceivable of course  --  that municipalities , in the contingency of default ' on special assessment bonds issued under their authority , would avoid the stigma , which undoubtedly would be cast upon their financial credit through allowance of the lapse , by assuming the debt . Similar action by city authorities , however has noValways been the rule in the annals of special assessment default . Flagrant examples of disavowal by cities of assessment debt legally assumed are furnished by the local improvement district situation in Washington which is still unsettled and a blight on this type of security . Indicating exemption of a city from special assessment debt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York state banking law specifically provides that in the instances of cities outside of this state such obligations may be omitted in determination of net debt with respect to legality here . This is tantamount to admitting that they do not constitute a direct obligation of the municipality which can not be held accountable for their payment . rauen ref Hun 110:4 , D ? In the contemplation of the law bonds payable only from a special fund can not he recognized as fully neg .. ? tiable instruments as there is not that certainty of pa. meat which must characterize complete negotiability . Bonds of this type are thus held within the meaning of the law to be merely " ehoses in action " and in the hamd of a purchaser for value subject to all the defects in their origin and to which they would have been subject in the hands of the original purchaser . It is in order that bonds payable ultimately from special revenues even though issued in the name of a prominent municipality with exemplary credit should sell at some variance marketwise with general municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protracted litigation which has sometimes follom.ed their issuance . It is often difficult within the law or statu:c satisfactorily to determine the actual benefits which have accrued to property , and the official estimate has been in some instances successfully objected to by property owner . These possibilities may give rise to annoying consequences for the investor . Special assessment bonds for which the issuing city is without liability should be classified by themselves and arc not in any sense within the municipal category .                     