@@687779

txt The all-Chicago council , represent . ins ninety-nino civic , business , and Improvement organizations of the city , stepped to bat yesterday and announced what it will stand for , work for , and get approval of In improved transportation in Chicago . It told the council local transportation committee it wants a comprehensive plan for the entire city  --  not for the downtown section alone  --  and a plan whereby the lines will be the property of the city , but operated , controlled , and supervised by a regulating body composed of all parties in interest  --  public , employes , municipality , and investors . Proposed Ordinances Read . The meeting was called to receive the ordinances prepared read the ord ) nances in detail . Both provide for a rapid transit subway of four tracks between 19th street and Chicago avenue on a downtown street to be selected . Both also provide for two-track east and west subways , for surface linen between Clinton street and Grant park . One ordinance pro- ' vides that tho ? Washington and Van Buren street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , other-provides for new river tubes in Jackson boulevard and Randolph street . The later idea is to avoid entanglements with the surface lines , the lawyers holding they have certain rights in the Van Buren and Washington street tunnels . What Council Asks For . The all-Chicago council , In a resolu . I Lion presented by E. E. Gore , chairman , asked for the following action : " Be it resolved that the council committee on local transportation be requested to formulate an ordinance providing for the purchase by the city of existing elevated and surface lines and providing for such extensions thereof as are shown to be necessary ; such ordinance , however , to provide for operation of such lines through the medium of a properly authorized and constituted body in such manner as effectively to remove such operation from municipal direction . " And be It further resolved . That the all-Chicago council is opposed to the passage of any ordinance which provides for application of tho so-called traction fund to the building of a subway in the downtown district or to any use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a part of a comprehensive plan for extension and improvement of traction facilities for the city as a whole . " The commItee 's request for the views of President Henry A. Blair of the  --  Surface Lines and President Leonard A. Busby of the Chicago City Railway company brought replies . Mr. Blair , because of the attitude of Chairman Schwartz for municipal ownership and operation , did not think it worth while to submit the plan he had worked out . Busby Urges Forward Action . Mr. Busby wrote at length . He commended the plan worked out in 1916 , which , he asserted , was the best plan which has been formulated . One paragraph of the Busby letter which appeared to interest the aldermen most reads : " While this ordinance ( 191S , embody . ing the 1916 plan ) was defeated on referendum , on the claim of its opponents that passage of the ordinance meant increased fares , and its defeat menu a continuance of the 5 cent fare  --  a fallacy long since exposed  --  the fact remains that that ordinance rep-repented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the public will recede from this position of vantage . or that any plans looking to the extension of the period of private ownership and operation would be approved . This situation can not be gainsaid. and in my opinion , must be reckoned with . After all , the question of ownership is not as important as the problem of providing an adequate transportation system . "                     