@@696737

txt The name of Scarface Al Capone , now in jail in Philadelphia , figured yesterday in the Federal authorities ' continued investigation of the huge liquor ring whose wide operations were abruptly halted by thirty-five simultaneous raids in New Jersey and New York Wednesday . A ' check for $1,500 made out by him to one of the indicted heads of the syndicate , on which payment was stopped before it was cashed , is being sought among the seized records . Announcement of the existence of the check was made by Assistant United States Attorney James E. Wilkinson in Brooklyn yesterday . Mr. Wilkinson said the check was sent last month , and he was unable to explain how Capone had been able to send it from his cell in Philadelphia . More.information on the investigation o ? the Capone angle was obtained last night , when it was learned that two men from the United States Attorney 's office in Trenton would go to Passaic , N. J. , today to confer with local officials there on the possibility of a link between the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the Hobart Trust Company there , last June . The kidnapping has never been explained , although Elliott reappeared six days later and indictments were handed up last month . Elliott mentioned ? " Chicago gangsters " .. when he returned from captivity . Bank Had Account in Code . The declaration that banks and lawyers were directly involved in the affairs of the syndicate , made by Mr. Wilkinson Thursday , was supported by one development yesterday . It was authoritatively learned from several sources that one of the seven banks in which the syndicate carried an account , located In New Jersey , had used a code in keeping the account . When this was brought to the attention of Assistant United States Attorney Watts here he said that there was no question that the bank would be called upon for an explanation and the matter thrashed out . He added , however , that it would be unwarranted to say the bank was " directly implicated " at present , since it was conceivable that it might satisfactorily explain the use of the code . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Trenton , who is in charge of the entire case , directly repudiated all the statements made by Mr. Wilkinson about banks , lawyers and Al Capone . Mr. Forman was informed during the afternoon that these statements had been made by Mr. Wilkinson and asked about them . He replied thatl he had no evidence that any of these three factors were connected with the syndicate . " If I had such evidence , they would have been indicted along with the other thirty-four , " he added . Calhoun Gives Brief Interview . Prohibition Administrator William J. Calhoun in Newark , who built up the case against the syndicate and planned the raids , refused to comment on the Wilkinson statements . He tried to avoid seeing reporters at all yesterday , but finally consented to a five-minute interview . It was reported in Newark that orders to keep a closer watch on information given to the press had come from higher up ' because of the wide circulation of unfounded rumors . Mr. Wilkinson . when told that Mr. Forman denied the truth of his statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's . He is handling it . I do not care to get into any controversy at this time . How ? ever . I have nothing to retract . " The two black account books taken in the raids continued to occupy Mr. Calhoun 's attention yesterday . It was reported that a New Jersey Mayor was listed among those to whom bribes were paid . Minor officials , State and Federal . were said to be among the listedrecipients of " protection money . " " " There is no such word as ' graft ' in the book . " Mr. . Calhoun replied when asked the identity of the Mayor to whom graft was paid . - " I could n't ex. - en dream his name . " . Search for More Defendants . Activity of the agents employed in the raids Wednesday , and in ' the searches and pursuits which have continued since , was concentrated yesterday upon the effort , to arrest the twenty-one members Of the group of thirty-four indicted who are still at liberty . Several , it is believed , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought to be in hiding near at hand .. " They will be captured in a reasonable time , " Mr. Forman said . " And they wo n't get away . They ca n't . Cur forces are all around them . " The Coast Guard : forces likewise continued their search , seeking ships and speedboats of thesyndicate which are thought to be in the vicinity . Although . a large fleet participated in the blanket movements . launched Wednesday , their efforts proved less successful than those of the land forces , and no captures were reported . The speedboat Victory , said to have belonged to the ring , was seized in the ' Wheeler Boatyard in Brooklyn . Although the Capone check was admitted to he a tenuous link , it was pointed out that the ramifications to wtrich it might lead made it , potentially at least , of great importance . As one official put it . there is less than an even chance that it will develop into anything , but if it does , it will " blow things wide open . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Elliott , alter declaring that his kidnappers had been Chicago racketeers. had also said he believed there had been some connection between his business as a banker and the kidnapping . No definite explanation of this alleged connection was ever made , however . Added to these items is the persistent report of banking connections with the ring . The deductions drawn yesterday , which persons working on - the case ' pointed out were as yet without supporting evidence , were that strong-arm racketeering methods might have been used upon small hanks in attempts to force financial hacking from them . Assistant , Prosecutnr James M. Dunn of Passaic County spent much of the day in Passaic yesterday , where- he conferred with Police Captain Charles Monks . Captain Monks said that the two men from Mr. Forman 's office were to have visited Passaic last night but had postponed their trip . until this morning . Sift Seized Documents Assistants in the United States Attorney 's offices in Brooklyn . Manhattan and Trenton yesterday attacked the great masses of documentary evidence which had been- collected in the raids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for use in the trial , which will be held in Trenton . Mr. Forman , with . the first arraignments of the arrested men over , applied himself to trial preparations . He said that he could not yet give a definite date for the trial , but it is expected that court . arrangements will be rushed and the case put on the calendar for preference . One of the first points discovered in the examination of documents here was that Philip Braver , arrested in the raid at 952 Longfellow Avenue , the Bronx . is an honorary deli sty sheriff of Bronx County . Mr. Watts told reporters that he had found papers indicating that Braver received such an annointment from Sheriff Lester W. Patterson in 1927 . Other documents examined were complete sets of maps of the seacoast along Long Island , worked out in the minutest detail . In addition to the main channels recorded on all maritime maps , the maps showed small channels running in to the shore , which would be available for speedboats , but free from the traffic of recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , together with addresses . Mr. Watts would not reveal any details with regard to the list . It was pointed out , however , that since the business of the ring was almost exclusively wholesale , the customers listed were probably speakeasies and other places where liquor was retailed . Seek Second Wireless Station . As the result of his investigations in Brooklyn yesterday , Mr. Wilkinson announced that evidence had been found of a second wireless station operated by the ring , somewhere on Long Island . He said a search for the station had been started , but because it is not likely to be used again for a time it would prove difficult to find . Charles D. Ahlers , one of those indicted , who was arrested at the Lily Pond Inn in Sag Harbor , L , I. , Wednesday . was held in $5,000 bail in Brooklyn yesterday for removal under the indictment . and United States Commissioner Fay fixed an additional $500 bail on a charge of possession resulting from the seizure of liquor in the raid . Mr. Calhoun said yetserday that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skipper of the Shawnee , of Canadian registry , which is one of the ships of the syndicate . The Shawnee was the ship which was fired upon by a Coast Guard vessel off Ambrose Lightship on Sept. 11 . ? Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Seymour Lowman , who also commented on in Washington yesterday , said that efforts had been made at the time to capture the Shawnee through the use of wireless messages sent in the private code of the liquor syndicate , which was then already in the possession of the government . He said messages had been sent out in the code directing the course of the Shawnee to within the twelve-mile limit , where she would be subject to seizure . At one time the ship was surrounded by four Coast Guard vessels , but she did not respond to the messages and remained beyond the twelve-mile limit .                     