@@686171

txt CrOtVe to compel State Auditor An drew Russel to produce before the Cook county grand jury his records concern , ing state funds : Mop's/ to have P  --  en Paid out in connection with the Wiffin , , r ex election fraud case were blocked temporarily yesterday when Chief Jus. tree Charles A. took the matter under advisement . This action followed an hour of bitter argument . The hearing will be reopened Thursday . Yesterday was a day of swift develop . ments . When the grand jury resumed ' its session William ( " Paddy " / . Fox , the ex-convict around whom the case centers , appeared before that body . lie ' was followed by Auditor Russel and George T. Kenney , former secretary to Maclay lloyne . I7nable to Find Documents . Mr , Russel 's appearance came after rumors said he would Ignore the summons . He was accompanied by his ittorney , John J. Reeve of Jacksonville . Mr. Russel informed the grand jury , It was said , that he had checked the ; vouchers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ documents regarding the-Fox case . He declared he had consulted both the attorney gen-1 eral 's office and his own counsel , and had been informed the best method of procedure was to request of Chief Jutlice a court order to produce his records . Immediately after Mr. Russel left Slate 's Attorney Crowe presented a petition before Judge for an order compelling Russel to produce all records coaterning any payments by or through the attorney general 's office to the Thiel Detective Agency , P. J. Doyle , its manager ; Kenney , former State 's Attorney Iloyne , Thomas D. Nash , attorney for Fox , or others . Crowe Hurls Charges . At'l o'clock Judge opened hearing on the petition . Attorney Reese stated Auditor Russet 's position to the court . State 's Attorney Crowe jumped to his feet , . " The grand jury is investigating a crime against the state . " he said . " We have evidence to show prominent officials and lawyers conspired to get an ex-convict to commit perjury . We have evidence that they hired a detective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this court and kept him out of the state while ho was a fugitive on a robbery charge . We have evidence to show the detective agency charged large sums for this service against the state  --  against the office of Atty . Gen. Brundage  --  and that Clyde Day paid in cash to a state 's attorney 's secretary large sums to be applied on account . My purpose , is to Mid out if state funds have been used to further this crime --  " . Demands All the Records . " is the lez.rned state 's attorney revealing secrets of the grand Pay room ? " inquired Attorney James II . Wilkerson , who with Assistant Attorney General Mansfield represented the attorney general 's once . " This is evidence . I have in my possession , " the state 's attorney declared . " The records we are asking are public documents the humblest citizen has a right to inspect . " Preposterous , Says Wilkerson . Mr. ' Wilkerson quoted legal autho  --  ities as to Why the petition should not be granted . " ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . all vouchers passing through the auditor 's hands 1 . Y0111 the attorney general 's nftice be sol  --  wated here . It 's preposterous . Among other things , the attorney general 's office 1105 been aiding the government in the prosecution of liquor cases . Do you think we would consent to allow the names of private investigators on these liquor cases le be made public  --  and do you think the federal court would countenance any such procedure ? " The records of the auditor 's office are in the capitol at Springfield . According to the constitution , they must lie kept there . This petition asks for the original documents . They can not be brought here constitutionally . "                     