@@694481

txt Strength continued in the stock market yesterday . Professional operators and floOr traders , anticipat:ng a reactionary trend because of the holiday , put out sto in early dealings , but were forced to cover rather hurriedly later in she session , and this buying contributed to advances in many issues . Continuance of advancing trend has been attracting increasing public interest , with the result early professional offerings were absorbed by outside buying on a larger scale . Leading commission houses purchased on balance . Market indicated less discrimination than recently and many stocks which had been under pressure because of somewhat less favorable outlook scored good recoveries when shorts came into the market to cover-NTIMUN Sentiment continues confident . Many cautious observers have been veering toward the bull side again . Action of the market has convinced them that operato-s , out of stocks during the reaction , have been returning into their favorites . So-called pool stocks were among the strong features . FORD AND THE MARKUT In many quarters re-entrance of Ford Motor Co. as a major producer is considered an important step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders placed oy this maker will be reflected in the coming month in varicus industrial lines and will therefore be an influeose in the-stock market . THREE MAJOR The trend of the market generally is admitted as-dependent on three major fundamental conditions , namely credit , business and the market 's own technical structure . As credit has continued easy it is argued now that the decline in October was due to disappointment over business conditions and the internal position of the market . For this reason many conservative observers are not advocating indiscriminate buying on the current recovery . They argue business has not improved to any extent and the rally . therefore , has been caused entirely by an oversold condition within the market itself . It is probable that a considerable part of the loan total now reported by the Federal Reserve Bank can be attributed to congestion in the investment market . Since January 1 new securities of $5,472,169,200 have been issued , an increase of 405 --  over the same period last year . Because of this huge total it is maintained brokers ' loan figures have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country this year has demonstrated a wonderful absorptive power which argues well for future prosperity . That many favor segregation of brokers ' loan figures is evidenced by comment recently heard in the financial district . It is pointed out that segregation between stock and bond collateral transactions would he valuable . because it would throw more light on the amount being used for speculation purposes . This , it is asserted , was the object of publication of loans originally . ' The old bulls are in the saddle again . " This remark was made yesterday in many quarters . During October , when the market was reactionary , many op- , erators , credited with directing upward movements in individual issues . were standing on the side lines . Now . it is stated , these traders have been returning and are active again . Optimism regarding northwestern roads continues . This is particularly true of Northern Pacific and Great Northern preferred at the moment . Buyers of these stocks arc basing their activity not only on the good crop outlook with corresponding effect on earnings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a share annual dividends will be restored on these two stocks . The head of a large commission house says there has been excellent buying the past 10 days of standard railroad shares . No particular effort has been made to put up these stocks by the purchasers , but orders have been executed in a quiet manner and have taken care of offerings readily . TOBACCOS A factor contributing to the strength in tobacco stocks . and especially in cigar making issues has been the development and perfection of new automatic cigar making machinery and the material improvement in cigarette making machines . As a result these companies arc making inroads on operating costs with corresponding improvement in net earnings . There also has been a steady increase in consumption of tobacco . FOX FILM A better feeling exists toward motion picture sto-iks . Fox Film has been accumulated quietly for some time on the theory prospects for this company are bright due to the development of the " Movietone " as well as to : ' accesses of a panther of the company 's recent pictures which have increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months . Main influence in Fleischmann has been increase in demand for malt which the company is selling with its yeast for bread making . Use of malt is expanding . steadily all over the country and demand is causing . steady increase in gross and net earnings . Estimates in Wall Street are that earnings this year will be about $5 a share on the common , but that , there will be considerable increase in revenues next year . MEDICINAL MERGER Interests in a position to know the facts state that neither Household Products and American Home Products are likely to be included in a projected medicinal merger ' of United Drug and Sterling Products . This has brought profit taking in the first two mentioned issues at most recent advances . ALLIED CHEMICA Because Allied Chemical was able to cross 148 , the price named by chartists as logical resistance point , there have been advices from chart students to purchase the stock on any - reaction. riivrio:c.kx , BISCUIT Interests which purchased Natinoal Biscuit at materially lower levels have not been tempted to take profits at recent prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses which often have in the past acted for banking interests . $3.50 a share dividend rate was in jeopardy , but interests close to the management maintain no change in distribution is possible , as earnings will more than cover the dividend . Selling into the stock from western interests has ceased , and the issue is now more responsive to new buying than in some time . ? ALLEY Considerable urgent buying has come into Lehigh Valley and is believed to represent rather hurried covering of shorts who put out stock several weeks ago . Stock was a popular target for short selling by professionals during the period when the rail list was reactionary .                     