@@687324

txt For SAMUEL GOMPERS the law has no mystery ? no twilight zone of dubiety . The proposed Industrial Court " is en " tirely wrong in principle and con " trary to the Constitution of the " United States , inasmuch as it pro " poses to enforce compulsory labor " and involuntary servitude . " Like Old Fury , he will be judge and he will be jury , and so condemn it to death . The court " will not work because organized labor will not obey it . " The Supreme Court of the United States seems less fortunate than Mr. GOMPERS . Certainly it is less downright and unswerving . Thus , in the Colgate price-fixing decision of July , 1919 , it said that the producer " may " exercise his own ? discretion as to " parties with whom he will deal , " and may announce in advance the " circumstances under which he - will " refuse to sell . " But in the recent Beechnut case the court decided , five to four , that the producer may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combinations , express or implied , " which " unduly hinder or " obstruct the free ' and natural flow " of commerce . " As is usual in such decisions , the stress falls upon the word " unduly . " The difference between the two cases is of degree . not of kind ; and in the opinion of four of the nine learned Justices there is not even that difference . Yet the court is undoubtedly justified . The terms of the law are too general to apply precisely to the multiform specific conditions of modern commerce , so it invokes the rule of reason  --  even though that rule is so evenly balanced that five-to-four decisions are , ' like Falstaff 's " reasons , " as plentiful as blackberries . As regards combinations of both employers and employes the Supreme Court lives and moves and has its being in a twilight zone . For employer and employed ? as for the public  --  the fact has its inconveniences . Combinations which to the reason of four Justices are eminently just and proper are ruled by . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject to prosecution . This in itself acts as a most damaging restraint of trade . It is partly because of delay and uncertainty in ' the law that the unions themselves refuse to incorporate . Mr. UNTERMYER knows more of both sides of this question than any one else except HERBERT HOOVER ; yet in his recent Boston address he confessed himself nonplused at the task of establishing just who are and who are not guilty of breaking the Anti-Trust law , and wholly unable to devise means by which the multitude of malefactors may be brought to justice . Mr. GOMPERS denounces the quasijudicial , quasi-legislative and quasiex.ecutive power of commission government as unconstitutional . Yet against all obstacles and in the face of its own failures it is prevailing more and more . In so far as the Kansas Industrial Court has succeeded  --  and , in spite of Mr. GOMPERS , its success along certain lines has been great ? it has succeeded by the exercise of powers quasi-judicial , quasi-legislative , quasi-executive . Its success has been in maintaining the rights of the Community as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which the existing law and the existing courts are so largely powerless to control . Mr. GOMPERS may rage , but in the end the conduct of both employer and employed will be brought beneath a clear and definite code , intelligently and efficiently administered .                     