@@691864

txt For the dominant white man it may turn out to have been a grave error to recruit great fighting and labor armies in Asia and Africa for use on the European battlefields . The subject populations so mobilized have no ground for complaint . It is not true that they were exploited in the quartets of an alien continent The repercussions of the war are in Asia today : and Asia 's aspirations and demand- , would not he what they are if she had not been dragged into the feuds of her European masters . Concerning the differences , or as , OMP - would have it , the unbridgable gulf between East and West , something will he said further on . In this place it may be pointed out how East and West are alike in respect to one post-war symptom or phenomenon . which we Lull nationalism . Westerners , not excluding Americans , have turned to Asia for estmpe from a civilization capable of producing a horror like the great war . In the thought and the spiritualities and organization of the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Occidental system . But if they have really found comfort in Asia it has been by dint of overlooking certain disconcerting resemblances between Shanghai , Canton . Calcutta , on the one hand and Warsaw . Rome . Belgrade . Prague . on the other . It is odd that the nationalism which elicits so much bead shaking in the case of Poland or Rumania only wins approval in the case of China or India . IN " The Heart of Aryavarta " ( Houghton Mifflin ) a former British Governor of Bengal has attempted a study of the psychology of Indian unrest . If the heart is ever E.-apatite of revealing its secrets to any one outside itself , India should have revealed herself to this more than sympathetic foreigner . The Earl of Honakishay 's interpretation of the Hindu spirit inevitably demands comparison with the recent remarkable incursion into the soul of the Hindu people by the author of " A Passage to India , " and it is not the British bureaucrat who comes off second best in the matter of understanding and acceptance . In the pages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India alike . From Forster may be deduced easily as many argUments against Indian aspirations to self-rule , as for . Lord Ronaldshay is content to restate the pro forma plea that India and Britain have need of each other . India 's ultimate capacity to determine her own destinies he does not question . His only caveat is against the excessively rosy picture of India 's past drawn by the fervid spokesmen for nationalism . He has his reservations  --  fairly mild reservations  --  to the indictment drawn against the British raj . India is not worse off than before the British came . That India can he made much better off by the efforts of her own people he does not in the least doubt . In what may be called the technique of nationalism the East . as represented by India . stands close to the Western tradition : from which we may conclude that it is a tradition which holds good for humanity at large . . The Bengali patriot , like the nationalist of Poland , reeehoslovalcia . Ireland , Xemalist Turkey and Zionist Palestine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a national golden age either to be re-established or to serve as a rallying cry . No oppressed or dismembered nation lacks an ancient culture to restore , a language , an empire . a world mission . Poland recalls the great days before Tannenberg : Bohemia recalls John fiuss : Eireland , as we . know , was Ireland when England was , &e.:; in Palestine the language of the Bible is being revived . The new horizons to which the backward peoples are awakening are largely the old horizons . Progress is largely a return . Another name for freedom is selfdetermination . But the self that wants to determine and to be determined is the self that seeks its roots track in the millenniums . In India one has not to go so far track . The nationalist appeal is , of course , to a world outlook and an ideal embodied in the ancient religious and philosophical literature : bur the spirit and ideal have always been alive in the hearh of the In dian masses . The social institutions of the Vedas exist today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority in India that a return is involved to the " real " India and away from " Westernization . " Indian discontent , as Lord ftonaldshay sees it , is the revolt against the fruits of a famous memorandum on Indian education drawn up more than ninety years ago by one Thomas Babingion Macaulay who happened to be a member of the Governor General 's Council and Chairman of a Committee of Public Instruction . With very little sympathy for the lore of ancient India , but with much sympathy for the Indian people . Macaulay established on Indian soil the Western system of education which , with modifications , exists today . That system has created a great class of Hindu intelligentsia , and with it a vast amount of beartburning of which the effects are now apparent . Calcutta University , distributing Western education in the English language . comes very ' close to being the largest institution in the world , with 21.004 ) student% of all grades More than eight thousand secondary schools instruct a million and a quarter students ? in the English language . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isles , has as many students as Great Britain preparing for the university degree . But the literate Population of Bengal is only onetenth of the British . Such has been I the response of the people of India I to the opportunities opened up by Macaulay . .. ? These very figures show that it was not a system imposed upon the people . It was heartily welcomed . The leaders of Hindu thought three generations ago were jardent for Westernization . National ! ist feeling was at a low ebb . The native vernaculars Were despised of the literati . It was a privilege to be taught Occidental science in the English tongue . The reaction is of comparatively recent origin . but it has gone far . Not more than a generation ago people , both native and British , began to raise doubts about an educational system divorced from the native life . Scores of thousands of young men were being introduced to sciences alien to their national genius in a language that few learned to employ with ease . The famous " Balm English " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was taught by men the native teachers  --  who for the most part never heard English spoken as a living language . Sooner or later the system was bound to meet the assaults of a nationalist revival . In the West . cultural revival and political nationalism have gone band in hand ; as in Greece a hundred years ago , in Ireland a genera , tion ago , among part of the Jewish people today . In India the language revolution came first . Bengali novelists and poets began to write in the native vernacular some time before the first stirrings of political nationalism in the first years of the present century . The war enormously speeded up and expanded the process . It . became a revolt against the entire civilization of the West as a civilization devoid of roots in Indian soil . It has reached its climax in the late C. R. Des 's passionate exhortations to his countrymen to be themselves instead of imitation Englishmen ; in Gandhi 's revolt against all the inventioris of the West , including its railroads and Its steam spindles : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies only in a return to her ancient religion of aspiration and re- nunciation against the Western Ideal of domination and material good . Doubts , however , present themselves . How much of Indian discontent ? or , for that matter , of Chinese discontent ? is the assertion of India 's true soul against the shackles of foreign forms ? How much is it the result of fairly material considerations , such as the desire for political independence and economic opportunity ? The Macaulay system of education has created in Bengal a great educated mass for whose ambitions the country offers inadequate scope . There are more university graduates than there are offices to go round ; and certainly offices of the higher grades , now reserved for the British Civil Service . Putting it bluntly. if India were an independent nation , if the Indian university man did not feel himself excluded from the highest places in his own country , it is conceivable that he would not be so hot in revolt against the civilization of the West The yoke of the stranger is a nurse to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her past ; not to restore the policy of ancient Tara but to mobilize the emotion of Tara for modern ends . Unhappy under oppression or dismemberment , the ' Czechs remember Huss and the Poles recall Casimir the Great ; not for the purpose of restoring the fifteenth century but to find a fulcrum for the twentieth century . In reaction against anti-Semitism . there appears Zionism , of . which the aim is not a restoration of two thousand years ago but a modern remedy . In the same class is this Indian revolt against the spirit and the institutions of the West In large measure the quest of ancient Indian ideals is a protest against present day conditions in India largely . but not entirely . It is im ? possible to doubt the sincerity of Gandhi of the spinning wheel and non-cooperation . Here , indeed . a ' the utter break with the West and all its works , the return to India 's primitive economy and her ancient gospel of abnegation . More mildly , Babindranath Tagore 's school at Bholpur impressed Lord Ronaldshay as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in part , educational methods . And yet the case of Gandhi would go far to prove how largely this cult of the past is but a weapon in the hands of men fighting for material , modern oh , jects . Mahatma Gandhi 's immense . if temporary , influence with the Indian masses was exploited by the political leaders in their struggle with the British administration . When Gandhi 's cooperation became more irksome than profitable he was put aside . Not even the daily half I hour at the spinning wheel which Gandhi demanded from every one of his countrymen . Was conceded him by the leaders . That half hour could apparently be put to better uses ; modern , materialistic , Western uses . From such similarity in the phenomena of discontent and of nationalism in India and in the countries of the West it is arguable that the gulf between East and Wgst is not so wide or deep as even men like Lord lionaldshay , who hope for a synthesis of East and West . are sometimes tempted to assert . The differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At any rate , it does not further the hope of a reconciliation between East and West to emphasize the spirituality and abnegation of the one , the materialism and selfassertion of the other . Obviously the emphasis should run the other way , upon the resemblances between East and West . The rival ideals are hound to modify each other in the play of interaction . But there Is still gnarl reason for believing that it is the European idea which will dominate in Asia . And of all European ideas , the one which seems destined to impose itself soonest and most effectively is that unpopular thing , industrialism . GANDHI and his spinning wheel are more than an anachronism . They are a serious obstacle to the uplifting of the Indian people . Indian immobility has been most shaken and the standard of living has risen highest in the industrial towns . Rushbrook Williams in his latest annual survey says : It is quite permissible to maintain that the deep-lying religious sentiment which causes the vast majority of Indians to regard their present lives as relatively unimportant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far nobler and more enduring than the material and highly individualized ideals of the Western World But from the point of view of the economic development of the country such an outlook is far more of a hindrance than a help . And this should be asked in addition : To what extent is the-immobility of the Indian the result of a philosophico-religious conviction of man 's Unimportance in the eternal Wheel of things . To what extent is it the result of that human , all too human institution , the caste system ? Sankara , commentator on the Vedanta , soars to the highest flights in his demonstration of the nature of the eternal Brahman. the ' real ' universe , as distinguished from The phenomenal universe on which the Western mind lays so much undeserving Stress . But Sankara permits . himself to assert that for the lowcaste Sudra a knowledge of Brahman , of reality , is unattainable . It is a sad flop from august thought into pitiful human prejudice . In the case of India , then , we are led to suspect that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Veda and the steam-engine than a difference between a tight social system and a free social system . Gandhi 's fight against caste , a much more impressive cause than his fight for the spinning wheel , has had meagre results . What Gandhi has failed to accomplish will , in the course of time , be brought about by Western industrialism . What industrialism has done to feudalism in the Vest it will probably do to caste in India . Time is necessary . But the Indian mind thinks in eons.                     