@@696145

txt In a recent survey made by a representative of The Wall Street Journal of the largest aircraft plants in the East and Middle West , it was found that practically every company had substantial orders on its books , factories were at capacity production , and nearly all were actively preparing to handle increased business by expanding production facilities . Since the largest plane and engine manufacturers are booked so far ahead that deliveries in the near future are impossible , a material volume of business has fallen to the smaller companies . The amount of unfilled orders on hand and the present outlook indicate that earnings of practically all aircraft producers during the year will be favorable , and substantially greater than in the preceding year . Various expansion programs , however , will naturally have some effect on earnings , due to the numerous charges to operating expenses such developments entail . It seems likely that when the largest aircraft manufacturers are able to step-up production and keep fairly well abreast of the demand . the business which is now turned to the marginal producers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smaller concerns which might tend to create a temporary unfavorable market situation . The majority of aviation officials , however . do not believe such a situation will be encountered this year . Research Departments Established Many aircraft companies have established research departments toward the active development of more economic and efficient planes and engines . With the aid of government aeronautical research there have been several interesting developments in aircraft designs . There is a tendency of some companies toward the low-wing cabin monoplane from the usual high-wing type . Alexander Industries , for instance , has designed a four-place plane of this type and its performance is impressive . The ship has a retractable landing gear which has lowered parasitic resistance materially and increased speed accordingly . Clvde V. Cessna , president of the Cessna Aircraft Corp. , and for many years a builder of the high-wing mono- plane . is also planning to experiment on the low-wing principle in the near future . Another development noted was a marked trend to the multi-motored airplane . This trend has been shown not only in the large transport ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are able to show satisfactory performance on ' the smaller multi-motored plane it seems a logical step , since the safety factor is increased considerably . One company already has built and tested a small ship with two 100-horsepower motors , instead of using the single motor on that size plane . Tendency Away from Air-Cooled Motor Although the radial air-cooled motor is the most generally used power plant . visibility , obstruction and parasitic resistance have occasioned a tendency away from this design . At present , however , with the exception of the water-cooled engine , there are no other thoroughly tested designs which have proven satisfactory . There are a few sin-line air-cooled motors but as yet the difficulty of overcoming the over-heating of the rear cylinders has not been satisfactorily remedied . Probably the most important aircraft motor development in recent years is the progress beizig made by the army on a chemically-cooled motor Government engineers have conducted many bloc tests on standard pursuit plane motors . As a result the following pertinent advantages are claimed for the new cooling fluid as a substitute for water : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in place of 18 gallons of water , a reduction in weight of about 84 pounds . The decreased quantity of ) cooling fluid permits the use of a radiator one- ' fourth the size of the type now in use , a saving I of nearly 40 pounds . The combined reduction in cooling fluid and radiator weight as well as in radiator surface not alone means that more than 100 pounds of dead weight is transformed into useful load but also that the parasitic resistance of the radiator , which represents 20 ? ; 0 of the total resistance of the ship , has been materially reduced , with a resultant increase in speed estimated at 11 miles an hour . Inasmuch as the temperature of the cooling fluid must rise to 387 degrees Fahrenheit before it reaches the boiling point , and water boils at 212 degrees , it permits airplane motors to be operated at speeds far in excess of the limits permitted in water-cooled systems . Few Lines Sharing Profit Progress of the air transportation systems has been marked . Air mail continues to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have active plans for passenger traffic . At present , however , only a few passenger lines are showing any profit , although monthly improvements are being regularly shown . Until better arrangements are made tor night flying , such as better lighted airways , improved radio communication from the plane to various stations , and sleeping accommodations , practically all long distance flying will be done in conjunction with the railroad . Although there is a marked scarcity of good airports throughout the country this condition is rapidly improving . A strong interest shown by municipalities in the development of their landing fields , together with commercial airport undertakings are gradually showing results . Reflecting this progress , Curtiss Flying Service , for instance , is now operating 16 fields located throughout the country , but by July 1 , this number will be increased to 28 . The gain is also seen in that as of March 1 , 1929 , there were 1,598 airports , compared with 1,056 of January 1 , 1828 . That there are now approximately 6,000 licensed pilots , and 10,200 student permits issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States this year will be well absorbed . During 1928 approximately 5,000 planes were produced .                     