@@689933

txt While the new correspondence between the British ands French Premiers is generally accepted by the newspapers as in itself a satisfactory sign , the feeling is manifested that it does not really carry the two countries much further in adjustment of their national policies . " All that the letters accomplish and all that they are designed to accomplish , " points out The London Times , " is to create an atmosphere of confidence between France and Great Britain . " and it then asserts that it would not have been so necessary " if the speeches of an irresponsible Opposition had not led the public to suppose that the Labor Ministry would connote a more antiFrench policy . " The Times goes on to say : " It is very easly for Poincard to inveigh against those Englishmen who suppose that France would be capable of making fratricidal preparations against their country . " There are extremely few Englishmen imagine that such a danger threaten$ us , but there are a great many who know that French armaments and French military conventions with other States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than it would otherwise present . The Westminster Gazette suggests that " these letters are less notes between two Premiers than messages for the education of public opinion in each country , " and asks how can meet Poincare half way on such questions as the invasion of the Ruhr and the treatment of the Rhineland . Speaking of the proposed compact of guarantees between the United States , Britain and France , which broke down , it says : " ft fs not often enough recalled that the pact was to be expressly limited in duration and was never intended to cover more than the early period after the signing of the Versailles Treaty . Further , the pact was not considered by Clemenceau to 7 ) e an ' essential guarantee ' of safety to France that was to be found in the occupation of the Rhineland . " The associated as well as the allied powers were to reconsider the question after the fifteen years . For this reason we are glad that 's letter is an appeal far beyond France to the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angle of vision which It discovers in Poincard 's allusion to the League of Nations , although Westminster considers that his expression of trust in that institution " is not more than nominal . " The Daily Mail , with its strong French sympathy , accepts Poincard 's letter as a " perfectly friendly , convincing and logical summary of the French position , which ought to do much to clear the Political atmosphere , " and considers his astonishment justifiable that there are really Englishmen who can suspect the intentions ' with which France is arming . Declares Britain Behind Premier . The Daily Express , while holding strongly to the British . position with regard to the Ruhr invasion and the British right to ask recognition from France that Britain is paying her debt to the United States which was contracted on behalf of France , dwells on the changes in both countries which make the hope of settlement greater Thus it points out that , whereas Baldwin in dealing with France was hampered by the fact that a considerable section of his supporters took the French point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He has behind him his own party , the Liberal Party and a large and increasing section of the Conservative Party . He represents the preponderating majority of his countrymen . He has strength where his predecessor had weakness . " The Daily Chronicle welcomes Poincard 's assurances regarding French policy . but observes : " But there are some major equivocations on which clearness will really be essential . One concerns ' annexation . ' Pobscar8 denies that he or . Marshal Foch or any other reasonable Frenchman ever dreamed of annexing a particle of German territory or of turning a single German into a French citizen . Perhaps not , If annexing be legally construed , but what is it to tear large ' areas of Germany by force from the parent body to make them the ' Rhineland Republic ' or the ' autonomous Palatinate ' or what not , and to organire over them the French Government and control through German hirelings ? How is that any better ? " Foresees American ' Participation . The Morning Post agrees with that the United States can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and says : " The flaw in all the tentative suggestions which have been made directly and indirectly to the United States in recent . years lay in the blind refusal to see that no American Government would ever join at a conference table where she would simply be used as a pawn in the game of Franco-British antagonisms . " Already a better atmosphere In Europa has led Mr. Coolidge to make a statement , cautious and vague though it is. which clearly points to American participation in a conference which may settle once and for all the cognate issues of reparations and inter-allied data. , "                     