@@688695

txt The evidence in the trial of Mrs. Paulette A. Saludes for the killing of Oscar Martelliere , an insurance broker , did not go to the jury in Judge Koenig 's part of General Sessions yesterday . as was expected . The session was taken up by the summation of James A. Turley , counsel for the woman , and Assistant District Attorney George N. Brothers . Mr. Turley read the story of David and Bathsheba from the Scriptures and , declaring that the betrayal of woman by man was no new thing , described Martelliere as the David in the affairs of Mrs. Saludes . He attacked the testimony of Miss Gertrude Thompson of Tompkinsville , S. I. , the 17-year-old stenographer in Martelliere 's office at 100 William Street , who had described how Mrs. Saludes fired five shots at the broker on the afternoon of Oct . Id last . Mr. Turley also asserted that the prosecution had not proved that the killing of the broker was not justifiable , and dwelt at length on the unwritten law . During the summation Miss Thompson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , widow of the slain man , and the latter 's six-year-old daughter Merlyn . Mrs. Martelliere wore a heavy veil and frequently sobbed during the lawyer 's attack on the life of her husband . Mrs. Saludes remained calm , with her eyes closed most of the time . Occasionally she glanced at the jurymen , quickly diverting her eyes to the window behind the witness chair , through which swirling snow was visible . Mr. Turley characterized Martelliere e as " a. spineless jellyfish . " " a serpent stealing from a man his dearest possession " and " a viper from the depths of hell . " He added : " He never knew what real , - pure , unadulterated love meant , because if he had he could never have deserted the mother of his child . " . In the beginning of his address to the jury Mr. Brothers said " A whole lot has been said about the Bible in this case . I did n't quite get the application to this case . Nothing was said by Mr. Turley about the Tan Commandments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibits giving false witness against another 's neighbors . I would like to Inform you that the taking of a person 's property is not an excuse for murder . " This woman had the most powerful motive for murder that is known to man  --  the jealousy of a woman , " the prosecutor declared . " If this defendant was a man , " Mr. Brothers said . " I could sit down confident that you would convict . The real defense in this case is ' I 'm a woman . ' " Judge Koenig announced he would charge the jury this morning . AUTO DRIVERS GO TO JAIL . Operated Cars While Intoxicated ? Unknown Man Crushed to Death . George Graul of hamartine Avenue , Bayside , L. I. , was sentenced to thirty days in the workhouse by Justices Salmon , Nolan and Herbert in Special Sessions in Jamaica yesterday when he was arraigned on the charge of qperating an automobile while intoxicated . He was arrested on Christmas Day in Maspeth after he had collided with two other automobiles . Graul 's defense was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two other drivers charged with similar offenses were sentenced to jail in the Brooklyn Traffic Court . Frank Gray of 411 Hudson Avenue . Brooklyn , was sentenced to twenty days . James Coyle of 753 Franklin Avenue . Brooklyn , drew a ten-day term . An unidentified man , about 43 years old , was Crushed to death when . he missed his footing entering a Ralph Avenue trolley in Brooklyn and was caught between the car and a passing delivery truck . His body was removed to the Canarsie Station pending identification .                     