@@691493

txt Condemning the League of Nations and the World Couft as vestiges of Old World imperialism and advocating a more tolerant attitude in the handling of international affairs , Senator Borah explained his stand on the League of Nations , the World Court , the recognition of Russia and war in an address delivered before the students of the University of Michigan here today . " The fundamental principle underlying the League of Nations and the World Court , " he stated at the outset , " is that force Is the mainstay of government . I want to see war considered a crime . " The Senator attacked the League on the ground- that it did pot tench a question of justice or righteousness , but tried only to decide questions of spoils . Re maintained that . A rticle X of the League " is based on the same despotic principles that kings have held for hundreds of years  --  no justice or righteousness , but merely a guarantee to protect each other 's property . " " The only basis of peace on which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Would Have People Tote on War . " The trouble in Europe today is the same as it has been for centuries , " he declared . " It is a problem of boundaries . There never have been nor never will be sufficient armaments to settle territorial boundaries permanently . " He reiterated his contention- that the League granted to ten men the power of declaring and concluding war by allowing them to decide how the League would line up against an aggressive power This wad contrary to all the democratic tendencies of the ages . " If . it were in my power to make a constitutional amendment , " he declared , " it would be this  --  that no war should be declared save on the vote of the People , those who have to fight the battles and bear the burden . " He held that advocates of the League stated that the protocols amplify the original covenant and do not create any new obligation . This was an implied expansion in case the protocols become effective . Reiterates World Court Stand . " The court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations , " he said , turning to the World Court . " The League is to supply the law and give it authority and sanction . The United States , if it is to be affiliated with anybody , would be in a better position on the controlling board than on the court . " If not affiliated with the League , the court would be an agency for good . As affiliated , it was an agency of imperialism .. In assailing the court 's power to render a legal opinion , the Senator said that not only legal opinions , but opinions of every nature , were being issued . He quoted John Bassett Moore . America 's representative in the court , in asserting that calling on it for advice would utlirnately change the status of the court , and Elihu Root in arguing that calling for decisions from the court was a violation of ail judicial principles . He contracted the World Courts ' post- ' tion with that of the United States Supreme Court , saying that only through divorcing itself from all political questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed to give the effect of a world court decision through public opinion . . " We still underrate Public opinion , " he said , " the strongest factor in the world today . It Is not necessary to uphold the decisions of a court by force . Force , in fact , has failed . It has burdened the countries with debts . It has filleth-the graveyards of the nations and the hospitals from Petrograd and Berlin to San Francisco and . Canton . It has , spread disease and pestilence and sewed 1 the seeds of hatred . " He stated that at the foundation of the Supreme Court every political thinker was skeptical over the ) utdome when a decision was rendered against a i State without force to back it up . The i first-decision. against Georgh , rendered by Judge John Marshall . brought out the famous statement of President Andrew Jackson : " John Marshall has made his decision ; let him enforce it . " The decision , Senator Borah said , was only partly carried - out. but - eighty- one decisions made thereafter have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world would accept decisions of a court would be similar when public Opinion adequately supported the decisions . He urged that America should lead the way in the codification of international law , to the end , if no more , of making war a : crime . " Why did n't the Allies punish the Kaiser after the war ? " he asked . " It was simply because he had committed no crime . There never was such a crime as starting a war . If , today , another war should envelop the world the per  --  son responsible for it would be guilty ( .1 no criminal act . " Regarding the recognition of Russia , - he said : " There will be no peace Until Inmate ' is recognized . I advocate bringing into the family of nations every country with a form of government . This is not an approval of that government . We recognize Turkey . Is that an indication that we apritove of the Turkish form pf government ? We recognized old Russia , the'most despotic and bloody government ever known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembled in America , that under Washington 's Administration . in which Jefferson and Hamilton sat , recognized the French revolutionary government after an hour 's debate . " There was nothing of ail approval of the methods of the French Committee of Public Safety . ' he Continued . " There was nothing said in the Cabinet meeting about how much trade would be carried on with the new nation , The Administration realized that France could find its salvation in the form of government it then had , a fact recognized by Baglish statesmen after fourteen years of debate . " a                     