@@694290

txt The Chicago chapter of the American Institute of Architects has set up a committee to advise loop property owners on the merits of projected buildings . The need for such a service is obvious to any one who walks about the center of the cty with his'eyes open . Many of the newer structures reflect no credit upon ' the architects who designed . them or upon the Individuals owning them . The neea tor nigher sum:taros Is most apparent on Wacker drive , the architectural development of which has been disappointing to those who expected it to be one of the world 's most splendid riverside drives , To pay that the drive thus far is lacking in distinction is putting it charitably . The institute 's committee can not require an owner or an architect to modify a single line of a single . drawing . A.11 the committee can do is counsel the owner and architect on the merits and defects of his sketches . The committee has been created in the belief that Chicago property owners have enough regard for the appearance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is the further assumption that property owners for the most part are modest enough to admit that their own powers of esthetic criticism are not absolute or infallible . Both these assumptions we believe are thoroughly warranted . The success of the Institute 's plan will depend largely upon the ability of the institute to make its services known and appreciated . We hope that no effort will be spared to inform property owners what the institute is offering them without charge and why it is being offered . Further , we hope the institute will make it clear to prospective builders that a graceful building need be no more costly to erect and no less profitable to own than an unsightly one . We anticipate less difficulty in convincingly:owners to take . advantage of the service than in bring-1 ing architects themselves to support it , because laymen are not as likely to display pride of opinion in architectural matters as are architects . For this reason it Is of the utmost importance that the personnel of the committee constantly include the ablest men in the profession in Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their fellows . Mere than that , we believe pressure can be brought through the institute to induce architects to submit their plans for Important buildings to the committee . Failure by an architect to inform a client of the committee 's existence and purpose ought to constitute a breach of the code of professional conduct .                     