@@694957

txt Establishment of a salaried Commission on the Plan of the City of New York , with an adequate permanent staff of experts , which has been suggested by the Subcommittee on Traffic Relief and Use of the Streets . is recommended in more detailed form by the Subcommittee on Housing . Zoning and Distribution of Population of the Mayor 's Committee on Plan and Survey , it was learned yesterday . - The report also recommended the establishment of a " housing authority " to reclaim slum sections . The report , which has been transmitted by Frederick H. Ecker . Chairman of the subcommittee , to Morgan J. O'Brien , Chairman of . the main committee , was regarded as indicating definitely the intention - of the main committee to recommend the establishment of a permanent City Plan Commission and to pass on to that body most of the problems which it was appointed to study . Some drastic proposals are made by the housing . diyision of the subcommittee . of xvhiPh Lewrence Veiller is Chairman . One of ? t ) these would limit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or open space fronting it , with provision for setbacks and towers to give additional height at the same ratio . Reclamation of Slums . To clear the slums the report suggests a plan for the acquisition by the city of blocks in the poorer sections of the city , the razing of all buildings on such land and the selling or leasing ' of - the outer strips in each block for the construction of model tenements , with a park space maintained by the city in the centre of each block . No specific method of financing ' such projects is proposed. ? but the . report suggests that specific powers should be obtained by the city from the Legislature to carry out such work . The report also proposes important changes in the zoning laws , which generally would limit the height of buildings and impose further restrictions in residential neighborhoods , with a special requirement that lofts. department store and office buildings hereafter constructed should provide space for the loading of trucks instead of using the streets . Very great power would be given to the proposed committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Population Division of the subcommittee , the Chairman of which is George . The report recommends that this commission be empowered to recommend to the Board of Estimate all changes proposed in the zoning ordinance or maps and would require a threefourths vote of the board to make any change disapproved by the commission . The Commission Outlined . The specific recommendations for the establishment of the commission follow : 1 . That there be established a commission on the plans of the City of New York , made up of five members of expert qualification , to be appointed by the Mayor , at such rates of compensation as the Board of Estimate and Apportionment determines . 2 . That .. such commission have authority to employ an adequate permanent staff , technical and otherwise ; and that it also have authority to contract from time to time with engineers , ' architects . city planners and such other consultants as it may require . 3 . That such commission be charged , in the first instance , with the assembling and analysis of all existing information and data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from any source , and with the consideration of whatever recommendations upon the general subject may be presented to it . 4 . That such commission , after appropriate studies have been made , be charged with the preparation of a comprehensive " master " plan for the future physical development of the city , and , so far as necessary , for the regulation and control of private uses of land areas within the city . 5 . That such plan comprehend . among other things : ( a ) The general location and character of the city 's major traffic highways , boulevards , parkways. viaducts , bridges and tributary street systems ; ( b ) The location and reservation of parks , squares , playgrounds , aviation fields and other public grounds and open spaces ; ( c ) The location of public buildings and other public property : ( d ) The relocation , reconstruction , extension or change of use of any of the foregoing public thoroughfares , open spaces or buildings ; ( e ) The continued zoning of the city for building purposes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uses of buildings ; ( f ) The relationship and proper adjustment to the city plan of transif lines and port and terminal facilities . To Pass on All Projects . 6 That after such plan has been adopted by the commission and approved by the city 's statutory authorities , all city and borough departments having projects for improvements coming within the scope or definite implications of the plan be required to present . such projects to the commission for examination , and for acceptance as in conformance with the plan ; and , That the formal approval of the commission be required for each such project unless , in case of rejection by the commission , it be thereafter approved by a threefourths vote of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment . 7 That the commission be required , after careful study , to recommend to the Board of Estimate and Apportionment whatever changes it considers necessary or desirable in the present zoning ordinance and maps . S. That subsequent to the submission of such recommendations , and action thereon , all changes proposed in the zoning ordinance or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no such change , disapproved by the commission . be effective unless thereafter approved by a threefourths vote of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment . 9 . That the commission , whenever requested so to do , either by the established transportation authorities of the city , or by the Port Au-thority , lend its cooperation in the working out of suitable plans for rail and water terminals within the city , or for the mapping and extension of transit facilities , or in the working out of any other plans within the jurisdiction of these in-Ienendent bodies . 10 . That the commission be directed through collaboration with the staff of the regional plan and with the official agencies of other corn munities within the metropolitan area , to promote the harmonious adjustment of the nirn of the city . when adopted , to the general planning system of such other communities . Cites Plans in Other Cities . I throw away and exclude its ' most I valuable qualities . It seems a rather foolish proceeding . Wants a Height " Principle . " I " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to control high buildings thus far taken have proved effective . The problems resulting from high buildings , in traffic congestion , in lack of light and ventilation , in congestion of population , in concentration of values in a few limited spots , with its consequent disadvantageous effert upon real estate values elsewhere , are all so well known that we need not enlarge upon them here . All measures heretofore adopted to deal with this problem have been a compromise . We believe that the time has now come when the city should insist upon the adoption of a principle , and control high buildings according to thatprincipleand , as they should be controlled , if the people of the city are to be protected from the further development of these serious evils . It will be found that when this is once done , no one will suffer but that on the contrary both property values and the people of the city will be greatly benefited . " We suggest one simple formula by . which this can be done . This is certainly feasible outside of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That formula is this  --  that no building shall be erected to a height greater than the width of the street or other open space abutting it on every side . This would mean that on the ordinary New York street , 60 feet in width , the height of the building would be limited to 60 feet , or six stories . It would also mean that at the rear of that building there would have to be an open space of the same size , viz. , 60 feet between it and the building at its rear . This would mean generally a 30-foot back yard in back of each building to its own rear lot line , which would give a 60-foot space between buildings . Any courts that were provided for a building would have to be similarly as wide in each dimension as the height of the building where it abutted that court . In the case of a 60-foot building the court would have to be 60 feet in each dimension . " This would not prevent the use of setbacks , towers and terraces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city , for setbacks would be possible under such a scheme . If it were desired , for instance , on this 60-foot street to go higher than 60 feet with the front wall of the building , this would be possible by setting back in the form of a tower , but the height of that tower could not exceed the amount that it would set back from both the front wall and the rear wall of the building . The report adds that it might not be . possible to apply the proposed rigid limitation of buildings to all sections of the city described as suffering from " skyscraper blight , " particularly lower and midtown Manhattan , but that it would be possible to protect other parts of the city . Discrimination of this kind is entirely feasible , the report continues . " It is not too late to save the rest of the city from the serious evils which now prevail in limited parts of Manhattan . " " Tenement House Blight . " Prevention of what it calls the " tenement house blight " extending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city shall be zoned and that multiple dwellings shall not be permitted in certain restricted sections . The report also recommends that no building shall be constructed out of materials that are not " fire resistive . " The strengthening of the Tenement House Department is recommended . In proposing methods to reclaim the slums , the reports suggests that the city might acquire a series of blocks extending for a mile or so , raze the buildings completely , and then sell or lease strips of land about thirty feet in depth on the outside of these blocks for the construction of model tenements , two rooms deep . The central part of each block would be a park . The report expresses belief that the city by the sale of the strips would get enough money to pay most of the cost of the improvement . the scheme should be borne , in part , by assessment for benefit on property benefited and the extent of the area of benefit . " Specific powers should be obtained from the Legislature to enable the city to undertake slum clearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be employed , should constitute or set up the special ' authority ' to carry out the work , should prescribe the methods of acquiring property and of making Icompensation for it , the conditions under which parts of such property might be sold or leased for housing or other urposes and , for the specific purpose of slum clearance . should supersede all existing provisions of law : ' The proposed amendments In relation to height and area regulations follow : The present height limits of a building within each height district are based on street width . In the two-times district this permits a height at the street line of 200 feet for the 100-foot streets and of 120 feet for the 60-foot streets . The report recommends that in the two and two-and-a-half-times districts no building shall be erected to a height in excess of 125 feet , but for each one foot of setback or a portion of its setbacks from the street line four feet shall be added to the height limit of such building . The present one-and-a-half-timet districts comprise the major part of Manhattan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other boroughs . As proposed for the two-times district , it is suggested that a uniform street line height be fixed instead of a varying limit based on the street width . In the one and one-and-aquarter times districts it is suggested that this uniform limit at the street line be 65 feet , and in the one-and-ahalf-times districts 90 feet . Loading Space for Trucks . It is also proposed that all large loft , department store or office buildings to be erected shall provide for the street loading and unloading space for all trucks serving the buildings . It is proposed that 200 square feet of loading space be required for each 10.000 square feet of loft space in a loft building , factory . storage warehouse or large wholesale establishment , and that for office buildings and hotels the unit requirement of 200 feet shall apply to each 100,000 square feet of floor areal . The present C and D districts comprise the outlying areas of Brooklyn , Queens . the Bronx and Richmond . In the present C district there is no limit in the percentage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a residence district and within a C area district the occupancy shall not exceed 60 per cent . of the area of the lot . In the present D area district , buildings within a residence district are limited to 60 per cent of an interior lot or 80 per cent . of a corner lot . It is suggested that the limit be fixed at 50 per cent . for either corner or interior lots . It is proposed that the present zoning resolution be amended so as to provide play yards in connection with new apartment buildings in the CD area districts . In the C district ' it is suggested that the playyard requirement be one square foot for each ten square feet of the floor area of the building . In the D area district one square foot of play yard for each five square feet of floor area of the building is provided . According to the report there are 390 American cities with an aggregate population of 30,000,000 which have appointed city planning commissions . Of these , it is said , 176 with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are developing under planning rules . Chicago , which in 1907 adopted the plan prepared by its first commission , the report adds , has since expended $300,000.000 upon detailed improvements , and claims with apparent justice that it is one of the best planned cities in the world . The report shows that there is a constant tendency for the population of New York City to spread out , that the population in Manhattan is decreasing and that of the other boroughs increasing , although Manhattan now has a density of persons to the acre of 138 , to 50 for Brooklyn , 33 for the Bronx , 10 for Queens and 4 for Richmond . The growth of New York City during the five years from 1920 to 1923 has been at a much lower rate than in the suburban territory , the report adds . For this period the percentage of growth has been only 4.5 per cent . in New York City . It was 17.9 per cent . in Mount Vernon , 22 per cent . in New Rochelle , 30.4 per cent . in White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . in Nassau County and 29.8 per cent . in Suffolk County . The report added that estimates of the population of New York City and its environs in 1960 ran from 13 , - 820.000 to 19.650.000 and that it was safe to assume that in that year the population would be twice that at present . Becoming " Sunless City . " The report declares that at least 2,000,000 persons in New York City live under unsatisfactory housing conditions , that New York is fast becoming a " sunless city " so far as occupants of its buildings are concerned , that buildings are too high and that the concentration of population found in many parts of the city is unparalleled . " It is imperative that the city should adopt a housing policy , " the report adds . " We offer the following suggestions as to what the city 's program should be : " The city should insure an adequate amount of light and air to all dwellings of every character erected in the future . This can be best achieved through regulatory laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tenement House law that this can be done . " Heretofore , all consideration with regard to providing adequate light in the homes of the people of New York has naturally addressed itself to attempting to secure a sufficient quantity of light . No consideration has been given to the quality of the light secured . This has been due to the fact that our knowledge of the subject of the qualities of light has been slight until recently . " With the astounding discoveries that have been made in recent years as to the beneficial effects of the socalled ultra-violet rays of the sun , and the knowledge that ordinary window glass shuts out these beneficent rays from people 's homes , the whole subject of light has become revolutionized . As one writer puts ' t , a ray of light travels 93,000.0011 miles to reach us from the sun . Then when it comes here we ** Powers of Authority . In recommending the creation of a housing authority to undertake extensive slum clearance projects , the report says that the Board of Estimate sholud not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all such projects before they are undertaken . " The special authority should also determine whether to sell off or lease part of the land acquired to be used for new housing and on what terms , " the report adds . " It would also determine to what extent the cost of                     