@@694412

txt Adjt . Gen. Lutz Wahl of the United States army came to Chicago yesterday for a conference with hfaj . Gen. William Lassiter of the Sixth corps area . It was understood their talk was about charges that army trucks have been used to haul booze . Secrecy attended every detail of the investigation that is admittedly going on following the alleged discovery of liquor being transported with the fur . niture of Capt . J. Leland Bass . At the war department otlices it was said no orders have been issued yet for a general court martial , but it is expected that such will be the result of the Investigation . Assistant District Attorney Jacob Grossman was assigned by District Attorney George E. Q. Johnson to carry on the investigation with a view to criminal proceedings , outside that of any courts martial . Alexander Jamie , deputy prohibition administrator , was doing the questioning for his department . All day-long various prohibition agents came to Grossman and to Jamie to report findings on matters assigned to them . One report prevalent in the federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had represented himself to be such was Involved in the Inquiry that concerns withdrawals of alcohol from the army quartermaster 's warehouse and which also may include the disappearance of some whisky being held by the government . It was said the government officials . army and civil , were negotiating with two persons who were to be offered Immunity in return for confessions . The government 's investigation was said to be far from complete , but the intention is to keep at it until every drop of alcohol and booze has been traced to its ultimate consumer . One charge is that 1.000 gallons of denatured alcohol , withdrawn from the army warehouse at 30th and Wood streets , was taken to the Broadway armory , head quarters of the 202d coast artillery , and then disappeared . 21 PLEAD GUILTY . Indianapolis , Ind. , Oct. 21. ? rSPecia1.1 -- -Thirty  --  one of tifty  --  eight defend ? ante pleaded guilty to charges of vlo ; lotion of the liquor laws when ar ? raigned before Federal Judge Robert C. Baltzell In the United States District court today in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In which ninety  --  nine indictments were returned . TrIal  --  of those who pleaded not guilty was set for Nov. 20 . The case , one of the most gigantic yet uncovered by the federal prohibi ? tlon department here , consisted of wholesalers , retailers and runnels and alleged " gunmen " who brought whirky from Chicago and St , Louis to In dianapolls and Louisville . Tony Ferracane was the " boss " In charge at Indianapolis , federal agents allege , and John Vallortigari , who 0P ? crated a steamship agency in Chicago , directed activities there .                     