@@691742

txt The Federal . Reclamation Service is ready with a new and interesting plan . In the Far West it concerns itself with putting water on the land that is too dry . In the South it now plans to take the water off the land that is too wet . South Carolina alone has 5,500 square miles of swamp lands . Most of this area can be easily reclaimed . It is remarkably fertile . Not only is every Southern State equipped with land Bufficient to provide abundantly for its own People ; it has enough and to spare for all corners . The next great wave of land settlement in this country will move from the North upon the South . New lands , new ideas , new people , a new start for her own poor farmers  --  such is the hope of the new South . In this connection an important conference was recently held in the office of Governor of South Carolina . There was gathered a committee of the South Carolina Legislature which had been recently appointed to consider the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Interior came Dr. Elwood Mead , director of the Federal Reclamation Service . The discussion turned upon the matter of a survey and a joint report , with recommendations , to the Legislature and the Federal bureau . During this present season the writer examined into the conditions of the landless farmers in various parts of South Carolina . Some were poorer specimens of the type than the one he has chosen to describe . Some were in better case . The one he has now in mind was plowing with a weary and bedraggled mule on a dry and barren hillside in the Piedmont section . At the invitation of his visitors this man left his plow in the field and walked back to a log which lay amid a clump of trees at the bottom of the hill . There we sat down and talked intimately for an hour . He was 64 years old , he said , having been born at the very beginning of the Civil War . His father was a soldier in Lee 's army during the entire four years . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single word . All his life he had farmed twenty or thirty acres of cotton land as a " cropper " or tenant farmer . Of his family of seven children six had grown up . During these forty years . ever since he had left his father 's house , he had seldom been out of debt for a year at a time . The weary round of his life included the annual acceptance of credit from his landlord for seed and fertilizer and often for food for his family and his animals . He seemed to look upon his position as perfectly normal  --  the natural result of a relentless environment . His dwelling had always been an unpainted hovel of two or three rooms . He did not know the luxurious experience of wearing new clothes , Other than the occasional suit of " overalls " which clothed him at his work . His wife , his children and his grandchildren , like himself , were forever inured to poverty and rags and dirt and the social conditions that went with them . Yet the outward aspect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For inside the soiled and well-worn overalls there was a physique of the most extraordinary quality . Above the long , untrimmed gray beard were kindly eyes which sparkled with innate intelligence of mind . This man was the son of a remarkable father . That father was one of the men who marched from the Peninsula to Antietam. and from Gettysburg through the Wilderness campaign to Petersburg . Somehow this type . where freed from hook-worm , has managed to retain its physical virility and its perfect soundness of moral character . These qualities made the rank and file of the Army of Northern Virginia one of the best fighting forces in all the history of the world . No braver or better men ever lived or died anywhere . The Conference mentioned above promised to mark a turning point in the status of this class . The movement involves one of the largest social service projects in the America of this generation . The " forgotten men " of the South has at last been remembered . Just how far has this man been forgotten ? This question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in North Carolina . One was recently done for the Extension Department of the University of North Carolina . It is entitled " How Farm Tenants Live . " This bulletin is a report of a careful survey of two farm townships made by J. A. Dickey and E. C. Branson . The second report , covering over a thousand typical tenant farmers In North Carolina , was written by Carl C. Taylor and C. O. Zimmerman in 1923 . It was done for the State Board of Agriculture and is one of the most thorough social surveys ever made in this country . This report covers three counties in the three major sections of the State . Each of these families ' was asked over 700 questions . These two documents deserve wide reading . We have room here for only the slenderest quotations . " Two townships in Chatham County . N. C. , " say Dickey and Branton , " contain a total of 829. farmers . The average Income of these families is 23 cents per daytner person . And of this income a considerable proportion ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm owner ) was produced by wage labor on public works , such as roads and bridges . " The average per person , " conclude Messrs . Dickey and Branson , " in these 329 farm families was only 23 cents a day . The cash in circulation in the homes of fifty-one white tenants was only 12 cents a day per person ; only 14 cents a day per person in the homes of negro tenants , only 32 cents a day per person in negro farm-owner homes , and only 34 cents a day per person in white farm-owner homes . " Taylor and Zimmerman report that " the cash income of the white tenants and croppers of the mountain country is less than 10 cents per day per individual . " The equity holdings ( total pir ' , erty ) of the average black cropper in the Piedmontcountry is 06 . Something over 6,000 rural families in this State are living in one-room houses . Over 42,000 families live in two-room houses . There is not a negro family or a white tenant cropper in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . of the fathers and mothers in the landless families can neither read nor write . Only 65 per cent , of all the landless families surveyed take no papers or magazines whatever . Less than 7 per cent , of them take daily papers . It may be added that North Carolina is undoubtedly the most progressive of the cotton States . Conditions ? among the landless people of the other Southern States are certainly no better than in North Carolina . And now many of these people are being forced down still lower . Who can wonder that many rush to the cities and crowd one another for jobs ? Twenty-five years ago millions of these people were afflicted by the hook-worm . Their prosperous neighbors despised and ridiculed them as being hopelessly indolent . Scholarly historians explained their condition by reference to their pauperized ancestry . They were supposed to be the descendants of the indentured white servants who emigrated from Britain during Colonial times . Then came Dr. Stiree with his diagnosis of the disease and the cure . That medicine not only killed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has killed a pessimistic interpretation of history , and a cruel theory of sociology . Our country stands in need of this class . They have all the essentials of a great , strong , English-speaking , democratic people . We have described only the poor white farmers of the lowlands and the Piedmont . The Southern mountaineers number several millions more of exactly the same breed , living under much the same conditions . There are isolation , illiteracy and general backwardness . But the basic cause of it all is poverty . In this age of machines these millions of farm families are living and working away back in the age of small tools . Meanwhile only fools among our half-educated Northerners make the condition of these people in East Tennessee or elsewhere the subject of joke and sneer . Either nit ! ' enormous class will be saved or our American democracy , will be lost                     