@@692404

txt A thorough discussion of the banking situation and banking tendencies probably will be brought up in the Senate with the consideration of the banking bill . The bill already has passed the House . It is now in- the hands of a sub-committee of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee . This subcommittee , which is headed by Senator Pepper of Pennsylvania . started active work on the bill this week . Mr. appeared before the conitnittee , Tuesday , and other hearings will be held before the committee makes a report , and it is possible that the House bill will be changed . Senator King of Utah on January 4 introduced a resolution for a banking inquiry . This resolution also is in the hands of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee and there is little indication that it will be reported to the Senate . Hearings on the bill , however , will accomplish much the same purpose . The King resolution also indicates the lines which Senate debate is likely to take . Senator King proposed to ascertain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national banks are changing to state charters and withdrawing from the system , the cause of bank failures , the difference between the regulation and examination of state and national banks , particularly as affecting time and savings deposits , and fiduciary powers . He also would go into the problem of branch banking and chain banking . and banking mergers and consolidations , a question in which many Congressmen are interested . What Congress may do about any one of these points would be hard to predict . Certainly its present temper indicates that nothing very radical will be done . The general thought on the question in Congress , however , and the broad lines of the administration attitude are known . In the first place , many Congressmen are convinced that there are too many banks in sonic sections of the country . The bank failures in the Northwest several years ago and those in Iowa recently generally have , been attributed to the territory being overbanked and failures thus being inevitable . CONCHA:Ss OTPORUS UV. % MON ** On the other hand , Congress is not willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banking , power among a limited number . Even those who are not , opposed particularly to large industrial units and con- ' ; solidations would not favor a similar tendency in finance . The reasons that move them to this attitude are apparent . The attitude of the administration regarding centralization of banking functions are much the same . It has been pointed out at the White House that the development of the American banking system has been in the direction of diversification . The spread of branch banking or extensive bank mergers is in the other direction and is not looked upon with favor . That does- not mean the condemnation of particular merger or that mergers of bunks will be forbidden . of course . It is simply an outline of broad policy . There also is a feeling in Congress that something - ought to be done to allay taw feeling toward the Federal Reserve system by non-member banks and these is some disposition to criticize the Federal Reserve system in this rssspect . One proposal is for the elimination of the Comptroller of the Currency from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one devoted purely to the national banks . Extensive hearings on the relation of banks to the board were held by a joint committee of House and Senate . This committee never made a report , but senators who served on it still are in the Senate and some of the conclusions they reached may be voiced when banking legislation is under consideration .                     