@@695191

txt Louis Rothbard , Brooklyn lawyer , admitted yesterday that he had hired runners and paid hospital physicians to bring him injury cases , but explained that he did not know this practice was illegal and that he curtailed the practice when he found it was a violation of law . He appeared before Referee Harrington Putnam in the investigation into ambulance chasing . The act describing ambulance chasing as a misdemeanor was passed in 1917 . Rothbard said he knew nothing about it , as he was in the army overseas . Admitte to the bar in 1917 , he said he had studied law in the office of Adolph- Ruger . Ruger recently resigned from the bar and was arrested last week on charges of grand larceny and forgery . In 1919 Rothbard said he opened a law office . In 1923 , he went on , one of his negligence cases was investigated by the Kings County Bar Association and Mortimer W. Byers , now prosecuting . him , advised him then to curtail his negligence business . He said hey followed the advice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visits to hospitals . Late in 1926 , he said , he was again advised by Frank Holmes , another lawyer , to stop employing runners and doctors , and that he did stop . Holmes is now representing Rothbard as his counsel . Rothbard is accused of trying to impede the investigation by urging Dr. John Viviani and Dr. Joseph Caruso to tell Justice Faber that they did not know Rothbard . The accused lawyer denied that he had tried to influence their testimony . Mr. Byers introduced a check for $1,500 , dated in March , 1926 , made payable to Dr. Morton K. Hertz , alleged to have been for sending an accident case to Rothbard . When Mr. Byers asked about a case in which Rothbard had been called before Justice Carswell , Rothbard explained that he had obtained a settlement of a negligence action for $12,500 on a 50 per cent . retainer . He said the woman insisted that he pay three doctors ' fees . Justice Carswell decided that he need not pay these fees , he said . The prosecutor asked if he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery of a patient to increase the recovery in a case . Roth-bard shouted a denial , adding that he had never heard of such a thing . John J. Ahern of 1,312 Decatur Street , one of Rothbard 's investigators , and Solomon Moses of 2,177 East Twenty-first Street , his brotherin-law , testified that they were in Rothbard 's automobile when Dr. Caruso and Dr. Viviani discussed their testimony before Justice Faber . Both said Rothbard made no effort to influence the testimony of the physicia ns . The case was adjourned until July 13.                     