@@691194

txt That Bennie Leonard , the retired world 's lightweight champion , is not taking his retirement seriously and is contemplating coming back in the roped arena not only In defense of his 135 pound crown but also to meet Mickey Walker , the welterweight champion , may be gathered from a press notice sent out of Benniel headquarters in New York city . With a match against Sammy Mandell of Rockford , claimant of Leonard 's vacated title . as a lure , Bennie has undoubtedly talked business with eastern promoters A Walker match has been spoken of so many times that such a contest Is extremely likely . At any rate the following press notice will enable boxing fans to judge for themselves Leonard 's future plans : Bennie Takes Workouts . Those who have watched Bennie Leonard in his tour of the country on the Keith circuit , are mildly interested in certain activities of the retired lightweight champion . Every morning Bennie rises at 6 and takes a long hike through the parks or in the country . Also , one of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route , is to make arrangements with some gymnasium where be can take regular physical workouts  --  much as he does when in training for a bout . flint of Return to Ring . This has given much rise to speculation as to what the lightweight champion has in mind . Many are asking if he is contentplating further activity in the squared circle . Perhaps Bennie has n't retired , after all . Sammy Mandell and the rest of the lightweight contenders had best be a bit apprehensive concerning friend Bennie 's activity . Eddie Anderson , the Moline bantam. weight who meets Peter Sarmiento , the Filipino , at East Chicago Friday night , is going to make 118 pounds , the poundage demanded by Harold Smith of the stockyards for their proposed meeting at Milwaukee on March 6 , Long Says Ifo 's Puzzled . When Promoter Frank Mulitern tried to make this match , Buck Montgomery , manager of Smith . set the weight at 118 pounds . Smith 's manager apparently thought the poundage too low for Anderson , who would not take the bout . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to Smith to take the match . Harold has been boxing in the east and permitting opponents to scale 120 and 121 pounds . For this reason , Eddie Long , manager of Anderson , is at a loss to explain why Smith wants Anderson to make 118 pounds unless It is ho is afraid to bat tie the Moline fighter . Dave Forbes of Detroit , who meets Jimmy Gory of the west side in the eight round semi-windup , arrived in Chicago yesterday morning and established training quarters at the Arcade . Other fighters on the card are hard at work , and there will be no substitutions , according to Matchmaker Eddie Long . " Cannonball Eddie " Martin , the bantamweight champion who meets Sarmiento in Milwaukee on March 6. will be in Chiesso Thursday to resume training at Mullen 's for the Cream City fracas . Martin 's bout with Carl Tremaine in Cleveland has been put over until tonight . It was originally slated for last night . Eddie will be an interested spectator at the Anderson-Sarmiento bout in East Chicago Friday night . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jimmy Delaney of St. Paul in Milwaukee Friday night . wilt bz in Chicago today . Strib. ling will work at Mullen 's this afternoon anti proceed to the Cream City this evening . The weekly amateur boxing show will be , held at the Arcade tonight with a similar list of bouts at the . Mullen gym Thursday night . Miss Quincy VII . Wins Two Races in Florida Regatta West Palm Beach , Fla. , Feb. 23 . ? ' Miss Quincy VII. , owned by C. E. Padgett , Quincy , Ill. , again showed supremacy In the third and fourth heats for the 151 class speed boat championship In the Washington birthday regatta here today , racing home first in both races by easy margins , thereby winning the Royal Poinciana challenge cup .                     