@@691146

txt Burglars , using an automobile truck to carry away their loot , ransacked the home of Conway Tearle , movie actor , on Kipp Avenue , Chappaqua , two weeks ago , taking Oriental rugs , lamps and furniture said to be valued at more than $10,000 . The robbery had been kept secret by the authorities . It was learned today that a confidential alarm had been sent out for the arrest of four men with long criminal records . They are believed to be members of the same gang that robbed the Summer homes of New York residents in Westchester County two years ago . The remains of a meal were found in one room in the Tearle home . Every rug in the house , many of which had been brought from abroad , had been taken . The burglars also carried off a victrolla and several valuable lamps . They ransacked every room in the house , breaidng locks on many doors . The house had been vacant since Fall . alleged to be a student at Columbia UM ' versity and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identity of the three thieves . Zuckerberg was standing near the door through which the robbers entered when the leader drew a pistol and ordered him and the four solicitors to throw up their , hands . As he spoke , the second and third bandits entered with pistols and covered the victims with them until the leader of the robber trio had relieved Zuckerberg of his scarfpin and had taken $81 from the proprietor 's pockets . This thief then walked to the cash register , the position of which he seemed to know , and took $100 from it . Then all the robbers left . Clifford Morris , a negro hold-up man . faced a life sentence as an habitual criminal when he was arraigned yesterday before Judge Nott in General Sessions , but he sought clemency by informing on his confederates in the lerime . Morris , who was convicted of robbery last week is one of a band of negroes who had terrorized storekeepers and residents of Washington Heights and Harlem The jury which convicted him refused to recommend clemency . Before Morris was brought into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word to Assistant District Attorney William A. that he wanted to confess all his crimes and reveal the identity of his accomplices . Mr. had a brief talk with Morris , then told Judge Nott about the offer and sentence was deferred . Morris was found guilty of the robbery of Andrew Rennet , a peddler , in the hallway of the tenement at 134 West 134th Street on the night of Nov. 18 . Morris made his victim remove his outer garments and robbed him of the clothes and several hundred dollars . Rannet ran in his undergarments to the West 135th Street Station . Morris was captured by the detective half an hour later .                     