@@694048

txt Kevin O'Hige gins , Vice President of the Irish Free State , Minister for Justice and Mine ister for External Affairs , was assassinated here this morning by three men as he was walking to mass in the Booterstown Catholi0 Church , 400 yards from his home . The assailants drove up in a gray . automobile , passing him , and then , leaping from the car and pouring a fusillade of pistol shots pointblank ' into his head and body . Mr. O'Higgins , wounded , staggered across the road almost to the gate of a friend 's house and then fell against the lamp-post and his body slipped to the curb . The assailants crossed the street after him and fired into his prostrate body and then ran to the car , wherein , it is said , two confederates were sitting , one at the wheel , and sped away . The police had made no arrests at a late hour tonight , but had fair de . scriptions of the three principals . The Free State leader died at 4:43 o'clock this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had slain him . " I am going to join my father , whom they murdered too , " he said , rousing himself from coma in mid . Afternoon . " They have murdered me and made no mistake this time . " Soon before the end he raid : " I am dying at peace with my enemies . " The murder has profoundly shocked Dublin , as it will all Ireland . Mr. O'Higgins was regarded as one of the strongest leaders of the Free State . He had just returned from Geneva on Friday , where he attended the League of Nations Conference in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs . O'Higgins left a wife and a baby daughter under a year old . Few Saw the Shooting . There were few people near at the time of the shooting , but two women churchgoers saw the crime . The shots were heard by Eamon Fleming , an official of the Ministry of Finance , a neighbor and close friend of the O'Higginses . Fleming and the dead males brother , Patrick , ran . from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pool of blood . O'Higgins recognized Fleming and asked him to call a priest . Patrick and Fleming went search of a doctor and found Dr. James Beckett , a noted Irish athlete , worshiping in the Booterstown Protestant Church . Beckett went quickly to the wounded Minister 's side and administered an opiate . By this time Professor John MaeNeill , former Minister of Education of the Free State , had arrived arid taken down Mr. O'Higgins 's last will , which the Vice President , a barrister by profession , dictated in perfect legal form . With the arrival of an ambulance , the dying leader was taken home , where a priest administered the last rites . Crowds in tears stood outside the house all afternoon . From the beginning there was no hope of his recovery . He was wounded in seven places , one bullet entered the head near the left ear and lodged near the base of the skull , another passed throueh the neck , a third entered the body under the armpit and passed out through the chest and a , fourth pierced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Weak for Operation . Surgeons arriving found Mr. O'Higgins too , weak for an operation . Saline infusions were given to maintain his ebbing strength , and later oxygen was administered , but all was useless . As soon as the news of the attack reached Dublin , President Cosgrave and the other Ministers hastened to his home , where they remained at the bedside until the end . Friends declared that the assassins must have been biding a chance , watching Mr. O'Higgins 's movements closely , since except for today he always had a detective near him , accompanying him even to mass . This morning the minister sent the detective on an errandlust before he left the house , and started to church alone . He has been hated by the friends of the Irregulars 1922,23 , because , as Minister of Justice in those years in quelling the , disorders he , was . rer sponsible for 77 executions of the Guerilla foes of the new Government . The most dramatic of these executions was that of his close friend , Rory O'Connor , the leader of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sentence of his comrade of the pretreaty war against England to death for his I part in that ill-fated insurrection and sat up all night awaiting the execution . As the shots of the fir- ' ing squad rang out O'Higgins collapsed . " I have only done my duty , " he said on reviving . When O'Connor 's will was read it was found that he had left all he owned to the O'Higgins family . Cosgrave Reassures Nation President Cosgrave tells the story of the O'Higgins murder simply in his message to the nation , issued tonight . " Kevin O'Higgins , " he de-clared , " was shot this morning on his way to mass . The Vice President of the Executive Council , the second minister of the State , has been struck down by- the hands of the assassin . In this hour of national loss and national mourning , mindful of the steadfast and heroic figure who has been sacrificed , the Irish people will not falter . Mr. O'Higgins in his dauntless courage and unflinching determination had trodden the path blazed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gz  --  eat defender of the nation has passed away . " The Irish people May rest assured that the assassin 's bullet will not succeed in terrorizing this country . There are  --  and will be men enheartened by the noble example of the late Vice President and , profiting by his labors , ready to step into his place and maintain his high tradition of devotion to the welfare and safety of the nation . " Republican army headdnarters tonight denied any knowledge of the murder , and repudiated any respon- I sibility for it . " We feel , " the statement added , I " that when tracked home the respon-sibility will not involve any of our volunteers . Our organization does not countenance private acts of vengeance against individuals . "                     