@@688927

txt Government officials who have been studying the trend of the business situation during the last two or three weeks , expressed the opinion today that the danger of over-expansion and inflation on a seri- ' ous scale , which was threatened when production reached new high levels in March , appeared to have been avoided . Indications were seen that precautionary measures had been taken by many of the business interests and that the way had been paved for a continuation of prosperity on a safe and sane basis . Secretary Mellon of the Treasury believes that the danger of inflation has been passed and that sound prosperity is to continue unless unexpected exeesses are engaged in by business . The Intimation was given also that there was no action contemplated at this time toward an increase in Federal Reserve Bank rediscount rates , and it was said that the subject had not been discussed recently by the Federal Reserve Board . I Rising Prices Checked . The same feeling of confidence as to the future was found in other Govern- ' pent circles . When production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was reached beyond hich appeared the danger of an overeXaansion that might well have- led to serioits- ' - ealseeittences , those consulted said Rut now rising prices had been Checked and credit conditions re-adjusted a manner which left a solid foundation far an extended period of sound prosperity . It was pointed out , for example , that a few weeks ago there appeared serious danger of credit requirements reaching the point where heavy demands would have to be made oe the Federal Reserve by member banks for loans . This situation , however , has been avoided . Government officials are cautious about commenting - on the so-called ? ? buyers ' strike " In the building industry in New York and other sections of the country because of the effect expression of their opinion might have on the situation . In general , however , it is felt that the limitations which have been Placed on the work by some interests . because of the increased cost of materials and labor . will aid in bringing - about a readjustment of conditions that will prove beneficial . It is not believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of building activa ties . Treasury Notes Snapped I : p . Reports received by the Treasury Department today from the twelve Federal Reserve districts indicated 1-tat the new $400,000,000 issue of 4% per cent . ' Fleasury notes , dated May 15 and maturing in about four years , would be heavily over-subscribed . One estimate was that the subscriptions , including 4% per cent . Victory notes offered in exchange , would be at least double the total of the Offering . It now is believed that the Treasury ' will allot , in return for cash suhecr:Ptions and Victory notes offered in exchange , about $500,000.000 of ill " , new notes . The chances ire that ( he pilottempts will not greatly exceed that amount , as there is an unusually large balance in the general fund . part of which will be available for maaing the ; 765,000,000 in Victory notes falling due on May 20 . Several of the Federal Reserve districts reported that offerings of Victory notes in exchange for the new notes v ere meeting expectations and that the success of the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed the total at ; 400,000,1 ) 110 " or - thereabouts , - and reserve. the rigla to allot additional notes to the extent to Which Victory notes were efftsed in exchange . Demand for Notes Increasing Daily . Three times oversubscribed and the exchange of Victory 4% per cent . notes on a large scale are the predictions bankers are making for the $400,000,000 4% Treasury notes offered on Monday by the Government . Orders , large and small , from all parts of the country are reported . with the demand for the new securities increasing daily , Temporary allotments received by the New York bankers are said to be far smaller than expected , and in some Instances it is pointed out they were only about 25 per cent . of the amount expected . There is still hope , according to some of the bankers , that there may be an Increase when the permanent allotment is made . Savings banks and other institutions are large subscribers for the issues , as tile yield is especially attractive to them . One banker pointed out that 41:42 Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent .. against the 4.75 per cent . from the present issue , and cited ibis as the reason so many savings ' banks and other large institutions were eager to get the new Issue . Small lot orders are said to be pourbig in from all parts of the New York district . indicating that the small inVestors are extremely interested in the new financing . Marry orders also are being received for the exchange of small amounts of Victory notes for the new notes , thus illustrating that the small holders of Victories are desirous of keeping their funds invested In Government securities . Plans have been made for the actual redemption of the Victory notes and notices have been mailed out from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York urging holders to surrender them at once . " It is estimated that at least 600.000 separate notes will be presented at this bank for payment on May 20 , " says a statement sent out by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to all4 banks , trust companies and others concerned in the district . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prompt payment if the prescribed procedure for handling the notes is carefully observed . Uncalled notes received from now on will be entered for payment at maturity unless immediate redemption or exchange for the new W. per cent . Treasury notes is requested . " In explaining the payment of interest on the Victory 44i per cent . notes the statement of the Federal Receive Rank of New York says : " Interest will be computed on the basis of the denominations of notes presented rather than on aggregate amounts of Individual holdings , as heretofore . The effect of this will be to pay exactly the same amount of Interest on each registered note as if paid on each coupon note of e same denomination . "                     