@@694125

txt he Japanese statesmen today ? presented to Hugh S. Gibson , chief American representative , a compromise formtda. on the cruiser problem which has menaced the Tripartite Naval Conference with failure In handing their formula to the Ambassador , Viscount Ishii and his associates remarked that it was " just an idea . " Despite this new move it was said in responsible quarters tonight that the spectre of failure  --  failure which , as a prospect , has genuinely alarmed men of many countries  --  should not yet be deemed definitely avoided . Yet , from the American standpoint at least , the Japanese plan to save the conference is said to appear after closer study to include many attractive features worthy of being treated as a basis for negotiation . Text Cabled to Washington . Mr. Gibson cabled the text of the proposal to Washington , together with his own views and comment . Furthermore , W. C. Bridgeman , chief British delegate , who got the plan from Admiral Saito and Viscount Ishii soon after they had submitted it to Mr. Gibson , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believes the suggestion to be of so important a nature as to justify its consideration by the British Cabinet . When the Japanese employed the expression " an idea , " in giving the formula to Mr. Gibson , they meant what they said . They explained that they quite realized it was entirely imperfect , and said they hoped Mr. Gibson would feel free to make any modifications or any comment he desired . They told Mr. Bridgeman the same thing . The Japanese delegates said , however , that they thought the idea had fundamentally something to be said for it . The text of the formula has not been published , but the correspondent of The Associated Press understands that the essence of the Japanese project is this : It provides for the maintenance of the status quo , so far as cruiser strength is concerned , both for Great Britain and Japan , and gives the United States an opportunity to " catch up " with them in powerfully armed and armored cruisers . The proposal declares that Great Britain and Japan shall cease , up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already authorized . It fixes the number of 10 , - 000-ton cruisers to be built up to 1931 at twelve for Great Britain and the United States and eight for Japan . This proposal is being closely examined to see if it means that Great Britain and Japan can only carry out " their built and building " programs and not their projected programs . If it does mean this , it is said that presumably it contains matter of considerable interest to Americans . Proposal Meets American Figures . Under this interpretation the " built ' and building " would then constitute the total tonnage limitation for , Great Britain and Japan up to 1931 , ' and in the case of Great Britain it is estimated that it would bring the British naval total well under 400,000 tons . This is the figure that the Americans gave the British and Japanese to understand a few weeks ago that they would be willing to go to as a maximum in order to reach an agreement . With appreciation of the danger of any mention of 8-inch-gun cruisers , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warship , the Japanese then suggested that a second class of cruisers be created with a maximum of 8,000 tons each . It is said that probably America could install guns of the 8-inch calibre on vessels of such displacement . Then comes a clause of " safeguard " whereby any signatory power would have tile right to denounce the arrangement after a new meeting of the representative powers concerned , if they deemed that the building activity of co-signatories menaced the security of the complaining power . Another clause stipulates that the signatories shall exchange complete information about cruiser-construction intention . Still another clause makes it clear that the United States is not to exceed the total British cruiser strength by 1931 . In other words , America gets parity with Great Britain , but would have to agree to stop at that . Admiral Lord Jellicoe told the last ' plenary session of the conference that Great Britain must have at least seventy cruisers to protect her trade routes and food lines . Including the fourteen 10,000-ton cruisers now being built by Great Britain , that country will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a total tonnage of 388,000. - Difficulty in ** Ships . A British " program " calls for nine other large cruisers to be laid down in the next three years . If Great Britain should stop this program and adhere merely to " built and build , ing , " it is evident that she would remain within the American maximum of 400,000 tons . It is admitted in conference circles ' that the Japanese reference to 8,000-ton cruisers may provide a difficulty for Great Britain . Indeed , Mr. Bridge- , man is said to have told Amiral Saito today that under his instructions , as ' framed by the British Cabinet , he could not accept this compromise as a basis for discussion . Mr. Bridge-1 man cprieldy agreed , however , to telegraph the project to England . Eight-inch-gun cruisers . are those warships which Great Britain - wants distinctly limited . The British delegates have expressed the belief that even though eight-inch-gun cruisers were of slightly less tonnage than 10,000 tons , they must be considered " aggressive " warships . The British have said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States is to construct within the life of the treaty . Today 's developments put an eleiment of cheer into the extremely pessimistic atmosphere . Mr. Gibson has been empowered by President Coolidge to adjourn the conference at any time he sees fit to do so , but has not been instructed by Mr. Coolidge to break the negotiations . America 's chief delegate is authorized to adjourn the conference with or without a plenary session . ' However , it is understood that he intends to hold the delegates at Geneva so long as there is a possibility of reaching an accord . It was said in well informed circles tonight that Britain in particular must say whether the Japanese compromise possesses any value .                     