@@695210

txt A sad blow to Austrian hopes was dealt by the United States Congress when it closed its session in May without approving the bill which was to sanction the Austrian scheme for settlement of the so-called relief debts . Postponement of the international loan was the second setback suffered by the republic within 12 months , the first being the riots of July last year . Hapaily the projected capital expenditure for this year , which was to have been financed partly out of proceeds of the first instalment of the loan , will not be interrupted , but the delay is a distinct disappointment to government and industry . The loan project dates from last fall when the Austrian government , after sounding the foreign governments represented in the various international bodies constituted to watch over the interests of creditor states , came out with definite proposals for a foreign loan of approximately 72.5,000,000 schillings or about 5100.000,000 . Proceeds of this loan were to be used for defraying , during a period of five years , capital expenditure of a productive nature and connected chiefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with improvements on some sections of the federal railways . Telephone and Railroad Improvements Necessary In regard to the telephone service the construction of an underground long-distance cable system , to take the place of the antiquated overhead wire lines on which the country has so far bad chiefly to rely for its communications with the rest of Europe , is an urgent necessity . Some sections of this new system , built with the aid of the funds still available from the International Loan of 1923 , already are completed and the work on others already has been taken in hand . A. great number of simultaneous trunk calls is , of course , possible along one cable , as against a single call at a time only along one overhead wire line , and an increase of revenue is therefore certain to result to the telephone service , which is owned and run by the government . Further , Austria is likely to derive an income from abroad through the extension of the cable system in the direction of her frontiers , as the country is situated between Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Balkan States on the other . as well as between the Pastern countries of Europe and Switzerland . Austria would therefore form the principal connecting link between her neighbors in the central European telephone services and would obtain a revenue from the use of her lines by the residents of foreign countries . Expenditure Would Be Productive In a similar manner the acquisition by the Federal Railways ( which are under government ownership but managed by an independent board of commercial and technical experts ) of up-to-date rolling stock , the partial rebuilding of some secaons of the road , the construction of new railway bridges , etc. , would quicken and intensify traffic and thus enhance the competitive ability of the system . Expenditure incurred in this connection is therefore productive , from the viewpoint of foreign tourist traffic , if from no other . Austria has all the pre-requisites to become an international playground and holiday resort and she can not afford to neglect this source of potential wealth by a failure to keep her means of communication at a high standard of efficiency and comfort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small country to pay for a large capital expenditure out of current revenues , nor would it be desirable , if it were feasible , because any revenue surplus beyond the cu-rent financial requirements should be used to lighten the burden of taxpayers , which is extremely heavy and constitutes a serious handicap to production . The government therefore decided on the issue of a loan . Cumbersome Machinery for Foreign Borrowing As regards the probable terms of the operation . it is premature to venture a prediction , as the transaction can not now come off until the early part of 1929 , at the " soonest . Six months ago , when the City of Vienna contracted a 530,000,000 6% loan , redeemable within 25 years . with the National City Bank of New York , the loan being payable to the City of Vienna at SSi. 5 , there appeared to be no reason why the Austrian federal government should not obtain terms at least as faVOrabit ! PS these . But it is impossible to say what will be the state of the international money market a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantee . none was demanded in the case of the Vienna city loan . The service of the international loan of 1923. however , is secured on the yield of the Austrian customs and tobacco monopoly , but the receipts from these two sources of revenue always have amounted to four or five times the sums required for interest and redemption charges . There is , therefore , an ample margin available , which could be set aside , if necessary . for the service of a fresh loan . Few things are quite so cumbersome , however , as the machinery which Austria has to set in motion for the purpose of negotiating a loan . In the peace treaty a. gen : eral lien on all government assets was granted to the exenemy states of Austria for payments due ( but never fixed ) on reparations account . When the country was on the verge of starvation after the close of hostilities , some of the former enemy states and several neutral countries came to the assistance of Austria with supplies of foodstuffs and raw materials . The sums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans " and were accorded a right of lien prior to the reparations debt . Finally , on the occasion of the international loan of 1923 , which was issued under the guarantee of several European count:Ses  --  though this guarantee never became effective in view of the revenue reserved for the service of the loan amounting to a multiple of the requirements  --  the bond holders were given a preferential claim on Austrian government assets , ranking before the claims of the reparations and relief creditors . Before a fresh loan can be contracted by Austria . she must procure the consent of these interests , while the sanction of the United States Congress must be sought for any change in the regime of the relief debts . How the Hitch in Negotiations Aro%e It was at this stage that the hitch occurred . The Austrian government found the Reparations Commission and the Committee on Control of the Guarantor States willing to approve a fresh loan . As regards the relief credits , the liabilities , expressed in Austrian currency , towards the various creditor states are indicated as follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and Italy , recently agreed with the Austrian government on an alternative scheme for the settlement of the relief debts which provides either for 25 annuities ( of about 46,500,000 schillings each ) , beginning on January 1 , 1943 , and totaling the equivalent of 3.162,000,000 schillings , or for 40 yearly instalments , increasing in value and beginning on January 1 , 1929 , in which latter case the creditor states would forego all claims for interests past or future , and would demand no more than the capital sum . of 856,000.000 schillings . The Austrian government , which has the right of option , doubtless will decide in favor of the second mode of settlement . It would then have to pay during the first five years 1.2% of the capital ( or 10,572,000 schilItngs ) annually , during the following ten years 1.9% ( or 16,254,000 schillings ) annually , and during the remaining 25 years 3% ( or 23,630,000 schillings ) annually . Italy has not yet adhered to the agreement and the delay is a reprisal for the Austrian protest against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not likely , however , that Italy will long persevere in her attitude , as she agreed to the loan in principle through her representative in the Reparations Commission . The only insurmountable obstacle to the issue of the loan this year is the adjournment of Congress to December , whereby a bill was lost embodying the consent of the United States to the proposed settlement of relief debts .                     