@@691278

txt Amateur ra.lio telegraph operators of the world hating achieved and perfected a system of intern:Wont ! radio communiCation on short waves , arc arranging for appointment of delegates to the first international congress of amateurs , which is to convene in Paris from April 16 to 20 , according to the American Radio Relay league , the amateur association of North America . Representatives of American and Canadian amateurs are expecting to leave New York on the S. S. Mauretania on April 1st , returning to this country on the S. S. Berengcria the first of the following month , previding thirteen days in Paris and th : . ? c in London . Long Under Discussion . Plans for this congress haT. -e been under way since last year , when Hiram Percy Maxim , president of the A. R. R. 1 ... on a visit to Europe , was elected president of the temporary committee of organization . At this initial meeting representatives from eight different countries were present , and it was the unanimous desire that a permanent International association of amateurs be formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together to arrange for the coming congress and announcements have been mailed to all of the representative amateur societies of the world . America to Participate . Because amateurs of this country have taken the initiative ' In the development of two-way r , rivate international radio communication through the arrangement of short wave tests with amateurs in Europe , South America . and Australasia , they are expected to participate actively In the affairs of the congress . At their annual meeting recently directors of . the A. R. R. L. voted to send as their delegates President Atzt : : hrt and Secretary Kenneth B. Warner . Although only one vote from each country is to be recognized as having racial voice rn the affairs of the congress a general invitation has been extended to all amateurs who may desire to attend as private Individuals , or In an advisory capacity . Result Sought . The 1 . A. R. LT .. as a result of this congress . is expected to become virtually a federation of national amateur associations the objects of which will be the promotion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gesliorr or methods and regulations for bettering international private communication . Among the various matters scheduled for consideration at the congress are the following : the organization of an I. A. R. L.T. ; methodical organization of technical tests by amateurs , and the selection of an international auxiliary language . A secretariat has been established at 2 Rue de **25;71;TOOLONG , Paris , at which place advance arrangements are being mark .                     