@@686138

txt There is a wealth of means and methods in existence or incnba.tion for investigating the highly investigable affairs of this city , Former Governor WHITMAN ) an accomplished and experienced inquirer , has begun an investigation with the assistance of the Additional Grand Jury , A resolution has been introduced into the Legislature reconstituting the Lockwood committee , giving it much wider powers , authorizing it . to investigate and report upon the management of banks , trust companies , insurance companies , and what not throughout the State , as well as upon housing , in regard to which Mr , UNTERMYEn has made such important discoveries : . That ' alone is work complicated and great enough even for a man of his extraordinary quickness of perception and mastery of facts , It is to be hoped that this multiplicity of organs will not breed confusion , and that , in seeking to do too much , the Lockwood committee will not run the danger of skimping its work , Meanwhile , Governor MILLER has proposed a practicable check on seeming " grave defects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and notably " of violent crime , and the immunity from detection which so many criminals enjoy , make the Governor ask whether there are not " grave defects in the " administration ' of the criminal law " and the enforcement of law by peace " officers , " Under the Moreland act the Governor or his appointees for the purpose are authorized " to examine " and investigate the management and " affairs of any department , board , " bureau or commission of the State . " They cant summon and compel the attendance of witnesses , examine them tinder oath , have brought before them any relevant or material books or papers . The Governor recommends the Legislature to amend this act so that his power of examination and investigation may cover " all county " and municipal officers and depart " ments . " As Governor MILLER says , the Executive " has a responsibility in these matters which he can not escape , " and he " should be clothed with power to " investigate , without the necessity of " having charges preferred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any person appointed by the Governor to investigate who is- not in the service of the State shall be fixed by the Governor and paid , with all necessary expenses , out of the Treasury . An investigation ordered by the Governor would he free from those easy methods of spending that have been a scandal in the case of so many legislative committees .. Investigators selected by him and responsible to him , and possessing ample powers , would be in a better position to get the facts than a legislative committee too often influenced by partisan motives or personal ambitions , Ind almost sure to contain some unruly members who seek to cloud the m ) and do n't want the truth if it reflects upon their party . Some patriots at Albany pretend to SG frightened by the Governor 's recommendation . Governor MILLER is Ill right , of course , but some future 3overnor might make a bad use of : his new power . This is mere preense and evasion . Let some future governor misuse this power . What Ye want is increased responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; everybody will know who is to blame . If there are grave defects of adminstration in counties and municipalises , let them be investigated respon ; ibly . Legislature should not ; nudge to the Governor a power so lecessary for the inspection and rem-. szly of inefficient or corrupt adminstration by county and municipal of'leers and departments . For the use it misuse of it ho can be held to ac ; ount freely and inexorably . Ho will lave , as he should have , an undivided ? esponsipility.                     