@@687533

txt Colonel William payward , United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York , issued a warning yesterday to the patrons of places where liquors are sold , pointing out that chemical analyses had shown that virtually all of the stuff , whether dispensed In high-class hotels and restaurants or cheat ) saloons. is unfit to drink . " While the people are demanding and requiring every possible safeguard to assure them of getting pure and whole , lotne milk , meats and food , many are disregarding all sense of caution and prudence in drinking illegitimate liquor . " Colonel Hayward said . " Over 98 per cent . of all samples of liquor now being obtained by agents from illegal sales is bad liquor , as shown by the report of the chemical and laboratory division of the Government . " This statement was amplified by Special Assistant United States Attorney Painter Canfield , who is in chariti of the prohibition division of Colonel Hayward 's office . Mr. Canfield said that 98 per cent . of the samples analyzed as ethyl alcohol was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with burnt sugar , caramel or other materials . He added that a small amount was distilled spirits and a small proportion is " raisin jack . " Prohibition agents collected the samples from hotels and restaurants as well as in saloons and other places where liquors are being illegally sold . Warne of Grave Chances . " Ethyl alcohol , " Mr. Canfield continued , " is a non-natural beverage and is noxious and innutritious and deleterious to health . In addition , any one who takes a chance nowadays to drink liquor runs the risk of getting methyl alcohol , known as wood alcohol . This alcohol is a deadly poison for most people 's constitution . A person who partakes of it is apt to be the signer of his own death warrant and sound his own death knell . " People will almost launch themselves into eternity by the use of home stills . It requires a proper ' scientific training to make real liquor of the right Ingredients and in the correct proportion and in the proper way . Yet people will insist and persist in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improper way with very bad results . " Home-made stills are being blown up every day and endangering the livfs and sometimes terrifying the whole neighborhood . When that does n't happen , a harmful toxic product is tite result , which is either sold or used by the family and their friends as a beve : ? age . A number of stills hav ? , been ssized which have been utilized to redistill denatured alcohol , which produces a product which is anything but good for the human system . Slight Margin of Safety . " The people of this city are utually optimistic in most things and given ' to taking long chances . But they a  --  a taking an extraordinarily long chance in partaking of the usual kind of liquor which is now being sold and served . It will be readily seen that only a small proportion will get some of the real liquor which constitutes the 2 per cent . The chances , of course , are 49 to 1 against the purchaser . The ' ironical part of it Is that all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While people take such chances in financial matters at times , when they come to realize what they are actually getting , they will then refuse to violate all the laws of health in drinking ' hootch ' and other poor liquor . " The selling of substituted liquor is not limited to cafes and saloons . Some of the samples come from so-called higher class and higher priced hotels , restaurants and clubs . There are also sales to residents of hotels . As an illustration , the seizure made recently disclosed the fact that the parties raided were redistilling denatured alcohol and coloring and flavoring it , and printing imitation whisky labels of well-known grades . ' The books of the offenders showed that much of the ' stuff ' was being sold to patrons who resided at , the best hoteis and who apparently believed they were getting bona fide brands of real whisky .                     