@@689338

txt Queen Wilhelmina. ' s entry Into the commercial capital yesterday for the celebration of her silver jubilee , although magnificent , was nothing compared to today 's triumph and the enthusiasm of the people . Amsterdam , gorgeous in its decorating , was awakened this morning by bands playing In all public squares throughout the city and choruses singing the " Wilh:drnus " and national airs in honor of the ruler on this anniversary , and crowds swarmed the streets from an early hour . especially in the vicinity of the Royal Palace . Twenty-five years ago , on Sept. 6 , Wilhelmina. of Orange was inaugurated Queen of the Netherlands . Young and fair , she was the last scion of the House of Orange , and at the age of 10 she had become Queen , but her mother , Queen Emma , acted as Regent until she came of age . This morning she again walked from the palace to the New Church on the left of the palace to attend a special service in commemoration of the inauguration in 1808 . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilhelmina was today accompanied by the Prince Consort and Princess J uliana . The Darn , the vast square on which the palace stands , was surging with people , and when the royal family emerged from the palace doors a lusty cheer greeted them , while the hand struck up the " Wilheimus . " The Queen appeared delighted at this welcome . In the New Church . which is one of Amsterdam 's old historic buildings . the front pews were reserved for the Dutch Indian Princes , the Ministers and ether authorities . The Queen received a special illuminated program of the service , which commenced with a hymn and was followed by an address by Professor visser , who dwelt on the great devotion of the Queen to her country , her spiritual life and the freedom of Holland , " free as no other . nation in the world is , thanks to the House of Orange . " he said . Another enthusiastic ovation greeted the Queen as she left the church on foot and stood for a few seconds at the door of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on one Iside of the Dam was filled . All win-d ows and roofs of houses surrounding and in the vicinity of the palace were packed and the streets leading to the square were black with masses of people when , shortly after =on , 400 societies . guilds and corporations with banners and flags began to assemble 1 on the Dam , the representatives from various parts of the country being in local costumes , many women wearing Dutch caps . Here , as in other jubilee festivities , the absence of the military was very noticeable , except for half a dozen cavalrymen , the mounted police and ordinary police kept the surging masses back , the unmounted police holding hands to prevent the people overrunning the Dam . The crowd did not object to the police , but it was obvious that the military in spite of the fact that they were so few in numbers , were unpopular . Heralds announced the commencement ' of the ceremony and when the Queen and all the royal family appeared on the balcony of the palace a mighty cheer went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handkerchiefs . A band and chorus on one side of the square commenced a canticle specially composed for the occasion , and in a few minutes the entire vast concourse on the Dam was singing . Another roar of cheers was followed by the singing of national songs , after which a , procession formed and filed past the royal balcony , the various organizations dipping their banners in salute to the Queen as they went by . Tonight the royal family attended a gala performance at the Theatre Royal . being driven there In the golden coach used at the Queen 's coronation . Rumors of anarchist plots have stirred the authorities to intense activity and elaborate precautions have been taken . Police reserves are kept in readiness at strategic points . For the last few days detectives have scrutinized all travelers arriving by rail , and their hand baggage also .                     