@@696874

txt Chicago hajs substantial undertakings to be listed in a national program of construction such as Hoover desires for the maintenance of prosperity ; but Chicago 's largest contribution should be its subway and other transportation improvemeats . The projected subways alone are to cost $100,000,000 ? And perhaps twice as much more Is to go into elevated and surface additions and improvements . The whole sum can not be spent In a year , of course , but a substantial start might be made within a few months it there were a genuine desire on the part of the interests eonearned to get going . The habit of indifference and delay Is strong upon all those who ought to be forging a solution of the problem and there is no imperative voice in the city hail or elsewhere forcing the issues to solution . There is no leadership . FOr years the Inability to get anywhere was called the consequence of the lack of Permissive legislation , but the laws which spokesmen for Ahe companies and the city agreed were needed have been enacted for months and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the traction seetor . Traction is Chicago 's version of Jarndyce vs . Jarndyce . The lawyers are doing nicely , thank you , what with regular and special fees ; the companies ' officials continue to draw their salaries and the public continues to enjoy transportation facilities that were inadequate when the century was young . Negotiations which began ten or fifteen years ago are still going on . It has been suggested that the companies hope eventually to wear down the opposition and prepare public opinion to accept a sharp bargain as preferable to no settlement at all . Possibly so , but it is at least as likely that nothing has been accomplished because of the growing , feebleness of those who are participating in the discussions . Once brawny men , they nowicome to the meetings leaning on their canes , palsied and too deaf to hear what Is said . Meanwhile the recent report of the joint commission lin assessment throws a new light on the situation . Every etheme which has been proposed since 1907 for the improvement of Chicago 's transportation services has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ( fund , accumulated over more than 20 years from payments by the surface lines of 55 per cent of their net earnings , now amounts , on paper , to about $55,000,000 . On paper . In fact , the city and the school board have a floating debt which approximates $100. - 000,060 , and are continually finding themselves at the limit of their temporary borrowing Power . At such times they turn to the traction fund , into which they dip . extralegallY , to be sure , but none the less effectively , and even deeper . While the negotiations have dragged their way around and around the traction fund has been sgrIonsly Icon . ardized . It is possible that by the btu ? , if Over , the bargain is struck the $55,000,000 will have disappeared irrevocably and the weary process of negotiation will have to be commenced anew .                     