@@687491

txt - Testimony before the Transit Commission by Frank Hedley , President of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company , that service on the company 's system had been trimmed to meet financial stringency , was used yesterday as the text of a letter sent to Mr. Hedley by Mayor Hylan threatening " drastic action " unless the subway service was improved to the point of removing the present " dangerous -- and unsanitary cc i t ; , ... 3 of operation . " The letter followiragitation concerning congestion on the subway lines , caused largely , it has been asserted , by curtailing service . The Mayor referred to a suggestion by Health Commissioner Copeland that health conditions in the subway might be improved by changing the hours of greatest travel , which has been discussed by Public Service and Transit Commissions for several years . Touching on the contract between the city and the company for ' the operation of the lines , he called attention to the clause requiring adequate service for a fivecent fare . What " drastic " steps the Mayor might take to force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Transit Commission , unless action was begun by Commissioner Copeland as a measure of public safety . Chairman of the commission intimated that the , fact the commission planned to inquire into traffic conditions next week had induced the Mayor to enter the situation in the expectation of garnering such credit as might come out of the inquiry . There is a clause in the con ? tracts between the operating companies and the city which permits the latter to take over the line in case of certain violations . But this authority must be exercised through the commission . In an effort to show that the Board of Estimate largely was responsible for the present congested condition of travel on the rapid transit lines , the commission referred to a number of contracts needed for the opening of new lines which the board has , failed to approve . It was pointed out that failure to act on the contracts needed to complete the Fourteenth Street-Eastern District line was costing taxpayers about $2,000 a day in interest charges . So far the city has spent $14,000,000 on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sixth Avenue could be operated as far east as Bushwick Avenue in Brooklyn if the board would appropriate $372,000 needed for ties , rails and tie plates and to carry out certain contracts which await the approval of the board . These requisitions and contracts were sent to ? the board between May and August of last year and have been returned without comment . Contractor Could Refuse Job . Of about forty-four contracts for rapid transit work only six have been approved , anu two : of these , it was said , be ' , use they touched the political interests of members of the board . u Similar delays have attended contracts needed to complete the Eastern Parkway line in Brooklyn and for beginning the work of extending the Queens subway westward from the Grand Central Station to Eighth Avenue , The latter contract amounts to $4,000,000 , It was let en Nov , ' , 22 last , Under the provisions of . the contract it can be rejected by the ( =tractor after forty-five days ' delay , Mayer Hylan 's letter . to Mr , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Health Com'Wagoner called attention to the danger to the public. , health arising from the manner of your operation of the Say 's subways , Re adverted to the ' possible necessity for rearranging the haunt of travel en the subways in order te ? partly avert the dangerous and unsanitary sent ditions of operation by your eempanr : " Carrying into effect such a suggestion could only be ) ustified temporarily by the gravest emergency , such as ' etisted about two years ago , when an epidemic was rife . The necessity for such an extreme measure does not and could not exist if proper and , full nee ' were made of existing schwa y equipment . The idea that the public should be made to conform its habits , . desires and business needs to the operating inefficiencies of your company is unthinkable . " Under the contract of the Interborough company with the City of New York , you guaranteed to furnish ' safe and adequate ' transportation for a fivecent fare . You also covenanted that ' the local and express trains shall be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial records of your company show that operation on a five-cent fare has been highly profitable and that your company distributed 1S7V2 per cent . dividends in fiftetn years to its stockholders , besides accumulating a surplus of 4 ; 12,000,000 . Your company is today operating on that same fivecent fare with profit , and there should be no occasion for complaint on the part of the traveling public with regard to the character and quality of the service you render . Unfortunately , the complaints of congestion , indecency and insanitation are more than justified . Trimming works Two Ways . " You have admitted under oath that you have ' trimmed ' to the utmost degree the services furnished by your company . This ' trimming , ' according to your own admission , has been carried to the last degree in reducing service . You have pursued a studied policy of us ; ng the smallest possible portion of your available equipment in operating the subways , thus artificially creating the greatest amount of congestion . This conduct on your part sonstitutes a willful breach of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate ' transportation . " The congestion thnus created is unjustifiable in law as well as indefensible in fact , and mocks the very law under which city transportation lines are regulated . Such mockery should not be tolerated by the law-enforchig body in this city , which it at present the State Transit Commission .. " As admitted by you under oath , the congestion of traffic which you artificially created is proportionately greater during ' non-rush ' hours than during the ' rush ' hour periods . When the congestion is bad enough , why should this illegal and intolerable condition be permitted to prevail with an equipment of roiling stock that could handle all the traveling public : with convenience it used under proper headway and to its fullest capacity ? " You admit that the service that your company furnishes durin.s. ' non-rush ' hours on the city subways ir but 67 per cent . of the service furnished during 1915 . This does not include the increase in to number of passengers since 1915. which would make the percentage of comparison still greater against you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service on the . Lexington Avenue line between Grand Central Station and City Hall is but 61 per cent . of what it was five years ago and that on the west side subway the proportion of service is far Below what It was five years ago , not Including passenger increase . It is thus obvious that on neither the east side line nor the west side line do you maintain the headway which was maintained five years ago on the then subway and which at that time was far below what traffic conditions required or what the people had a right to expect . must Correct Conditions . " This policy of deliberately withholding from use the available Interborcugh equipment in order to ' trim ' operation is utterly unwarranted and must cease . This policy of coldly whittling down train service so as to maintain ' rush ' hour conditions throughout the entire day , including ' non-rush ' hour periods , must stop . This ' trimming ' of service , to use your own language , is another form of trimming the public , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a traffic condition which is a menace to the life ; the health and the morals of the traveling public and the community . " If you persist in profiting by and capitalizing the dilly-dallying official action , or rather inaction , of the State Transit Commission , I am - constrained to advise you that resort will be had to drastic means to end your policy of artificially creating abominable conditions of congestion and to cause the putting to full use all the subway equipment available and possible of operation . " In his statement on the plans of the commission Mr. said : ? " The Transit Commission has , of course , been kept completely informed with relation not only to existing traffic conditibns , but to the financial ability of the transit companies . It will , at its next session , receive comprehensive and up-to-date reports upon both subjects , and it proposes to require of the railways the fullest measure of relief that their improving situation will permit . The letter the Mayor has addressed to Mr. Medley Is interesting , of course , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner in some of the matters to which he particularly refers , his assistance will undoubtedly be helpful . There will be an abundance of opportunity for that . " The Mayor 's letter , it so happens . appears immediately following the announcement of the commission , male at a public session last weak , and repeated in the press this morning , to the effect that in view of the changing situation it will be enabled , and is prepared to proceed with definite orders along the lines that have been indicated . As the Mayor is represented at each of the hearings of the commission , I have no doubt that this information has been conveyed to him : aald I am also advised that , through the Law Department , the city is a subscriber each day to a number of copies of the ' commission 's printed proceedings . The apparent coincidence of action , however , again suggests a ( possibly helpful spirit of co-operation . " Commissioner Copeland , asked to comment on the letter , said that he had not been consulted concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his power to assist in improving subway conditions . Concerning the proposed changing of the working hours in business houses , department stores , &c.,; and the theatre hours , lie said that he had conferred with Daniel L. Turner , consulting engineer of the commission , and that data was being collected in order that some practical plan might be worked out . " The matter will be gone over by Mr. Turner and myself , " he said , " and then we will call together a representative group of interested citizens to discuss the matter of regulation . " Mr. Copeland said that a number of prominent merchants had asked him to appoint some day next week when the matter might be discussed .                     