@@688216

txt The big day of the forty-eighth annual convention of the American Bankers ' Association was marked by two important communications to the assembled bankers . One was a telegram from President Harding conveying a message of appreciation and gratitude for the great work that the hankers had done in the past and calling upon thorn to extend like support in the future . The other was the address of the distinguished foreign banker , Reginald , the guest of honor . oho gave his opinion as to what should be done in regard to reparations and allied debts . Ir . their purport and significance these two communieatiors made befitting incidents of a gathering that will long he remembered by American bankers . As on Tuesday , the forenoon was given over to a general session of the convention , while the afternoon was allotted to a meeting of the National Bank Division . Be --  " de , the set speeches and reports , a part of the general session was devoted to discussion of the absorbing question hether national banks should be allowed to open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hanks , at which the leading exponents on both sides were heard , and which resulted in a definite condemnation of the branch banking idea by the association as a whole . Taking as hi , subject " Reparations and International Debts . " Reginald , chairman- of the London Joint City &; Midland Bank , Ltd .. and former Chancellor of the British Exchequer , told the bankers his remarks were made only as a private banker . He asserted that Germany was unable to pay the huge indemnity imposed upon her . notwithstanding her liability . Germany , he said , could only pay just now whatever she had in foreign balances , together with such amounts as she could realize by the sale of foreign securities still held by her national , , which he estimated at about ** Moreover , this payment , he thought . was only possible if all other demands were postponed for a definite period , long eriough. , to insure the stabilization of the mark , which " " the'seeirtitT Sell ; - while-further demands at the expiration of this period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exportable surplus at that time . As regards payment of Allied debts , he said England was the only debtor nation that was able to pay interest and sinking fund to the United States . This she could do by reason of her large foreign investments . France , Italy and the other debtor nations were limited to the extent of current credits derived from export balances , which still lacked development . In the existing condition of Europe , Mr. thought , a definite postponement of any payments by the continental nations was desirable in the interests of all . In short , he thought the actual amount which these debtors could ultimately pay should , as in the case of Germany , be ascertained after a full and frank conference between creditors and debtors . Mr. 's speech , in part , follows : " It is beyond question that in the last three years Germany has made every effort to develop her external trade . The German workman , whose industry and efficiency are generally admitted , has been fully employed and the factories have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the mark . which at every stage has beer : much greater in the external than in the internal value , has afforded a considerable advantage to the perman exporter , so much so indeed that there is hardly anywhere a manufacturer , producing goods for export who does not complain of German competition . Nevertheless German trade figures show that exports , long after the immediate deficiency in essential foreign commodities due to the war was made good , are still barely equal to imports . The conclusion seems irresistible that Germany has no present capacity to obtain a surplus from the export of goods . %NY COPIA ) PAY " At the recent Reparation Conference of the Allied Powers in London proposals were made of punitive mea sures to be taken with the object of compelling Germany to make immediate cash payments , a policy which could only have been advanced under the conviction that Germany really could pay . For my part I do not believe it is within her power to do se. but let us suppose for a moment that she can . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be upon international trade . and whether it would be to the advantage either of Germany 's creditors as a whole or of the rest of the world . " If Germany could pay what is demanded of her , the only method of obtaining the money would be by increasing her experts . She is essentially a manufacturing nation . Her foreign sale of raw materials is comparatively small . On balance she is obliged to import food . and , in consequence of the loss of a large part of her mineral lands , both iron ore and coal . An increased exportable surplus could only he obtained by extending her sale of manufactured goods . To do this in the teeth of the competition of other manufacturing nations she must work longer hours for less wages , she must cut profits , she must reduce her imports to the indispensable mimimum . " But her competitors will not consent to stand idle while they lose their trade . They will find themselves faced with growing unemployment and heavy trade losses . So far as German goods seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exclude them by tariffs , but to retain their hold on neutral markets they , too , will be compelled to reduce wages and cut profits . And thus Germany 's effort to extend her foreign trade must be confronted with the opposition of the whole manufacturing interest of the refit of the world , and could only Le . - uccessfully countered by a general lowering of the standard of life . Hult I know it is frequently alleged that the collapse of the mark with the accompanying disorganization of the wend 's trade might have been avoided if the German government had acted with firmness and good faith . It is said that Germany has intentionally depreciated her currency to induce her creditors to abandon their claims . We are told that her people are not adequately taxed and that if tiny were subject to the burdens borne in sonic other countries , the government would be able to meet its liabilities . It is certainly true that in my own country far heavier taxation is ievied than in Germans . but I um inclined t. , think we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not fail to depress national production . I fail to see how additional taxation can stimulate foreign trade and provide a large exportable surplus . The taxes would be paid in marks , and whether the marks are derived from avowed taxation or front concealed taxation through the use of the printing press , they are in neither case a currency which would be accepted in discharge of lot elan liability . " In the actual condition of Germany a foreign sale of marks is an inevitable accomsaniment of the payment of reparations . Except by such sale there does not appear to be any practicable method for the government to obtain the necessary foreign currency other than by exacting it from exporters as a condition of their receiving an export license . But the exporter , who often has external obligations of his own to meet , does not want marks but dollars or pounds sterling , as the case may be , and forthwith sells the marks paid him by the government for the currency he needs . If we add to this regular sale in the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stability of their own currency , we have a sufficient explanation of the stupendous drop in the value of German money . " Certainly Germany can pay something , though not in the form or under the conditions it is now sought to impose upon her . Many Germans possess foreign assets , whether investments or balances in foreign banks ; and it would be perfectly practicable for them to sell these assets to the German government , who in turn could hand than over to the Reparation Commission . But it is un essential condition of such a transaction that the owners of the foreign assets should be willing , to sell them ; no government in the present situation of Germany could force a sale . I have no . doubt that if these assets could be sold for an assured profit the holders would be willing to dispose of them . It must be remembered that to a considerable extent they are the proceeds of sales of marks which have been flung by Germans on the foreign market under the well-founded apprehension that the pressure of reparation payments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mark would immediately improve . It has still a far greater value in Germany than it has outside , and the German holders of foreigin assets would have a clear advantage in selling them for marks to their government . More than that I do not think she has the ability to find , at anyrate for some years , and it would be a condition of this payment that no more should be ( remanded of her for a long time . I believe that , looking Merely at the amount to be received , the creditors would gain by abandoning the attempt to obtain other money payments for a period of at least three years , and I am quite sure the world , as a whole , would be an immense gainer in the general stabilization of exchanges which would ensue upon an arrest of the fall in the mail : . " I have dealt at length with the reparation problem in an endeavor to show that a nation , except in so ' far as it has an exportable surplus . can only pay foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own country . If we pass now to the other international debts we have to recognize that the general argument is equally applicable to them all . Have the debtors an exportable surplus and what are their foreign assets ? The only debtor possessing any large accumulation of such asset , is England . Notwithstanding her immense sale of securities to the United States in the second and third years of the war , which largely furnished the means of paying for the goods of all kinds bought by the Allies , England still owns sufficient foreign securities to cover her debt to the United States two or three times over . But neither France nor Italy has similar reserves , and I doubt whether either of them has sufficient to meet more than a trifling part of their foreign debt . " There remains to be considered their exportable surplus . I will ask you to consider the particular case of the debt from France to England , which I can speak about with more freedom as it is a debt in regard to which my own country is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war France developed an immense demand for goods of foreign production . As an increasing proportion of her man-power became engaged in her army her capacity to supply herself was progressively reduced . She had no abundance of foreign securities with which to pay for her requirements and she could obtain the war materials indispensable for the maintenance of the fight in no other way than by borrowing , the money to pay for them . Before the United States came into the war France had borrowed 81,000,000,000 from the British government , and this was subsequently increased to over $2,1300,000,000 . " Let us reverse the process and imagine France paying off this debt . She could only do so by producing goods and exporting them in large quantities , fur in excess of normal trade demands . If . the general trade organization of the world permitted of the absorption of this additional French output , I have no doubt that her industry would be capable of the effort necessary to enable her to pay interest and sinking fund on her debt . But neither England nor any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on an exceptional scale . The immense demand created by the war has no parallel in peace . France 's debt is far too great in relation to ordinary international trade possibilities . It a as incurred by the purchase of goods required in war and bought at war prices . It could only be discharged by the transmission of goods , not wanted in peace and sold at no less high prices . We became accustomed in war to talk in billions . Our language was suited to the circumstances of the time , hut , if we carry our minds back to le at and return to the ideas appropriate to peace conditions . we shall recognize at once that France has no trade surplus or reserves of accumulated and exportable wealth to enable her to meet her present external liabilities . ONI.I ENGLAND HAI. pm ; i REHM , " There are , of course . conceivable , though I trust improbable . conditions in which the French debt to us might be iepaid. lf we were at war and the call upon our men to line the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to close down ; and if France were at peace and at liberty to increase her output to the utmo.:t of her capacity she might pour upon our shores war material and stores equal to the whole amount of her debt to us . But in w hat part of the globe is there a demand for this additional output in time of peace ? The mere endeavor to extend her foi-eign sales to the necessary degree would disorganize the trade of the world . We have seen the painful effect of an enforced competition by Germany ; we should experience precisely th same results from a similar effort by France . " The inevitable conclusion is that these international debts are far too great for the capacity of any of the debtor countries except England . She alone in her accumulated ' foreign , investments has adequate resources with which to discharge her liability to the United States . The whole subject requires a rational reconsideration bs the creditors , who must keep steadily in view the immediate effect of the payment of these debts on the general trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage from trade prosperity , milieu will ensure full employment in their factories and workshops . than they can ever receive from the precarious payment of these debts . In the last two years we have had experience of the effect upon foreign trades of tumbling exchanges and broken-down credit , and though the consequences may be more serious in England than in the United States , where foreign trade is comparatively only a small part of the total trade , they are still grave enough in the latter country also to warrant the fullest and most careful consideration . "                     