@@688201

txt Four thousand bushels of fruit and potatoes will be on sale at the Municipal pier city market today . Rough weather has delayed the fruit boats , which , arriving last night , brought the biggest supply of fruit of the season to the market . " We will have quinces for the first time and 1,300 bushels of potatoes , " Russell J. Poole , market chief , announced . " There will be plenty of plums of the Damson variety , which we have run short of for weeks . The fruit is from Traverse City , Mich. , and is of a higher grade than that received from southern Michigan . The prices will be below those asked in South Water street . " " Their masters , the railroad owners and managers , do not like me , and how can they afford to have anything to do with me ? " asks Eugene V. Debs in a statement issued last night regarding rejection by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Englnemen , in their recent convention at Houston , Tex. , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delegates , Mr. Debs ' statement says , has written him to apologize for the convention 's action , and says they will some day be ashamed Of it . " Perhaps , " he comments , " but that will be after I am dead , and that will be time enough . My heart has been , is and will be with the working classes , and even though they deny me and reject me and turn me from their ranks , they can never turn themselves from my heart . " Efforts to locate the body of Frank ' Mtn , Sticitney farmer , supposed to have been murdered and thrown into the Des Plaines river or the drainage canal , were abandoned yesterday by deputy sheriffs under direction of Chief . Deputy H. C. W. Laubenheimer . More than 1,500 feet of the two streams haVe been dragged without success . Considerable credence was placed by Mr. Laubenhenner in the theory that Naffs body floated through the locks at Lockport . Pierre Godfrey Carlyle , 3G years old , living at the Hotel La Salle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the detective bureau on a charge of- wife desertion and on four charges of forgery made by the Union Trust company . Carlyle is said to have distinguished himself when in the Canadian army during the war . According to police , he was arrested on Nov. 23 , 1914 ; charged with robbery . The charge was changed to petty larceny and he was sentenced to six months in the county jail by Judge Kersten in Criminal court . Police said Carlyle had been making a living by proposing marriage to wealthy women and obtaining various sums of money from them . Ile admitted a recent engagement las : night , police say .                     