@@686093

txt The " anti-Chicago " war cry that drove the constitutional convention on the rocks has been raised in the cam . Paign for the org.anization of the Illinois house of representatives , now reaching its The date for the Republican house caucus is only ten days away , and it is new , disclosed that a quietly con ? structed combination is all but completed that has for its object keeping Cook county members of the new house out of any of the important chairmanships . The fundamental plank in the platform is that do Chicago man shall be elected speaker . David E. Shanahan. speaker of the.last legislature , is , understood to be the target of this plank . Double Argument . Used Downstaters who are handling the proposition use double barreled tactics in approaching the new members who have votes in the caucus that is to be held ill Springfield Jan 4 . One of the downstate men who has been sounded out said yesterday that the first effort is to pledge members of the proposed organization to Vote against any Cook county member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a senatorial reapportionment act that would give to Chicdgo its fair representation in the general assembly based on population . To this is coupled up the argument that such a Chicago speaker would be a " wet " in view of the known stand of all of the Chicago members on the wet and dry proposition . Downstate members who are in close touch with the Anti-Saloon league are said to to particularly affected by this argument . Smejlcat Is Target . To those who do not respond to this , the suggestion has been made that no house member affiliated with the city hall faction In local politics should have an important chairmanship . The point of this seems to be directed against Edward J. Smejkal , who for three sessions has been chairman of the appropriations committee . Program for Senate , . Nothing definite has been determined with respect to the organitation of the new senate . It is now believed that Senator Richard J Barr will be an unopposed candidate for president pro tern. , withdrawing as chairman of the judici'ary committee . The death of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairmanship of the senate appropriations committee . Senator - Clarence F. Buck of Monmouth new seems to be slated for this place by unanimous consent .                     