@@685388

txt DAVIS FOR PRESIDENT . Ambassador Regarded as Peculiarly Fitted for the Nomination . To the Editor of The New York Times : THE TIMES is performing a real public service of great value in calling attention to the qualifications of John W. Davis for the Presidency . In his profession and to those in public life he is already well known , respected and admired , but as he has never sought office , those he has held with so much distinction and honor coming by merit only , he is not so well known generally . Mr. Davis is in no sense a candidate for the Democratic nomination , contenting hlmeelf with the statement that if nominated he would accept . There is no organization or campaign committee to promote his candidacy . He would not even consent that his name go on the Presidential primary in his own State of West Virginia , in order that he might attract attention as a favorite son , wherein : 4 ! showed his usual modesty and sound judgment , for assuredly of all times in our history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought nor placed for local reasons . All this makes your presentation of his merits so valuable to the country . To mental strength and ability of the highest order he acids sound judgment , fine poise , attractive personality and distinguished appearance . These qualities so rarely combined make him a speaker and writer of exceptional power and the successful administrator his discharge of public and private trusts has already shown . Your characterization of him as a " great man and a great Democrat " is more than justified . J. B. FINLEY . Richmond , Va. , June 1 , 1920 . To the Editor of The New York Times : While it seems needless to try to add to what has already been said ' through your editorial columns and in letters . published in your paper about the Hon. John W. Davis and his availability and qualifications for President , I want to add my name to the list of West Virginia indorsements and state that THE TIMES in advocating this candidacy is rendering a great public service . We know Mr. Davis as a groat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellows both in our State and national legislative bodies , and we know the favorable impression he has made as Ambassador to England . He is peculiarly qualified to be our Chief Executive for the next four years , because he is familiar With conditions in Europe , having spent some time in Switzerland at the Conference of Nations to alleviate ' the sufferings of our prisoners of war before serving at his present post . I firmly believe that his record as President , if nominated and elected , would be an enviable one , as has been his record in whatever he has undertaken . Permit me to commend your paper for the timely suggestion of the name of Mr. Davis for the high office of President , and to say that the suggestion meets not only with the approval of West Virginians but with the approval of all who know him or know of his accomplishments . ARTHUR B. ICOONTZ . Charleston , W. Va. , June 3 , 1920 . In Favor of the Albanian Case . To the Editor of The New York Times : In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prove that Coritsa ( ICorcha ) in Albania is Greek because our Congress so wills it . I was twice in Coritsa in 1918 and I know several CorItsans in this country . I made particular inquiry when there and was unable to discover any more Greeks than there would be in a town of similar size in this country . There are sevei  --  al hundred Rumanians ( KoStzo Viache ) in Coritsa , whom the Greeks count as Greeks  --  as indeed they count the Albanians . of the Greek Church as " Albanophone Greeks " ( there are even thousands of " Buigarophone Greeks " In Thrace ! ) ; but , the truth is that Coritsa is as pretty a little Albanian city as can be imagined , with its background of wild hills in whose crannies nestle picturesque villages overtopped by their minarets . Any solution of the Coritsa problem handing it over to Greek imperialism will merely add to the burden which le swamping Greek finance and will create a new sore spot in the Balkans . CHARLES 13PSON CLARK . I New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To the Editor of The New York Times : While France was honoring the Americans who fell on her battlefields , the French who died in the cause of American Independence were not forgotten on this side of the Atlantic . Tramping it from Worcester , Mass. , to'New London , Conn. , I revisited last Sunday the old cemetery of Norwichtown . There is a . boulder which bears a tablet with the inscription : In Memory of Twenty French Soldiers Who , Serving Under Lafayette , Died While in Camp at Norwich Town , 1778 . ? Placed by Faith Trumbull Chapter , D. A. R. 1901 . With the Stars and Stripes in front , twenty French flags fluttered around the flowerstrewn grave of those twenty friends of freedom from over the sea , the Tricolor and the Star Spangled Banner united as a token of grateful remembrance and lasting alliance . J. P. SCHELTEMA . New Haven , Conn. , Tune 2 , 1920.                     