@@695976

txt Without entering upon a discussion of the prerogative of the Senate in the matter of Cabinet officers held over from one President to another , the motive behind the attitude of some Senators is worth scrutiny . : Nothing is said by them about Secretary Davis of the Department of Labor . The attack is notably directed against Secretary Mellon . If it had been made with a sincere desire to clear up a doubtful constitutional question the names of both these officers would have been mentioned in any resolution . It was most satisfactorily decided by the Supreme Court that the President did not require the permission or even the advice of the Senate when he wanted to fire somebody . Their advice and consent apply to certain specified appointments only , and to reappointments as , for instance . that of an Interstate Commerce Commissioner where the office holder has served a specified term of years . It is notorious that certain Senators have a grievance against the Treasury Department and at least one of the reasons is that Secretary Mellon has , on various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other authorities than Shakespeare have pointed out that forgiveness belongs to the injured and that the wronger does not pardon his victim . There was a chance to humiliate the Secretary of the Treasury , even if a majority of the Senate ultimately confirmed his reappointment . This is obvious enough but it does not bring us to the true , if unconscious , reason for this hostility . It is one which brings out a radical defect of democracy itself , where matters of policy , however intricate and technical , are decided by counting noses . There will always be distrust of the competent man . The mob will always choose a leader with theatrical appeal . including what the Scot calls the gift of the gab . Some able Inca have the ability to make speeches and some Senators have that ability to the exclusion of everything else . Mr. Mellon 's offense against the United States Senate , or at any rate a highly articulate section of it , is that he is a competent business man who has handled the post-war problems cf finance in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to make us believe that the established economies , due to the Coolidge-Mellon policy , would have come about of themselves . This is not so : there was every opportunity for renewed waste but a strong Secretary of the Treasury prevented it . At least the thinking people of the country will recognize that it is the Senators , and not Secretary Mellon , who should do the explaining .                     