@@686749

txt The mystery as to whether the British Government more than a year ago sought to induce the United States Government to agree to a cancellation of the interallied war debt totaling many billions of dollars was cleared today when Treasury officials revealed to the Senate Committee on Finance that two such proposals were made  --  the first by the then British Chancellor of the Exchequer , Austen Chamberlain , and the second by Premier Lloyd George in a personal letter to President Wilson . The disclosures were made during the hearing by the committee on the bill proposing to clothe the Secretary of the Treasury with arbitrary power to deal as he deems necessary with the refunding of war debts owed the United States by the allied and associated Governments . Secretary of ? the Treasury Mellon was in the witness chair when the Chamberlain cablegram  --  a communication for It . C. Leffingwell , then Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , through R. C. Lyndsay , the British Charg ? d'Affaires in Washington  --  and the Lloyd George letter to President Wilson were brought to light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose request Secretary Mellon was summoned before the committee , developed the existence of the two documents . They were produced , or rather copies and extracts of them , - by Eliot Wadsworth , an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , who accompanied Secretary Mellon to the hearing . Not Favorably Received . No effort was made by the committee at today 's hearing to obtain the replies which probably were made to the Chamberlain and Lloyd George proposals , but it was indicated by Mr. Wadsworth , in answer to questions , that there was nothing on record in the Treasury Department showing that either President Wilson or Assistant Secretary Leffingwell had been disposed to accede to the suggestions . Mr. Wadsworth said he understood the proposals were not favorably received by the Wilson Administration . Senator Watson of Indiana asked Secretary Mellon the direct question if he favored an all-around ? cancellation of interallied war debts . Mr. Mellon shook his head vigorously in the negative . Only part of the British Chancellor 's cablegram was made public , the major part of it , dealing with matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extract of the Lloyd George letter to President Wilson , which the latter had sent to the Treasury Department , was read to the committee . A note sent by the British Charg ? d'Affaires , Mr. Lindsay , to Mr. Leffingwell , enclosing the cablegram from the Chancellor , dated Feb. 9 , 1920 , disclosed : that the British and American officials ' had conferred at the Metropolitan Club here , and that the British official had telegraphed the substance of the conversation to London . the Chancellor 's cablegram resulting . In the Metropolitan Club conversation . it was indicated , Mr. Leffingwell , who was instrusted with the handling of the foreign loans , had predicted great financial difficulties in America , and also was pessimistic as to the outlook in Continental Europe , and thought Great Britain was gravely imperiled by prospective European conditions . In replying , the British Chancellor said he was not despondent about the British situation , although it was full of difficulty , but conceded that the British position was profoundly affected by the position in Continental Europe . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that part of his message made public today , " it is evident that a financial crisis in America would gravely endanger the incipient recovery in Continental Europe . It is impossible to foresee the consequences . ' With the Continent a prey to bankruptcy and possibly to anarchy , and the United States unable to provide credits of any sort , owing to the internal crisis , the world 's position would be indeed serious . If I borrowed from the United States . Accordingly the British Government has informed the French Government that it equitable arrangement cellationuof interallied indebtedness , but that TO CANCEL ALL DEBT 7oirlltrereductionagree e to an y. arrangement must be one which applies all " around . " As you know , the representatives of the . Allies and of Germany are meeting at ' Geneva in a week or two to commence discussion on the subject of reparations . I recognize that in the midst of a Presidential election and with Congress not in session it is impossible for the United States to deal with this question in a practical manner , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe and indeed to the relations between the allied and associated powers that I should very much welcome any advice which you might feel yourself able to give me as to the best method of securing that the whole problem could be considered and settled by the United States Government in concert with its associates at the earliest possible moment that the political situation in America makes possible . " There is another point which I would like to add . When the British Government decided that it could not deal with the question of the debts owed it by its allies except as part and parcel of an all-round arrangement of inter-allied debts , the Chancellor of the Exchequer told Mr. Rathbone that he could not proceed any further with the , negotiations which they had been conducting together with regard to the postponement of the payment of interest on the funding of Great Britain 's debts to America . - " I should like to make it plain that this is due to no reluctance on the part of Great Britain to fund its debt , but solely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any arrangement which would prejudice the working of any interallied arrangement which may be reached in the future . If some method can be found for funding the British debt which does not prejudice the larger question the British Government will be glad to fall in with it . " No Intention to Cancel Debts . Senator Simmons , ranking Democratic member of the Finance Committee and its Chairman during the war days , asked Assistant Secretary Wadsworth if he had any reason to believe the Brit ish proposals . were seriously entertained by officials of the American Government at the time they were made . Mr. Wadsworth replied he understood no such thought was in their minds . " Then why pursue this further ? " Senator Simmons asked his colleagues on the committee . " No one favors cancellation of these debts now . " Senator La Follette retorted that the bill under consideration proposes to give the Secretary of the Treasury unlimited authority in connection with the funding of the war loans , nand he wanted to develop what was in the minds of European statesmen in regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that no authority was requested in the bill to cancel the loans , and reiterated his disapproval of any such course . During the examination members of the committee also drew from Secretary Mellon the statement that he did not ' recognize any obligation on the part of the United States to pay out any additional amounts of money to any of the foreign Governments for whom credits were established in this country , and said he would make no further paynients without Congressional authorization . Assistant Secretary Wadsworth , who succeeded Mr. Leffingwell in charge of foreign loans , called his chief 's , attention to the fact that it would be necessary to make some further settlements . He cited particularly claims made by the War Department and thea-ShiPping Board against the $6:000,000 credit of the Government of Czechoslovakia- , amounting to about , s3,000,000 " expended in repatriating troops of the new republic from Siberia . It developed , however , that this would be in the nature of a bookkeeping transaction , and that none of the money would go out of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tic meant no money of the United States Treasury in the future would be sent out of the country in connection with the war loans , and he expressed the opinion that it would not be necessary for the Treasury to advance any additional money on the so-called credits still due seme countries , including France , which has an unexpended credit with the Treasury of the United States on its war loans of $50,000,000 , to take care of claims resulting from French contracts let to American firms . ' As no claims had ? been presented against this , credit in two yearn , Mr. Mellon thought he was safe in saying it would soon be wiped off the books . He revealed that an Italian credit of $3,1,121 , - 000 had been closed on March 29 , 1921 , the Italian Government net having used it . Mr. Wadsworth , prompted by Senator Reed of Missouri , told of the war loan to ? Greece . It was disclosed that an agreement was made by England , France and the United States to finance Greece in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reed said was not necessary to reveal . The United States alone advanced money to Greece , allowing her $15,000,000 . Greece claims an existing credit of $33,236,000 in the United States Treasury . Secretary Mellon let - It be known that there was no chance of this claim being recognized , although it was admitted Greece is still clamoring for financial assistance here . It was intimated that the return of King Constantine to the throne had caused England and France to forget their part of the bargain with Greece , made when Venizelos was in control at Athens . Just before the downfall of Venizelos , it was stated , Greece asked the United States for an additional loan of $5,000 , - 000. ' but the request was not honored by the Treasury Department . Greek Claim Unsatisfactory . Senator Reed wanted to know if the United States would not be required under its pledge to make further payments to Greece if they were demanded . Assistant Secretary Wadsworth said not , maintaining that Greece would not be able to produce proof of its claim ' . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim was not satisfactory . It also was indicated that Liberia stands little , if any , chance of getting out of the United States Treasury any part of the $5,000,000 loan authorized to that country during the war . Only a small part of that loan , used to pay the expenses of Liberian delegates . to the Paris Peace Conference , was advaric.ed , it was stated . Secretary Mellon had little opportunity at the hearing today to explain the necessity of the authority he seeks in the proposed bill . The development i by Senator La Follette of the existence of the British debt cancellation proposals shifted the interest to those documents . The committee also displayed interest in the statement that several cases full of records connected with the war loans made by the United States were in possession of the Senate Committee on : Judiciary.Senator Reed explained that they had ' been brought before the Judiciary Committee at his request at the time his bill to prohibit further pay , ments on loans was under consideration . He said the pertinent documents in these records had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidential pamphlet , a copy of which he displayed to the committee . The Missouri Senator said he had been trying to get permission to make this confidential pamphlet public , but had not yet succeeded in gaining the consent of administrative officials . it wsa decided to ask the Judiciary Committee to turn . over to the Finance Committee all of the loan documents for study in connection with the special ? legislation requested by the Treasury Department . ? The hearing will be resumed tornorrow , when Secretary Mellon 's explanation will be continued . BRITAIN DID ASK US ? // may venture on what I fear is controversial ground , I may say that it is largely because of these dangers that we should welcome a general cancellation of the inter-Governmental war debts . The moral effect would even be a greater political change , and fresh hope and confidence would spring up everywhere . The existence of these international debts deters neutrals from giving assistance , checks private credits and will , I fear , prove a disturbing factor in future international relations . " Text of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George to President Wilson was dated . Aug. 5 , 1020 . Evidently it dealt with several subjects of international import . The extract made public today follows ; ? " I come now to the other question I wish to write to you about , and that is the knotty problem of inter-allied indebtedness . Indeed , I promised Mr. Rathbone ( the unofficial American representative of the United States on the Allied Reparations Commission ) king ago that I would write to you about it , but I had to put it off for one reason and another till now . " The British and French Governments have been discussing during the last four months the question of giving fixity and definiteness to Germany 's reparation obligations . The British Government has stood steadily by the View that it was vital that Germany 's liabilities should be fixed at a figure which it was within the reasonable capacity of Germany to pay , and that this figure should be fixed without delay because the reconstruction of Central Europe could not begin nor could the Allies themselves raise money on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reparation until her liabilities had been exactly defined . " After great difficulties with his own People , M. Millerand found himself able to accept this view  --  but he pointed out that it was impossible for France to agree to accept nothing less than it was entitled to under the treaty , unless its debts to its allies and associates in the war were treated in the same way . " This declatation appeared to British Government eminently fair .. But after careful consideration they came to the conclusion that it was impossible to remit any part of what was owed to them by France except as part and parcel of all around settlement of interallied indebtedness . I need not go into the reasons which led to this conclusion , which must be clear to you . But the personal reason was that British public opinion would never support a one-sided arrangement at its sole expense and that if such a one-sided Qxrangement were made it could not fail to estrange and eventually embitter the relations between the American and British people with calamitous results to the future world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Great Britain borrowed from the United States about half as much as its total loans to the Allies , and that after America 's entry into the war it lent to the Allies almost exactly the same amount as ' it . .                     