@@694078

txt Ambassador Hugh S. Gibson , Chairman of the Tripower Naval Conference and head of the American delegation , re-established direct official contact with the British and Japanese delegations today and again assumed direction of the situation . This action followed word brought to him that the British experts , who have been conferring with the Japanese almost constantly since the last plenary session on Thursday , had agreed to a total tonnage of 500.000 for cruisers and destroyers as a basis of discussion . This means 300,000 tons for cruisers and 200.000 for destroyers for Great Britain and the United States , which are the maximum figures Japan is willing to accept , and also the maxima originally proposed by the United States . But no actual British-Japanese agreement has been reached despite reports to that effect . All the British have agreed to do is to consider this total and within it to try to figure out what units can be apportioned to each power . Therefore , Mr. Gibson has agreed to remain cheerful for at least another week in the hope that a specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event he considers that two more weeks ' crowd then be necessary for the work of drafting a naval limitation treaty . Gibson Held Not in Tight Corner . Consequently , the duration of the conference may be either one 1. veels o : three , for if full progress toward an agreement is not made by the end of the present week , the Americans , many think . may then , indeed , Hack their trunks . This view is based on the ground that good may come even from disagreement , provided that the disagreement is not permitted to drag along . Likewise , a report to the effect that the British and Japanese have got together with a plan which , in view of Mr. Gibson 's speech at the plenary session last week , now puts him in an awkward position ( due for a diplomatic defeat ) may be dismissed as baseless . Mr Gibson 's words on that ocUv sion were : " We feel that we are in such close agreement with the Japanese delegation with respect to total tonnage limitation and types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of agreement with them . " But that is not enough . MI three of us must be in agreement . " If some basis can be found which is mutually acceptable to the British and Japanese delegations , I feel sure that it will be possible for the American delegation to make the agreement complete . " This Week Regarded Critical . The basis that has been found is merely that the British now express a willingness to talk in terms of 500,000 tons , but that does not mean that they have framed an accord with the Japanese against the United States , nor that any of the three powers can yet agree with the others on all details . Mr. Gibson , who has been informed of everything that has happened during the British-Japanese pourparlers , declares that their procedure has been " perfectly correct . " Thus the critical week , which , many think , will spell success or failure , now begins , after four weeks spent in finding a common talking point . The mere fact that the British are willing to talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign , is not taken here as a positive indication that the conference will be a success . Such a happy result can not yet be considered to have more than a 50-50 chance of coming to pass . It is definitely known that twice since the plenary session the British delegation has had sharp reminders from Downing Street that undue de- lay at Geneva is extremely dangerous not only from the standpoint of educating the American public to Great Britain 's needs for a big navy but also from that of anglo-American relations , to jeopardize which would be considered unfortunate by the British Government . Americans Firm for Big Guns . The British have been asserting , particularly since the last plenary session , that Mr. Gibson and the Americans insist on having their own way . The Americans recognize clearly that while in some respects the Japanese favor their proposals , in others they side with the British . Let all that be as it may , says Mr. Gibson in effect , but some things shall never be . The Americans will never cede 8 for 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will never accept the principles of shortened age limits , permitting the retention of obsolete ships . The Americans will never agree on submarine parity with Japan . Naturally , if Great Britain should decide upon the national sacrifice of giving up her three naval bases flanking the American coast and the Panama Canal the foregoing propositions might be modified . But Great Britain seems as yet unmoved to such a sacrifice . Two in Accord on Big Cruisers . So , says Mr. Gibson again in effect , unless these things , namely , 6-inch guns and such , are forgotten we shall have no further reason to talk . With such a treaty we would not even dare to go home , and even if we did slip in the Senate would soon throw the treaty out . Therefore , it is npw evident that the British assertion . appears to be quite correct . The Americans , it seems , propose to run the conference from now on for a period of one week . Following this morning 's meeting of the chief delegates Mr. Gibson called in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It lasted for three hours . Then it developed that the other powers were in accord on a 10,000-ton cruiser apportionment of twelve each for Great Britain and America and eight for Japan . American experts were so outspoken against this that a rumor at once cropped out that they were in disagreement with Mr. Gibson . This has not been substantiated but tonight the Chairman declined to see the press .                     