@@694095

txt Playing the combined parts of Sherlock Holmes , Hard Boiled Smith , and Leonidas at Thermopylae , Policeman Edward Campion last night arrested two men and a woman , stood them at attention for half an hour while a patrol wagon dallied , and held off a crowd of 500 men , women , and children who had gathered about the Adams street entrance to the Federal building to try to find out what it was all about . Campion is regularly assigned to duty in the traffic court , which does n't give him much opportunity to display his prowess as a sleuth . But last night he was off duty . He went to the postoffice and kept a sharp lookout on the general delivery window . Detectives often do this . Enters a Stranger . Ah Ha ! By and by came a stranger . He carried a woman 's red coat over his left arm and he asked if there was any mail for Jack McCann . There was none and ho turned to go . Lip stepped Policeman Campion . " You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me . " Mr. McCann , mildly surprised , agreed after Policeman Campion had flashed his star . As they walked out of the building , McCann waved to an automobile standing at the curb . In it were his friends , Mr. and Mrs. hfetinut Ganzhoran of 712 North Dearborn street . " What ? " said Campion . " Two more in the party ? This looks more suspicious than it was before . You get out and come over here , too . " Part IL  --  Hard Boiled Smith . So the Ganzhorans and AicCann were marched over to the wall of the somewhat grimy federal building and given their direct orders by the policeman , now in the role of Hard Boiled Smith . " Keep your faces to the wall , " he maid . " And keep your hands down , along the seams of your trousers . " A passerby was sent to summon the wagon . It was late . The crowd gathered . Policeman Campion , with one hand on his holster , waved the other to the throng , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! " he shouted . Tho Mystery Is Explained . The constantly augmented crowd kept its respectful distance and the prisoners stood firm until the patrol wagon , resummoned by another summoner , arrived . The men and the women were taken to the Central station and Sergi . Lawrence McCarthy started some old fashioned sleuthing . Lie called McCann 's home at 4048 Broadway and asked what he had gone lowntown for . " He was expecting a letter from his niece , " was the answer , " and he went , o get it . " The trio were released .                     