@@693736

txt Reports from London that the British proposals at the coming three-po er naval conference may wen be more far-reaching that thhose of President Coolidge are accepted here as probably true , inasmuch as the United ; States is concerned primarily with the essential elements of the basic problem , while Great Britain from her distant possessions and the problems of defense they involve , might well have many detailed matters to present in a program of limitation . There was evidence today , however , that any effort by Great Britain to reduce the size of cruisers below the 10,000-ton maximum now established will find opposition by the United States . While the smaller-tyre cruiser is particularly well adapted to protect the trade routes of the British Empire and can be operated effectively because of the extensive system of naval bases England possesses , the United States has no such network of naval bases and therefore needs cruisers of great cruising radius . In addition Britain has four battle cruisers of the 26,000-ton type , whereas the United States has none , and can build none under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American naval experts that the best defense is not only strong " protection , " but also good " offense " and this two-fold object they believe is well met in 10,000-ton cruisers . Preparations for the conference by the Navy Department are running to technical questions . It was indicated today , in this connection , that the department was in frequent consultation with its officers at Geneva . They , it is understood , in turn are it frequent consultation with officials of other countries in the Swiss city . It is this exchange which . it was assumed , was referred to in THE NEW Yona --  Truss cablegram from London yesterday , which mentioned that progress was being made toward a preliminary accord by informal communications in advance of the June meeting . Information as to the character of these exchanges , or the basis upon which the navy is working in preparation for the conference , was not ' vouchsafed , but it was intimated that the American proposals would be directed primarily to limitation of armaznents in the auxiliary t ; - pes of vessels not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference fail to bring a limitation on vessels not limited by the Washington Treaty the Seventieth Congress will authorize a cruiser building program that will place the United States on a parity in fighting strength with Great Britain and exceed Japan 's , in the belief of Senator Hale . Chairman of the Senate - aval Affairs Committee , who conferred with President Coolidge toe.a2. - on patronage matters , but emphasized that he had not discussed naval building i ? icy . Representative Thomas S. Butler , Chairman of the House Naval Affairs Co mittee , anAher White House caller , expressed a similar opinion . He did not confer with President Coolidge . Senator Hale wac inclined to think that the conference would reach results which would make unnecessary a large building program . Air . Butler , on the other band , said he was confident the conference would not reach any real conclusions and tht. it was doomed to failure when France and Italy declined to participate . Senator Hale felt that the next Congi iss would certainly authorize more cruisers to give the United States at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 10,000-ton type . He said that , in urging such a program , he was following the recommendations of American experts who had testified before the Naval Commission . Mr. Butler called upon officials of the navy today and urged them to award the cruisers appropriated for in the last Congress to private yards . " Unless some work is given to private yards they will go out of business and we will not have them in years to come when we might need them , " he said " Navy yards . most of which are politically controlled , can not build the ships as cheaply as private concerns . It is not their function and they should keep to making repairs . "                     