@@685191

txt The notion that a five-cent fare is a " psychological necessity , " in Secretary . BAKSR 's phrase , because real estate values depend upon it , has been superseded by the discovery that the existence of the companies is a superior necessity , and a better safeguard of real estate values than the collapse of the companies because of starvation on nickel fares . As a matter of fact , fifty-nine cities were paying 10 cents some months ago , and the number is larger now . The nickel fare has been increased in 413 cities , in all States but three , by a population over 33,000,000 : over 70 per cent . of the population of the nation if interurban companies be included with the city companies . There were seventy-five rates of traction fares months ago . New York is the conspicuous exception , and is not happy with its nickel fares . The nickel fares , with or without paid-for transfers , come higher than When two or three rides could be had for one payment . Oftentimes walking is compulsm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or is uncomfortable when extemporized services are substituted with four nines the longest for a nickel . When the energetic New York City officials Invited bids for bus services on loner routes there were no offers , and buses are scarce outside of the crowded hours . Of extension of bus service into undeveloped territory in hope of future profits , such as was expected and received from the trolley companies , and exacted from the dual subway , there is not the faintest hope . Whoever is accessible to reason must admit that there is reason behind the movement for some orderly settlement of the difficulty in this city and State . The measure now pending is permikeive , not mandatory , and follows the plan which has been approved by experience where it has been tried . The cost-of-service plan , or slidingfare plan , is a rational substitute for the plan which has failed because of its inflexibility , of fares on the one hand , and on the other hand of will to agree to modifications of contract on the part of the authorities . Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another inflexible contract for the one which has caused the trouble , and of substituting those charged with the responsibility of fare regulation for those trustees of city interests who are so true to their trusts that they defeat the object cf their trusteeship . Even they are still to have another opportunity to agree upon the plan , which is no novelty , but has been approved by other officials in like conditions . The plan proposes a budget for the traction companies , with features bearing a general resemblance to the steam railway plan which the country has approved . The maximum of LO per cent . on investment is named , but not fixed , for the entire plan is subject to agreement . Above that there la to be a division of the excess among the local authorities , the corporation and a fund for the reduction of Ian when reduction is justified by conditions . Reservation is made of the rapid transit act affecting this city , and provision is made in general terms applying to this city by description Whereby the failure of the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Public Service Commission for a determination of a substitute contract according to decision after hearings . Nothing human is above criticism , but here at least is a balance of merit and an opportunity to prevent bad conditions from becoming worse as the result of ill-considered attempts to better them by indirection and duress . What , Is needed is some means of passing over the war crisis , without which there would have been no need of ac. tion . If the War Labor Board had nol ordered that wages should be raised , and neglected to . order that fare ' should be raised , there would have been no trouble . The contracts ant franchises ara not defective in them ? selves , and when the war emergency has passed all may become as it was before , unless the new agreementE may prove themselves preferable with their hopes of less than anickel fare . That has been the result in Some other cases , and there is nothing impossible about such a happy ending here . A settlement by agreement , which is tee first alternative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a settlement by bankruptcies , or by statute , or by mandate of an official committed inflexibly to any adjustment which bus been proved ' a misfit by facts beyond his control . There are no profits , pecuniary or political , in quarrels , particularly for the party on the wrong side of the - dispute.                     