@@693991

txt Possibility of an early crisis in the nage negotiations now pending be-1 tween oilicials of the Chicago Surface .. lines and leaders of the conductors and motormen 's union loomed yester ? day , following the positive refusal of President Henry A. Blair of the street car lines and his committee to accede to the demands of the men for a wage ! fierce-se and free sick benellts and insurance . President William Quinlan of the union indicated after the meeting . which took place in Mr. Blair 's oftice , that he would report the , lack of progress so far in the negotiations at a meeting of the men early next week . " And so far as I 'm concerned , " he added , " I ca n't see much need of seeking further conferences with Mr. Blair . though I 'm ready to see him at any time he desires to see me . " Men Are Not Satisfied . " Does that mean you might call a strike ? " he was asked . " 51y men are not satisfied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the surface lines ' and elevated union locals recently . by overwhelming majorities , conferred strike authority upon their officials , empowering them to call the men off their jobs it in their opinion the situation might narrant such action . The wage negotiations on the elevated were reported to be progressing smoothly . President Frank H. Lawrence , of the elevated union . stated he will confer with his membership tomorrow night and meet the road 's officials again on Tuesday . Would Join In Strike . " But of course , " he said , " our men will walk out also In case the surface lines ' parleys end In a strike . " William D. Mahon , international president of the union , is expected to enter the controversy in the role of attempted peacemaker . He was reported to be III yesterday and unable to take part in the surface lines ' meeting . but it is understood he will seek a conference with Mr. Blair within tho next day or two . Mr. Mahon is believed to bo strongly opposed to a walkout if It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface lines ' men a wage increase of 15 cents per hour . raising their maxi . mum to 90 cent per hour , and sick benefits and free Insurance such tut in effect on the elevated system now . Mr. Lawrence is requesting from the Chicago Rapid Transit company officials a 15 cent per hour raise , which would boost tho " L " maximum to 92 cents . No Talk of Compromise . No talk of a compromise has yet entered into the surface lines ' negotiations , Mr. Quinlan said yesterday . He said Mr. Blair 's invariable answer has been that ho could in no way meet the demands . It would cost the surface line 37,500 , - 000 annually to grant the 15 cent wage increase . which would be added to the gross wago bill of $30,000,000 , it was contended , with the added statement that the increase could nut be met without an Increase of one cent In the fare .                     