@@695619

txt An appeal to avoid political bitterness and an . assurance that in his administration as President of the United States he " shall seek to deal with absolute fairness and justice to every section of our common country , " are contained in a letter written by Herbert Hoover to Richard H. Edmonds , editor of the Manufacturers ' Record of Baltimore , made public here today . The Hoover letter , written Nov. 7 , was in response to a request from Mr. Edmonds , whose periodical is devoted chiefly to the development DP Southern resources . In his letter , Mr. Hoover Shows his anxiety to have partisan bitterness ended . He says he " is not . at all unmindful of the conditions which for years brought about the political solidarity of the South , " an apparent reference to the race question and resentment to the Republican Party 's reconstruction policy following the Civil War ; but he expresses the belief " that the time has come when in. all sections men and women should vote from their convictions as to conditions at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generations . " In calling upon the people of the South to participate in political contests as a duty , Mr. Hoover says : " I want to make very emphatic that I give full credit to those who voted for my opponent for the sincerity and honesty of their convictions . " He promises the South his fullest cooperation in developing its natural resources and declares especially that the intercoastal canal system should extend eventually " all the way from Boston to the end of Texas . " Text of Hoover 's Letter . Mr. Hoover 's letter reads as follows : Palo Alto , Cal. , Nov. 7 , 1928 . Mr. Richard H. Edmonds , editor Manufacturers ' Record , Baltimore , Md . Dear Mr. Edmonds ? I am profoundly appreciative of the extremely heavy vote throughout the South for Mr. Curtis and myself . I accept this vote , not as a personal tribute but as an expression of a developing sentiment throughout the South in behalf of the things for which the Republican Party has stood in this campaign ; and while desiring to express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profound appreciation of the honor thus done us , I want to make very emphatic that I give full credit to those who voted for my opponent for the sincerity and honesty of their convictions . I am not at all unmindful of the conditions which for years brought about the political solidarity of the South . I firmly believe , however , that the time has come when in all sections men and women should vote from their convictions as to conditions at the present time and not based on things of former generations . The safety Of this country and its continued progress toward this exalted position for which Provi dente seems to have destined it , can in my opinion ' be best served by a diversity of thought and ac. tion which will cause all of . the voters of : this country to recognize their individual responsibility to take part in every political campaign . In every community and every State , as well as in national elec tions , all the people should recog ? nize this ' duty to express their views on local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fri such contests all ; bitterness of spirit should be wiped out . However strong may be convictions or issues ' =before the public , - these political contests should be waged in a spirit of friendly , active rivalry , but not in a spirit of bitter , denun- elation of any one party against the other . Predicts South 's Advancement . I trust that it is needless for me to say to the people of the South that I am fully appreciative of the great potentialities of that section . With one-third of the nation 's land area , with about three-fifths of its sea frontage , with vast resources in soil , climate and minerals , . no limit can be set to the continued progress and ever-increasing prosperity of the whole South . There are great water ' powers awaiting development and , as I have said before , every drop of water that unutilized runs its coursaidly , to the sea is an economic loss . There are great potentialities in the extension of the intercoastal canal system , which eventually should extend all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And to the - furtherance of the development of these waterways and the possibilities for hydroelectric power not yet utilized for the fullest up building of the Mississippi River Valley country by adequate flood - protection , I can promise to the South my heartiest cooperation. ? I can assure the people of the South , as . well as those of the entire country , that in my Administration I shall know no difference between North , South , East and West , but shall seek to- deal with absolute fairness and justice to every section of our common country . Will Enrich the Nation . There are great economic ' issues and vast economic potentialities in every part of this country , from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from the Lakes to the Gulf . It is well said that " the development of the South means the enrichment of the nation , " and this is true not only in the material sense , but also in the broader sense of the development of the spirit of Americanism which will permeate the lives of the people of the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have ever ' known before a genuine Americanism instead of a certain degree of sectionalism . It is right that every State and every section should seek its utmost advancement , but there should be no spirit of ill-will or rivalry , for there is , enough for all and possibilities for growth and prosperity in ever part of this land greater far than the world has ever yet , seen . Again would I express to the people of the South who have in such vast numbers by their votes shown their confidence in Mr. Curtis and myself , my profound appreciation . If it is within my power to prevent it , they shall never feel that they made a mistake in this particular , Faithfully yours , HERBERT HOOVER .                     