@@689805

txt The mass of federal laws designed to regulate everything from the moral conduct of the individual to the economic conduct of business and industry received abOut every shot in the locker of W. L. Harding , former governor of Iowa , and CoL Ned Arden Flood of New York , who spoke at the annual midwinter dinner of the Illinois Bankers ' association last nighi . Both speakers denounced bloc legislation , political tinkering with economic problems , and the varied activities of reformers and agitators , And both met with approbation from %their ' audience of 700 Illinois bankers . Whether this year will be a good business year depends on how folks act ; if they stop complaining and work it will he a good year . This was tho prophecy of Mr. Harding . Farmers ' Remedy Economic . " The price the farmer is receiving for his products Is still out of line with what he has to pay for the things he buys , " he said . " The remedy is wholly economic and not legislative . The magic wand of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic problem . They can disturb but they can not settle . " The transportation problem is Imrely one of business . There is so much political regulation now that the wheels are slipping . The railroads need more business sand and fess political grease . The railroads , if coordinated in a business way with water transportation that is available , could pay dividends and reduce freight charges . " We have mortgaged this country to at least one-sixth of the total wealth that has been produced since tho government started- In 1921 one dollar out of every six of the wealth produced was diverted to pay taxes ; in other words , we all work Monday of each week in the year to pay our taxes . I say Monday because taxes come : first . It our bonded IndebtednesS is ever paid it must be paid out of the-wealth produced from year to year .. Scores Paternalistic Trend . " ' The people are now , carrying a burden of taxation beyond their capacity . What has this expense been for ? Somewbat , It is paternal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral and financial mentor for the individual . Nearly every , possible activity now is thoroughly arid mightily regulated . If we can get into the thinking of Americana the fundamental conception that work and . confldence will bring reward and that the ' least government is the best gtiverninent , may have prosperity and make real progress . " ? Court Finds There Is No Law Against This Narcotic Indian hemp , : a narcotic agent , is not prohibited from sale in Illinois , it was learned yesterday in Judge Heap 's court . Peter Gondzales , 18 South Peoria street , was charged with selling cigarets made of the hemp . Investigation disclosed ' that there is no law against IL Gondzales was dischargetl.                     