@@685929

txt New York City , in yesterday 's election , gave its vote overwhelmingly to Senator Warren G. Harding , Republican candidate for President ; to Calvin Coolidge , Republican candidate for Vice President , and to Alfred E. Smith , Democratic candidate for Governor . Senator Harding carried every Assembly District in the Greater City with one exception  --  the First Assembly District , which , is Governor Smith 's home district . This gave Cox a plurality of about 400 votes . In the minor contests the Republicans made some gains , although these were nothing like what might have been expected from the overwhelming sweep made by the Presidential ticket . This result was greatly facilitated by the three ballots instituted by the Board of Elections , one for the Presidency , one for the State ticket ( which also included the Congressional candidates ) , and one for the constitutional amendment and bonus proposal . The separation made ticket splitting easy , and the voters took full advantage of it . Harding 's victory in the city was overwhelming . At 3 A. M. today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican candidate for the Presidency in the city was indicated as about 443,000 . Manhattan gave a Republican Presidential plurality of about 136,000 ; the Bronx , 62,000 ; ** Queens , 61,000 , and Richmond , 7,000 . Striking Support of Smith . But on the State ticket it was quite a different story . The same hour that found Harding victorious by 443,000 in the normally Democratic city of New York , showed Alfred E. Smith , Democrat , leading Judge Nathan Miller , his Republican orPonent for the governorship , by 325,000 plurality . Seine murmurs were heard among those displeased with the result , that Tammany had traded VOW ; for Herding for votes for Smith . and the figures in Charles P. Murphy 's own district , the Second Election District of the Twelfth Assembly District , were pointed to as proof of the deal . That district ' gave Harding 205 votes against 133 for Cox  - -  a plurality of 72 votes  --  and It threw 80 votes to Debs ( Soc . ) . It gave Governor Smith 254 votes , against 88 for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the separate ballots accountA for the discrepancy was not taken into consideration by the indignant Democrats who protested . Wadsworth Wins In /he City . On the basis of returns , still incomplete , Harry C. Walker , the Democratic candidate for ' United States Senator , had an indicated total vote In the five boroughs of about . 410,000 , while the indi-. cated vote of James W. Wadsworth , Jr. , his Republican opponent , was about ' 470,000 , showing a plurality for Wadsworth of 09,000 in the whole city . In Manhattan , Walker had a slight lead over Wadsworth , hut this was much more than offset by the vote in the other boroughs . Manhattan Democratic Judgen May 11111 ' 0 Won . Returns from a mere 50 election districts out of the PM in Manhattan indicated that Edward A. Swann and the other Democratic candidates for the Supreme Court in the contested judgefillips won out over their Republican opponents . In the vote as reported these four Democratic candidates stood in the following order : Burr , Swann and . Reports front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success of the five Republican candidates . Anpinall , Strong , Dike , Macerate and Jsycox . On the basis of these first 50 districts , the lowest vote for a Republican candidate was 280 votes above the highest vote for any one of the Democratic nominees , Gains in Congress and Legislature . In the city contests for Congress the Republicans gained seven Congressmen , three in Brooklyn and four in Manhattan and the Bronx , including Ogden L. Mills , who defeated H. C. Pell , the present Democratic representative from the Seventeenth District . In the contest for the Legislature , with returns from the districts still far from complete , there was indleated a Republican gain of . five Senators and two Assemblymen in the delegations from this city . There was also an innovation ; Marian H. Laing ( Cocialist ) of the Bronx was elected . to the Assembly from the Fifth District . She will be the first woman Socialist elected to that body . She was opposed by a Republican-Democratic fusion candidate . Four of the Socialist Assemblymen who were ousted have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District , in . Brooklyn , where Charles Solomon , one of the ousted quintet , was the candidate for reelection . Samuel A. Do Witt and Samuel Orr , the Socialist Assemblymen expelled by the Legislature last Winter and reseatcd this Fall after they had been re-elected in a special election , but who subsequently resigned , were also again elected from the Third and Fourth Bronx A.-lembly Districts , respectively .                     