@@685227

txt The " outlaw " strike began to cru:nble yesterday as it affected passenger service , but a new menace to the city food supply arose when teamsters as ' Local 202 voted to quit work at 3 o'clock this morning . The teamsters predicted that a bititer and egg famine would begin at one . The teamsters who voted to strike only those who handle butter . egg . cheese and frozen poultry . These pre , : ? ucts are moved from freight dept , ; and warehouses to wholesale and vets I ; stores by members of Local 292 . ThQ. will be eliminated from the retail market entirely unless the situation is met by the use of strikebreakers . While railroad men engaged in pas ? senger service drifted back to work in large numbers , the freight tie-up grew increasingly serious . Many factories In Brooklyn , Manhattan , New York State , New Jersey and New England were compelled to close for lack of raw materials . The coastwise shipping companies , which have kept their ships tied up for more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday to resume their service on Friday , provided local merchants agreed to make an effort to move freight with strikebreakers . This was promised by the merchants . The coastwise steamers will specialize in bringing vegetables and other foodstuffs to this city . Health Commissioner Copeland addressed strikers in Jersey City yesterday , begging them to make a truce witii the railroads under which food and milk trains could run freely . The meeting voted to refer the matter to a committee , but individuals stated afterward that Dr. Copeland 's proposals had been laughed at after he left ' the meeting . Volunteers Flre Trains . Hundreds of volunteers  --  American Legion men , college students , business men and professional men  --  offered their services to the railroads yesterday , fired a number of " indignation specials " and worked in the railroad yards in Jersey City . Reversing for the emergency their slogan to the effect that the man who " trains the mind " is more important than the roan who " minds the trains , " university men and instructors flocked to the railroad yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools . One crew was pulled Of a train at Babylon , L. I. , another war attacked in Hoboken and others were threatened on Long Island and in New Jersey , but the strikers generally contented themselves with jeering and hooting at their successors . Railroad officials asserted that , the strike was breaking , while union leaders , asserted that they were stronger that ever . The railroad officials.pointed td the fact that the strikers , for the first day since the beginning of the trouble , had failed . to make any gains , and had , on the contrary , lost so many strikers by desertion that the Pennsylvania , Erie and Jersey Central were able to improve their passenger service greatly . Edward , Chairman of the Executive Committee of the striking railroad workers , said : " We are stronger than ever . We are gaining power every moment . You can print it In your newspapers that the men will not go back to work until they receive a substantial increase in wages . They are not going to permit politicians in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thought about the college student strikebreakers , he said : " It is a good thing for them to do a real day 's work , and perhaps their experience of the hazards of the job will have some effect later in lessening economic exploitation . " Manteil Satisfied with Situation . J. J. Mantel ! , spokesman for the Railroad General Managers ' Association , said after the managers ' conference yesterday : " The railroad managers have the situation well in hand , and it Is Improving . The ' outlaws ' were rushed into a , delirium . They have reached a stage where they are sick in the , head , and . they are rapidly coming to a stage where they will be sick at heart . " President A. H. Smith of the ' Neat York Central said at a luncheon at the ' Hotel Astor : " You , on the outside , see the trouble and disturbance and interruption caused by the men who walked out . We , on the inside . however , see the reverse . We see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is true that a few hotheads have gone out , but , let me tell you , the situation is not as bad at ; - it may seem to you today . " ? Aggressive adtion against the strikers was taken by the Hudson and Manhattan Company , the Erie and other roads . The Hudson and Manhattan Company threatened to discharge permanently all employes Who failed to report at 4:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon and fill their platha With strikebreakers . This threat was reported to have brought some strikers back to work , but not enough to start the tubes today . The Erie , in paying off Men at various points on the system . called on them to sign a statement whether they would remain loyal to the company or net , with the understanding that those who refused to work would be stricken off the payroll . Other roads made an increasing use of volunteers for temporary service and of strikebreakers . The danger that the strike would spread to the trolleys appeared to he at an end . Officials of the Interborough Brotherhood made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take advantage of the situation to inflict hardship on the public . The trolley employes of the Richmond Light and Railroad Company , the only traction lines running on Staten island , voted to give the company more time to consider their demands . Strike . talk in Brooklyn and Jersey City was reported as diminishing . The strikers , in a formal statement on behalf of their new organization , the United Railway Workers of America , yesterday disavowed revolutionary or radical purposes and asserted that their one purpose in striking was to get more money to meet the cost of living . No further efforts were made by the strikers or the railroads yesterday to end the strike by agreement . HOPES OF STRIKERS FOR VICTORY WANING Brotherhood Speaker Is Cheered ' When He Urges Men to Go Back to Work . Grand View Hall in Jersey City was the scene of much activity all of yesterday , but it was plain from conversations overheard among strikers who congregated on the sidewalks outside that the men were less hopeful of victory than on the five preceding days of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the failure of the members of the Executive Committee of the newly formed United Railroad Workers of America , the organization formed by the strikers when they decided to ignore the four international railroad brotherhoods with Which they were affiliated , to matoe any headway toward a conference with the representatives of the railroads . The anxiety of the strike leaders to keep the men from discussing the strike with outsiders was evidenced all during the meeting in Grand View Hall , which began at 10 o'clock in the morning and ended soon after 6 o'clock in the evening . Sentinels were posted ' behind the wooden blinds of the hall on the second floor of the building to watch the strikers gathered ' in groups outside , and very frequently a committee of the strike leaders would summon men into the , . hail whom the sentinels reported as talking to supposed strangers . I was soon after 3 o'clock that word spread among the groups of strikers on the outside that the motormen of the Hudson tubes had decided ? by an overwhelming vote to operate trains in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitutes . The motormen in the tubes were not on strike , but when the train crews walked out several days ago they served notice on the officials of the company that they would not operate trains manned by strikebreakers . That report , when received at the meeting in Grand View Hall , had a noticeable depression on the strikers . Later in the afternoon a representative of the international office of the four brotherhoods addressed the men and urged them to return to work until the Labor Beard named by President Wilson Tuesday could take up their grievances . It is understood the labor leader talked to the men for an hour , during which time he told them that their strike was illegal in the eyes of the brotherhoods , that they had lost public sympathy by tying up the supply of foodstuffs and causing inconvenience to the traveling public and that if they did not immediately call the strike off and return to work they most likely would lose their positlo.i through the employment of others to take their places . While some of his passages were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those present , the first time that any labor man to address the men had been applauded when he advised the men to return to work . Perhaps the one thing that had the most dampening effect on the meeting was the reading of a letter from C. E. Musser , General Chairman of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen , who Warned the teen that it was the purpose of the four brotherhoods to aid the railroads to give %he public service and advised the strileea that , their walkout being unauthorized , they would better return to work . In the forenoon a committee of ten members of the International Union of Longshoremen in Jersey City , which went out on strike in sympathy with the boatmen several weeks ago , called on Mayor Frank Hague in the City Hall in Jersey City and asked him to Intercede in their behalf toward a settlement ? of their strike . Mayor Hague told the men he would endeavcer to arrange for a board of arbitration with a view to settling their strike . ? BOATS MOVE CROWDS - WITHOUT CONFUSION Record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The size of yesterday 's rush hour crowds on the ferries was a ** for the strike , but ' they were carries with little confusion , due to Unproved schedules . The Pennsylvania had eight boats in service , and unprecedented traffic was reported at Cortlandt and Desbrosses Street docks , where boats left ten minutes apart . Vehicles were forced to wait at times and boats were reserved for pedestrians . Other lines operated on schedules varying from ten minutes to half an hour . Station cafes and restaurants near the ferry houses were crowded before business hours with commuters who had left their homes without breakfast to etch the volunteer-manned suburban trains which left at unheard of hours . J , any persons carried hand luggage , hopeful of finding hotel accommodations or hospitable friends until the strike is over . The municipal ferries operated on a twenty-minute headway until 8 A. M. , when more boats were pressed into service , reducing the schedule to twelve minutes . A large number of employes of Staten Island shipyards living in New York returned to their homes when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the island had been suspended . Several concerns had provided trucks to take their men from St. George to the shipyards , in some cases several miles away . Grover A. Whalen , Commissioner of Plant and Structures , made provision yesterday for temporary automobile parking space at the St. George end of the Staten Island division of the municipal ferries . Speaking of conditions on Staten Island , Mr. Whalen said : " The paralysis of the steam railroads on Staten Island brought to St. George a , great number of motor vehicles from the tar end of the island , which would have been entirely cut oft from the rest of the city had it net been for the emergency service that I provided by opening a bus - et from Tottenville to New Dorp , w'hetea f connected with the existing line ? m New Dorp to the ferry at St. .. Ner  --  Orge . I found that many of these vehicles came loaded with commuters , all of whom wished to park their cars at the ferry until they returned . " Mines Near Cumberland to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was said at the railroad offices here today that the soft coal mines of the Georges Creek and contiguous regions , which have been more active than at any time since the war , would be compelled to close down tomorrow , due to sta.ustion of the car supply , following the ' yardmen 's strike .                     