@@685498

txt COAL AND CARS . Blame for High Prices Put on Traffic Regulators . To the Editor of The Ncio York Timcs : In the general uncertainty of the public mind regarding the cause for the nigh prices for coal it may be proper not only to attempt to locate the principal cause for the present conditions ! At also to suggest a possible remedy for them . If the figures of the Geological Survey are to be accepted . and . more coal has been mined and shipped ? this year than last , why is it that a ? countri-wide shortage exists ? Exports alone ( do not account for it , although they.Xut some figure , and it is not a fact that the railroads  --  or the operators are hoarding coal . A certain amount of profiteering there undoubtedly is , but the proportion Of those engaged in it represents but a small percentage of the producers and shippers , and if there were an ample slipply of coal the exorbitant . prices would automatically cease . Large consumers , too , have helped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other at the mines and in the Open , market for the available supply , but no one nor all of these things explain the situation . The facts are that the consumption is increasing , that the demand exceeds the supply and that everything has conspired to make this demand an urgent one . The prospect of an advance in freight rates has prompted consumers , especially those at points remote from the mines , to get their supply early , and some of them have doubtless succeeded in doing so . The fear of a scarcity has caused every consumer to want his coal at once , and the machinery for delivering It Is entirely Inadequate . The lack of sufficient cars and motive power and the . lamentable condition of rolling steel ( and roadbeds are at the bottom of the trouble . There is coal enough in the ground , and It is ridiculous to suppose that the operators are not anxious to produce as much as possible at the prevailing prices . But many mines are able to work but part time because of the lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the production and causes labor unrest . High wages mean little to the miners if they can work Only three or four days a week , and many of them are seeking more regular employment in other industries , It is a question of cars , cars -- and more cars , It remains for those who are supposed and empowered tO regulate these matters to see to it that every car in the country is put to work and also that this equipment should be so employed as to get 100 per cent . efficiency out of it . It Is probable that it this could be even approximately accomplished , the situation would be cleared up inside of three months , but to bring it about would not alone call for drastic methods on the part of the railroads regarding the unloading of cars and their return when empty , heavy demurrage penalties for delay where the consignee could unload promptly and discrimination as to the character of freight to be shipped , but It would also demand that every shipper throughout the land should cooperate with the carriers in putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same concerted and vigorous action In this matter that was shown during the war , when any great things 1144 to be done quickly and efficiently . It would seem to be a matter for prompt action by every chamber of commerce , board of trade and buminoss association throughout the country , and it is none too soon . to begin the eumpaign if the deSired results are to be accomplished . ARTHUR F. RICE , Commissioner Coat Merchants ' Association , New York , June 3O , 1920.                     