@@692706

txt Governor Smith late today approved the Republiban kHousing bill , which has been before I him since the Legislature adjourned . In an explanatory statement filed with the new statute the Governor more than intimated that the measure was not all that it ought to be . The bill signed by Governor Smith was enacted as a compromise after the Republicans had declined to pass a bill drafted by Julius Henry Cohen , counsel for the State Housing Commission , who has given years of study to the housing situation and remedial legislation . The principal difference between the Housing Commission bill and the Republican bill is that the latter meaure makes no provision for a State housing bank , as provided for in the commission 's bill , but substitutes a State Housing Board with no banking functions . " Our old friend , Mr. Politics , put his nose in the door , and the majority party in control of the Legislature conceived it to be their duty to have a bill that they called their own . Although left to themselves they initiated nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a socialistic move , " Governor Smith said In his explanatory statement . " Of course . nobody took that seriously , not even I the men that said it . " Defends Commission Bill . The Governor declared that the commission bill would have facilitated the borrowing at a minimum rate of all the money necessary , and that it presented a complete program for quasi-building operations for housing purposes . Governor Smith 's statement , in part , follows : " The bill as finally enacted leaves some of the financial Froblems in doubt , but in its main feat ores it recognizes , as I had originally suggested , the limited dividend companies as the basic element , giving to ttem , under rigid regulation by a Stale housing board , th 3 right to condemn hind needed for large-scale operations , inch as are necessary to achieve cheap construe tion . Rents are regulated and limited . Public aid to those projects is in the form of tax exemptions , positive as to certain kinds of State taxes and permissive in the case of local taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but is to be sought through Congressional action . The Housing Board which the bill creates has broad powers of regulation and control over the companies operating under the act , and has other responsibilities of study and planning that should prove vitally important in making progress in city planning and general housing development . " We must make a beginning in the attack on the entrenched system of constructing housing for speculative purposes only , and having reached the conclusion , as evidenced by this bill , that the State has a responsibility in the matter , earnest cooperation between the State and local agencies who can aid in practical ways , Sand those who can and will finance such undertaking , should soon establish results . " This legislation is not perfect . nor do I believe we have said the last word on the subject , but honest effort on the part of all those connected with its operation will soon demonstrate in what direction further aid is needed . " In approving this bill I do so with the sincere hope that . it may prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our State those blots upon civilization , the old , dilapidated . dark , unsanitary , unsafe tenement houses that long since became unfit for human habitation and certainly are no place for future citizens of New York to grow in . " The approved bill provides for net returns not to exceed 6 per eent. on the capital invested to ? the limited dividend cooperations , and gives the State Housing Board power to regulate rents and operations of such concerns . In eliminating the Housing Bank , which under the commission bill would have held title to all properties acquired by such corporations for housing purposes , the Republicans maintained that the Housing Commission plan would have had the effect ultimately of in , volving the State financially in such quasi-public building operations , where the real cure for the situation de , manded encouragement of private capital to come forward and supply the needed relief .                     