@@695654

txt Considerable surprise was expressed here today in British official circles at the news cabled from Washington that President Coolidge either has approached or soon will approach foreign powers to get their assent to the - principle of the fifth reservation attached by the Senate to American entry into the Permanent Court of International Justice at the Hague . No approach by America has yet been made here . It is not Britain alone which has questioned that fifth reservation , it is pointed out , but practically all the powers that are members of the League and adhere to the Court . These powers , all anxious , , to get American participation in the Court , accepted four of the reservations made by the Senate . The fifth  --  forbidding the Court , without - the consent of the United States , ' to entertain a request for an , advisory opinion touching " any question wherein the United States has or claims to have . an ? interest " - 7- is deemed just as difficult of acceptance now as when- it was first considered . The Liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reservation largely nullifies the usefulness of the court . " Chamberlain Back at Work . Sir Austen Chamberlain returned to the Foreign Office this afternoon . He told his associates there that he was completely restored to health and expected to attend the House of Commons either tomorrow or Wednesday . He will see Premier Baldwin tomorrow . He spent this afternoon studying the dispatches which have passed between Lord Cushenden , Acting Foreign Secretary in his absence , and various governments . His associates saw little likelihood that a conference with America over freedom of the seas , such as was suggested by Viscount Lee of Fareham , would be held in the near future . Although , as The Daily News will say tomorrow , Lord Lee " has done both countries a great service in suggesting a practical means of giving effect to the friendly feelings which unite the British and American peoples . " One gathers that the British Government is reluctant just now to take on any important new venture . The general elections are coming on . A new administration in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between now ? and next June in driving through Parliament its great scheme to reform local taxation and to readjust the machinery of local government . It is also occupied with the settlement of the reparations problem Move on Court Pleases Geneva . GENEVA , Nov. 26 ( JP ) . ? Inasmuch as the League of Nations is about to take up the question of reorganization of the World Court . of Justice , including the problem of advisory opinions , international circles regard as exceedingly timely the re- ported decision of President Coolidge to renew negotiations for the adhesion of the United States . It was recalled in official League circles today that the conference of powers in 1926 which accepted all but the fifth American reservation touching on advisory opinions , especially invited the United States to pursue the negotiations , but that since then no official word has come from Washington . Officials emphasize that the League will welcome an expression of American views and desires . Switzerland has proposed that the Council define whether unanimity or a majority vote is necessary in the Council in asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would facilitate American adhesion because the veto privilege , which Washington wants on the court 's power to grant these opinions could be rendered effective by giving to the United States the right to vote with the League Council . But many jurists fear that if the Council 's rules are definitely clarified , a majority vote of the Council would be declared to be legally sufficient . They prefer unanimity because advisory opinions frequently possess great political importance and form the basis of the actual settlement of disputes . Meantime , officials express the hope that the United States will be content with the same powers and the same uncertainty accepted by members of the Council . COURT RESERVATIONS KEPT . Assent of Signatories to Them Expected to Be Sought . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Nov. ** no formal move has been made by the State Department in the interest of clearing the way for American participation in the World Court , the matter win be taken up with President Coolidge by Secretary Kellogg 1 at or after tomorrow 's regular meeting of the Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to round out his term by I bringing this government into affiliation with the Court will soon take definite form . What method will be followed in exchanges with the nations which have adhered to the court protocol is something that Secretary Kellogg is not yet ready to disclose , granted that he has reached a conclusion on the subject . Mr. Kellogg said that he had not seen the President since the latter disclosed his World Court intentions to a group of Senators on Saturday , and therefore did not care to comment now on the information that ' an effort was to be made to overcome the obstacle to American adherence to the Court Protocol presented by the Senate reservations . After he had talked with the President , the Secretary said he probably would have some definite statement to make . Procedure on Reservations Sought . ' With reference . to Secretary Kellogg 's reticence , which excited comment at first , it was learned that the President had made it plain to his Senatorial visitors that no recent communication on the subject had been received by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was explained that no approach from or to any of the Governments which are members of the court had been made recently . Other information obtained at the State Department was that the World Court impasse had been brought to President Coolidge 's attention by Secretary Kellogg from time to time , but that no agreement had been reached to renew exchanges on the subject . Those interested are hopeful that when Secretary Kellogg sees the President tomorrow at the Cabinet session they will agree upon a method of seeking the assent of the interested governments to the troublesome Senate reservations . All that was learned today indicated that the President had no other thought in mind than to attempt to persuade these nations to withdraw their objections to the reservations . ' Unlikely to Modify Reservations . A rather widespread opinion among Senators is that there is no likelihood that the Senate will modify any of the reservations to suit the views of foreign Governments , and there is reason to believe that the President has no intention of taking that course . A pessimistic view of the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saturday 's White House conference . They feel that in view of the animosity produced in Europe by the President 's Armistice Day speech , this is not a propitious time to attempt to persuade European powers which subscribe to the court protocol to make concessions to the United States . Senator Gillett of Massachusetts , author of a resolution calling on the President to reopen the World Court matter with the signatory governments , intends to let the resolution lie dormant in the Committee on Foreign Relations pending the result of the effort to overcome foreign objections to the Senate 's reservations . Explaining the status of the Senate 's ratification of the court protocol with reservations , Secretary Kellogg said today that the reservations had been accepted by some nations , many had not answered the original communication of this government submitting the ratifying resolution and some had proposed a new form of agreement . This government , he said , had not answered these communications . He added that it had been his intention for some time to take up the matter with the governments concerned and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  