@@696193

txt Market opened firm and active but there was a selling wave right after the initial quotations which caused the market to break badly and at times the list looked quite sick . It was reported that brokers ' loans would show a big increase but the actual gain was only $19.000.000 . Then call money dropped to 12 ' and later to IG ' , - and the market rallied sharply , regaining early losses and in some cases attaining new highs on current movements . During the last hour the market moved irregularly with some issues , notably the oils . strong and others selling- off . Consolidated Gas was a feature of strength with a lot of Investment buying noted in that issue . Despite the fact that the Stock Exchange Listing statement of the United Corp . Morgan utility holding company , shows no holdings of Consolidated Gas . reports persist that this stock will ultimately be one of the corporation 's large holdings . It is pointed out that rumors of acquisition of Columbia Gas and Allied Power , which accompanied the Consolidated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and further that United s assets include ocer $11.000 000 of unspecified ? ? miscellaneous investments . ? If accumulation is still proceeuing in Consolidated Gas , it would be logical not to make this known as yeL United Corp . itself was an active feature , with over 200,000 shares traded in between 66 and 6S . Oils were definitely strong throughout with Barnsdall and Pure Oil features of strength . Investment buying of Standard Oil issues continues apace and some large blocks have been taken out of the market in the past few weeks . There was nothing in the overnight news to affect trading sentiment but brokerage advices were cautious in tone . Attention was attracted to Arthur Cutten 's statement that he was doing nothing in the market and that it was unlikely // maintained , eventually it is certain to injure business just at a time when we could naturally expect a considerable period of unexcelled prosperity ahead . " These remarks undoubtedly reflect the opinion and action of a large group of the trading fraternity and large investors . . . . Car loadings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as constructive . It is the second time this year they have passed the 1,000,000 mark . It means that business is large and increasing . Also that the railroads will continue as large buyez s of steel , rails , locomotives , cars lumber , etc . So far this year the business of the equipment companies has been larger than in the entire year 1928 and prospects are that it will continue good , as inquiries for cars and locomotives are large . Union Carbide new stock was active upon making its initial appearance on the big board , opening around 86 and holding well during The selling wave earlier in the session . Increased income is expected during the current quarter from its important new chemical plant . Westvaco Chlorine Products also made its initial eppearance selling up to 90 . Westvaco sells greater part of its production to Union Carbide.                     