@@693355

txt Under the - protection of more than 200 policemen , a selected audience of 13,000 men and women gathered in Madison Sqnit:eGarden yesterday and listened to attacks by Left Wing and Communist speakers associated with the Cloakmakers ' Union and the Furriers ' Union against tale Right Wing and anti-Communist officials of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers . Union . The meeting , advertised to permit all the cloakmakers and dressmakers to express their sentiments on the strike . was from the start in the hands of the Left Wing and Communist officers of the Joint Board of Cloakmakers. which has been deprived by the international union of the conduct of the strike . Admission to Madison Square Garden Nip supervised by the police and a committee designated by those who issued the call for the meeting . Practically the entire audience was in sympathy with the speakers , as not more than a dozen or so remained seated when the resolutions criticizing the international union officials were adopted . It was later charged by Morris Sigman , President . of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local union had been barred and that many thousands present were not cloakmakers or dressmakers , but were Left Wing and Communist recruits from other unions , notably the furriers ' union and the jewelry workers , as well as Left Win " members in other needle trade organizations . Sigman Barred From Half . Mr. Sigman was not permitted to enter when he insisted that the cloakmakers who were ejected included men who had been union members twentyfive years and more and were entitled to enter the hall , The policemen who ejected those whose credentials did not satisfy the committee of 200 at the door insisted that they were " neutral " as between the two factions . Deputy Inspector William J. was appealed to by Mr. Sigman for " a fair deal " and was informed by Mr. Sigman that the invitation was addressed to all cloakmakers and - dressmakers . The police officials replied that it " was not a union meeting , but merely one called by a group of individuals who paid for the hall and who were entitled to allow anybody they designated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police and detectives , commanded by Inspector James S. Bolan . Mr. Sigman appealed to Deputy Inspector again , alleging that the police were handling roughly those who were denied admission . The Deputy Inspector demanded to know where the " rough house was , and Mr. Sigman pointed to a knot of men being chased by the police . Mr. hurried away with the observation that " If you would n't keep me I 'll attend to it . " The police shoved many who did not respond quickly enough . The explanation for the careful sifting of the audience , offered after the meeting by Louis Hyman , Chairman of the General Strike Committee , was that it was the desire of his group to keep out all those who had tried to create riots and break up previous meetings called by the General Strike Committee . He admitted that officials ' of other unions , in addition to the invited guests on the platform , were in the audience . Observers perceived men ' who were described as members of the ' furriers ' union acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee . " Thousands Chased From Garden , The thousands who were chased from the vicinity of Madison Square Garden marched to Webster Hall , Arlington Hall , Beethoven Hall and Manhattan Lyceum , where they held indignation meetings and adopted resolutions protesting against their treatment . Half a dozen , including two Sigman supporters who are on the General Strike Committee , visited the office of Tae New Yeas TIMES and charged that 4,000 passes had been issued by Communist leaders of the furrriers ' union to those sympathetic to the Hyman faction . In the east side balls men who said they had been members of the union for twenty-five years and who had been on strike twenty-five weeks denounced who ordered them barred from the big meeting . Boos for President Sigman and applause and cheers for Mr. Hyman and the others speakers marked the meeting in the Garden . The speakers were Moses Eizbin , Ben Gold , head of the local furriers ' union ; Joseph Boruchowits . Rose Words , Julius Portnoy and Mr. Hyman . Charles Zimmerman was Chairman . As the meeting - drew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision the Arbitration Commission might make today or tomorrow in the case of the 20,000 cloakmakers employed by the American Cloak and Suit Manufacturers , he would order the , workers gathered in the halls tomorrow to return to work in the shops at once . He denied the authority of the Provisional Strike Committee , which was authorized by the international union to submit the dispute to arbitration , declared he ' and his associates were not responsible ? for any agreement made by the sub-manufacturers and the international union leaders , and said that at " the proper time " he would instruct the cloakmakers " how to act . " " We thank Mr. Hyman for nothing , " was the comment made by Mr. Sigman on the . unexpected announcement of Mr. Hyrne.n . " Certainly the strike will be called off after the arbitration decision is announced . His latest utterance merely shows that he is completely beaten . " 200 Patrolmen on Guard . More than 200 patrolmen were stationed in the vicinity of Madison Square Garden yesterday morning when the crowd began to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women were at the hall and then the West Forty-ninth Street door was opened . A committee of about 200 men and a few women , which stretched from the street door for a hundred feet to the entrance of the vast auditorium , scrutinized the credentials of every one who tried to pass the guantlet . Bight wing supporters of the Sigman administration were curtly ordered out and if they hesitated were accelerated by the committee and the police . Some Ejected From Meeting . After several thousand men and women were in the Garden committees walked up and down the aisles and picked out some who were ordered to leave . Every effort was made to ban those who might be expected to make a demonstration against the faction which called the meeting . A man who accidentally dropped a monkey wrench wrapped in newspaper was shoved out Ito the street . It was charged by Chairman Zimmerman that meetings of the proSigman supporters in the garment , union , as well as in the Amalgamated Clothing Workers , had been held in the morning and that word had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riot and chaos . " He predicted that " all sorts of stunts will be pulled " and that some one would cry " fire " in order to stampede the meeting . The prediction did not materialize and the meeting passed without disorder . Mr. Zimmerman and Mr. Hyman . among other speakers , asserted that the " fake cry of Communism " had been raised by the Sigman supporters , who ; they alleged , were upheld " by the capitalist press , Tern MILES , The Herald Tribune and The World . " They said they did not care where the newspapers stood " so long as we have the confidence of the cloakmakers , " denying that the issue was one of Communism and asserting that it was a revolt of the " decent elements in the union " against " the corrupt bureaucratic Sigman machine . " They promised to carry on the fight until Mr. Sigman resigned . Hyman Wants an Election . - Mr. Hyman challenged the international officers to hold an election supervised by the American Civil Liberties Union or some impartial body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gold of the Furriers ' Union pledged the support of his organization and called for an amalgamation of all the needle trades . The audience burst into applause and cheers when Mr. Hyman , the last speaker , took the floor . Men and women waved their hands and some threw their hats into the ' air . The resolutions condemned " the tactics of Sigman " and pledged support to the deposed Joint Board leaders . Following the meeting the international union issued a statement charging that 15,000 bona fide cloaltroakers had been barred despite the fact that many arrived hours before the meeting was scheduled . It was alleged that " police , acting under specific instructions of Communists , manning the doors , barred the cloakmakers despite the fact that they waved - unionscards and demanded admission to a meeting advertised ' for cloakmakers . ' " Among the high officials of the union who were barred were Salvatore Ninfo , David Dubinsky , Harry Greenberg , Louis Pincowsky and Mollie Friedman . Says Green Apprdves Course . In a. statement last night Mr. Sigman announced that President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter approved his course in dealing " with the communistic elements who are bent upon the destruction of your great ? organization . " " The Communists have dropped their masks and display in full light that , from the beginning of their nefarious control , the voice of the rank and file was not to be heeded , but the voice of the Communist Party politicians , who embarked on a course to wreck the most enlightened and progressive union in the country , was to be heard , " said Mr. Sigman . " We admire the courage of our men , who were roughly handled bir the police . Although they were kept in the , intense cold for five hours the cloakmakers remained on the scene , despite being driven by police on horseback . " The Communists employed their usual tactics by sending out an invitation to the cloaltmakers ' membership as a show of democracy and then only admitting their favorites who had been supplied with new black and red cards and little buttons . " Mr. Sigman said the call of the International Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 West Sixteenth Street offices tomorrow would " reveal to the world-'that they are through , once and for all , with their Communist traducers . "                     