@@692803

txt It would be lamThis Obstacle entable if for the Should n't lack of a few thouBe Insuperable . sand dollars to meet its annual and inevitable expenses the International Suffrage Alliance were obliged to suspend or abandon its activities . The alliance has proved itself to be a sensible and sufficiently conservative organization , with a " lunatic fringe " as small as any such aggrega- I tion of large size ever can expect to have . Its responsible members have , been and are what seems to be " ad- I vanced " in Europe , but that is because Europe as a whole , and outside of England , still is backward In recognizing and according W women the rights and equalities which have come to be taken in this country as beyond reasonable discussion . On the Continent the International Suffrage Alliance has been working steadily to change the status of women there for the better . Nowhere , strangely enough , has their task been harder or their progress slower than in France , where the cult of women is supposed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them . It is a chivalry , however , that is apt to persist only so long as women " keep their place " as it is defined by men with antiquated ideas . It is unfortunate that the Suffrage Alliance felt obliged , last week , to take action which barred from its convention a group of women who more than any others would have been willing as well as able to help efficiently in meeting the financial crisis which the organization now faces . That the exclusion resulted from a disagreement among American women on matters of policy will be a subject of cynical comment , as if there were something peculiarly feminine in such a quarrel . In the current isA Battle sue of American Not Forests and Forest Quite Lost . Life , the able organ of the American , Forestry Association , an article by C. P. ' Minus brings from New Jersey the good news that perhaps our chest- ; nut trees are not doomed to corn- 1 plate extinction . The " blight " which ; has been ravaging them is a fungous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be overcome by any known device . Entering through any small wound in the bark of a tree , this cruel invader has worked its way rapidly along just under the bark , and was invisible as well as unreachable until its time for sporulation on the surface had come , and then the tree - was dead or dying . According to Mr. Witsua there are indications at present that some of the chestnut trees , after a hard and apparently lost battle with their enemy , have developed new powers of resistance and are leaving out again or throwing up new and immune shoots from the bottom . His article contains pictures of two chestnuts which , after all hopes of their survival had vanished , are doing this . One of them , indeed , had been given up ? as dead . Unnumbered thousands of these vain ' able and beautiful trees are certainly beyond recovery , but it would not be unusual if the scourge at last were weakening in its malignance . Westchester CounWo n't Let ty will be unfortuWell nate indeed if it is Enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slogan " as : " Easy to reach , hard to leave . " The county 's Bureau of Public Information , however , not only has accepted this triumph . of ineptitude , but actually has given a prize to its inventor ! Against such action there are many good reasons . The first and best of them , probably , is that the county does not need any slogan at all . It already is growing in population faster than is desired by any residents except its speculators in real estate  --  so fast that those who went there for quiet and to " live in the country " find that what they want is gone or going . Another reason Is that it uses words in a way that offends those ' who are linguistically fastidious , " Reach , " in the sense of " get to " or " arrive at , " does have dictionary authority , and so does " leave , " in the sense of " quit " cr " go away from , " but they are meanings given reluctantly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but careless usage  --  the usage of those who have a depraved passion for what have ' been well called " portmanteau word , s . " The employment of one word for anywhere from two or three to a dozen purposes makes for vague and slipshod English , and it should not be encouraged by enlightened Westchesterians . Never have the This Judge purposes and the Knows achievements of the It as It Is . Ku Klux Klan been better characterized than by Judge JAI1ES last of the Georgia Supreme Court last week in a speech before the State Bar Association at Tybee . And it still takes some courage , though not so much as fop. merly , to denounce the Klansmen in the State where the pestilent order originated . " There has grown ' up in recent years . " ' said Judge HINES , " a - movement to proscribe individuals because of their religious beliefs , and to deny them the right to hold office or to practice their religions unmolested , on the ground that they hold to a faith of which the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many good people had joined in this movement , but he declared that they did it only because they had been misguided by the ostensible principles of their leaders . The results , as the Judge listed them , have been the stirring up of religious strife and racial prejudices , the Betting of neighbor against neighbor , and the deprivation of some of natural , inalienable and guaranteed rights . " And for what end ? " Judge HINES asked . Then he answered himself . " The leaders of this movement are capitalizing religious hatred and race prejudice In order that they may gather golden shekels from the people who follow them . "                     