@@693666

txt is to bo gathered that Mr. Thompson has Mayor Dever really puzzled . Mr. Dever has had iong experience with politics and he knows its infinite varieties , but it is apparent that lie never in contact with anything before at all like the big boy . lie must feel that he has discovered a new species . By this time he may have a perserial curiosity to take the sawdust out and see what the springs are like , a curiosity apart , from any political purpose and without thought to gain anything thereby aside from getting an answer to something which interests him . Ile observes that the big boy is running as It C- Be is now so wet that tr , him the beer it the icebox and the pint on the hip are . almost sacred symbols which an oppressed people cherish in secret . Beer in the Icebox will get better than en even break in Chicago politics any day , and Mr. Dever asks it to be understood that he is nc enemy of a cool One himself . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edges that it only contributes to his versatility . As the mayor has observed in sonic ( 1 ( his speeches , it was only last year that 13111 was doing all he could to send to congress three bright boys of the Anti-Saloon league , Frank L. Smith to the senate and Richard Yates and Henry It . Rathbone to the house of representatives as congressmen at large from this state . They had signed the Anti . Saloon league pledge on the dotted line . They were elected . Mr. Smith may or may not get his seat , but If he does he 'll , vote dry and Yates and lt:Ititbone do vote dry . ' the big boy 's contribution to the vote of Illinois on the eighteenth amendment and the Volstead act , in the one place where votes count on those iiiiestions , was to deliver for the Anti-Saloon league . It may be Bill 's idea that the greatest pleasure is to keep prohibition as a law for the fun of violating it and that Chicagoans would prefer a brew in the basement illegally to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be proved by the tale of it . The boy has been careless with his sightures and his promises . lie signed the pledge of the United Societies when he Was running the first Liffie , twelve years ago , not to bother the Sunday atioons if he was elected . - When elected he closed hem and the citizenship had to sneak in the back door ' and drink behind drawn curtains . The Sunday saloons had not been disturbed since the seventies until 13111 signed up with the United Societies and then broke his pledge . and was regarded by the Anti-Saloon league : IA a brand snatched from the burning . In 17000 the big boy is as dry as Scott and has done more solid Anti-Saloon work than any one else in town , but in words ho is as wet as a congressman 's poker party or an enforcement agent 's Saturday night . Bill believes that by their words and not their works they shall be known , and he may be right . It is remarked in another direction that he is the original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original foe of the . British crown , and that in aiding the strap hanger lie employs the good offices of the English born Mr. Instill , controller of about all the Chicago utilities , including transportation . Mr. Insult gets his dime on the elevated and Mr. Smith , the dry friend of the wet Bill , gets his campaign funds . And neither Bill nor his dry friend in edice ever did anything to cost Mr. Insult a half hour 's sleep . " Mr , Dever evidently finds himself fascinated by these felicities of the big boy 's conduct . It is perfec.tiy 5in1ple to Bill and lie will tell the world that he knows his malt and hops .                     