@@693800

txt Earl Webb , who excited the managerial interest by smacking a homer at the fag end of Tuesday 's debacle , was ' restored to the list of active Cubs this afternoon , and it proved a most profitable move . The big fellow started one rally a n d completed another , which was just enough to attain a thrilling victory for Fred Sheriff Blake in the final with Jack . BLARE . ' , RED dricks ' Reds . The score was 2 to 1 . For three full seasons and . part of another Blake has been looking toward - the day when he could slap down the Reds , with whom he associated immediately after he emerged from college . Time after time they gave him the boot Just when he figured he had them , but this was his day and he made the most of it . Toward the close they bumped him slightly and fetched home a run , but he had the satisfaction of knowing this was the only enemy runner to go beyond first base . Ford 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who always has been a tough fellow , went the full distance for the Reds and gave up only eight hits . Two of these blows were paired for a run in the sixth , and another pair occurred in the eighth for the winning tally , but the latter would have been prevented if Ford had n't filvvered on a ground ball while a Cub was dusting home from third . It was the only miscue in a game that otherwise was keen to behold , especially when the Cubs were afield assisting Blake in his noble effort . For three innings only nine Reds faced Blake .. Zitsman finally broke the spell , singling after two were out in the fourth . Allen added the next blow with two gone in the fifth . Two Reds hit in the seventh and still no one read/fed second because an attempted steal was sandwiched between the blows . Then in the eighth Ethan Allen , a local collegian , exploded a. triple , to right center and ran home when Lucas , batting for Ford , sent a long fly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of the game Stephenson and Adams were the only ones able to give the Cubs a scoring opening . but neither received assistance . In the sixth , however , Adams beat out a hit to deep short . A sacrifice bunt by English moved him along . Webb caught the ball squarely , singling to right , Adams scoring . Wilson then fanned for the second time . Stephenson made his second hit . but Grinirn ended the . Inning . " Webb , first up in the eighth , dribbled a hit over Donohue 's head . He was forced by Wilson . Stephenson hit safely for the third time and Hack taxied to third from where be scored on Ford 's fumble of Grimm 's grounder . Stephenson went to third and Grimm to second on the error , but Steve was nipped at the plate on Frelgau 's grounder and Hartnett lined otft to center .                     