@@690163

txt WASHINGTON , May 6 . ? A move to test the sincerity of the Republican Party on the recommendations of President Harding and President Coolidge and Secretary Hughes that the United States adhere to the protocol of the Permanent Court of International Justice was made in the Senate today by Senator Swanson of Virginia , a Democratic member of the Committee on Foreign Relations and a member of the committee 's sub-committee which has been hearing proponents of American participation in the World Court . Senator Swanson offered a resolution which would enable the United States to adhere to the World Court with reservations which are generally in line with those suggested by President Harding and Secretary Hughes . The resolution , which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations , reads : Whereas , the President . under date of Feb. 24 , 1023 , transmitted a message to the Senate accompanied by a letter from the Secretary of State , dated Feb. 17 , 1023 , asking the favorable advice and consent of the Senate to the adhesion on the part of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of signature of the statute for the Permanent Court of International Justice , set out in the said message of the President ( without accepting or agreeing to the optional clause for compulsory jurisdiction contained therein ) , upon the conditions and understanding hereafter stated , to be made a part of the instrument of adhesion ; Be it resolved ( two-thirds of the Senators present concurring ) , that the Senate advise and consent to the adhesion on the part of the United States to the said protocol of Dec. 18. 1920 , and the adjoined statute for the Permanent Court of International Justice ( without accepting or agreeing to the optional clause for compulsory jurisdiction contained in said statute ) , and that the signature of the United States be affixed to the said protocol subject to the following reservations and understandings which are hereby made a part and condition of this resolution namely : I. That such adhesion shall not be taken to involve any legal relation on the part of the United States to the League of Nations or the assumption of any obligations by the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Part 1 of the Treaty of Versailles . 2 . That the United States shall be permitted to participate through representatives designated for the purpose and upon an equality with the other States , members respectively of the Council and Assembly of the League of Nations , in any and all proceedings of either the Council or the Assembly for the elect ion of judges of deputy judges of the Permanent Court of International Justice . or for the filling of vacancies . 3 . That the United States will pay a fair share of the expenses of the Court as determined and appropriated from time to time by the Congress of the United States . 4 . That the statute for the Permanent Court of International Justice adjoined to the protocol shall not be amended without the ccnsent of the United States . The signature of the United Stat ? ? s to the said protocol shall not be affixed until the powers signatory to such protocol shall have indicated , through an exchange of notes , their acceptance- of the foregoing reservations and understandings as a part and condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Scores Republican Inaction . Senator Swanson did not make a speech in offering his resolution , but later he explained his purpose . " I introduced this resolution , " he said . " to carry out the recommendations of President Harding and Secretary Hughes which were made to the Senate some time ago . I have drawn it carefully , 1 think , so ' these purposes will be accomplished . I delayed introducing this resolution . hoping some Republican would take active steps to carry out one of the principal recommendations of President Coolidge in his annual address to Congress . " I have been much disappointed that no Republican in the Senat , has seen proper to aid President Coolidge and Secretary Hughes , and I do not think it should be further delayed . " There is a widespread impression Irk the country and in the Senate that the recommendations of the Administration for adhesion to the Permanent Court of International Justice was simply a polit ! cal gesture to relieve the Republican Party front broken promises and to aid the political situation for the coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Senate will show whether this suspicion is justified or not . " I think that if the Administration is earnestly in favor of adhesion to the Permanent Court of International Justice a very substantial support on the Republican side will be obtained , which with the Democratic support would adopt the resolution . If the Administration manifests no earnest interest in this matter , the chances are it will not be Passed . " I shall exert myself to have the matter promptly acted upon by both the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Senate . I believe that people are entitled to know whether the Administration Is in favor of this measure and , if so , to what extent the Administration possesses influence with its party in the Senate . " The subcommittee on the World Court will soon make its report to the Committee on Foreign Relations through Senator Pepper , Chairman of the sub , committee . It is evident that a majority of the subcommittee is opposed to entrance of the United States into the World Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international court it will offer reservations intended to prevent American participation in such a tribunal unless it is divorced from the League of Nations . The plan which the subcommittee is expected to offer is regarded acs cal in that to carry it out wguld r the negotiation of protocols with more than fifty nations which are eitraf members of the League 's ( ' otrlit Justice . DR . WEIZMANN SAILS TODA- . Head of the World Zionist Organization Is Taking Back $5,000,000 . Dr. Chaim Weizmann , President ce the World Zionist Organization , win starts for home today on the Cunarder Aquitania , issued a statement yesterday that the Jewish homeland movement had made great strides in America in recent months , and had enlisted the interest of influential American Jews who can " speed up the rebuilding of Palestine to an unprecedented pace . " He is carrying back $5,000,000 collected in this country for the restoration Palestine . Accompanying him is Tin Berthold Fervel , General Treasurer et the Palestine Foundation Fund . Dr. Weizmann said the establishment of a large investment bank , attracting capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Louis Marshall  --  would give new life to the industrial development of Palestine . Mr. Marshall is intere-ted also in the American branch of the Jewish Agency . Dr. Weizmann said that if one-tenth the money spent in developing the Imperial Valley of California were spent in the Holy Land it would make Palestine rival of California .                     