@@694184

txt Fcars for the safety of two planes which loft i Oakland yesterday hound for Honolulu and the James D. Dole ' prizes , were I expressed tonight when estimates of Ithe cruising radius of the craft  --  the ? Golden Eagle and the Miss Doran ' showed that they would be forced I down after a maximum of ' 30 hours in the air . At the Oakland airport , mechanics and gasoline supply men said the Golden Eagle , the cigar shaped monoplane , piloted by Jack Frost of New York and Gordon Scott of Santa Mon ' Ica In the navigator 's cabin , should have arrived at the Hawaiian islands before nightfall in San Francisco today . ? If it was not forced down in some isolated section where communication with the outside world was not Immediately available , alternative fates were possible . Either it passed the H9-wallan islands lay an error of navigation , or it was forced down at sea , off its set course . It carried 360 gal . ions of fuel and its greatest cruising radius would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hours Supply . The biplane in which Miss Mildred Doran took to the air carried 400 gallons of gasoline , a supply sufficient to keep it up for 28 hours , experts said . That Miss Doran was floating about the Pacific ocean on her biplane with two aviators , was tire belief expressed tonight by Lieut . Ben If . Wyatt , navigation inspector for the Dole flight . Lieut . Wyatt revealed he had warned Pilot J. A , Pedlar against taking the Miss Doran on the flight after it had been forced back from its first takeoff by engine trouble . Wyatt said he did not believe the changing of the plane 's sparkplugs would rectify the motor troublo which forced Pedlar back . Plane IVell Equipped . The Golden Eagle was best equipped to meet the situation encountered by a forced landing at sea , For days belore the take-off the crew held daily conferences on improving the ship to meet just such a situation . The latest life saving devices were installed on the plane , so as to convert it into a seagoing craft . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its crew . In the navigator 's cabin was an air bottle which carried pipe lines to the tip of each wing and also to the rear section f of the ' fuselage , which was cigar shaped .. In case of a forced landing at sea the navigator , Cordon Scott , himself a sailor , Would open the air line from the bottle in his cabin and the air would be sent to three extremities of the plane , To keep the lane from bobbing about the sea and possibly overturning after their craft was : afloat , the wing extremities were forWiled by three-ply wood , upon which would be placed heavy sand bags . Fuselage Packed with Cork . Just before the plane took off the doors of the pilot house and the navi'gator 's cabin anti all the other openings were lined with rubber to make it waterproof . Thick cork was also packed in the bottom of the fuselage to keep the plan ; afloat . I The landing gear could be dropped into the sea by pulling out bolts which held ft . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with silk sails . The compass was detachable so that on being forced to abandon tho plane , the compass might be trans. ferred to the rubber boat . Two padi dies were carried for the boat in addl. lion to flares and rockets . Coupled with all this equipment was the experience of Gordon Scott as a navi. gator . In 1926 ho piloted a yacht racing between Santa Monica and Honolulu and his knowledge of the trade winds and routes would servo him in good stead . Life Boat for 31113 Doran . ' The plane in which Miss Doran rode carried ordinary emergency equipment , consisting of a rubber inflated life boat with paddles , a flare pistol and rockets . Lieut . V. ** Knope , navigator of the Diane , la a naval man acquainted with the Pacific and could be counted upon , to move into the line of passing ships ; after a forced landing .                     