@@688642

txt Railroads west of Chicago will on March 7 reduce the rates on tin plate from Chicago to the west coast from $1.20 per 100 pounds to 75 cents , and will make corresponding reductions on baking powder , musical instruments and other commodities . Ultimately , railroad men.say , this reduction will involve the whole rate fabric . From some statements the ' impression appears to prevail that the proposed reduction in transcontinental freight rates westbound will be applicable only to certain districts , but the lower tariffs to be put into effect will run into and cover the intermediate territory between Chicago and the Coast and will apply to the entire Pacific Coast . CALKINS ON COMPETITION R. M. Calkins , vice president of the St. Paul made the following statement : " Industrial interests of Chicago , the central states and the western railroads are in a serious situation over Atlantic Coast and Panama Canal competition . So serious that many large concerns in the Chicago district and the Mississippi Valley may Le compelled to move their plants to the Atlantic Coast or be forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and west of here are now going to the ' Pacific Coast by way of the Atlantic ports and the Panama Canal . " An instance or two will suffice to acquaint the general public with the seriousness of the situation . A large company recently shipped ten carloads of their product from their factory in Wisconsin to the Pacific coast by way of Philadelphia and saved 52.500 under the rail rates from Chicago to the Pacific coast . A Chicago company has just received an order for seven carloads of castings from California and these goods will be shipped from the Connecticut plant of the company rather than from Chicago . " It is our desire so far as possible to protect Chicago and the Mississippi valley against the competition of the industrial Atlantic seaboard . We stand ready to reduce tariffs on practically every manufactured article shipped t ( ithe Pacific coast . We also desire to extend these reeuedons some distance cast of Chicago so that we may serf/ as much traffic as possible to the Pacific coast by way o : : Chicago and the western roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central states are being ruined , actually forced out of business by the Atlantic Seaboard manufacturers ' water advantages . Western railroads obviously are losing right along equally with the industries . Some Chicago shippers arc opposing our reductions , which  --  we want to make to help them , because we desire to extend the reductions some distance east of Chicago . The railroads can not meet Panama Canal rates sully but we feel we can make reductions in . charges which will help conditions materially , divert considerable of the traffic now going east to the western lines , enable Chicagc industries to keep their factories going and help railroadh fill cars that are now going westbound empty to bring coast products back . east . It is a mutual proposition in which the industries of Chicago , the Mississippi Valley , the Pacific Coast states and the western railroads are equally concerned . "                     