@@685559

txt In the opinion of Democratic leaders , expressed after the conference of President Wilson , Governor Cox and Franklin D. Roosevelt today , the party has never entered a national fight with such harmony as now exists and with better Prospects of winning . These leaders say that before the conventions doubt existed , and that privately the old-time workers were saying that there was no chance of winning the election . This feeling has given way to extreme optimism . If the campaign progresses as satisfactorily as it has started and no differences develop between the White House and the nominee , the leaders say that the party will be retained in power . There is absolute agreement between President Wilson and Governor Cox , not only as to policies , but also In reference to party management . At the conference today Governor Cox assured the President that he would be guided by his advice as to the attitude to be assumed on the treaty , and hoped to have his approval of the organization of the National Committee and the direction of the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's frame of mind said tonight that the conference had entirely satisfied him , and that he now felt that the League of Nations idea as conceived by him would become the chief issue of the campaign . Governor Cox , it was said by one who had his confidence , did not intend to do anything in the League fight that would place him in disagreement with the President . With this question settled to the entire satisfaction of the President , the nominee will take up on Tuesday , when the National Committee meets at Columbus , the selection of a Chairman of the committee . It has been the custom of the Democratic Party to change its Chairman with every national campaign , and the selection has been left entirely to the nominee . In this instance Gov , governor Cox said that he intended to foi1 low largely the suggestions of the National Committee as to his campaign manager . While those traveling with Governor Cox said that a new Chairman would be selected and that 1,1 ' E. H. Moore , the , Ohio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would go either to T. N. Ansberry or former Repre- ' sentative George White , the belief here is that the weight of the Administra , lion will be thrown to retain Homer C. Cummings as Chairman . It was argued by those connected with the Executive Committee of the National Committee that a change at this time would necessitate changes in the work , ing organization which would militate against the successful management of the campaign . President Wilson , it is understood , when asked- as to his views on the Chairmanship , declined to commit himself , but shoved ' very plainly that the retention of Mr. Cummings , would be pleasing to him . ? ? With Mr. Cummings directing the campaign , ? it was asserted , the league fight would be kept to the front and the President 's policies would be upheld fully . There was . every evidence today that the defeated candidates and their supporters ? would be found loyally behind the ticket . As representing Mr. , Senator Glass had a long conference with Governor Cox in the executive offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nominee that Mr. and all his friends could be counted upon to aid in the election of the ticket . It is understood that Senator Glass , as a member of the Executive Committee , will devote most of his time to the New York office and In the preparation of , campaign material bearing upon taxation and financial matters . With him will be associated Daniel C. Roper , former Commissioner of Internal Revenue , who today , as another of Mr. 's managers , called upon Governor Cox to pledge allegiance and co-operation . Mr. will be one of the chief speakers in the campaign , it was said : here . He has already offered to make as many speeches as possible , and will devote himself to sections of the country in which he is regarded as especially strong among the electorate ..                     