@@684905

txt Secretary Daniels has written to Senator Page of Vermont , Chairman of the Senate Naval A/fairs Committee , a letter in which he denies that he was the official in the Nate Department who , as alleged by Admiral Sims in his testimony before that committee yesterday , orally instructed him not to let the British " pull the wool " over his eyes when he went to London , and that " we would as soon fight the British as the Germans . " This denial from Secretary Daniels would seem to eliminate one high official of the Government from those who would be in a position to give any instructions to Admiral Sims just before he left Washington for London in March , 1917 . In the Navy Department itself the next responsible . official in position to give instructions , written or oral . to Adipiral Sims at the beginning of such a mission would be the Chief of Naval Operations . At thcOime Admiral Sims went abroad Admiral William S. Benson was Chief of Naval Operations , and as such conferred with Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's denial in his letter to Senator Page is regarded as rather leaviruk it up to Admiral Benson to explain whether he was the man who made the statement to Admiral Sims . The : sensational arraignment of the policy and conduct of the Navy Department during the war contained in the letter , which Admiral Sims wrote to Secretary Daniels on Jan. 7 , and was read by the Admiral before a Senate sub-committee yesterday , will result in a complete investigation of the conduct of the Navy Department during the great conflict . Admiral Sims charged that grave errors were committed by those in charge of the administration of the navy , that these were in violation of fundamental military principles , that he was not properly provided with a staff while in London , that his recommendations were turned down when he asked for the dispatch of naval units , or that the ships he sought were greatly delayed in being furnished , and cited what he regarded as eleven specific instances ' of incompetence . The most profound surprise was created when Admiral Sims read that portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaving Washington for London just before the American declaration Of war against Gei.nany was adopted by Congress , he was told by a person in authority in the Navy Department that he should not " let the British pull the wool over your eyes , " and that " we would as soon fight the British as the Germans . " Secretary Daniels , who had administrative control over the Navy Dephrtment during the war , and Admiral William S. Benson , who was Chief Of Naval Operations throughout the war , fully realize that they will have an opportunity to state their side of the case to the Congressional investigating committee , and that they preferred not to answer Admiral Sims until they took the witness stand at the Capital . Secretary Daniels 's denial was not given out until after midnight . Admiral Benson would not say whether he knew who had given such instructions as those quoted by . Admiral Sims . There is every indication tonight that the sensational testimony given by Admiral Sims has brought the American Navy to the threshold of another controversy that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Navy in the Tripolitan War , and the Schley-Samson controversy which followed the SpanishAmerican War . and that the principals in the new controversy will be Admiral Sims and Admiral Benson . Admiral Sims 's letter is a carefully prepared arraignment of the whole conduct of the war from the naval point of view , so far as American naval conduct and policy was concerned , and is an arraignment not only of the Secretary of the Navy for his approval of what was done , but is aimed directly at Admiral Benson , who , as Chief of Naval Operations , ran the navy during the war , and at the officers of his staff , as well as of the General Board of the Navy , who were consulted by the N4vy Department on matters of policy and . conduct . When the United States entered the war Admiral Benson was ranking member of the General Board of the Navy , Admiral George Dewey , its President . other pr:nelpal MEM tiers of the board were Rear Admirals Knight , then President of the Naval War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fleet , and Frank F. Pletcher . By Jan . I , 1915 , Rear Admiral Winterhalter had- been given a prominent place on the General Board in place of Rear Admiral Knight . It so happens that Rear Admirals Badger and Knight , who were prominent members of the board when we entered the war , . are the principal members of the Knight Board , which passed on Admiral Sims 's recommendations in the matter of naval awards , before Secretary Daniels took his action . It was the Knight Board which cut ' down Admiral Sims 's recommendation that certain memberse of his staff at London , whom he had recommended for Distinguished Service Medals , receive navy crosses , which action Secretary Daniels approved . While Admiral Benson would not permit himself to be Interviewed tonight . his friends asserted that he would not rest ? silent under the imputations and criticisms regarding the conduct of naval policy uuring the war made by Admiral Sims , and that when he takes the stand before the Senate Committee he will strike from the shoulder in defense of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that those in charge of naval action in Washington could do under the circumstances . While Secretary Daniels is , now the one to whom the criticisms have been addressed by Admiral Sims , there is every indication that when the issue . has been joined it will confront Congress with a choice between American naval policy as directed by Admiral Benson and American naval policy as it would have been if Admiral Sims Dad ilea his way . The Senate Naval Committee will meet tomorrow morning to broaden the scope of the Investigation from a mere inquiry into how naval awards were made into a complete investigation of American naval conduct during the war . Senator Page of Vermont , Chairman of the Naval Committee , has been asked . by Senator Hale of Maine , chairman of the sub-committee of five before which Admiral Sims was heard , to call the full Naval Committee together tomorrow , because he regarded , the Sims allegations of such a serious character as to warrant the investigation ? being ' broadened . Senator Pittman of Nevada . ranking Democrat on the Hale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the allegations made by Admiral Sims , and declarcd his belief that so important an inquiry should not be made by the sub-committee ( but that it should be conducted by the entire membership of the Senate Naval Committee . The members of the sub-committee are Hale of Maine , McCormick of Illinois and Newberry of Michigan , Republicans , and Pittman of Nevada and Trammel of Florida , Democrats . These are all younger members of the committee in point of service . At tomorrow 's session of the Naval . Committee the Democrats will take a stand in favor of the whole committee , instead of a sub-committee , making the broader investigation . Unless this is resisted by the Republicans , the larger investigation will be made by the- full ' committee , the other members of which - are Penrose . Lodge , Poindexter , Ball and Keyes , Republicans , and Swanson , ' Smith of Maryland , Phelan . Walsh of Montana . Gerry and King , Democrats . Some Senators seen tonight regretted that the opening up of the rift in like ranks of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should come In this way . They seemed to feel that good would not ' be accomplished , sd far as the morale and general good of the navy was concerned , by a public discussion of alleged- mistakes of policy in handling the navy in wartime . ' These Senators felt that it would have been better to have worked out these criticisms at the Naval War College or in the General Board , and there were others who seemed to think that the criticisms - made by Admiral Sims , if Proved to be warranted , when the investigation was over , would furnish the British and French Governments , should they so elect , the opportunity to contend that this Government did not live up to its duties as an ally , so far as naval co-operation was concerned . Regardless of individual views of this sort it appears to be the consensus of : opinion among Senators of both sides : tonight , now that the Sims letter has ' been made public , that there is no other course to pursue than to order a broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or another receive full opportunity to be heard and cross-examined . There is not the slightest doubt tonight that there will be a most thorough-going investigation or that the fur will fly when high ranking naval ' officers are heard on the witness Stand . SAYS SIMS KNOWS MORE . H. A. Wise Wood Urges Senator Page to Question Him Further . As a result of the disclosures made by Bear Admiral Sims in his testimony before a sub-committee of the Naval Affairs Committee of the Senate on Saturday , Henry A. Wise Wood . a former member of the Naval Consulting Board , yesterday sent the following telegram to Senator Carroll S. Page , Chairman of that committee : " In view of the grave accusations made by Rear Admiral Sims and of the known limitations under which naval officers , including himself , have had to act , I am convinced that Sims has not yet told all that he knows . I have reason for believing this . Therefore , I urge that Sims be compelled to tell everything In his knowledge concerning the restrictions under which ne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitled to the fullest exposure of what occurred . "                     