@@691874

txt Although The Independent may be premature in forecasting a bitter clash between Russian and Japanese interests in Manchuria , recent reports indicate that the program of the Soviets in China is to revive the imperial ambitions of Czarist Russia . Now , as twenty years ago , Russia is seeking a short cut to a good Pacific port . Economically and politically speaking , the Russia of today is weak compared to the Russia of the Czars . Japan , on the other hand , is much stronger than in 1900 . She has been able to profit from Russia 's weakneis , to consolidate her investments in Manchuria . The Chinese Eastern Railway , one of the most important links in the old Russian program , passed nominally into the hands of China after the Washington Conference . Today it appears to be indirectly but none the less effectively controlled by the Russians . The Japanese , who operate the South Manchurian Railway , are said to be disturbed by this , and are contemplating the completion of a short cut from their line to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meantime , the Russians are threatening to build a line across the Gobi Desert connecting Peking with the TransSiberian by way of Urge . This , it is claimed , would cut two days off the transcontinental journey and would divert traffic from lines and ports now controlled by Japan . To carry out this project would require more funds than the Soviet Government will be able to put its hands on for many years . It is interesting as a symptom rather than as a probable occurrence . The old rivalry apparently is strong , and , at least in so far as Russia is concerned , little attention is paid to China 's interests or rights . The Russians now claim political jurisdiction over the greater part of Mongolia and are seeking to extend their sphere of influence in Manchuria4 Both these provinces are historically Chinese territory and are so considered by the United States and the other Powers . At the Washington Conference efforts to define their precise status encountered obstacles , owing to conflicting interests . To the flat question , Are Manchuria and Mongolia Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply to the newspaper men . The modern Chinese flag , he pointed out , had five stripes , representing the five big political divisions of China . One of these was for Manchuria and one for Mongolia . To all further pressing questions he replied with a smile as bland as that of the famous Ah Sin . It is easy to exaggerate the significance of reported foreign activities in China . The temptation is great to imagine mortal conflicts where none exist . Americans familiar with the frequent repetition in European circles that the next war will be in the Pacific know how readily warmongers invent scares . The present situation in Northern Chinese territory is not war-threatening . Its importance lies in the political implications and in the possible effect on commercial activities in the East . China is in a- ferment . Russia is trying hard to capitalize this . She is striking at England on the one hand , and trying to turn the Chinese against Japan on the other . At the Washington Conference she was not recognized . When the coming conference meets in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard . The international political forces in the Far East are in the process of realignment .                     