@@685495

txt IMAGES ON THE RETINA , Dr. Norris Tells of Experiments , but Denies Any Fault on His Part . To the Editor of The New York Times : In Sunday 's issue , June 27 , I find an article entitled " How Parts Would Treat Elwell Case , " In which I am criticised , as the medical examiner , for not having photographed the retina of Elwell'e eye . The writer states that nearly fifty years ago in the eye of a murdered man the retina was made to reveal the image of the murderer . The chemical and physical changes which occur in the retina from . exposure to light have been known for many years . Thus , if a frog that has been in the dark for some time be killed and the eye taken out and bisected and the retina removed and examined by a weak light , It will be found that this latter has a purplish red color , and that after very short exposure to a diffused daylight the color disappears or becomes ) leached . The coloring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhodonsin " photographs or optograms of external objects . A rabbit 's or frog 's eye may be cut out and placed in front of a windo* ; after some time the eye is bisected and plunged into 4 per cent . solution of alum , which partially fixes the optograrn , and an inverted picture of the window with its crossbars is obtained on the retina . You will see that this experiment is a very crude one for practical purposes and it does not Indicate at all that the retina of the eye may be employed to photograph the features of a murderer . Let us assume that by this method a distinct photograph could he produced . Would there not arise grave questions of evidence ? For instance , in the Elwell case , the last retinal image might be the nurse in the hospital or the interne . My purpose in writing is to warn you of the grave dangers of such newspaper articles which , unfortunately , influence your readers , leading them to assume that the work of the Medical Examiner 's office is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NORRIS . M. D. ; Chief Medical Examiner of the City of New York . New York , June 20 , 1920 . A Prohibition Stand . To the Editor of The New York Times ; The political situation is a curious one and to the average citizen looking toward the future with a natural desire for the amelioration of the present bad ( or worst possible ) conditions the outlook is , to put the matter mildly , most disappointing . The Republicans have chosen their representative , one whom many believe to be a second-rater . The general opinion seems to be that there were abler , if not greater , men from whom to choose . And their representative and platform were intentionally silent on one great issue , incubus , blot on one 's personal liberty  --  call it what you will  --  which has been saddled upon the public . I refer to prohibition . The game of politics is a great one , but the very craft of the past masters of the art may sometimes defeat the object for which they are playing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words , follow ' suit and by choosing mediocrity and failing to take a firm stand on a great issue lose a great opportunity , in my opinion . Even if there were no man of unqUes'tioned prominence and ability available , they could still make a stand for personal liberty , or at least for a compromise , and on the chance of losing a portion of the feminine vote , &c.,; would probably gain three votes to the loss of ' one . Thousands , perhaps millions , of Republicans who would otherwise stick to their party would gladly avail themselves of the opportunity to put themselves on record as favoring sane legislation on the liquor question and to show their abhorrence of the real tyranny of the present law . WILLIAM V. D. BELDEN , Brooklyn , June 29. 1920 . Spain 's " Brightest Jewel . " To the Editor of The New York Time , : When in the course of two impromptu speeches addressed to workers and employ ' ere in Barcelona . King Alfonso of Spain said , as reported In an Associated Press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his crown , " he only paid a just and deserved tribute to that industrious and active people . The real meaning of King Alfonso 's significant utterance is bidden in the following interesting figures : According to the latest available statistics , the importations for Catalonia , which comprises only tho seventh part of the whole area of Spain . during the year 1914 amounted to 503,643,076 pesetas , against 1,110,865 , - 919 pesetas for the total of Spain . In other words , while the Catalonians imported 289 pesetas per capita , their brothers from below the Ebro River imported only 85 pesetas per capita . The same remarkable difference is noticed in the export trade for the same year . During 1914 the total exports from Catalonia amounted to 292,920 , - 459 pesetas , while those from the whole Spanish country amounted to 943,090,533 pesetas , or 240 pesetas for each Catalonian , as against 36 pesetas for every Spaniard . No wonder King Alfonso could not leave the territory which constitutes " the brightest jewel of his crown " without shouting , " Long live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood by the average Spaniard is that wealthy and prosperous country of the proud and Laborious Catalonians ! J. VENTURA Y SUREDA , New York . June 20. 1920 . Unions and Population . To the Editor of The New York Times : Your Sunday edition of two weeks ago contained an editorial commenting on the growth of Los Angeles compared to the growth of San Francisco . You omitted to consider one very material factor which , I believe , kept San Francisco back and stimulated the growth of Los Angeles  --  San Francisco had the advantage of position by Its splendid harbor , but San Francisco was ruled by the labor unions ; its city government was of the unions , by the unions and for the unions . Los Angeles maintained the open shop . Men having money to invest in enterprises located in Los Angeles , where they could carry on their business In thefr own way , rather than In San Francisco , where they would be subjected to the dictation of the labor unions . Another thing to be noted ? as wage earners are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more wage earners must have flocked to Los Angeles than to San Francisco . They would not have done this unless they were better off in the former city and preferred to live there rather than in a city ruled by their own class . The wage earners themselves are better off where unionism la not dominant HENRY SCUDDER . Marinette . Wis. , June 28 , 1020 . A Motto for . To the Editor of The New York Times : Was it not Mr. who , when he had finished the construction of the Hudson River tube , gave utterance to the expression " The public be pleased " ? If by chance Willy nilly he should become our next President this would be a most excellent motto for him to follow , as no doubt he would .                     