@@696255

txt Flying " blind " through otherwise impossible weather , two National Air Transport pilots have demonstrated for the first time on a regularly scheduled run the importance of the radio directional beam to aviation . Pilot Thomas P. Nelson , flying an N. A. T. radio equipped Douglas cargo plane tilled to catiacity with mall and i express ; took off from the Cliveland There was no ceiling . The fog bid the revolving beacon lights on the mountain tops . In fact , there was n't anything for Nelson to be guided by except the radio beam broadcast by the department of commerce radio range beacon at Hadley field and his instruments . Crouched in the control pit of the big Douglas , Nelson con. centrated his attention on the dots and dashes coming through the re , celvers clamped to his cars and on the instruments . When the pilot heard a dot and a dash he knew ho was on one side of his course and acted accordingly . When it was dash and.dot he heard , ho knew ho was off the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dashes blended Into one dash , Nelson held his ship there and flew directly toward his destination . Straight to Destination . Tearing through the blinding fog and darkness with his eyes glued : to the instrument board and his ears at ? tuned to the slightest change In the buzzing of the radio signals , Nelson brought his ship and its cargo directly to the Hadley airport , having flown blind all the way from Bellefonte over one of the most treacherous air routes in the world . With just enough visibility close to ground to make a landing possible , Nelson sot bin ship down and the mail had been taken throutfh again . That an m o night , Pilot Warren Williams , flying westward , was forced to rely on the radio directional beabt broadcast from the department of commerce radio range beacon at Cleveland and , flew blind from Mercer , Pa. , to Cleveland , the constant signals from the radio beam guiding him directly to his deStination . " This demonstration of the radio directional beam shows as nothing else can the progress that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said an official of National Air Transport . " It foretells the time when fog will no longer be an obstacle in the transporting of mail and express by air . It is gradually being conquered by scientists , technicians , and pilots . " When an amphibian plane lands in the Sea it becomes a ship , the exper. - ? enco of Lewis Relehers , a New Yorker. whorl " parked " his plane in the ocean oft Atlantic City , brought out recently Reichers , accompanied by a party wt friends , started fishing after bringing the plane down . Government officials saw them and upon his return to New York , Reichers received orderr from the government that he must equip his plane for " deep sea flying . " The order alrected that If ho used his plane again for fishing purposes he must conform to maritime regulationn by equipping it with life preserver. fog horn , and running lights .                     