@@693594

txt Japanese sailors marched through the city today to make a show of force and the American marines from the Chaumont Rill march on Saturday foa the first time . Hitherto Consul General Gauss has restrained them aboard ship . agreeing only to their landing at the Standard Oil Company 's extensive property on the outskirts of the settlement , where they have been drilling and exercising daily . The confinement of the 1,150 men aboard the transport in the harbor is becoming constantly more irksome and as the prospects are that they will remain many weeks , possibly months . Consul General Gauss is inclined to agree to billeting them ashore . ? Local British Critical of Us . The British locally somewhat resent the apparent American reluctance to participate in the defense preparations sect display of force , considering the fact that the American Consulate and a thousand or more Americans , including missionary refugees from the interior , and the extensive American business interests are sharing the defenses of the settlement . From the local British viewpoint , the Americans and the Japanese are currying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the British and French having erected defenses and are now guarding them . Admiral Williams retains his headquarters aboard the Pittsburgh . Colonel Hill is aboard the Chaumont , but the American Intelligence Office is inconspicuously established at the Palace Hotel and the American Military Attach ? , Major John from Peking , is at the Astor House . Some of the Americans show evidences nightly of no restraint from the Volstead act , and it is questioned jokingly whether General Butler on his arrival will attempt to padlock the Shanghai saloons and night clubs or the marines . General Butler 's appointment is taken here to indicate that the - United States is taking the situation seriously . The reason for American difference with British opinion is that the latter are regarded as unnecessarily active . The Japanese , generally speaking , hold the American view . With Chinese labor assisting , the British forces are building temporary barracks , which indicate a long sojourn . Peking 's Prestige Is Gone . Whether the Southerners succeed or fail ultimately to unify China , the fate of historic Peking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not ; seriously questioned . For a year or more there has been no Government there and none can be expected for the indefinite future . The city which for centuries was the Mecca of Mandarins , the goal of conquerors and ' for the past fifty years the coveted post of diplomatists now threatens to go the way of Leningrad . Shanghai , at least temporarily , has become the Moscow of China , with the comparatively conservative Northern war lords possessing and the radical Southerners aspiring to capture it . If the capital is changed , Peking can not expect to retain the glory of Constantinople , because Peking , though likewise splendid , is an artificial creation , not naturally magnificent nor upon a waterway of such strategic and commercial importance as the Bosporus . Indeed , heartrending decay has already set in . The imperial apartments of the Forbidden City , forming the inner heart of that many walled capital , arc now deserted to the eunuchs and other servants of the former Manchu dynasty . The Temple of Heaven , where the Emperor alone worshipped , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jade fountain beyond the Summer Palace has become the factory site of a mineral water concessionaire . Democracy is a destroying as well as a liberating force . China , which Is called a republic by British and American educated Chinese , hardly knows herself by that description . Nor does the ordinary man call himself Chinese ; he is a Kangsu , Chili or Hunan man . Peking is remote to the average Chinaman . China , unlike America , reads backward , dresses its men in robes and its women in trousers , and avoids , now at any rate , political office . The country has been for years without a Parliament , for many months without a Cabinet , while even the war lords , with more wisdom than modesty , avoid the Presidency . Like Jesse James in Washington . Marshal Chang Tso-lin , actually a brigand in early manhood and still reported almost illiterate , is the capital 's principal authority . It is as if Jesse James augmented his outlaws to 100 , - 000 uniformed men , gave them the semblance of discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enter the White House lest the opposition of the American people should be aroused . Under him the only Cabinet officer is a small , thin Columbia graduate . now about 40 years old , who was once Chinese Minister to the United States , namely , Wellington Koo . Mr. Koo is almost without subordinates because he has not the wherewithal to pay them , and he receives frequent and desperate cablegrams from Ministers abroad occasionally threatening to desert their legations if their back salaries are not forhtcoming . One ex-President who failed to escape when his Administration abruptly ended is imprisoned . The two others are wealthy established in the foreign settlement at Tien-tsin . The ex-Emperor is not paid the annual allowance pledged by the Republicans when he abdicated in 1911 and is likewise refuged behind the foreign soldiers at Tientsin . Wellington Koo is praised by the Americans for his unusual courage in returning to Peking after his flight in disguise several years ago . He now resides in the Chinese city , avoiding the protection of the legation quarter , and strives to retain the semblance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The foreign military attaches and the newspaper correspondents from Peking now have their headquarters at Shanghai , as have also the small number of foreign business men and former foreign officials of the postal and salt administrations , who are withdrawing from China and awaiting transportation on ? the crowded homebound steamships . But the missionaries remain at Peking , for , unlike the Upper Yangtse and the Souther Provinces , the capital has ri.t yet displayed serious anti-foreignism China offers the anomaly that where there is the least government there is the most se-1 curity . Also the Chinese , being traditional pacifists , maintain the world 's largest armies . Only a philosopher like Will Rogers is capable of properly reporting to the White House on this situation , which is comic yet horribly tragic in its toll of bodies and souls . Gay Life for Peking Marines . The international marines guarding the walled legation quarter at Peking enjoy leisure for polo , tennis , picnics and evening parties unblighted by the Volstead act . The United States , like the other powers , maintains about 400 marines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperates with the British , Japanese and French in keeping open the railway from Peking to the port . Peking , usually thronged with tourists , is now avoided like the plague . Its two fine hotels are almost empty . Around-the-world tourist vessels still touch at Shangnai , where unsophisticated Americans venturing ashore sometimes regard themselves as unusually daring . Some carry concealedl weapons but their lives are now safer here than in New York , for the settlement 's police protect us from holdups , while the rickshaws and wheelbarrows have neither the speed nor the momentum of motor cars . It Is not difficult to understand the viewpoint of the missionary who has devoted his life to the Chinese and persists in the hope that one movement or another will modernize the country . But Eugene Chen is not the long-promised savior , in the opinion of business men , who question if a republic is possible for a country with only 8,000 miles of railway , only 5,000 for vehicles and with no native university equalling an American high school . A million soldiers are primarily following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of altruism . There is , poverty everywhere whichl-wrings onete heart% strings , and 400,000,000 people are spread over a territory mere vast than the United States . Dr. Goodnow , President of Johns Hopkins , when adviser to the Chinese Government in 1912. made a written report to Yuan Shih-kai that in his opinion a monarchy was the only solution . Since then conditions have gone from bad to worse .                     