@@691785

txt The American Federation of Labor , if the views ' ! of its Executive Council control , is done with third-party movements and will in the future operate , so far as politics is Concerned , along strictly non-partisan lines . From now on , it is officially announced , " no aid or comfort will be given those who seek to launch thirdparty movements . " The position of the Executive Council was made known today simultaneously with a declaration as to the course of the federation in the Congressional campaign next year . The organization will enter that campaign and , regardless of political affiliation , seek to . bring about ' the nomination and election of candidates who are outspokenly friendly to organized labor . The Executive Council at its meeting today voted to conduct " a strenuous non-partisan political campaign " next year . A motion calling on State Federations of Labor , city general bodies and local unions to begin making preparations for the campaign was adopted . Reports from every Congressional district in the United States were before - the council and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature as to labor success in 1926 . To Back Friends of Labor . The report of the Executive Council will be made to the convention , which meets in Atlantic City Oct. 6 . Immediately after that convention , the Executive Council stated , it " will enter the various campaigns with the purpose of supporting those who can be de  --  pended upon to be true to the people , for if they are true to the people they will be true to labor . " Resolutions adopted warn organized labor and its sympathizers not to lose interest in the nomination and election of candidates friendly to labor . It is pointed out that while in the 1924 election labor deviated somewhat from its former non-partisan political policy the El Paso convention declared " that for the American Federation of Labor to be true to its mission it must be as free from political- party domination now , as at any time in its history . " " This means , " declares the Executive Council , " that the American Federation of Labor non-partisan political policy in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducting all non-partisan political campaigns the American Federation of Labor will maintain control within itself of the decisions to be made and the procedure to be followed . The council , however , believes that it should accept the support that is freely given by any group that has for its purpose the carrying out of the non-partisan political policy of the American Federation of Labor . " Political Bosses Condemned . Condemnation of the " political bosses " who are endeavoring to do away with primaries is a feature of the resolution . The people are warned that while those who are advocating the elimination of primaries to permit the " bosses " to select candidates have been defeated so far they will continue the dgitation . It is therefore necessary to carefully watch all legislation along that line In the various States . All labor is reminded by the Executive Council that the non-partisan political policy " has passed through the crucible of experience and has proved to be the best plan yet adopted for labor to voice itself politically . " " Since the non-partisan political policy has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gone . Generally they existed only for one election , " the council says . " The people generally are beginning to realize that hide-bound partyism does not benefit them . All too frequently they have learned that pledges in party platforms were not always respected but were used simply as a stepOing stone to office . " The Executive Council believes that as a result of its non-partisan political policy the launching of third party movements has been proved wasted effort and injurious to the desire to elect candidates with favorable records . The 1922 and 1924 political campaigns definitely determined this fact . Experience therefore has taught labor that to be successful politically it must continue in the future as in the past to follow its non-partisan political policy . " Another feature of the declarations is that active efforts to interest woman wage-earners and their sympathizers will be carried on during the primary and election campaigns . ?                     