@@685486

txt W. Bourke Cockran was selected today as New York State 's member of the Committee on Resolutions , and he will be formally chosen for the place at a caucus of the delegation tomovrow evening . The choosing of Cockran means that he will lead the fight for a " wet " - plank in the platform against William Jennings Bryan and also the fight for a plank advocating or expressing sympathy with the aspirations of the Irish for independence . Mr. Cockran Would have been elected at the meeting of the New York State delegation this morning had it not been for the absence of the delegates from eleven of the up-State Congress districts . For that reason Governor Alfred E. Smith , the Chairman , stated that it had been thought better to adjourn so that the up-State districts might be fully represented . The decision to choose Cockran rather than Governor Smith or John J. Fitzgerald of Brooklyn for the place on the Resolutions Committee , the most important within the gift of ' the delegation , was reached at a conference of leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hotel . Murphy works at the Palace , though he sleeps at the Fairmount . Among those who attended the conference were Governor Smith ; W. W. Farley ; State Chairman ; Norman E. Mack . National Committeeman ; Surrogate James A. Foley ; Representative Thomas F. Smith and John H. McCooey , the Brooklyn leader . Mr. Murphy was understood to feel that Tammany must be better prepared to defend itself against the verbal assaults of Mr. Bryan than it was at the Baltimore Convention in 1912. when the Tammany Chief sat in silence under his denunciation until John B. Stanchfleld answered him the next day . The New York State leaders and those allied with them believe that Cockran will be a match for Bryan in platform oratory . The tilt between them on the prohibition issue will be awaited - with intense interest . There had been a suggestion that Governor Smith might be put forward by Tammany to lead the liberal prohibition enforcement fight , but it was decided to hold him in reserve . It is likely that both the Governor and Mr. Fitzgerald may support Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fought out on the floor . Governor Smith 's boom for President was audible and visible today . All the New York delegates and their friends wore badges indicating that he was their choice for the . Presidency . New York will vote for him on the first ballot and perhaps a while thereafter . There is , however , no thought on the part of the Governor or any of his friends that he has a real chance to be nominated . A definite movement to make him the nominee for Vice President has taken shape if the nominee for President should be Governor Cox of Ohio or some other candidate supposed to laver a liberal prohibition enforcement . As matters now stand the : Governor does not desire the ziornmatoo ter v President and Murphy is said to be oppo-ed ? to his taking it . The Tammany feeling is that the situation in New York State demands that the Governor take a renomination rather than run for Vice President or United States Senator . Franklin D. Roosevelt , Assistant Secretary of the Navy , is the man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator . Mayor George R. Lunn of Schenectady , who attended the brief meeting of the delegation today , said he had not changed his purpose of attacking the unit rule adopted by the conference . of delegates at Albany , which will enable Murphy and his associates to control the State 's ninety votes . Mayor Lunn said he would oppose the rule the first time it came up , whether at a meeting of the delegation before the Rules Committee or in the convention . He would base his protest , he said , upon the New York State law creating the direct primary , as well as upon the alleged precedent established at the 1912 convention , when Newton D. Baker , now , Secretary of War , . refused as a delegate elected in a ddirectPresi , dential preferdtitial primary to ' . abide by the unit rule imposed by the Gnlo ? Democratic State Convention and Won his , point . At the session in the morning Albert E. Hoyt , Secretary , read resolutionkr adopted , by the French Democratic Club of New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for President . There was enthusiastic applause . Atter adjournment to 8:30 o'clock tomorrow evening the members had their photographs taken in front of the Hotel Bellevue with a banner inscribed , " A Progressive Candidate for President , Governor Alfred E. Smith of New York . " Mr. Cockran said later that the liberal prohibition enforcement plank had not been decided upon . The understanding is that the plank proposed by Tammany will condemn the saloon as a preamble and then propose a return to the " traditional Democratic doctrine of State rights " by amending the Volstead act , leaving prohibitionenforcement and the determination of the legal percentage of alcohol to each State . Mr. Cockran said jae believed an Irish plank would be brought before the convention which would refer specifically to the Irish aspirations and mention Ireland by name .                     