@@696305

txt The consistent decline which has characterized the bond market for weeks carried the general price level as portrayed by the Dow-Jones average of 40 representative issues into close proximity with the low figure for 1926 . While there has developed some cessation of the morbid sentiment which has served to demoralize the security markets during the past month . it is possible that with the extent of the downward swing in bond prices the average figure may drop below the 1926 low point of 93.07 . Recent low was ** on May 31 from ? hit.h the average rallied to 93 71 . Further declines would be of more significance statistically than practically . Alter all . fluctuations of a point or so in high grade long term obligations are of relatively small importance . It should be realized by the investor that a fluctuation of a point or even two points in a bond of more than 20 years ' maturity produces an insignificant difference in yield . Widespread aversion to the bond market on the part of the individual investor continues a major factor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has proceeded at a consistent rate and many millions of such securities have been absorbed in this manner . The term institutional is mainly applicable currently to insurance companies in that these organizations have proved the mainstay of the bond market as the commercial and savings banks for months have been of relatively no importance with respect to absorption of securities . It has been long recognized that it was the great army of individual investors whose capital accumulations flowed readily into the bond market for several years until the early part of 1928 which , in conjunction with growing bank and institutional demands , made the great bull market in bonds possible . Former Bond Buyers Turn to Stocks That henceforth bonds will occupy a decidedly different position in the general financial scheme seems logical as multitudes of quondam investors have become keenly interested in the stock market both from a speculative and an investment standpoint . The common stock as a long term investment has many ardent proponents and the growing interest in equity securities in the past few years . attended by comprehensively distributed financial publicity , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investment . cndoubtedly many persons uninitiated in financial matters have been attracted to the stock market either through the glamor or realization of quick capital profits but many such persons ultimately will , if they have not already done so , find that capital losses are virtually as plentiful as profits . The way of the bonafide stock investor , however , choosing carefully the companies in which an equity investment is planned with respect to position of the industry and outlook for the company in particular should be relatively more profitable than that of the bondholder over a period of time . Disregarding the great speculative urge which permeated the country and which appears to have calmed down somewhat recently , the common stock has come into increasing popularity as a legitimate investment and there appears little prospect of substantial reduction in its appeal . Such diversion of investment funds has been and will be felt in the bond market , although as an acute factor in the movement of bond prices the worst may be over . Bond underwritings other than those with stock privileges have been light this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through equity securities . This has naturally affected outstanding bond issues and may ultimately prove an important influence marketwise . Bonds to Institutional Portfolios Thus , as the level of bond prices has declined , attractive yields have been completely ignored by the individual investor and the tendency has been for such issues to find their way into institutional portfolios . It may be that this tendency will continue in the future with ultimately a large portion of our major bond issues in the hands of institutions and fiduciaries with the individual , the erstwhile bond investor . fundamentally interested in stocks . It is not to be supposed that former bond investors seized with a desire to participate in corporate ownership will immediately relieve themselves of their entire bond holdings , for the average individual desires at least a portion of his investment account to be in readily marketable obligations . It seems assured , however . that the extent to which the great corporations can count upon the individual investor to absorb fixed interest obligations has been definitely reduced and is not likely to recover markedly for some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the much discussed volume of non-banking funds in the brokers ' loan total . Non-banking funds now being loaned on Stock Exchange collateral total about $3,000,000,000 . This is a huge amount of money and there has been much discussion concerning the possibility of precipitating a crisis through indiscriminate withdrawals by private interests with no obligation to maintain stability in the demand loan market . It has been fairly well argued by economists and market students that there is little more chance of an extremely embarrassing withdrawal of non-banking funds from the call loan market than there is of a large commercial bank being discomfited through the simultaneous withdrawal of a major portion of its deposits . Call Money From Investment Funds The non-banking funds as well as a substantial portion of the out-of-town banking funds now loaned on call represent a great investment fund seeking the greatest return possible consistent with safety . For the past year it has been exceedingly more attractive to lend on call than to invest in securities , and as long as this inducement prevails the situation is not likely to change . The contention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the call loan market to take advantage of high rates has been largely dissipated . Funds so employed represent surpluses which under more normal conditions would have flowed into the security markets ; a substantial portion undoubtedly would have found its way into the bond market . When and it money conditions become more comfortable , lessening the attractiveness of the New York call loan market as a repository for surplus funds , a transition of funds from call loans to securities may be expected which can not but produce an effect on bond prices . Due to the continual sequestration of large blocks of high grade bonds in institutional strongboxes , together with the smaller amount of underwriting , it would not be surprising to see even a moderate demand for bonds result in substantially higher prices .                     