@@686446

txt To set II dazed world steadily upon its feet ape pears to be the keynote of the foreign policy that President Harding and Secretary Hughes have in mind . Although the new Administration , like that of President Wilson , is asking for , no material benefits to be derived directly from America 's contribution to the common victory over the Central Powers . there is a measure of self-protection in its desire to use all its influence toward world stabilization . The men foremost in the Harding councils are credited with the belief that , unless the perturbed world is helped back to normal , the United States will find a return of its own prosperity retarded . The affairs of all nations , it is contended , arc too closely interwoven to enable any of them to escape economic depression with its attendant feature of political unrest While some of them are prostrated , or nearly so , in consequence of the - demoralization of war . The term " American islolation " has/ been much employed by those who would keel ) this Government from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States in tt nerro ? sense . The Yap and .. Mesopotamian controversies have shown that the United States must ' have some co-operative relationship with the other principal powers in order to preserve itie rights and those of its nationals . t'inggestIons Front Allies mee.eeted. , . While Secretary Hughes is making At clear that this country , as one of those ? which contributed to the conquest of the former enemy territories , is insisting upon its own rights with respect to them , it is becoming equally well understood that the allied powers are certain to suggest , very delicately perhaps , that the United States must offer some inducement to them to respect the virtual , demands that this Government has I made . The character of that inducement has been suggested in the action of Secretary Hughes in rejecting Germany 's bid for American assistance in its resistance of the reparations demands of the principal allied powers , and notifying Germany that she must accept responsibility for the war and willingness to pay to the extent of her ability . That was moral support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective , however , this Government  --  certainly in the allied view  --  may be obliged to stand shoulder to shoulder with them in exerting pressure ' upon the German Government , instead of continuing to oo . cupy merely the virtually passive position of an interested and sympathetic observer . To what . extent these consideration will be set forth by President Harding in the address that he will deliver in person before the two houses of Congress on Tuesday is not disclosed . It is known in an authoritative way that the President will discuss the international situation as it affects the United States . He takes the position that the domestic problerfis with which the new session must grapple  --  tariff revision , Internal tax revision , repeal of wartime laws , the effect upon general economic conditions of high freight rates , the straits of the railroads , unemployment . the . inability of agricultural producers i to sell their products at a profit , and . Immigration  --  necessarily touch the foreign situation , and that international conditions can not be ignored in any discussion.of domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will deal with international ' questions in a general way . only , leaving for development and - further consideration the more difficult declarations of Policies that affect our foreign relations . He wants peace with Germany as soon as it is possible . to obtain it , but the responsibility of bringing about peace in the way most beneficial to Aznerlea has developed some lines of thought , that are apparently . having their influence upon the new consideration of the problem . President Harding , when .8 . Senator . voted twice for the peace resolution of Senator Knox . which President Wilson vetoed and which Is to be revived with the extra session about to begin . It is not known that Mr. Harding since he became President has expressed regret over his support of the Knox measure . In fact , he has indicated that his two votes on it must be construed as showing that he had a kindly feeling for the resolution . ? Notwithstanding this , ' all the ' evidence of current cleveldpments goes to show that in the Presidential mind the Knox resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully considered by the . - President and his advisers on foreign affairs , and they have indicates that although peace without delay is a de:Arable tiling it would be unwise to be - peccipitato in determining what Is best le be dente All of this , taken in connection with other and more direct knowledge , means that President Harding will ' write his own peace program and will put In it some of the ideas that he and Secretary Hughes are ? valviali . For the present the post-war policy of the new Administration is concerned with the effort of Secretary Hughes to obtain from the Allies a recognition of the rights that accrued to the United States as one of the principal Allied and Associated Powers . A recognition of these rights would simplify the international situation in that it would clear the way for the United States to back up its former associates more positively in insisting that Germany meet the reparations obligations , it would enable the United Staes to take an influential part in obtaining ? an understanding as to the amount that Germany is able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States as how to Europe could be rehabilitated economically , and It might make the United States , it is contended , a prime factor in the formation of an association of nations which would have tha Government as a member . Some . understanding is necessary , therefore , as to what the Allies are Willing to concede with reference to the American clnims for equality of treattnent for our nationals in all seized enemy territory and recognition of American participation in the control of the Island of Yap . International understandings of that sort are usually reached on a quid pro quo basis , although the process may be less crudely termed , so that each side may know in advance of positive action what its concessions are to bring in the way of material results . The European powers would feel amply rewarded , it is believed , if they gained American co-operation in straightening out the post-war affairs of Europe through conceding the claims of the United States with regard to Yap and other mandate territory . But this Government is standing on principle in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintains that the American position is based on right that does not admit of settlenIent on a quid pro quo basis . At the same time it is clear that the recognition of America 's contention would create a better feeling and remove obstacles to exchanges intended to bring the United States to keeping with the Allies in adjusting vital issues that badly need adjusting for the good of the world . Peace : Stove In About a Month . Information hat comes to THE N V77 YORK TiatiS Is that some definite move to bring peace with Germany and Austria may be expected in about a month . The Allies would like to see definite co-operation of the United States before May 1 , when the time limit given to the German Government to accept the demand for the payment of reparational damages amounting to 226 , - 000.000 German marks , gold , will expire . A ? development of American policy might come by that time if the Allies in the meanwhile conceded the American claims as to mandate territory . That this policy Av i I I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty , minus the laeague of Nations Covenant , and some move for the formation of an association of nations , is not doubted by persons in a position to know something of the Administration plans . As far as the Administration is concerned , the difficulty of the situation is increased by it ; failure to counteract the publicity obtained for the Knox resolution by some of its ardent auPporters . Advocates of the resolution have been active in asserting its merits and have succeeded in creating the impression that the aueption of the resolution Is part of the regular Republican program . Nothing /lee come from the White House or the State Department to give any contrary opinion , with the result that mane Ante:lean citizens who have accepted the Knox resolution as the expression of Administration intention with regard to making peace , will be bewildered if they find the Administration adopting a policy widely divergent from that set forth In the Knox measure . rie ? , - tublicnn Friction Denied . ? Silence in these circumstances gives rise to reports that there is a quarrel on between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iaore specifically . between President Harding and Republican leaders in Congress , particularly those who were among the President 's closest friends when he was a Senator . Such deductions have no foundation . Divergent views have not produced any harsh feeling . The President Is personally popular among his former legislative associates and a sincere desire to stand by him and help him prevails on Capitol Hill . As for Secretary Hughes the doubts among Senators as to his ability to get along with them are rapidly disappearing , and some of his critics in the Senate are now saying things that are flattering not onlv as to his ability , but as tn his persona ' : willingness to co-operate with them . They are saying that Mr. Hughes has shown a cordiality and geniality which will aid greatly in arriving at conclusions satisfactory to all sides .                     