@@695136

txt At recent meeting of Imperial Chemical Industries , Ltd. , which though less than two years old is already largest industrial company in Great Britain , Sir Alfred Mond chairman , said : " Since close of this financial year we have acquired  --  and the deputy chairman will specifically deal with that point  --  very important interests with a view to creation of a metal merger of farrear ' - Ing value to this company . " In this respect the following remarks of the deputy chairman were disapointing , as he said nothing of the most recent acquisition of copper and brass manufacturing companies , Or of the plan for merging them . It is said in the trade , however , that Imperial Chemical Industries already has secured control of half of the copper and brass manufacturing capacity in Great Britain , with further purchases being negotiated . January-April British imports of copper were 49 , - 493 long tons , against 46.157 first four months of last year in the same period . Germany 's imports of copper were 52,513 metric tons , against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were 32,021 metric tons the first quarter of this year against 22,652 during January-March , 1927 . In view of Italy 's prospective continuing expansion consumption of copper the government has recommended of hydro-electric developments and consequent heavy that owners of copper mines and prospects in Italy proceed to exploit them . Copper ore is known to occur at many different places , but the value of any of the deposits remains to be demonstrated . Italy is obliged to import its entire coal supply . All of Europe is in much the same position as Italy . The cost of coal , including its transportation , in those countries where it . is mined has become almost prohibitive , and power can be obtained from it much more cheaply by first converting it into electric energy . Enough industrial companies already are equipped with electric power to put those still using coal to a great disadvantage . In consequence there is a Europe-wide demand for a larger supply , of electric power . It is probable that more than three-quarters of Europe 's increase of copper consumption during the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for other copepr and brass products does not seem fo have been important until quite recently . All indications are that Europe 's consumption of copper will be considerably larger this year than last .                     