@@695251

txt The far flung business of the International Telephone &; Telegraph Corp . which operates in practically every part of the world is doing.well in the case of each unit . The six months ' statement will not be forthcoming for sometime as there is considerable difficulty in collecting the figures from the various sources . As time goes on the various acquisitions will be more welded and the accounting naturally will ? be simplified so reports will be in hand more rapidly . Officials are not predicting what the six months showing will be , but it is expected the showing will be somewhat better than $5 a share on 1,418,445 shares ( this total gives effect to the exchange of all Mackay Co. ' s stock ) outstanding . The first six months probably will show earnings not far away from the full 56 dividend requirements of the entire year . Earnings for 1927 amounted to $11.07 a share on 1,301,994 shares . European business of the International Standard Electric Corp . is good , particularly that in Belgium , England . France and Spain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition successfully . All America Cables also is showing improving earnings . These had shown some recession late last year but despite lower rates the volume has been sufficiently increased to make for larger profits . Affiliation of the Mackay Companies The latest corporation to become affiliated with the International Telephone &-; Telegraph Co. , was the Mackay Cos . Practically all of the Mackay shares have been turned in under the plan agreed upon by the shareholders of both companies in May of this year . The Mackay Cos. , including Postal Telegraph and Commercial Cables Cos. , have 354,408 miles of land lines including three transcontinental lines in the United States and more than 40,000 miles of telephone wires and 36,900 miles of ocean cables , extending in an unbroken line from Shanghai across the Pacific Ocean and continental United States through Europe . On the north the system connects with the Canadian Pacific Trnilway Telegraph lines for all points in Canada . At the Azores connection is made with the Eastern Telegraph Co. for Southern Europe , Asia and Africa and through the German cables with Germany and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern Telegraph Co. for service to Denmark . Scandinavia and Russia ; at the Bonin Islands with the Japanese Telegraph System , at Shanghai with the Chinese Telegraph Administration and with the Great Northern Telegraph Co. for its service in the Far East . The Mackay System also connects with the Pacific Cable for Australia and New Zealand , with the Halifa't ' and Bermuda and Direct West India Co. ' s for Bermuda and the West Indies and with the Newfoundland government telegraphs for all of Newfoundland . That the International Co. means to compete strongly for further land line business in the United States , goes without saying . Controlling only 17 , -C of the lan.11 line business at the most there is plenty of room for improvement on the part of the Postal and undoubtedly ( the company will offer the dominant Western Union System stronger competition both on land and under the water in the years to come . International 's Spanibh Business Increases Furthermore , through its radio affiliations known as the Mackay Radio &; Telegraph Co. and the Radio Communication Co. the system will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shore and transatlantic . International 's Spanish subsidiary , the Coraparila Telefonica Nacional de Espana , is increasing business and revenues almost monthly . The number of toll calls during January was 559,627 which was higher than in January of last year . The number of telegrams sent by telephone in January was 263.871 or 14 higher than in the corresponding month a year ago . The net gain in telephones during the month was 621 with a total of ** Telephone service between Spain and Great Britain was officially opened in May . That the company has a huge job in welding its projects , many of which have not been in the company 's system a year . is apparent . Furthern.more the company probably will take in other concerns , particularly in rounding out its network in South America .                     