@@686935

txt The statute which was to make it clear forthwith what rents were reasonable , and what unreasonable , at first produced as many decisions as there were Municipal Justices . That was so confusing that need was felt of a standard by which personal cpin-. ions of the . ; Tustices might be guided . There are now two such standards , one in Manhattan and the Bronx and another in the remaining three boroughs . One set of Supreme Court Justices notifies the lower courts that on appeals to them no consideration will be given to market values in settling what rents are reasonable , and that a lanclioed is entitled to a reasonable return only on the cash he personally invests ; that , is , on ' the equity aboVe the mortgage . As that may be a small fraction of the market value , a rent proportioned to value may run into a great percentage on the equity . Therefore , on this side the East River landlords are required to reduce their rents until the return on the equity is at something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landlords nothing for their risk and responsibility , and is not adapted to invite capital into the business of owning and renting . It is an antilandlord decision , which , in the long run , becomes an anti-tenant decision to the extent that capital is repelled from . such enterprise . Across the East River the rule is that the rents should be proportioned to the entire market value , and that the landlords should get something above the money market rate , say 10 per cent . and expenses . As values and expenses are not possible a determination in all cases by any rule , there is a margin of uncertainty in anl , given case . This rul , e favors the landlords , and the tenants also to.the extent that capital is invited into the landlord business and promotes enlargement of supply of rentable premises . It is not recognized at first that the supply of money controls the supply of houses ; and that the supply of houses fixes rents better than statute . Theoretically that is right , but is of little use in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin to run , and there is doubt which standard will or should control landlords and tenants . Accordingly it is suggested that a special term of court should be called to settle the point . That might be well if it were possible to submit all possible points to the special term . But there are constantly fresh points arising , and there can not he a perpetual special term to settle cases which the statute was passed to settle , with the result rather of unsettling the subject . Once more it appears that it is not practicable to establish reasonable standards by statute . ' Reasonable landlords and reasonable tenants can settle these tidings for themselves better than law or lawyers can settle them . The great majority of cases are settled in that way . Only the hard and doubtful cases get into the courts , from which both parties are likely to come out sobered .                     