@@684883

txt Eternal vigilance is the price or doing uusmess On the Cotton Exchanges . Cut worms , boll weevil , army worms , pink boll worms ' and other pests have to be considered in crop estimates . But there is none so pestiferous and unaccountable as the legislative pest . After lying dormant for some time , this pest has again appeared in the halls of Congress in the guise of it bill to prohibit the purchase and sale of futures . This new measure would prohibit any person from contracting for the future delivery of cotton unless he was actually the owner of the commodity at the time of making the contract . Obedience to this proposed law is enjoined by a line of $1,500 and two years in prison for violating it . Even a little learning would show the proponents of this bill that such a law would deal a staggering blow to the producer of cotton . The whole cotton crop can not be shipped direct from the plantation to the mill . Cotton must be sorted and graded so that a mill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grades at any time . Its orders for raw cotton may be given months ahead , because 00 mill can afford to carry more than two or three months ' supply at a time . The cotton merchant , therefore , is a necessity . But no set of men could afford to buy up the cotton crop in the autumn , pay cash , store and hold it throughout the year without an enormous addition to the cost . The risk would be too great to handle it on the present small margin of profit . In fact , there is no commodity that now passes from producer to consumer with so small a cost to middlemen as cotton , thanks to the futures markets . Before there was ? ft futures market and the crop was small , a few wealthy firms controlled the export business . Even then so much capital was required that the business was a veritable monopoly . These merchants had to pay cash for the cotton , freight , insurance and warehouse charges , and take the chances of price fluctuations for months and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume such risks alone . Therefore they bought only when cotton had weighed clown the market and planters were willing to sell for what they could get . A sale of a futures ' contract would have been a perfect insurance against such risks , but us there was none then , the risks were put upon the planter , who , being as ignorant as some of his champiOns , paid accordingly through the nose . And this is what Congress is now asked to restore for the cotton planter . He may well ? pray to be saved . from his fool friends .                     