@@688383

txt One of the two passages in President HARDING 'S subsidy message which drew applause from his lukewarm Congressional audience was his declaration that ' " I have come to reassert an American ' We will . ' " It is an excellent motto , apparently borrowed from Chicago . But it is an old remark of a political philosopher that to will the end without willing the necessary means to it is " the solecism of power . " It is not enough to affirm that the American people arc determined to have a flourishing merchant marine . They must make up their minds to take the steps necessary to get it . And the past history as well as . present condition of ocean navigation drives home the inescapable truth that , the seas being free to commerce , the best ships will win . This means , of course , the ships that give the best service . That includes not only low rates of freight , but skill , a thorough understanding of the methods and needs of the great trade between nations ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merchant marine. , The moment we try to dodge these hard necessities we fail . Then the instinct of some public men is to think up a device which will enable us to make money out , a international shipping , though we manage it badly . The resort is to monopolies or subsidies , or legal contrivances to impose handicaps and restrictions upon our rivals or competitors . - Moreover , the very fetlifig that by Government aid or some other form of favoritism our shipping companies can be pulled out of their difficulties tends directly to make Ulm careless or slovenly in the conduct of their business . For example , an American who has spent some time in Singapore as the repreoentatlye .. of a largeAmericanegport- ling concern wrote recently to The Springfield Republican : During the last six months I have received American shipments of several hundred cakes and shipped by a variety of lines  --  American , Japanese , British and Dutch . Not only has there been not the slightest evidence of discrimination , but as a plain matter of fact conspicuously the best service received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out-and-out example of bad service was from an American line operating for the account of the Shipping Board . What is the use of an American " We will " when such things occur ? The fact that our shipping men . have not more resolutely grappled with the stern realities of their business , if they expect to hold their own on the free ocean routes , is partly due to their feeling ' that , if they fall behind , a paternal Government will somehow come to their rescue . President HARDING is willing to do it , but his statement of the alternatives confronting the nation is not exhaustive . He de. - dares that it must be either a subsidy or a blundering Government operation at a loss , or the selling of our ships abroad or else scrapping them at home . Why not sell them at home for whatever they will bring in the market ? It is only a question of taking a heavy loss one way or the other , and sooner or later . If the Government ships could ' be turneil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order went out to our shipping concerns that they must depend upon their own efforts , sink or swim , there would be great force in appealing to American initiative and American pride . Then indeed we might hope for a restoration of the old race of American seamen who whitened every ocean with their sails and asked no favors from anybody . Meanwhile , to take money from the taxpayers to bolster up a losing enterprise , while vaingloriously shouting " We will , " is a procedure which the American people are evidently in no mood at present to applaud or to approve .                     