@@690119

txt The United States Senate in adopting a joint resolution authorizing the substitution of the name of Mount Tacoma for that of Mount Rainier overrules two judgments rendered by the United States . Board , of Geographic Names in 1890 and 1917 , confirming Rainier as the true and familiar name for the great mountain on the Pacific Coast . The case of Tacoma versus Rainier was presented before the board on May 2 , 1917 , in compliance with a petition from the Washington Legislature ; and after studying the data collected by the parties to a controversy that had raged for nearly forty years the Geographic Board declined " to recon " Sider its former action establishing " the name Rainier for the mountain . " It explained : For a hundred years the name of Mount Rainier has been used wherever the mountain has been mentioned in the histories , geographies , books on travel and exploration , scientific publications , encyclopedias , dictionaries and atlases of many nations  --  by the United States , Canada , England , France , Germany , Holland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent years a few dictionaries and encyclopedias have added the word Tacoma , usually ? in parentheses. following the name Mount Rainier , but general usage is overwhelming in favor of Rainier . The mountain is within a national park , and Congress has decided the name of the park to be Mount Rainier National Park . The mountain is also located in a forest reserve , known as the Rainier National Forest . It would appear , therefore , that the name Rainier is well established , both by an Executive order and by act of Congress . If the name of the mountain is to be changed , the names of the National Park and the National Forest should be also . All should be called Tacoma , which available evidence shows was never the Indian name of the mountain . It was a generic name applied to all snow peaks . Father BOULET , a missionary for the greater part of his lifetime to the Indian tribes on Puget Sound , recorded the fact that , they gave the name of Tuah-ku to the mountain called Rainier after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that the Indian-name was Puskehouse or Tiswauk . Responsible authorities agree that the Indians never called it Tacoma . That name wasetrst applied by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company for advertising Purposes on the strength of a statement by THEODORE WINTHROP in. his book " The Canoe and the Saddle , " that the Siwashes called the peak Tacoma . Later the company made an about-face and restored Rainier to its " literature . " The City of Tacoma stirred up rancorous hostility in Seattle by " booming " Mount Tacoma . The peripatetic GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN threw himself into the fray with the slogan : Tacoma ! Tacoma ! Aroma ! Aroma ! Seattle ! Seattle ! Death Rattle ! Death Rattle ! A bibliography of Washington Geology and Geography issued by the State in 1913 cited forty-six out of forty-seven publications about the mountain as favoring the name Rainier . Many of them were issued by the Alpine , Mazama , Mountaineer and Sierra clubs . " The use of the two names respectively , " CHARLES TALLMADGE CONOVER has said , " is in very much the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Legislature has passed " a resolution favoring Tacoma , " says Senator DILL . He " thinks " the opposition comes mainly from " a few old timers . " There is a reason other than the Choice of the original Indian name for the persistency of self-advertising Tacoma and its partisans . This is that the mountain was named after a British Admiral who served in the Revolutionar . War . He had a distinguished career , and he willed one-tenth of the family fortune of 81,000,000 toward the reduction of the national debt . It has been observed by those who remained calm during the great Washington controversy that if the American people decide to change English names of places all over the States they will cruelly embarrass the Post Office Department .                     