@@692544

txt Two young Englishmen have made a study of American industry and have embodied their findings in a volume entitled , - " The Secret of High Wages . " The authors see no reason why Great Britain , by taking a leaf out of our own book , should not attain our own high level of prosperity . Mr. GARVIN thinks the well-being of the British people can be doubled within twenty years if British employers and workmen can break away from an apparently settled tradition . Prosperity in the United States , to sum up the lessons drawn up by the two young Cambridge students for the benefit of their countrymen , is traceable to a method and to a state of mind . The method consists in trying for large-scale production and quick turnover on a narrow margin of profit . The state of mind , as found in the American employer , is one which does not shrink from high wages . The unrivaled scale to which this country has carried machine-production in the interest of conserving time , energy and space Is paralleled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the most of the mechanical appliances at his disposal . Even if the British people does not quite succeed in doubling its prosperity in twenty years , Mr. GieviN 's advice is well worth looking into . Great Britain could stand an increase in well-being short of 100 per cent . The proposed remedy is not a new one . One half of British industry has never hesitated to point out the errors of the other half . British labor , as at the present moment in the coal industry , emphasizes lack of initiative , vision and intelligence on the part of the employer . Britain 's industrial leaders stigmatize the doctrine of ea ' canny as applied by the workers . The finger of scorn is reciprocally pointed at antiquated industrial leadership and a benighted labor philosophy . Now both camps are urged to abandon recrimination and the policy of waiting for the other to take the first step . It is trot a simple adjustment to make . The British manufacturer , engaged in producing for a foreign market , is not confident that high wages at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American manufacturer producing for a home market . The British worker , measuring his interests by the limited European scale , hesitates to imperil his status by going in for " overproduction . " On both sides there is the national temperament . American initiative , courage , speed are wonderful things , but is it quite what we Englishmen want ? This human factor can not be overlooked . The young English inyestigators are , perhaps , in danger of overstressing the machine factor in America 's industrial prosperity . Enormous though our development has been in the way of labor and time saving devices , the principal reason for high American productivity and high wages appears to be the incomparably higher energy developed by the American worker . Our " speed " is far from being exclusively the speed of the machine . In an industry like coal-mining , where human labor is predominant , is well to recall that in the United States nearly 450,000,000 tons of bituminous are produced by a working force of 700,000 men , and in Great Britain a coal production of less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain , on her 20,000 miles of railways , employs more than 700,000 workers . In this country some 275,000 miles of railway , or fourteen times as much , employ only two and one-half times as many workers . Making a generous allowance for different conditions , it is still obvious how enormous is the difference qwq in Great Britain . Climate , race , history account in great measure for the unparalleled productivity of American labor . It is doubtful whether Great Britain can ever attain that standard . But there would seem to be little doubt that she can make a worthwhile approach by experimenting  --  with fresher and bolder ideas in the field of industrial leadership and of labor .                     