@@692968

txt While the Calles Administration was taking counter measures today against the impending Catholic boycott through an inquiry begun by the Interior Department into the letter of the Catholic Bishops ordering the end of services on July 31 and indicating an attempt to amend the anti-religious clauses of the Constitution , the churches of the capital as well as throughout the country were again jammed to capacity by communicants . If the investigation into the circumstances of the pastoral letter determines that the law has been violated , the Attorney General of the republic will be directed to proceed against Archbishop Mom y del Rio of Mexico City , the seven other Archbishops and the twenty-nine Bishops wh'o signed the letter . The respondents may be summoned into court for examination or placed under arrest . President Calles reiterated today his determination to enforce the religious law and issued a warning to those who would oppose the Government that they would be severely dealt with . It was learned today that three successive groups of executives of the League for Religious Freedom have been placed under arrest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret to save them from the same fate . ? Expect Many Will Go to Prison . Leading Catholics in Mexico City refused to reply to the statement issued by the President yesterday denouncing the projected boycott , declaring that the facts spean for themselves . They believe that under the stern repressive measures to be adopted by the Government many Catholics are destined to suffer imprisonment , but hail the opportunity to be martyrs for their faith . El Universal replied today to the strictures laid upon it by President Calles in regard to the religious issue , defending its " impartial " publication Of the facts of the controversy and In conclusion agreeing with the President that the Government should " dedicate itself to the solution of the great economic and social problems of Mexico without distracting attention to other difficulties . " The Federation of Labor , after issuing a statement through the various unions backing President Calles , has decided to organize conferences in the garrisons of Federal troops to teach the soldiers the " truth " of the situation , declaring that the Catholics " are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department has been asked to permit the use of movies in a campaign to convince the army that the Government is in the right . The Federation will also hold a big parade in Mexico City as well as processions in Other places to demonstrate the loyalty of labor to the State . Thousands Seek Sacrament . From dawn till dusk such huge crowds stormed the churches of the Federal District that it was impossible for hundreds to get inside the doors . Hour after hour the faithful , seeking ' consolation in the last days that their churches will be open to them , passed in constant streams in front of the altars , some brreed in silent prayer and others lifting their voices till they were heard in the streets . The Sagrario , which is on one side of the Cathedral Plaza facing the National Palace and for a century has been the baptismal place fqr Catholic children , is now inadequate for the throngs daily besieging its portals . It is estimated that 2,000 children were baptized there yesterday and today the line of the patiently waiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking the sacrament were a hundred Indian children whose parents had walked with them on their shoulders from distant States . They had their food with them and munched it as they awaited their turn . The children did not laugh or play , but clung close to their fathers and mothers , their faces reflecting the solemn mien of their elders . Mothers with babies in their arms stood with immobile countenances and even when friend met friend , the greeting was subdued . A pall seemed to depress the spirit of the people in the face of repression of their freedom of worship . Two children are reported to have been suffocated in the crush at the Sagrario today , their bodies being carried out by their weeping parents . Since July 10 , the marriages recorded number 1,800 and the baptisms 96,000 . Special Services for Final Days . In order to attend to the needs of the children , Archbishop Mora y del Rio today proposed to have one general communion for 5,000 of them on July 31 , the last day that the churches will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general day of prayer . Until that. , day he ordered spetial half-hour masses daily in all the churches and in the final hour solemn high masses . Archbishop Mora y del Rio said today that he had nothing further to add to the pastoral letter , saying : " All that we have thought fit to make known to the faithful is in the pastoral letter . " Regarding the fate of the priests , the Archbishop said that this problem was being studied and in due time they would be instructed . At the home of the Archbishop were crowds of men and women anxious to converse with the prelate . The shrine of Guadalupe continues to be the scene of Immense gatherings . More than 50,000 prayed there yesterday and today , beginning in the early morning . Thousands more made the pilgrimage , including Indian families on foot and Mexicans of tha cities in private automobiles and public cammions . From Sonora In the North to the Guatemala border on the South and from Tamaulipas in the East to Guerrero in the Southeast , candles are burning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal for divine aid to the church in its hour of trouble . Indian shrines in small ' thatched huts are now the objectives of pilgrimages and sacred images and pictures are being reverently carried from house to house in every village . In Southern Mexico , where there are fewer churches , the Indians treasure the emblems of their faith . Each hut , no matter how humble , has its picture of a saint with a little altar beneath , with candles ceaselessly burning and flowers renewed every day . Through all the strata of Mexican society , and particularly among the Indian population , which is about 85 per cent . of the total populace , the Catholic faith is showing a resurgence as result of the clash of the Church with the State .                     