@@692457

txt The first definite discussion of an offer to operate what was regarded as virtually a city-wide bus system , in which Mayor Walker has great interest , took place before the Board of Estimate in Committee of the Whole yesterday , when the application of the Equitable Coach Company to operate bus routes in all boroughs except Richmond received consideration . The applications for franchises submitted by the Manhattan Surface Coach Company , a subsidiary of the New York Railways Company , and the Surface Transportation Company , a subsidiary of the Third Avenue Railway Company , were also considered . The other leading development of the day in the bus situation was the joint offer of the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corporation and the Brooklyn City Railroad to undertake borough-wide bus operation in Brooklyn . In a letter to the Board of Estimate the Presidents of the two companies declared their willingness to undertake the operation of a comprehensive ? rooklyn bus system without giving any details . A ? definite offer undoubtedly be made later and presumably the : two companies will be willing ltd exchange some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ** owning surface lines have itRI-le:AM:I'll. readiness to do . Walker Likes Equitable Offer . The offer of the Equitable Coach Company , which is backed by the J. G. White interests , extensive operators of public utilities throughout the United States and its possessions , presented so many favorable features that Mayor Walker and his associates were said to have been considerably impressed , although , of course , the I:lard of Estimate members would make no decision on the granting of franchises until all the applicants have been heard . The company 's offer , to undertake city-wale operation , with the exception of Richmond , where ' a special problem is presented , wa- said to have particularly appealed to the Mayor , who has all along been reported to favor city-wide operation , if it should be found practicable . In addition to the advantage to be gained by making the more profitable lines take care of the less profitable , another advantage would be gained , according " to the Mayor 's viewpoint , by the greater flexibility of city-wide operation . To illustrate , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be little need for any great number of buses in lower Manhattan , while buses in greater numbers would be needed on those days in parts of the Bronx , Queens and Brooklyn . City-wide operation , it was said , would make possible the diversion of buses from routes on which they were not needed to routes where the need was greater . Five-Cent Fare Provision . Another feature of the Equitable offer , which was said to have appealed to the Mayor , was a provision for a five-cent fare . This rate would be applied to a zone system , but the Mayor and his colleagues were informed that such a plan would benefit the short-haul riders , usually comprising the greater number of bus passengers . Studies of the Board of Transportation and the experience of bus companies have indicated that the fivecent fare for long bus hauls is not profitable , and most of the ' applications for bus franchises are based on a tencent fare for longitudinal lines . The Equitable offer , it was said . contemplated a five-cent fare for a five-mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boa'rd of Estimate reported to be inclined to favor city-wide opera- tion all other factors being equal . there was some speculation as to whether the Fifth Avenue Coach Company , which with the New York Railways Company has formed the New York City Omnibus Corporation to apply for bus franchises in Manhattan , might not include in this alliance the surface lines in the Bronx , Brooklyn and Queens and thus be in a position to offer city-wide operation in competition with the Equitable Coach Company . There was no information that any such combination was in negotiation , but the city officials displayed keen interest in the announcement of the B.-M . T. and the Brooklyn City Railroad that they were prepared to enter the negotiations and even greater interest in the details of these companies ' offers , which are yet to come . Brooklyn Companies ' Offer . The offer of the Brooklyn companies , signed by William S. Menden , President of the B. M. T " . , and H. ' Hobart Porter , President of the Brooklyn City Railroad Company , read : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operates rapid transit lines and a little more than half the surface lines in Brooklyn . The Brooklyn City Railroad Company operates practically all of the remainder of the surface lines . In line with their obligation to give to the public the best possible trans , portation , the R.M .. T. Corporation and the Brooklyn City Railroad Company are prepared to form a bus company to be financed by them and to operate a Brooklyn borough-wide system of buses so to be coordinated with existing rapid transit lines and buses as to give to the public the best of service at the lowest possible cost . " They therefore request the opportunity to confer with the members of the Board of Estimate to discuss terms upon which they may cooperate with the city through such proposed new I corporation with city representation and supervision to insure coordination with existing lines and maximum service to the public . The operating experience on existing facilities of the I B.-M . T. and Brooklyn City companies would seem to create , the opportunity ' for agreement as to bus operations in Brooklyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Board of Estimate will continue its conferences with bus frau. cnise ! applicants next week on Tuesday , Wednesday and Friday . As explained by the Mayor , the conferences are for the purposes of bargaining and the board will reach no decision , even of a tentative nature , until after all the applicants are heard , and probably not until some of them have been called for further negotiations .                     