@@685405

txt The sixteenth annual convention of the Associated Advertising Clubs of the World was officially opened by Richard H. Lee of New York . special ' counsel of the National Vigilance Committee of the organization , with an address in Which he called attention to the service ' to the public of truthful advertising , and told of the campaign of the Vigilance Committee to bring about truthful advertising , at an inspiration meeting this afternoon . Advertising sermons were delivered in a number of the churches this ? evening by business men of national prominence . Thousands of delegates to the convention from all over the United States arrived today , and the regular business sessions begin tomorrow . Milwaukee and Atlanta are contending for the 1921 meeting . Mayor Jewett delivered the address of welcome to the advertising men at the inspirational meeting , and Reuben H. Donnelley , of Chicago , President of the association , made the response . Mr. Lee said . in part ; " Advertising which is truthful , and which carries a message of useful goods or service to people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It tells people where to get what they need , and it suggests new and valuable things to the public . By increasing demand it prompts quantity production . with resulting economies . Advertising can not be of value to the advertiser unless , and until , it is of value to the public . " The chief asset of advertisingt is ' reader confidence . ' Reader confidence means returns to the advertiser . Circulation with reader confidence is an asset ; without it , it is a waste . " " Sixteen years ago , when the Associated Advertising Clubs of the World was formed , advertising was not regarded as a business , but it was referred to as a ' game . ' Then one day the question arose of what was the matter with the drawing power of advertising copy . A committee appointed reported that because of the nature and misuse of advertising copy by a small but active number of advertisers it was gradually losing reader confidence . The Asso2iated Advertising Clubs of the World undertook the task of protecting reader confidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a Vigilance Committee was apopinted for the purpose of carrying out the determination of the convention . " Mr. Lee told . about the manner in which the work is being done and some ) f the results the committee has achieved n prosecuting untruthful advertisers . " Do not get the impression . " he said , that prosecution is the big word in he work of the Associated Advertising : Nubs of the World . We have three methods of handling our ma tters . The ' first is suggestion , the second publicity tml the third the prosecution . Under he first heading we handle fully 95 ) er cent . of all the cases which come into our hands . "                     