@@692691

txt But yesterday it was rumored that soon there would be none so poor as to ; do reverence to Ram H. McCooEs of Brooklyn . Now the indications . are that his word will continue to stand against that part of the world included : within Kings County , To the surprise of most people , Mayor WALICER 'S new Fire Commissioner is an out-and-out McCooey man . This is assurance that the veteran leader of the transpontine I Democracy will surely not run to the I nearest exit , and may even be permitted to set his own walking pace in ' that direction . His error of judgment in cleaving to HYLAN last year will be forgiven him . In the present era of good feeling it may even be counted as merit in ? icCoonr that he should have held loyally to " his " man . Loyalty stands high in the politician 's catalogue of virtues . It will be remembered that , after all , it is McCoosr who has fixed the Democratic habit on Brooklyn , and that once the primaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polls , Also , it has been remembered that a State election is coming on next Fall . A veteran Democratic leader deposed without sufficient cause might do something to reconvert Kings County to Republicanism . As a result , the proposed anti-McCooey harmony dinner has been called off in the interest of harmony . No such silver linings manifest themselves in the clouds heavily lowering over the head of Mr. SAMUEL KOENIG . The number of Republican knives being sharpened for use upon that incomparable organizer of defeat grows apace . His irreconcilable enemy , Mr. ABRAHAM S. GILBERT , organizes a Republican County Club for the purpose of unseating the head of the Republican County Committee . He gives to the world the names of five Manhattan district leaders who have made no secret of their belief that it would be nice if something'happened to separate Mr. KOENIG from the conduct of party affairs in Manhattan . The opposition has never been able to solve the arithmetical puzzle which has interested so many outsiders  --  why New York City should regularly be going Republican for President by hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Presidential year , there would be no cause of complaint against Mr. Konxio . But as it happens the Presidential and Mayoralty elections regularly miss each other ' by a year . The " Federal crowd , " which lives by what happens in 1924 and 1928 ; is happy enough under the present county leadership . The much larger crowd that looks to 1925 , 1920 , &c.,; is not at all happy . Add to this the goodly number of disinterested Republicans who resent the steady party decline , and there is some reason for believing that Mr. KOENIG ' s chances of prolonged survival would command a large number of guineas per cerft. at Lloyds .                     