@@690123

txt ' President COOLIDGE seems to think that the country needs a sedative . He administered one in his speech yesterday . It raised no new issues . It gave no lift or fresh life to old ones . The sentiments which it expressed are beyond cavil , but they revealed no inner flame of passionate belief and were not put forward in a way to furnish watchwords of debate or cries of political combat or marching ( ) ram to a great electorate . Througheift the President was calm and cautious . No definite statement of a precise policy can be extracted from his address . It was a masterpiece of amiable non-committal . It must have been President COOLIDGE 'S deliberate intention not to say anything which could produce wonder . excitement or controversy . This avoidance of contentious matter is the more noteworthy because of the general feeling that the President was offered a great opportunity yesterday to take a strong line and reveal clearly to the country his determination to be the leader of his party . At Washington he is for the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondents are confidential , never to be quoted . But yesterday , under the auspices of The Associated Press and through the almost limitless transmission of his voice by radio , it was possible to deliver to millions of his countrymen a burning message , if he had one in his heart . But he chose to lay upon himself severe restraint . He sought neither to kindle his bearers nor to provoke in them unwonted thoughts . He did not attempt to make them forget the sordid and depressing occurrences at Washington by pointing out to them bright fields of endeavor . The whole speech was in a soothing tone , as if the President , assured of renomination , felt that the time had come to smooth over old troubles rather than to worry his party with new Ideas or to renew in it old fears . Mr. COOLIDGE , being himself not inexpert in politics , must have prepared his speech on some theory of the chief demand at the present stage of the Presidential campaign . The sum of it would appear to be that he believes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be thankful . Perfectly sound and pertinent is what the President has to say upon the ' few domestic subjects which he touched . He would have official life cleansed of every dishonest or corrupting influence . He would have the Government cleave to a policy of rigid economy . Needless and inequitable taxation he condemns . and intimates that the majority in Congress has not yet caught up with the people in the demand for a more scientific system of levying taxes and for consistent retrenchment in governmental expenditures . But he states this whole doctrine very much with the air of a professor uttering a mathematical formula . The President is no doubt earnest in all this business , but his speech is neither incisive nor appealing . Displaying no enthusiasm himself for the proposals which he enunciates as if they were axiomatic , he can hardly have expected , or planned , to rouse much enthusiasm in others . The same spirit of caltulated understatement is evident in the passages which the President devotes to interDational relations . It is true that he loots the report of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it as a great American contribution to a world settlement , and expresses a strong hope that it may be altogether successful in operation . If Will be noted , too , that ' he suggests further American participation , to the extent at least of taking a share of the foreign loan which it is expected that Germany will seek to obtain But iia the ? presence of other questions of our foreign policy President Coormaz walks softly . He would have America do all she can to promote the peace of the world , but always do it with an eye to her own safety and- independence and only after a careful estimate of the chances of succes . Thus , as regards the calling of further international conferences to reduce arma-1 merits , the President declares that - it would be " impractical to attempt action under present conditions " ; but that , : nevertheless , he would favor the summoning of a new international congress for such an object , provided that the sounding out of other nations indicated that the scheme would not entirely fail . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One opportunity seemed fairly to be begging the President to seize it . A year ago , - also before The Associated Press , President HARDWG devoted almost his entire speech to advocacy of our entrance into the World Court . Favoring the same plan , as he does , what could have been more natural than for President COOLIDGE to recall the ardent plea of his predecessor , and to adopt and enlarge on it himself ? But in his present cautious mood , Mr. COOLIDGE ' simply mentions the World Court as one of the agencies of peace which ought to be taken prudently into consideration . His only reference to the League of Nations is to say that he regards its rejection by this country as " final . " He did not so regard it directly after his election as Vice President in 1920 , but at that time it was not necessary for him to make plans for quieting down and uniting the discordant elements in the Republican Party . We should not be frank if we did not say that the President 's speech is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this time . But the address itself is pitched throughout to the note of not expecting too much , so that one will not be too much disappointed . In this aspect of the case it almost disarms criticism .                     