@@694533

txt Repeatedly informing his questioners that he was unable to recall the details of past financial transactions , Herman W. Booth , expelled member of the ? New York Stock Exchange who is under arrest on a charge of grand larceny , failed to shed much light on his tangled affairs at a bankruptcy hearing before Federal Referee Seaman Miller at 20 Vesey Street yesterday . Booth was sharply questioned by Burgess Osterhout , attorney for Booth 's receiver , Edward H. Childs , but at the close of the hearing Mr. Osterhout admitted that he was more mystified than ever as to the true state of Booth 's affairs . In marked contrast to his demeanor at the hearing of Nov. 10. when he vehemently asserted his solvency , the broker sat apathetically through the questioning . After he had drawn from Booth the statement that 300 shares of the capital stock of the Cedar Cliff Inn , Inc. , which were in the hands of the receiver , were all that were out , Mr. Osterhout produced letters showing that another 100 shares had been placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and still another 100 shares with the Loyal Company for another loan . Booth admitted that he " must have " put up the stock in question , but insisted that he had forgotten all about both transactions . The attorney then produced the stock certificate book of the company and showed that several other certificates , each representing 100 shares of stock , had been detached from their stubs , but again Booth was unable to recall what had become of them . To his insistence that he had no desire to deceive the receiver , Mr. Osterhout replied : " I hope not , for the creditors are counting on the recovery of some funds from the Cedar C ' ? ff Inn property . and it is disquieting to have indicated that there may be other stock outstanding . The situation is not so pleasant for the creditors . " Booth was also unable to recall the answers to questions about the officers of the corporation and the payment of dividends on its stock . Mr. Osterhout asked : " It 's a fac ' . that you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not , is n't it ? " Booth replied that he did not recall having done so . Mr. Osterhout abruptly broke off the examination to anno  --  ince that a situation had arisen which would make it necessary for the creditors to decide as to the course to pursue . and asked for an adjournment until Dec. 29 to permit Mr. Childs and himself to investigate and recommend to the creditors a policy . The adjournment was granted and Booth was taken back under guard to the Tombs .                     