@@689336

txt Wickersham Speaks at Lafayette and Marne Celebration . The anniversary of the birth of Lafayette and the Battle of the Marne was celebrated yesterday afternoon at Governors Island , where representatives Of the four allied nations paid tribute to the memory of the great Frenchman and to the victory that saved Paris from the Germans in 1914 . The address of welcome was made by Maj.-Gen . Robert Lee Bullard , and Was followed by addresses by Colonel Franklin Q. Brown , the Hon. George W. Wickersham , Andre de Laboulaye . French Charge d ' Affaires , Colonel C. G. Charlton , British Military Attache , d'Hermalle , Belgian Charge d ' Affalres , and Colonel Dumont , French Military Attache . Maurice Leon , the Chairman of the committee in charge of the celebration read messages from President Collidge , Secretary Hughes , Ambassador Jusserand , Ambassador Myron T. Herrick , and Premier Baldwin . Messages from Premier Poinca.re . Marshal Foch and Marshal Joffre were also read . Mr. Wickersham , who made the principal address , paid tribute to the part played by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " What wonder , " he said , " that the love of France is so ingrained in the hearts of the people of America ? We . in the great war , in 1917 and 1918 , gave out of our abundance . But she , in the hour of our need gave us out of her slender treasury with unspairing hands . without which our cause must have been lost . We should remember these facts . when our politicians talk of the loans made to France and to others of the Allies in the great war , to secure the liberty she helped us to win , as commercial transactions , to be enforced and collected as ordinary debts arising in trade . While we were lending dollars in 1917 France and Great Britain and Italy were pouring out the life blood of their sons to hold the enemy at bay until we should have time to raise and equip and transport across the seas fresh armies for the relief of the sorely pressed forces of the Allies in a cause we had tardily recognized as our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our cause , would not have come . . Without the victory of the Marne . America would never have had the opportunity to re , pay her indebtedness to France . ? " The lesson of the war , It seems to me. is plain . No one nation can afford to defy the sentiment of the civilized powers of the world in the interest of its own ambitions or its own resentments . " In the course of his address M. Laboulaye said that " uneasiness remains among nations , who are asking themselves if the present state of things will last long . The reason for this anxiety is most easy to understand : freedom to be efficient and profitable to men must lean on justice and right . " HITS SMITH 'S PLATFORM .. G. 0 . P. Leader Say " It Eliminates Plan to Unite on Judge . All chance of the Republicans and Democrats getting together on a nomination for Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals this Fall will go by the board if the Democratic leaders insist upon adopting a party platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made clear yesterday by Republican State Chairman George K. Morris . He declared emphatically that the Republican Party would not endorse Justice Lehman of the Supreme Court or any other candidate . " The Republicans wo n't stand for it , " he said . I ? am not trying to run the Democratic Party , as the Governor suggested . The Republicans were inclined to look favorably on a proposal to indorse a high-class Democrat for Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals and the friends of Justice Lehman were quite confident that he would meet the requirements and be the Democratic candidate . It was merely an informal and tentative suggestion and now that the Governor proposes to frame a platform and have Democratic candidates run on it , it 's an entirely different proposition . " Chairman Morris was backed up in his statement by Speaker Edmund Machold , with whom he conferred during the day . The Chairman declared that the Republican State Committee would meet at the headquarters of the committee probably on Friday , Sept. 28 , to arrange for the selection of candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversy that has arisen between him and Democratic State Chairman Herbert C. Pell over the adoption of a party platform . The Governor will attend the Field Day of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Association at Hyde Park on Friday and will go to Ilion next Tuesday to take part in a celebration of the invention of the typewriter . He will attend the Syracuse State Fair on Wednesday and return to New York the latter part of the week . Ernest Harvier of the Democratic Union announced yesterday that his organization would accept the suggestion of the various bar associations in New York for a conference on judicial nominations .                     