@@685869

txt Detectives of the Bomb Squad and Government officials last night were endeavoring to learn whether Reds were responsible for the placing of 354 sticks of dynamite on Buckwheat Island , a small stretch of marsh land . off : Mari : . ner's.Harbor , S. I. , within the last few days . The dynamite was discovered by detectives yesterday after two boys had reported to Acting Captain Dole of the Elizabeth ( N. J. ) police that on Wedneaday afternoon while crabbing on the island they ripped open the-boarding-nailed to the entrance to a shack and took two sticks of dynamite from one of eight wooden boxes which they found . Investigation of the topmost box revealed that twenty-eight sticks of dynamite had been removed from that box , and removing that from the pile they discovered two sticks had been removed from the next box . .. Captain Van Wagner telephoned to the Bureau of Combustibles of the Fire Department to learn whether a ? contractor or industrial plant had received a permit for the storage of the explosive on the island , and when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bomb Squad at Police Headquarters . Officials Hurry to Island . Detective Sergeant James J. Gegan , head of the Bomb Squad , received Captain Van Wagner 's message , and in turn notified the Department of Justice , officials of the Navy Yard in Brooklyn and the local office of the United States ' Bureau of Mines . Squads of officials representing the Government were hurried to the island in navy tugs and Government launches , but after an investigatio which lasted well into last night , neither the detectives nor the Government officials were in a position to explain the presence of the dynamite on the little island . Late last night Benjamin Labardi , tender of the Arthur Kills Bridge , which spans the Staten Island Sound from Elizabethport to Elizabeth , N. J. , informed the detectives that on Saturday evening last he saw two men row a boat to Buckwheat Island , which is about 500 feet from the bridge , and reMove something to the shanty . He could not identify the men , because of the distance that separated them from him , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Campbell , expert in explosives for the United States Bureau of Mines , left for Wilmington , Del. , last night to interrogate officials of the du Pont company about the , explosive . " Each box found in the shanty , " he explained before he left , " was marked ' Manufactured by du Pont Powder Company , Wilmington , Del . High explosive . ' A cursory examination of the dynamite revealed that each stick contains about 60 per cent . of nitroglycerine . One of those sticks would be sufficient to cause an explosion such as that which took place in Wall Street several weeks ago , and were the entire 354 sticks to explode the blast would be sufficient to blow up . Manhattan Island . " ? Rumor of 4 , Plant " by Reds . Detective Sergeant Gegen and Captain Van Wagner refused to advance any theory as to the purpose in storing the explosives on Buckwheat Island , but it was learned that the detectives and Government officials are investigating a report that the dynamite was placed on the Island by Reds working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Buckwheat Island are the planth of the Standard Shipbuilding Company , on Shooters ' Island ; the Downey Shipbuilding Company , the 1Texas Oil Company and the Standard Oil Company . In all of those plants foreigners are employed , and it is understood the local and Government investigators are endeavoring to learn whether there are any Red 's among them . Reports of an alleged plot to blow up plants of the Standard Oil Company in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn resulted yesterday in the placing ' of a heavy guard about the big plants of the company in that section and also in Long Island City , where there are three plants . ?                     