@@687772

txt Feminist Bloc . To the Editor of The New York Times : One does not like to split hairs with an editor with whom he is generally In agreement , but when TILE Times says , " A movement to use an organization to function as a ' women 's bloc ' would die of ridicule if internal discord did not wreck it , " the writer must invite your attention to the following facts : The League of Women Voters has functioned as a " women 's bloc " at Washington for some time , and instead of dying of ridicule has been approved by Tie Ladies ' Home Journal is " the most powerful lobby in Washington . " " The National Woman 's Party , as clearly as Mrs. Belmont , its chief financial backer , could-frame sentences , proclaimed itself only last Sunday as " the first woman 's political Parliament in the world . " " The existing political parties cater to and accept woman 's ballot , but in no way is her influence or her point of view considered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " added Mrs. Belmont . What other excuse has any other " bloc " offered for its existence than that the old parties did not give it , what it wants ? As for the League of Women Voters , it is , sued an official campaign bulletin , dated May , 1920 , from which I quote : " Get into the parties . Democratic women , you need the help of your Republican sisters . Republican women , you will succeed only If you join hands with the Democratic members working from within . Neither side could win without the other , but by team work in behalf of the legislative measures in which women believe , the League of Women Voters will become invincible . " ( Italics mine ) . The National Woman 's Party , moreover , in Article 3 of Its constitution , restricts its membership to women who support its objects " irrespective of the interests of any national party . " If these are not movements " to use an organization to function as a ' women 's bloc , ' " then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English language . But they will not " die of ridicule . " They will die only when the public is told the whole truth about these lobbies and parties whose only reason for existence is to threaten every man , in office by claiming to control every woman 's vote . It Is n't a " women 's bloc . " because it does not- represent or control one woman 's vote in twenty . But it ? is a feminist bloc , so thoroughly organized that not more than ten papers in the United States dare to ridicule it ; and it , Is the greatest organized effort " to function as a women 's bloc , with feminist leaders attempting to " farm " the women politically , that Washington has ever known . J. S. EICHELBERGER . Washington , D. C. , May 31 , 1922.                     