@@695225

txt Outlook for the industrial alcohol business for the second half of the year is better than it has been for , years . Orders are being received in substantial volume . price schedules are being adhered to firmly , and there is indication that in the next six weeks an upward revision of finished product prices may occur . A factor contributing to strength in prices is the certainty that distillers will pay more for their raw material , blackstrap molasses , next year . Restriction of the Cuban sugar crop has resulted in an upward swing of 21 : cents to 3 cents a gallon for molasses for 1929 delivery . The large alcohol distillers already have contracted for their next year 's requirements at this new level , and it is estimated that around 90 , , - of next year 's crop has been disposed of . Higher Prices Expected Increase in cost of raw material calls for higher prices for industrial alcohol , which on an equitable basis would be between 6 and S cents a gallon higher next year . Firmness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product for manufacturing purposes , w ell as advance purchases for next winter 's anti-freeze requirements . Two healthy conditions are met in the industry . One is the absence of carried-over stocks by distillers . Last year 's slump in the business and price-cutting were the direct result of a carry-over at the beginning of 1927 , estimated at 25.000.000 gallons of alcohol  --  the result of surplus production during the preceding three years . Shut-down of many plants until this was worked off wan the order for the first half of 1927 . Distillers started more or less from scratch at the beginning of this year . Cut Throat CornxbetItion Absent The second salutary factor is the absence of cutthroat competition which previously had characterized the business . Restriction of output by federal prohibition authorities , on a quota ba.sia , of course tends to prevent arse surplus stocks , and is thus helpful to the general price structure . Total output of industrial alcohol this year is estimated at around the 85,000.000 gallons permitted by the government , compared with around 90.000,000 gallons actually turned out in 1927 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally a more cooperative spirit in the industry . Several mergers of small independent distillers have taken place , and it is expected that several more will occur . This centralization of manufacturing . with larger unit investments , has tended to bring about more friendly competition . Industrial alcohol prices for the current month are 43 cents a gallon , tank cars : 45 cents a gallon in drums . carload lots . August will see an upward revision of one cent a gallon . under the schedule , with another one-cent increase for September-December delivery . Molasses to Continue Firm The larger companies paid somewhere around 31 : cents a gallon for their blackstrap molasses for this year . Price is at Cuban seaboard . This was about 21 : to 4 cents cheaper than molasses for 1927 . Next year 's prices of 6 to 7 cents a gallon for blackstrap. it is expected , will give the Cuban sugar companies a better chance to make money , and it is generally admitted in the molasses business that there is every indication that prices for the next few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Firmness of demand for industrial alcohol , absence of surplus stocks , restriction of output , and better cooperation in the industry generally make it probable the margin of profit will not be reduced by the higher raw material costs .                     