@@696275

txt Although no substantial progress was made here today toward solution of the problem of how to treat the Belgian mark claim , which alone stands in the way of the signing of the experts ' reparation agreement , efforts are being made to find at least such a manner of treatment as will permit the Belgians to sign the experts ' report . While the French , and in great measure all other delegations , are largely sympathetic to the Belgian claim and are desirous of a collateral settlement , it seems inconceivable that this matter alone should stand in the way of the solution of the much wider and more important problem which has been found by Owen D. Young and his colleagues . Admitted in Principle . It must be borne in mind that though the Belgian claim has been admitted in principle by successive German governments , it has pot been the subject of an inquiry either by this or any other expert committee , and the Germans contend that the figures set forth by EmileFrancqui , the Belgian delegate , and the Belgian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to negotiate for a settlement with Belgium can be obtained from the German Government before the final account is closed by the signature of the experts ' report , it is felt that the road may be cleared of this last obstacle , and it is toward that solution that all efforts are now being made . The experts themselves can not , of course , ask such a promise . They are solely a consultative body , with power to make recommendations . Such influence as they have , however , is being used in this direction , and it is hoped that by tomorrow the matter will have been cleared up , possibly by a recommendation to the two governments in the report itself . It was said at the German Foreign Office last night that the matter of the marks left in Belgium ' nad been taken up directly with representatives of that Country and that Germany was hopeful of reaching an agreement . This evening all the delegations are in possession of practically the full draft report as drawn up by Sir Josiah Stamp , and tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and clarification as each deems necessary . By Wednesday , it is hoped , the report may be signed , and even perhaps by Tuesday evening , thus enabling Mr. Young and the American delegates to sail on Wednesday . French Press Favorable . Publication this morning of brief summaries of what has been accomplished has been welcomed for the Host part by the French press . Except among the extremists , there is t. disposition to regard very favoribly the plan proposed . The Temps his evening writes : " The plan will not satisfy entirely my of the interested parties , but iuch as It is this agreement appears o be an acceptable settlement , with he rights and essential interests of very one being safeguarded . The debts contracted in the United States by the Allies for carrying on to victory the war which was being waged in common are effectively covered , and the mobilizable part of the annuities leaves a balance for repara tions . The manner of payment , too , which in their first form the reserves of Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modified during the conversations of the past week that it seems to have lost any special element of danger . " Other newspapers of moderate opin ? ion adopt the same tone , congratulating the French delegates on their successful defense of French interests , and at the same time on the securing , by moderation toward the debtor , of a settlement which must inevitably be for the good of all . The only point of controversy which has been raised is whether extension of the transfer protection clause on the postponable part of the annuities to include payments within Germany has been extended in a way to jeopardize the coverage of France 's obligations to England and the United States . Agreement Was Verbal . The agreement reached on the extent to which payments might be suspended within Germany was entirely verbal , and the exact text of the report must be seen before it is clear whether or not this suspension of payments involves France and America 's other debtors in the position of having to pay without being paid . It is understood that such is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain time is provided . The question , however , touches so nearly the French interest that it is important that it be cleared up at once . For if this arrangement can by any loophole leave France in the position of having to meet her debts without having a complete guarantee of payment from Germany , then undoubtedly the Chamber will refuse to support the government in ratification of the debt agreement without a safeguard clause stating explicitly that in case of Germany 's default France will be liberated from payment . Such is the tenor of two motions which have already been laid before the Chamber , and though the atmosphere has considerably cleared since - the government promised that there would be a full Parliamentary debate before ratification , , . here still exists this point of disquiet . It is now expected that on Tuesday when Premier Poincare asks that debate be postponed , he will obtain adequate support in view of his promise of a full debate later . The expetts ' plan ' itself must be brought before the House for its approval , as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English war debt settlements , however , can be ratified by decree as they do not involve any diminution but actually improve the situation in the country . In taking advantage of the Constitution this way to have ratification done by decree , Mr. Poincar ? is doing a service to the parliamentarians for which they are likely to prove very grateful . It absolves them of all responsibility toward their electors . In a straw vote taken yesterday it was shown that more than half the Deputies were likely to abstain if ratification were asked of them , and of those who voted there was a very large majority against ratification . Only the Radicals hold as a party to the doctrine which Joseph Caillaux has always maintained that the only right and wise thing to do was to accept the situation and ratify , and they , being for the moment excluded from representation in the government , have no enthusiasm for being placed In a position of being the only party to vote a sixty-year payment of such magnitude . American Explains . PARIS , June 2 ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French , who are understood to side with them on the issue , of the German marks , refuse to sign the experts ' report , it will be impossible to present it to the various governments as a complete and final accord . Answering a query on the subject today , a member of the American delegation who did not wish his name used explained the situation as follows : " A subcommittee on drafting is now at work putting the report in form for presentation to the committee on Monday . All matters of substance in the strict competence of the committee have apparently been settled . There remains open only the so-called Belgian mark settlement . Early in the conference We chairman Owen D. Young expressed the opinion that this question was outside the committee 's reference , but that because the Belgian Government had declared long prior to calling the conference that the Belgian delegates would sign no report unless this question was settled , the chairman urged that such a settlement be made so there would no longer be any obstacle to unanimous signing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what action . if any , the German and Belgian governments , in whose hands the matter now rests , are taking . " The drafting subcommittee con tinned work throughout the day , receiving various suggestions fron. different experts as to phrasing in order to facilitate translation of the report into three languages  --  English , French and German  --  and to clarify special points of view of different delegations . The American delegates count positively on sailing for home during the week , which is taken to mean that they will not remain in Paris after completion of the report or wait on the Belgian-German negotiations .                     