@@693341

txt A curious debate is going on in the Georgia press . Several influential newspapers favor the nomination of Governor SMITH for President . What are the grounds of Southern opposition to him , aside from a habit of preferring candidates sure to be beaten ? There is some perfunctory mention of Tammany Hall , which many Southern Democrats migrating here have been glad to join . A few country papers object to Governor Smrra 's religion . The Carroll County Times , however , kindly permits him to belong to what- I ever church he pleases or to none . i His disqualification is his unorthodoxy about prohibition . The erring journals that approve him are solemnly warned : No amount of bulldozing on the part of these papers will induce the people of Georgia and the South to vote for a whisky candidate for President , whether it be Governor SMITH of New York or Governor Rrroate of Maryland . Nor can any amount of propaganda , promulgated by the liquor syndicate , through these papers , accomplish this result . There you have the poetical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a mysterious and powerful " liquor syndicate . " Nobody who is n't a professing prohibitionist need apply fo4 the nomination . That super-religion  --  prohibition ? makes Sm:rria and RITCHIE and all other modificationists taboo . What is a professing prohibitionist In the South ? The other day the Governor of Alabama was arrested , with his party , in closest contiguity with thirteen bottles containing strong waters , according to the searchers and seizers ; according to the humaner interpretation of Mr. WAYNE B. WHEELER , holding Only grape juice . As Innocent outsiders , we welcome that interpretation , even if somewhat inconsistent with the Governor 's assertion that the bottles were a " plant . " Our interest in an incident otherwise " closed " is the sermon of The Dalton Citizen on that text : The South is politically Dry , but personally Wet . Many high officials subscribe to the Prohibition law for the purpose only of getting office . Then they go out and smash the law to smithereens , just as do the common run of folks . No great number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fore Dry audiences or when they think they are . A confessed Wet could not be elected to high office in the South , though thousands of the voters drink from the cup that cheers . They drink Wet and vote Dry . They seem to be intimidated . They are afraid to vote their convictions . And why ? The answer seems to be that they are under the spell of the professional prohibitionists . They have been blackjacked so long that they take it for granted that they must continue to do the bidding of those who are doing the dictating , and doing it for pay . That sounds like the truth . As many hypocrites as you like , but never a man of courage and candor , never a modificationist : This state of things ca n't last forever . The discussion in Georgia and other Southern States is revealing , quite irrespective of the fortunes of any aspirants to the Presidency .                     