@@694304

txt Backed by field surveys of 743 townships in the heavily infested states , the United States department of agriculture today reported that the $10,000,000 spring campaign against the European corn borer has somewhat retarded the borer 's American invasion . The report was made to members of the international corn borer organization meeting here today to begin a three days ' tour of borer infested territory in Ohio , Michigan and Ontario . Census of the borer population , as determined by actual count in the field during the last month in Michigan , Ohio , New York , and Pennsylvania , shows that there is now an average of thirteen borers per 100 stalks in the campaign area , as compared with an average of 8 borers per 100 stalks last year . In 1925 the borer population in this area was 2 borers per 100 stalks . " Though this means an increase of 50 per cent in borer population this year , " explained br . A. F. Woods of the federal department of agriculture , " It compares favorably with the increase of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when there was no control campaign . " Had there been no campaign this spring , judging by the increase in 1926 , we might now find 32 instead of 13 borers per 100 stalks . " VATICAN RENEWS ITS DEMAND FOR PAPAL FREEDOM ROME , Sept. ** Roman question is NOT only an Italian question , but is universal , Osservatore Ftomane , official Vatican organ , says today In elaborating on yesterday 's semi ' official statement of the relation beI tween the church anil the state , especlaiiy Fascist regime . All the improvements that have been brought about in the relations between the church and the state since the advent of the Fascist regime , the paper says , do not touch the judicial principle of the question ' because , " according to Catholic doctrine , the liberty and independence of the supreme teacher and the visible head of the Catholic church must not be only ' real and perfect but also manifest to all so that nobody can take the political condition of the pope as a pretext for accusing him ' of nationalism or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observing his advice , causing a schism in the church . " Owing to the supernatural condition of the pope , " the paper continues , " it is necessary that he should neither be nor appear to be under the control of any government party or nation . " Jesse Binga , Banker , Is Honor Guest at Banquet Jesse Bingo. , the colored president of the Binge . State bank , 35th and State streets , was tendered a testimonial banquet last night , at the Vincennes hotel upon his election as chairman of the board of directors of the Liberty Life Insurance company . Arrangements for the affair were made by the Mid-South Side Chamber of Commerce , an inter.racial group organized for civic betterment . Arlington Funeral-for War Officer Just Found Washington , D. C. , Sept. 21 . ? UP )  - -  - The body of Lieut . William A. Sheehan of this city , recently found in an unmarked shell hole in France , was buried in Arlington national cemetery with full military honors . ETTELSON DENIES CIVIL SERVICE COVERS LABORERS Corporation Counsel Samuel Ettelson yesterday ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago do not come under protection of civil service laws , which specify that due notice shall be given before discharge . Mr. Ettelson said under civil kervice law and rules of the civil service commission laborers employed by the city can be suspended or discharged by department heads without notice . The opinion was given as 4 result of a protest made by Ald. Donald 3,1eXinlay against the discharge of three laborers who had been employed by the city under civil service for a number of years . It was announced that the Wage Earners ' league also will make a pro . test about the ruling .                     