@@696134

txt In saying yesterday that enforcement of the law is " the dominant issue before the American people , " President HOOVER used a word not in its strict or ordinary political meaning . Law enforcement is not an issue that divides parties . All ' Parties , all sections of the country , write it in their platforms and emb12.aon it on their banners . Yet the President was accurate and justified in maintaining that the prevalence of crime in this country is a national disgrace and a cause for deep national concern . Happily ; Mr. Hoover . ' s sense of proportion and balance prevented him from making the enfol-cement of the prohibition law the touchstone of integrity . He saw the Droblem of American criminality steadily , and saw . it whole . Crimes connected with prohibition are but a minor part of the total . The President put felonies which could be directly or indirectly connected with prohibition at only 8 . per cent of the entire number . It is necessary to seek a true perspective in which to see American disrespect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is ? not merely violations of the Volstead act that cause us to ? hang our heads in shame . The President recited some of the terrible figures relating to murder , robbery , burglary , forgery and embezzlement by reason of which the United States has attained a bad eminence among all the civilized nations . These are the crimes , so often undetected , so frequently bringing no punishment to those known to be guilty of them , which constitute the old puzzle and scandal of crime in this country . The President added little by his array of evidence to what we already knew. ? It is a melancholy and humiliating picture which he drew , and the President of the United States must have been driven by strong conviction thus to exhibit officially to the whole world this age-long American weakness . What Mr. HOOVER struck for in his address is both a new national attitude and a national endeavor . He would have his fellowcountrymen think seriously on these things . He would enlist the legal profession , State Legislatures and the Federal Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring about a great reform . For the Federal Administration , he promises a - steady pressure , without rest and without sensation , in behalf of better enforcement of all laws , with- special emphasis on improving the agencies of detection and prosecutton of crime , so as to make justice far more swift and certain . In this plan and purpose , President HOOVER deserves and will receive the approval and support of the country . ? He reasserted his determination to Appoint with care and deliberation A Crime Commission of the very highest competence and calibre . Mr. HOOVER looks forward confidently ? perhaps with . too great hope  --  to resultant plans for stiffening and hastening our criminal procedure . Ire would have the courts strengthened in personnel , would secure better and more intelligent jurors , abolition of antiquated technicalities of the law , and other forms of reorganization . These things , he must know , can not come in a day . It is a long ' mid arduous task which he is to lay , in the first place , upon his Crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come , into statutory reform will of itself be an immense labor . But the country will feel all the time that the President is headed in the right direction . Instead of throwing up his hands in despair before the problem of crime , he is resolved to grapple with it . But this he will do in an orderly and scientific manner , without shouts or plays to the gallery . Most timely and reassuring is his statement that he will not permit Federal agents to violate one law in order to secure possible convictions for violation of another . All told , the President 's attitude as he defines it is so earnest and rational that his speech is bound to quicken and direct American thought and sentiment on this vital matter everywhere throughout the land .                     