@@695116

txt Since Bancitaly Corp . acquired control of Bank of America the latter has sought to put into et'ect the methods and system that have proved so effect ? e in the Bank of Italy organization in California Five expert accountants , at the invitation of the Bank of America , have been brought on from the Pacific Coast , and are now engaged in going over the bank 's system of bookkeeping , clerical distribution , and routine equipment . Considerable saving in the bank 's overhead is looked for as a result and this is one of the factors said to be behind the recent advance in Bank of America stock . which rose to a high of 5335 for the new $25 shares During the previous years . when the bank was hampered by litigation over its voting trust and capital restrictions , the institution compared unfavorably with other local banks in the way of earnings . It is probable that as a result of new methods to be employed there may be some reduction of space occupied by the bank in its building at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the several floors now used by the bank may be vacated and leased out for office purposes . Each floor . of about 10.000 square feet , represents an annual rental value of $50.000 . Branch Banking Reform It is with respect to its branch banking system that the Bank of America plans to bring about the most effective reforms . In this field the Giannini organization has a wider experience than any other banking institution in the country . It is cooperating to install among the Bank of America 's 26 branches and between the branches and the head office some of the methods that have contributed to the success and profitableness of the Bank of Italy 's 290 branches throughout California . Whereas , for instance , there was generally a large " float " in daily transactions between the branches and the head office . this has now been cut down considerably , and may be still further reduced . As one official of the Bank of America points out , the installation of the present up-to-date methods is interesting when it is recalled that the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . retained many antiquated customs , such . for instance , as hand-entry ledgers and letter copy presses . A Bank with 100,000 Stockholder. ; Incidentally , it may be noted , when the new Bank of America stock is finally distributed by the Bancitaly Corporation as the result of the new capital reorganization , the bank will have something like 100.000 stockholders , the largest of any bank in the world . Bancitaly Corp . ' s entrance into Wall Street banking circles is admittedly one of the most extraordinary events in latter-day finance . Not only is it able to teach New York new methods in a field in which the latter heretofore has been considered preeminent , but its financial operations have been a revelation to the country 's financial center .                     