@@687216

txt Premier Briand seemed to be in fine feather when he landed at Havre today . To all who talked with him he expressed the keenest delight in his American visit and satisfaction with the results accomplished . These results were summed up in his conversation with his political as : sociates as follows : 1 . France Teets no rancor liel.:SIUDD LPL the non-ratification of the Anglo-American-French treaty guaranteeing France protection in case of attack by Germany . On the contrary , America now knows France and understands her position . 2 . The French position on armament has been made clear to America and it is understood in that country that the preservation of peace is the sole purpose for maintaining the French army . It is also understood that France is reducing her army as rapidly as is consistent with the purpose of maintaining peace . 3 . The Washington Administration and the American people are convinced of the sincere and unreserved sympathy of France in Secretary Hughes 's proposal for naval limitation . 4 . America understands that France will go as ' far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Far East . French interests in the Orient are very great , but this will not stand in the way of conforming the French colonial policy to a ' liberal program in dealing with Pacific questions . Having just come from England , I was interested particularly ' in how M. Briand would approach the differences that have arisen between England ? and France . In response to my question on this subject the Prime Minister said : " 1 am eager to meet my friend and colleague , Mr. Lloyd George , whose absence from Washington during my visit I much regret . f am sure that we will find ourselves , as always , in accord on all fundamentals . No mere surface irritation can live in the face of the su- preme necessity for maintaining the en , tente cordiale . No pernicious rumor or sinister construction of what has been said or done on either side of the Channel can affect my confidence in the friendship of our ally . Even in the most united family there is often a difference , but we can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is the very foundation of European order and peace . " This expression by the French Prime Minister seems to mean an early meeting with Mr. Lloyd George . Among French politicians on the special train from Havre to Paris the utmost confidence was expressed that mutual explanations would remove all misunderstanding . M. Briand recalled anions other Amerlean experiences President Harding 's warm assurances to him when they parted , the sympathy always manifested by the American public and the stunning Impression made en his mind by his first view of New York . French correspondents told me that in conversations with them he emphasized the close cooperation between the English and French delegations in Washington . The Premier spoke feelingly of the cordiality and good understanding between Mr. Balfour and himself . M. Briand also mentioned as important the appeal made by him to German-Americans to use their good offices among their former fellow-nationals to bring about a better understanding on the part of Germany . During most of the time between Havre and Paris M. Briand was in consultation with members of his Cabinet , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called upon to meet in the Chamber next Tuesday . Warm Welcome and a Few Jeers . Ccpyright. 1921. by The New York Times compane . Special Cable to Ties Nzw YORK Tuns . PARIS . Dec. ** minutes before the scheduled time , M. Briand arrived in Paris this afternoon . Since 8:30 o'clock in the morning , when he was still some miles from the coast , he had been in telephone communication with the Capital and when Ministers Loucheur and Guisthau , with a crowd of newspaper men on a tug , drew alongside the liner Paris outside Havre at 9:30. he greeted them with a jovial smile and the announcement that he knew all the morning 's news . At Havre and again in Paris the Premier 's welcome was very cordial . In Paris politics reasserted themselves and as he drove from the station two young royalist enthusiasts who gave vent to their feelings with whistles and shouts were taken away by the police to prevent them from being beaten by the crowd . From the time the tug drew alongside the Paris till late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and speeches what he Mount of the Washington conference and here is the gist of all he had to say , as he told it during the journey to French and foreign correspondents and in the speech which he made at the Hotel de Ville at Havre , where he was the guest of an official reception . " My impression of the conference remains excellent . All the hopes entertained of it can still be entertained . Mr. Hughes , who directs the debates , is a man of the first rank , of great authority and great loyalty , and will see to tt that they succeed . I would have liked to stay longer but I have come back convinced that our national interests are assured and that the debates still in progress will have a successful termination . " M. Briand in all the interviews he gave , and at the Hotel de Ville , spoke enthusiastically of the reception he had as a French representative , speaking of the support given by Messrs . Balfour and Hughes , when he pleaded his cause . " When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Balfour that France would never be left isolated , I felt great joy and great pride . I was fully rewarded for the efforts I had made in crossing the Atlantic , and I felt that I had not made the effort in vain . I owe my success to the grandeur of the cause which I defended . In America , as elsewhere , every one who is animated by a spirit of justice understands our exceptional situation . No one can seriously believe that France is animated by any militaristic spirit and our friends know that our one desire is for peace . " At another time 31 . Briand , when questioned about naval armament limit proposals , replied : " They will come to an understanding , and once the great powers interested have reached an accord it will not be France which will be an obstacle to final settlement . " M. Briand had also a few words to say about misunderstandings and misstatements . " The conference , " he declared , " has united more closely than ever the ties which bind the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But let me say that if a little bitterness is mingled with my satisfaction it is because I have noticed that there are among our allies people watching for everything which might serve to disunite us . Calumnies propagated by interests which it is not difficult to divine ' have been spread In the press . " The most untruthful and most odious statements with regard both to Italy and to England have been attributed to me , and it is not difficult to understand with what object . I hope that our friends and allies will in the future shut their ears to such provocation , which , otherwise might lead to most disastrous consequences . " In his speech at Havre M .. Briand made an appeal for national unity on the basis of peace and internal progress , in which , he said , there was field enough to absorb the attention of every Frenchman . Tomorrow  --  morning he will attend a cabinet counsel under the presidency of M. Millerand and will make a report on the progress of the conference as it affect France . Warns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Associated Press ) . ? Premier Briand lost no time ae ? r his return to Paris in taking up the challenge of the opposition which had criticised . his Cabinet during his absence in the United States . " I am going before Parliament , " said the Premier , " to ' put myself at its disposition for public debate on the situation . I hope that those who in my absence have criticised the Government will take the floor and explain themselves . This small warfare between French public men must cease . " The Premier had a. long conversation with President Millerand during the afternoon in which he gave the President a full account of his trip to Washington . M. Briand said he was ready to meet Lord Curzon and discuss Angora and other questions between France and Great Britain . He had been asked his attitude regarding Lord Cdrzon 's suggestion of a meeting in Paris by representatives of France , Great Britain and Italy , to be followed by a gathering of the Supreme Council . As to the latter contingency , M. Briand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new reparations plan , he would not oppose another meeting of the Supreme Council . He declined to comment on the discussion concerning a moratorium for Germany . The Council of Ministers , he said , would meet tomorrow to take up the current situation . He made it clear that he did not see any objection - to Great Britain discussing with German representatives plans for the delivery in kind of Great Britain 's share in the reparations , as this was only following the example of France . Tells of Mission in Havre Speech . 11 . AV.rM , vec. z , Associated Press ) . ? At the reception to M. Briand at the City Hall today , he was received by the Mayor , ' Leon Meyer , Senator Brindeau and Deputy Jules Siegfried , the two last named representing Parliament . 31 . Siegfried , who is the dean of the Chamber of Deputies , being 87 years old , told M. Briand that he once had the honor of meeting one of the most illustrious predecessors of President Harding . " I once shook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the City Hall the Premier delivered a long address in which he outlined the results of his mission to the United States , which he declared had been most successful . I went to Washington , " he said . " bearing a lawyer 's brief in pleading the cause of France . The most mediocre lawyer could have pleaded it successfully . I have full confidence in the future . France could not have been absent from a gathering such as that called by President Harding for th purpose of relieving the military burdens which weigh so heavily on the people , and which after such a cruel war called for relief . President Harding 's initiative was generous . France is never deaf to such appeals , and she answered ' present ' at Washington , as she had answered at The Hague , where only the of a country that fostered evil purposes prevented unanimous acceptance of the proposal submitted on behalf of the maintenance of peace . We are satisfied that we have done everything in the past that was possible to avoid war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Briand referred to his speeches in the United States , in which he had said that when liberty was in danger France at all times in her history had fought for it , giving her own blood in the cause and never failing in her task . In the last war France had been provoked and attacked , he said , and it was suf. fiicent for him to recall this fact in America to have the justice of France 's cause recognized . Cheered by Conference Speeches . " I did not doubt , " the Premier continued , " the noble and generous American people . I knew well that every attempt to disgrace France , to turn America away from us , to paint France as a perpetual ' kill-joy ' and the cause of the uneasiness the world feels  --  I knew well that this all would be dissipated by a plain statement of facts .. But yet I must say that at the solemn meeting , where all our allies , my friends , the members of the American Congress and representatives of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I spoke , for it was the tribune from which words reached the ears of all peoples . My emotions grew and added to my deep satisfaction , when , having only stated the situation of my country and pointed out the necessity to protect our security , which is the security of the world , I heard tremendous cheering ; when I heard the noble representative of our ally , England , saying that France was in an exceptional position , that she was right to protect herself , and that France never would be in. moral isolation . " The Premier said he was firmly convinced that the Washington conference would lead to good results . That nothing could result from it which would be intended to militate against France 's liberty or security . France , he added , was passing through a. trying moment and even peoples who were fortunate enough to escape the war were affected by its consequences owing to what might be called the interdependency of economic and financial interests . " We are going through difficulties which arose from calumnies and other causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he declared . M. Briand was informed at Havre that , coincident with his return , there were being circulated in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate lists purporting to give the composition of a Cabinet under former President Poincard which the opposition expects will succeed the Briand Ministry should the latter fall as result of non-payment by Germany of the reparations quota due Jan. 13 . ' ? Although M. Poincard has refrained from attacking the present Cabinet , he delivered an address at Bordeaux last week which has been characterized as a 1 " program speech , " and M. Briand 's adversaries are rallying behind him . The Cabinet members with whom the correspondent talked today , however , feel positive that M. Briand will weather the storm in the Clr : . - mber . By CHARLES H. GRASTY.                     