@@693794

txt President Coolidge 's speech in New York last night , in which he stressed the attitude . of his Administration toward Mexico . Central America and China , brought out today what was said to be a hitherto undisclosed bit of history  --  that the late President Harding visualized the extension of actual American control over Central America before his Administration ended . President Harding . it was narrated , informed friends privately that he desired the chief international accomplishment of his Administration to be the bringing of Central American countries under the Stars and . Stripes ; that is , to have the sovereignty of the United States extended to them with the ultimate object of granting them rights of Statehood . Made No Secret of fits Ideas . According to the views attributed to him , President Harding felt that he would be able to accomplish these purposes if he held the Presidential office for eight years . To some of those to whom he confided his policy in this direction he expressed the feeling , it was said , that the fruition of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplishment of his Administration . The information outlined above was given in a responsible quarter and was emphasized by the statement that it had been obtained first-hand from Mr. Harding himself . He had made no secret of it to men who had served with him on the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , it was declared . What was told today of this desire of President Harding is certain to cause surprise , not only on account of its radical departure ' from accepted American policy , but also because it was entirely inconsistent with the efforts of Mr. Harding 's Secretary of State , Charles E. Hughes . Mr. Hughes sought constantly to build up closer relations with Latin America and was especially solicitous in assuring countries to the south of us that the United States had no thought of embarking on a policy that contemplated any interference with their political or territorial integrity . Nothing has even come to light to indicate that Mr. Hughes was aware . of . any desire on President Harding 's part to extend the sovereignty of the United States into Central America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in President Harding 's mind , the policy attributed to him today is entirely out of step with that of his successor in dealing with countries lying between the United States and the Panama Canal . Mr. Coolidge mode it plain that he was opposed to any imperialistic procedure that would involve the acquisition Of territory or the extension of American sovereignty over Latin Americans of this hemisphere . He made known in his speech that " toward the Governments of countries which we have recognized this side of the Panama Canal we feel a moral responsibility that does not at-. tach to . other nations , l ' , but the context of his remarks showed . that this was not to imply that such countries were in any danger of American aggression . The attitude of the President , as expressed in his address , was that , while American lives and property would be protected and American rights in those countries preserved , there was no thought of giving that protection and exercising those rights through any acquisition of territory or extension of sovereignty . While the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by President Coolidge in his New York speech found warm commendation among interested officials Of the Government , it was evident that some of his statements were certain to , bring sharp dissent . when Congress reassembled . A disinclination to be quoted makes it impossible to give any interview on the subject , but no doubt was left that several paragraphs of the President 's address expressed views to . which ex- ception will be taken if the opportunity is presented for any public discussion of them . Scope of International Law . It was apparent that the President would find dissent from these assertions in his speech : " The person and property of a citizen are a part of the general domain of the nation , even when abroad . ? ? ? The fundamental laws of justice are universal in their application . " These rights go with him . When we permit foreigners to come here , and when other countries admit our citizens , we know and they know that such aliens come and go not only under the rights and duties imposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed by international law . " This Government , it was conceded in quarters critical of the President 's utterances , was privileged to protest against any infringement on the property rights of its citizens in foreign countries , but , it was contended , any nation had the right to enact laws affecting the property of aliens within its territory , and there was no principle of international law that would justify resorting to force to remedy the application of those laws when they were injurious to the property of aliens . International law , it was held , did not take precedence over domestic statutes affecting the territory of the Government enacting them . The contention was advanced that any nation had the right to adopt a Communist form of Government and apply Communist principles to the property of aliens within its borders . With reference to the President 's justification of his policy toward Nicaragua the remark was made in one critical quarter that justification would be more consistent if the present course of the United States in landing marines in that country were made a definite policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over Central America , instead of sending marines in when disorder appeared and then taking them out when it seemed to have ended . It was contended that the Administration either must leave Central America to work out its own problems without interference from the ljnited States or proceed to take virtual possession of that area on a permanent basis .                     