@@687600

txt A definite move for reform in the control Of college athletics was made here today in a meeting of the presidents of the eleven New England and New York colleges when a motion was adopted to form an association of college presidents to take under consideration the best interests ? of athletics . It was voteu to recommend to the faculties and trustees of the . institutions participating that all coaches , beginning with the Fall of 1923 , be appointed in the same way as members of the faculty . President Alexander Meiklejohn of Amherst College was chairman and President Remsen B. Ogilby of Trinity was secretary . After a general vote of approval of such Meetings had been passed it was decided to form an a'soelation of presidents . Presidents Meiklejohn , Ogilby and Kenneth C. M. Sills of Bowdoin were appointed an executive committee to arrange future meetings . Besides those named there were present Arthur J. Roberts , Colby ; Frederick C. Ferry , Hamilton ; Paul D. Moody , Middlebury ; John A. Couseris , Tufts ; Guy W. Bailey , Vermont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Williams , and Chancellor Charles A. Richmond of Union . The motion embodying the recommendation was as follows : " That , recognizing that intercollegiate athletics are at present a part of the work of the Department of Physical Education , we recommend to our respective faculties and trustees that , beginning with the Fall of 1923 , all coaches be appointed in the same way as are members of the faculty and other officers of the institution . " That , we further recommend that as soon as it is practicable , and if possible ' by the Fall of 1923 , the present system of seasonal coaches be replaced by coaches who are members of the faculty as defined by the following terms : " They shall be paid by the college and only by the college ; they shall be in residence throughout the year ; they shall have other duties in the physical training department , or in some other department in addition to their coaching ; they shall be paid at the same rate is other members of the faculty ; they shall have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they shall be selected in the same way as other members of the faculty . " This plan , if adopted , will mean placing the control of athletics and coaching entirely in the hands of the colleges themselves and will deprive alumni councils of the power they now exercise in College athletics . ATHLETIC FUND REVEALED . Princeton Authorities Blame Alumni for Condition of Sports . Special to The New York Times . PRINCETON , N. J. , April ** was the discovery that a fund had been maintained at Princeton for extending financial aid to athletes in the university which brought about the recent inquiry by the Faculty and the subsequent barring of four men from future intercollegiate competition by the Committee of Three ' Chairmen , acting under the Harvard-Yale-Princeton agreement . This fund , supplied by alumni , had been conducted for several months without the knowledge of the university authorities . . A- history of this fund and the results of the investigation was issued by the university authorities tonight , and will be published in the Princeton Alumni Weekly . . The blame for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few members of the alumni , who are not named , and the student athletes themselves are absolved from any wrong intention . ' The name of another player who has been declared ineligible is also disclosed . He is Arthur J. Barry , a mem ber of the freshman football team . The name of the fourth man. - captain of . a minor sport team . was not made public . Tom C. , who was captain of the baseball team , and Ralph . Gilroy , who was to have captained the football team this Fall , are declared ineligible for any further competition . The most important contribution which the decision makes to the future . code governing athletic competition - deals with the strict interpretation of the rule en outside financial support . Subskilzing of players - is barred under all circumstances . - no ' matter what ' the - intentions may be as- to repaying the money advanced to them . It is pointed out that unless this is done the athletic standings of the colleges might in large part depend solely upon the size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities declare would be intolerable . The report shows that the fund in question grew out of the loan fund for needy students , whether in athletics or not . For a time it was administered by the Bureau of Student Self-Help , which later became the Bureau of Appointments and Student Employment under the supervision of the Secretary of the university . Some part of the funds was not turned over , however , and its administration was carried on under the old name . Loans have been made from this fund to four members of athletic teams . Dean McClenahan said tonight : The motives and good faith of the athletes concerned become of secondary importance , and the motives and good faith of the interested persons who contributethe money become of primary Importance . For it is quite clear that an athletic war- chest of sufficient size would enable Harvard , Yale or Princeton to profit year after year by the services of athletes who could or would , - remain hi , residence only . if financially ? Subsl Mzed , and the question- ; whetheri-onot 416 ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the aid ' ovias. *cc ' would be a question ' enaft ' .. , ; ' eli : 1tt , .. .7 . Importance , compared with the fact that these interested persons by the use of money were providing the university with the services of athletes which save for the expenditure of this money would not have been available . " With this interpretation of the purpose of Rule 2 , which makes the rule a self-denying ordinance by which Harvard , Yale and Princeton , in order to stamp out the subsidization of the athletes and to promote fair competition among themselves , . agree to forego the services of players proved to have been subsidized , the Princeton committee feels that the evidence in the cases mentioned above brings them squarely under such a rule . " There is no question that the fund was administered solely for the benefit of athletes . The Princeton committee is of the opinion , therefore , that under this interpretation Princeton is not entitled to the services of these athletes and should exclude them from inter-collegiate competition from this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaring them professionals or taking action in any form that you would give other athletic bodies the right to declare them professionals . It Is obviously necessary for the effective administration of our joint agreement that a uniform interpretation and administration should be given to Rule 2 by the Harvard . Yale and Princeton committees on eligibility . " The committee of the three Claairmen feel that the . Princeton men involved had not professionalized themselves and should not be declared professionals , because the committee believes aid the men had received was in , the form of genuine loans which would be repaid : nevertheless the committee felt that the aid which the men has received had ; been extended to them primarily because of , . , thelr : - athletic ability , and that they 1W-therefore to be withdrawn from competition under . Rule -2 of the Hary mud-We-Princeton , agreement " - , - ?                     