@@689154

txt Having studied the Alaskan Railroad over its entire length and observed closely the possibilities of growth and development , President Harding is committed to maintenance of the road in the most economical possible fashion until a broader program is warranted . He believes the present and immediate future promise nothing in the development of the vast stretches of country through which the line runs from Seward to Fairbanks .. Mr. Harding probably will ask Congress to pay the deficit of the Alaskan Railroad this year , estimated at about 41,500,000 , but he urges here that deficits be kept at the lowest possible figure . Officials pointed out to him that the standardized last section from Fairbanks to Tanana Bridge has just been finished . Mr. Harding upon his return may have to decide between Anchorage and Seward as the ocean terminal of the railroad . Seward has a fine harbor . Anchorage is not as good but shows great possibilities of development . Anchorage is a railroad town built by engineers who wanted to construct the railroad in two sections . Seward was the terminal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to buy when it decided to build a railroad . Everyone now admits that the government was stung when it paid more than a million dollars for the property , as the whole line had to be scrapped and rebuilt and even the route changed in some places . That is one of the " scandals " about which Alaskans talk in connection with the railroad . Anchorage as the sea terminus means gradual death by decay to Seward . Anchorage wants to be the capital seat of the territory , which ambition is hotly resented by Juneau on the southern coast .. Juneau has no apparent reason to exist outside of being the capital . Anchorage is favored by the fact that its selection would cut out bad grades between Anchorage and Seward , which would seriously handicap traffic if the railroad ever got big business . The government now has spent $56,000,000 on the railroad . Nothing is to be seen along the right-of-way except scenery  --  no other inhabitants and no towns . There is nothing to provide support for the road and no prospect of anything . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cripple the road , as he feels time will justify the great experiment and that the nation is willing to pay something for pioneering into a new country that may some day be of greatest strategic value .                     