@@694896

txt Senator Arthur Capper , Republican , of Kansas , today demanded that the Republican Party purge itself of the corruption resulting from the oil leases and Sinclair bond payments . He characterized the Teapot Dome and other oil chapters as unequaled in American history for " spectacular " rottenness . The day was also marked by another development of a similar nature , Representative Cordell Hull of Tennessee , former Chairman of the Democratic National Committee , demanding the resignation of every Republican official implicated in suppressing the facts with reference to the Sinclair bonds contributed to the Republican National Committee in 1923 . Mr. Hull t called upon the Coolidge dministration , the Republican National Committee and the Republican candidates for the Republican nomination for President to assist 4n exposing the facts surrounding these " disgraceful bond transactions in their entirety . " Senator Capper consulted with a number of the Republican leaders before issuing his stat9ment . It is understood that its issuance is preliminary to the offering of a resolution in the Senate to amend the Corrupt Practices Act and for an investigation into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are planning to compel an investigation of the campaign expeditures of Presidential candidates this year , and it was declared tonight other moves are under consideration looking to tho Republican National Committee and the Coolidge Administration acting in such a way as to restore confidence in the Republican Party . Like Medieval Freebooters . " The smudge of oil being smeared blackly across the pages of history , " said Senator Capper , " is repulsive to tin citizens of the entire country . The trail is slimy , odorous , reeking with corruption . " For ' ways that are dark and tricks that are vain , for intrigue and plot , for impudent daring , for melodramatic episodes , for duplicity , craft and cunning the conspiracy of Teapot Dome is the equal of any of the major crimes carried out by unscrupulous and infamous freebooters in the Middle Ages . It is more medieval than modern . As represented by its chief conspirator , Sinclair , Teapot Dome bought a Cabinet officer of the United States with Liberty bonds after he had been previously bought with a ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $260,000 in Liberty bonds paid to the former Chairman of the Republican National Committee to wipe out a campaign deficit , the implication is plain that Sinclair believed this would buy immunity for him in his plot to loot the Wyoming Naval Oil Reserve . " Men who had not given a cent to ' the cause ' were induced to exchange their personal checks for packages of the Sinclair bonds and so become dummy contributors to the fund to wipe out the party 's campaign deficit . This had the effect of reducing a large , campaign gift to several smaller amounts and to that extent concealed the Sinclair transaction . " But such perfuming of tainted money is worse than futile and has proved so . Money Spent to Back Justice . " In a further career ' tainted with fraud and corruption ' Teapot Dome spent money liberally to delay justice for years in the courts . It spent more of its money to hire a , force of detectives to shadow a jury . that was trying its leader , Sinclair , for criminal conspiracy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices in Washington . at night to make way with or destroy damaging evidence . " For spectacular rottenness , t doubt whether we have the equal of Teapot Dome in American history , or ever will have . " Our laws governing the use of campaign funds in practice are ineffective . They have no teeth . Campaign expenditures should be limited by law . " The real course of every contribution should be a matter of public record . Mercilesspublicity as to the source of campaign funds is as necessary to prevent corrupt elections as a law placing a limit upon . the amount of money that can be expended . " Congress and the States must find more effective means of preventing lavish use of money in elections . " The Republican Party must make plain , by forceful action , that it indignantly repudiates the men who participated in the rape of the Government oil lands . " Teapot Dome and its attendant disgraceful transactions are repugnant to the rank and file of the Republican Party , as to every other decent citizen . Party Must Face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took part , who smeared and besmirched the party itself with oil . They have faith in the future of the party and of our Government . " Republican leaders must realize that they must face the music , or the party will pay the fiddler . The issue can not be evaded . The leaders may condone . The public will not forget . " Concealment of facts already has impaired public confidence to an extent that is just beginning to be realized . To regain the confidence of the party , the leadership must free itself from the widening circles of suspicion that this leadership has tolerated too close an alliance with oil and other exploiting interests . " These leaders who have their eyes on the money bag , when their thoughts should be of the public welfare , must cease to be represented in the leadership of the party . The leadership must be responsive and responsible to the rank and file of the Republican Party , not subservient to selfish business interests seeking special favors from the Government . " The Republican Party must purge itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done . I believe it will be thoroughly done . I have every confidence in the patriotism , the loyalty , the honesty and sound judgment of the Republicans of this country . " These demand and will get honesty , ability and public conscience in the leadership and management of the Republican Party . " Representative Hull 's Statement . Representative Hull , in his statement , severely arraigned the present Republican National Committee for ignoring the bond transactions . " One month ago , " he said , " I issued a public statement insisting that dominant Republican leaders should cause the Republican National Committee to make immediate restitution of the fraudulent and tainted bonds received from Sinclair in 1923 and that they should in addition exercise their unquestioned power to bring about a full disclosure of the facts of those disgraceful bond transactions in their entirety . " President Coolidge . National Chairman Butler and other ranking Republican leaders thus far have remained inactive and inarticulate , as have most other Republicans in high key positions . Senators Borah and Norris and certain other progressive Republicans , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and demanded quick restitution of these corrupt bonds . " They , of course , should not be returned to Sinclair , who procured them fraudulently. but either to those oil companies which were robbed by the Continental Trading Company . or to the Federal Treasury in part payment of delinquent taxes of the Continental Trading Company . " Stolen Property " at Stake . " The more vital and pressing problem of the Republican National Committee is that of whether it will continue to cling to or return stolen property which it received and appropriated to its own use some four years ago . " This is not an individual but a strictly party responsibility , for the reason that the trail of corruption has penetrated to and into the Republican National Committee , which is the very Sanhedrin of the Republican Party . " The time is long past for paltering , dodging and pleading stupidity and dense ignorance of facts known to those in high places , or obtainable by the slightest diligence , for four years . Party responsibility can not be longer shirked . Calls Upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present Republican candidates for President , Messrs . Hoover , Curtis , Lowden and others , who should have spoken out long since , to make their presence both known and felt in this combined movement . " Important as are these two steps of belated house-cleaning and atonement , they are entirely inadequate . Every consideration of morals and patriotism requires that they be supplemented and climaxed and crowned with the resignation of each Republican in high official or political position who , by affirmative act or a conspiracy of silence or criminal inaction . has contributed to the suppression of the awful facts of this unparalleled scandal for four long years . " Why should they continue to flout the masks of virtuous faces before the public while they pollute high places of trust and honor ? The separation of these particular individuals from every high position they still occupy in either the Coolidge Administration or the National Committee is required according to every standard of political and official honor . Mr. Hull said later that Secretary Mellon , so far as he knew , was the only Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CALLS PARTY ' CLEAN . ' " No Work for Cleaners , " Says Republican Treasurer . DENVER , Col. , March 18 M. ? Replying to Senator Capper 's blanket attack on the Teapot Dome scandal , William V. Hodges of Denver , Treasurer of the Republican National Committee , in a formal statement tonight declared that " the house is clean and there is no work for the cleaner . " The sttaement of Mr. Hodges was as follows : " I had thought that none outside of those charged with wrong-doing approved of the practices charged . Neither the American people nor the Republican Party need any argument on that point . The terms of office and the influence in the party and in the administration of government of the parties charged have long since ended . " Those who assert party action is now in order should point out something in the Administration of President Coolidge or something on the part of those responsible for the party government since the present National Committee was formed in June , 1924 , who has been other than creditable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are wholly answered . " The house is clean and there is no more work for the cleaners . "                     