@@687706

txt President Harding - has withdrawn from the Senate the nomination of Nat Goldstein to be Collector of Internal Revenue at St. Louis , which has canoed much partisan debate in the Senate in the last few days . The withdrawal of the nomination by the President this afternoon , was done at Goldstein 's request and a letter from him to Mr. Harding was read into The Congressional Record by Senator Spencer . Goldstein asked the President to withdraw his name because of " condemnatory " references to the nomination in the newspapers , which although " unfounded and cruelly unfair , " he asserted , could not be overlooked . In presenting the letter to the Senate Mit . Spencer eulogized Goldstein as a man of the highest character . He de- . Glared that in taking Lowden campaign money in 1020 Goldstein had not been guilty of wrongdoing , and that there was no " taint " involved in We offer or acceptance of the $2,500 which was involved . Relieves Senators of Problem . The declination of Goldstein came as a complete surprise to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very considerable number of Republican Senators who are known to have expressed unwillingness to vote for confirmation . Even the Senators who favored confirmation did not seem to be at all displeased by the sudden clearing up of what was admitted to be an embarrassing situation . An hour 's debate in which Senators Spencer and Harrison took the leading parts followed the reading of the letter . Mr. Harrison read into The Record the radio message from ex-Governor Lowden published in this morning 's NEW YORK Times in which Mr. Lowden , who sent the message to The St. Louis GlobeDemocrat from the Olympic , on board of which he was returning to New York , said that Goldstein 's testimony before the Senate investigating committee in 1920 was " absolutely false " and that he had been informed that Goldstein testified at the suggestion of Senator Spencer . Mr. Spencer said that if exGovernor Lowden meant to charge that Goldstein had testified falsely at his suggestion the statement was ' absolutely and rnqualifiedly false . " Goldstein 's Letter to President . Senator McCumber had just concluded a short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The . Missouri Senator was recognized as soon as Mr. McCumber had concluded . He immediately read the Goldstein letter to the President . It was : St. Louis . May 10 , 1922 . The President , the ' White House .. Washington . Dear Mr. President : I earnestly- ? request you to withdraw by nomination as Collector of Internal Revenue at St. Louis , Mo . The many condemnatory notices which have appeared in the public press concerning my nomination , though I know in my own heart how unfounded and cruelly unfair . they are , can not be overlooked , and certainly anything I can prevent shall in no way cause.even the slightest embarrassment to you . I can not shut my eyes either to the partisan efforts of Democratic leaders to make ooliticzl. ca.pital , regardless of facts , at Republican expense , over - my nomination or to the adverse opinion which has been expressed by many Republicans , who , unfamiliar with the real facts , accept as true the distorted and unfounded statements of . the press , nor can I fan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican Party , which I love , or to your Administration , in which I , in unison with the general public , have the greatest pride and confidence , and , therefore , I want to reniove myself as the ostensible cause of it . Would to God I could in some way confront every man and woman who is now brutally assailing me and clamoring for my political death  --  though this , I assure you , they are entirely unable to accomplish  --  with the plain and simple record of the truth as it is , and of my life and public service in the city in which I live . I shall never forget the trust and . confidence of Senator Spencer , who vouched for me to you , nor your own entire fairness and courtesy . I am , Mr. President , gratefully your humble servant , . - NAT GOLDSTEIN . " In one sense , " said Senator Spencer after he had concluded the reading of the letter , " I presume this closes the incident . Yet I can not refrain from putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of the ' Democratic party in St. Louis , men who are among our outstanding Citizens , concerning Mr. Goldstein . Furthermore , I want to say with all the emphasis I can put into it that this act of Mr. Goldstein is characteristic of him , and his willingness to sacrifice himself is indicative of the high character of the man himself . " Senator Spencer added that had Goldstein been confirmed he would . have made a record as Collector of Internal Revenue " of which all of us would have been proud . " " I congratulate the junior Senator from Missouri , " Senator Harrisen said , " on politically extricating himself and his party at the eleventh hour front a very bad situation . It is not the first time in this body that the distinguished Senator has led the host right up to the precipice and at the end turned a somersault-that got his party into a worse fix than if he had not toppled over . " " /n the light of the statement of the Chairman a the Finance Committee- that filibustering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Goldstein , case is or more importance than the tarifl ? hill ? " Senator Pomerene asked . " Evidently it is to ' the Republican . Party at this time , " Mr. Harrison replied . Continuing , Senator Harrison declared tat the record of the campaign funds investigation indicated that Goldstein and Moore had been " bought or had been paid $2,500 each out of the Lowden fund . " To this remark Senator Spencer " The Senator knows , " said Mr. Spencer , " that when his remarks are flashed to the country every man , woman and child will read bought ' and nothing else , and yet there is not one word in the record ' which indicates any such thing . There was a transaction as familiar in politics as any transaction , a legitimate expenditure of money for publicity and campaign purposes , and yet the one thing that will go to the country is that ' Goldstein was bought . ' There lies the injustice of the thing . " " It wo n't be the first time . " Mk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country two years ago , when the committee of which the Senator was a member disclosed the facts to the country . It was that revelation that defeated Mr. Lowden at Chicago . " And Goldstein admitted before the Senator 's committee that he had made a mistake . I suppose Mr. Lowden would like to change Goldstein 's name to Goldstung , ' for , if ever gold was ' stained ' and a Presidential candidate ? stung , ' it was in this instance . It Was Mr : Lowden 's money that Babler and Morse gave to Goldstein , and it was Mr. Lowden 's nomination that Goldstein was going to advocate " Mr. Lowden has been in Europe . - He has just returned . In THE . NEW YORK TIMES of this morning he denounces Goldstein as unfit . He says that he gave testimony that was absolutely false , and Mr. Lowden says he was told at the time that Senator Spencer had Goldstein give his testimbny , before the committee . " Of course , we do not believe that statement . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had Goldstein give this testimony , to the committee . I can not believe ; that the Senator did any such thing . " . Senator Spencer placed in the Record a number of letters and telegrams endorsing Goldstein as possessing high character . They Were written some months ago , ' when Goldstein 's name was Suggested for the postmastership at St. Louis . Mr. Spencer said that a number of the men who commended Goldstein were Democrats , among them President Benjainin F. Bush of the Missouri Pacific Railway ; Festus J. Wade , President of th Mercantile Trust Company of St. Louis ; W. F : Carter , President of the St. Louis Chamber of Commerce , and . ea-Judge ' Jesse - of the Circuit Court at St. UWE. * -                     