@@685497

txt LOSSES ON THE CATTLE RANGES Charges of Neglect , Causing Reduction of Food Supply and Unnecessary Suffering on the Part of the Animals . New York , July 1 , 1920 . In an April issue you published a statement by A. E. De Elegies , a stockman at Denver , refuting charges made against the stockmen in the range States , " that last Winter over 4,000,000 food animal 's ( cattle and sheep ) died in this country from starvation and dfsease . " The figures used were quoted from the Government Crop Reporter for May , 1919 , and any one doubting them may send for a copy and verify them for himself . If Government statistics err , it is that they underestimate . Of this number 1,175,000 cattle died of " exposure , " ( the Government 's palliating term for starvation ) , and 900,000 sheep perished from the same cause . At the moderate estimate of 500 pounds for each head of cattle , this meant a loss of over 500,000,000 pounds of beef , and at a similar estimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pounds meat weight . These figures do not take into account the loss of lambs , which is given at 57.6 per 3,000 , over an eight-year average ; nor is the total loss computable , since the poundage wasted by stunting these poor walking carcasses that do somehow survive on scant forage far exceeds these estimates given . Authorities and practical stockmen conservatively place the loss in stunting of range cattle at 200 pounds each , so that the actual waste amounts to over 2,000,000,000 pounds of meat  --  beef and mutton  --  per annum . Making exceptions for the right-thinking men who provide extra food for their stock , the attitude of the average ranch cattleman is quite similar to that of the pre-war Southern planters who resented any effort to protect the slaves from ill-treatment , backing up their denial of such conditions by saying that " aside from any humane point of view " slaves were too valuable to abuse . This is also the reiterated assertion of the range stockmen . Yet the glaring facts are these : that an incredible number of food animals die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the days of the frontier , In the same places and under the same neglectful conditions , and as this affects the food supply of the nation it is the business of the people to see that this wanton , deliberate waste is stopped . We say " deliberate " because the National League to Conserve Food Animals , ' in which we are officers , has investigated the causes and obtained data on the amount of food produced in many of these districts and has found that many of the stockmen either sell for cash in the Fall what feed they raise or ignore all warnings for preparedness and refuse to raise or buy feed for their stock . Yet to the experienced cattlemen Spring storms are never quite unexpected . In giving his figures , Mr. De Elegies makes the error of supposing that all range stock States are in the Northwest . All States known to be strictly farm stock States show an annual loss from exposure of 1 , 2 , 3 , or at the most 5 or 6 per 1,000 , demonstrating that in them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be fair to assume , then , even if we did not know it to be true , that all States showing a loss of 10 or over per 1,000 are in part at least range . States . According to the Government ten year average there are , therefore , 29 range stock States in this country . It was this same Mr. De Ricqles who some years since , in a sworn statement before a Congressional committee , Stated that in his opinion it is better for stock to remain on board cars eighty hours without food , water or rest than to be unloaded even once to be fed , watered or rested . We who have Men working for years to improve conditions for the dumb , helpless creatures know these facts . Mr. De Ricqles also ridiculed the suggestion that Boy Scouts should not be encouraged in their own publications to engage in the cruel sport of trapping , since such a pastime is directly con- trary to the fundamental principles of that wonderful organization . He would have us believe that trapping of animals is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of character building for boys , and that boys should be taught to emulate the wild things of the forest in their instincts of cunning and rerocity . He adds that the abolition of the trap would " cut oft One of the great joys and pleasures " of boyhood . If , as Mr. De Ricqles says , he is President of the Denver Boy Scouts Council , it is indeed unfortueatq and strange that he was not informed of the decision of the Board of Education of the Scouts to exclude all fur and trapping advertisements from all official Scout publications , as the board considered trapping a violation of the sixth law , which en. ; joins kindness to animals . The adoption of this resolution was proclaimed by many to be the most progressive act of one of the most progressive organizations in America . and certainly it justifies the slogan , " Leave it to the Scouts , " recently invented at a mass meeting of humane people in Milwaukee . Will our readets bear in mind that the work of the National League to Conserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare , to protect the nation from the waste and lose caused by the greed of those who have no thought except self-gain ? The estimates used in our leaflets are purposely reduced to avoid exaggeration and are made from Government figures and approved by practical , humane stockmen . To meat-eaters this annual waste of food is a matter affecting the table and the puree of thousands of American families , to say nothing of the obligation to contribute to the food supply of starving peoples in other lands , and one food administrator has said it is equally important from the standpoint of the suffering inflicted upon these millions of helpless animals . Whenever cattle are placed in a hopeless plight , when all possibility of the transportation of food and water has gone , then Federal agents , especially appointed and qualified for the work , should be sent to ride the ranges and shoot . This could always be done , no matter what the situation . In Canada last- Winter several cattle men , knowing that their herds were doomed to lingering death of indescribable torment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals shot . Not long ago during a drought on the desert a great herd of cattle was abandoned to its fate . Not one drop of water had fallen for a year ; there was no spear of grass . Horsemen passing by would come upon hundreds of the prostrate creatures , and we have been told by eye-witnesses that many of them would struggle to their knees at the approach of the horsemen and gaze upon them with festering eyes as they passed on their way . Not one of the owners of these cattle had the inspiration to have the ranges covered and the doomed animals shot .. This great herd of living , breathing , tormented creatures was simply cast off , abandoned , left to its fate . Cattlemen write and ask , " What is to be done if there is no possible way of getting food or water to the animals ? " The answer is , " Ride the range and shoot ! " And it is a. slogan which should be shouted from the housetops until all the cattlemen hear and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This same mercy should be shown the starving elk . It is inconceivable that such mercy is not shown them . I know the average cattle gambler expects us to weep with him when the herd is lost , and he expects us to weep because he has lost money . We should have a better heart for sympathy if he would follow the example of those Canadians who " rode the range and shot . " MINNIE MADDERN FISKE , FAIRNIONT SNYDER , President and Secretary the National League to Conserve Food Animals . Lodge on Peace . To the Editor of The New York Times : THE TIMES , in an editorial this morning , cites a speech made by Mr. Lodge In the Senate on Dec. 21 , 1918 , in which he declared that " we must have common action now in making the peace , and . this ' unity between us and the lies is the first essential condition for a successful peace , " and expressed the utmost condemnation of any attempt to " separate us from our allies now or to prevent perfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate , says THE TIMES , Mr. Lodge " spoke as strongly against a separate peace as ' he had written against it in the Forum " ? that is , in the Forum . for June , 1918 , when the war was at its height . But , in point of fact , in this speech Mr. Lodge was not talking about a " separate peace " at all . He was talking about the danger of dissensions and dlvisions .. arising from the proceedings at . Versailles . And the specific object ' of the - speech ; the thing , to which everything . else was subsidiary , was to draw attention to the danger of incorporating in the treaty a scheme for a permanent league of nations which might not meet the approval of the Senate . The speech closed as follows : " We have now at ' this moment a league of nations . They - have been engaged in compelling Germany to ' Make peace ' and in restoring peace to the world- . It has taken four years ' of the him:idlest war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace once signed must be carried out and made effective . Therefore it is well to reflect that entering upon a new and larger league of natibne involves somewhat heavy responsibilities and dangers Which must be carefully examined and deliberately considered before lbw are incurred . ? ? ? . The attempt te attach the provisions for an effective league of nations to the treaty of peace now , making with Germany would be , to launch the nations who have been ' fighting Germany on a sea of boundless discussions , the very thing Germany most desires . It would cause wide differences of opinion and bring long delays . If the attempt was successful and a league of nations , with the powers about which I have ventured to inquire vested in it , . were come here before the Senate , it might endanger the Peace Treaty and force amendments . It certainly would lead to very long delays . Is not the fast duty of all the countries united against Germany to make a peace with Germany ? Is that not the way to bring peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid , so far as possible , all delays ? Ought we . not , speaking only for ourselves , to have a treaty here before the Senate which will not involve interminable discussions about the provisions of a league ? ? ? ? ? To enter on these disputed fields which are not necessary to the making of the peace with Germany seems to me perilous , and more likely at this:moment to lead to trouble and to a failure with the German peace and its associated questions than to anything else . "                     