@@692830

txt With nine of the thirteen original States represented by their ** the Sesquicentennial International Exposition was dedicated here today cn Flag Day in the birthplace of the American Flag . Fifty-two commands , some of which were organized before the Revolution and none of them since the Civil War , took part with the regular troops of the army and navy in a colorful parade , which was reviewed by the Governors . Mayor J. Freeland Kendricks of Philadelphia and'Major Gen. Robert Lee Bullard . The parade was led by the United States Marine Band from Washington , which played , under the direction of the composer , for the first time , " The Sesquicentennial March , " by Lieut . Commander John Philip Sousa . A terrific windstorm , followed by a heavy rainfall , hastened the completion of the dedicatory ceremonies at the Municipal Stadium . This storm came after a day of intense heat . which forced many of the marchers to fall out of line . More than forty cases of heat pn ; istitiferit were treated at the emergency ' hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these was believed to be serious . Swap Civil War Mementoes . The heavy rain caused a great scurrying for shelter by the uniformed marchers and many a shake or busby was heavy with water , and many a red , blue or cream colored coat was drenched on the way back to the centre of the city from the exposition grounds . Several interesting features marked the day . The Hartford , Conn. , Foot Guards returned to the Gate City Guards of Atlanta , Ga. , a drum which the former command had captured in the Civil War . Captain Roy In accepting the drum said that there was no North or South and declared ' that the Mason and Dixon line was how a myth . The Troy Citizens Corps , an offshootl of the old Second New York Volun-H teers of the Civil War period , had luncheon with the Fifth Maryland Infantry , their ancestors having met last at the Battle of Chancellorsville , sixtythree years ago . Many of the older men in the line of marchers took part in parades at the Centennial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party . Governor Smith of New York dedieated the two New York State buildings which are in course of construction on the exposition grounds . Accompanied by Mrs. Smith and their daughter , Miss Catherine Smith , he was joined here by Major and Mrs. John A. Warner . his son-in-law and daughter , whose wedding took place in Albany nine days ago . Others in I the Governor 's party were Mr. and Mrs. William H. English . Mr. and Mrs. William F. Kenny , Major Gen. William N. Haskell , commander of the New York National Guard ; Adjt . Gen. I Franklin W. Ward and Assemblyman Maurice Bloch , who represented the Assembly . The two : New York State buildings are reproductions of Washington 's headquarters at Newburgh and of the original Federal building at ' Vail and Nassau Streets , where the Subtreasury now stands . Governor Smith said he was pleased with their location , which is just west of Broad Street , the main thoroughfare in the exposition grounds . " I hope 11.000.009 people from New York will visit the exposition by December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spadeful of earth in the excavation for the foundations . The other Governors present besides Governor Smith were Gifford Pinchot of Pennsylvania , Robert P. Robinson of Delaware , A. Harry Moore of New Jersey , Thomas G. of South Carolina , Angus W. of North Carolina , Albert C. Ritchie of Maryland . Harry Flood Byrd of Virginia and John H. Trumbull of Connecticut . Of the other thirteen original States . Massachusetts was represented by Lieut . Gov . Frank G. Allen , New Hampshire by Secretary of State Robert Pillsbury , Rhode Island by Secretary of State Charles Dean Kimball and Georgia by Adjt . Gen. Cox . After the dedication of the New York State buildings in the morning the visiting Governors were entertained at luncheon at the Union League Club . At 2 o'clock in the afternoon the head of the parading column passed in review before the officials on the steps of the club . As each State 's contingent approached , the Governor of that State left the steps and headed his State contingent on the march to the exposition grounds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names of the signers of the Declaration of Independence were unveiled . Old Organizations in Line . The New York contingent consisted of the Old Guard of New York City , resplendent in red coats and cream trousers with immense bear skin Shakos , and the Citizens Corps of Troy in red coats , white trousers and helmets . The variety of the uniforms , which included pracstically every type ever worn by an American military organization , and the contrasting colors , scarlet , white , cream , green and every sort of blue and gray , made the parade a most picturesque spectacle . The members wore almost every imaginable kind of military headgear , ornamented with plumes of feathers , horse hair , fur and embroidery , and with plates and chains of shining metal .                     