@@686767

txt President Harding won another victory over the disorganized House leadership today when the House acceded to his demands and rejected , by a vote of 196 to 86 , the tax on oil in the pending tariff bill . This was the first defeat sustained by , the Ways and Means Committee , which prepared the bill , but the President had ? his way so easily that it was freely predicted that Congress would readily follow him if he should advise the shelving , of tariff revision until the war laws had been amended and the taxation burden lifted . Opposition to the President 's position was merely perfunctory . While Representative Fordney and nearly half of the members of the Ways and Means Committee declined to modify their views arid follow the President the leading Republicans in the House , including Speaker Gillett and Floor Leader Mondell , aligned themselves with the President . It was a clean victory for the President and another evidence of the . desire on the part of the House . Republicans to have the Chief Executive assume responsibility for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been heaped upon the tariff bill . Harding to Name Tax Revision . It became knowntoday that the President , through Secretary of the Treasury Mellon , will inform the Ways and Means Committee of the desirability of amending the tax laws in a way agreeable to the President . This statement has already been prepared and while it has not yet been sent to the committee , it is understood that , among other things , it suggests that the exceSs profits taxes be repealed and the income surtaxes . be reduced to 42 per cent . After the President 's views had prevailed so decidedly in today 's contest , it is generally believed thajlt the Republicans will follow his suggestions as to taxation and report a bill which will meet with the complete approval of the President . After the tariff bill has passed the House the President , it is , authoritatively reported , will address the Senate and ask it to consider taxation revision ahead of final action upon the tariff bill . There was no doubt at any time today as to the outcome of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of President Harding . Members of the- Ways and , Means Committee . were among the first to rush to the banner of the President , and when the vote was taken Representative Fordney stool almost alone as defender of the work of the committee . An unsuCcessful , attempt was made to meet the objections of the President by reducing the tax , and , a motion to reduce the tax to 25 , and 20 cents , a barrel ws s adopted by a vote of 143. to 47 through a coniblnation of Democrats and Republicans . But this temporary victory was wiped out when the amended section was deefeated by a motion , offered by Representative Treadway of Massachusetts , striking out the entire section . This motion was adopted by a vote of 196 to 86 , and oil , therefore , was placed on the free list and . the President put in the , position , where he can better conduct the Mexican situation . President 's , Letter Is Read . Representative Fordney read the President 's letter on the oil question to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this seemed to cement the opposition that already existed against the taxing of oil . The President 's letter follows : White House , June 30 , 1921 . My Dear Mr. Fordney ? I understand that your committee is very soon , to decide whether to include a protective duty on crude , oil in the . Tariff bill to . be reported to the House . I can not refrain from expressing the hope that your committee will take . note . of the foreign policy to which we are al-. ready- committed , under which the Government is. doing every consistent thing to encourage , the participation of American citizens in the development of the oil resources , in many foreign lands . Tlaisi course has been inspired by the , growing concern of our country over the supply of crude oil to which we may turn for our future needs , not alone for our domestic commerce , but in ing , eting. the needs our navy and our merchant marine . To levy a protective tariff on crude , petroleum . now would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future interests . - I am not unmindful of- the oil industry within our own borders and most cordially believe in its proper consideration . Would it not be prac- tical to provide for such protection in some bargaining provision which may be placed in the hands of the Executive so that we may guava against the levy of duties against us or the imposition by other nations of export tariffs which are designed to hinder the facilitation of trade which is essential to our welfare ? In the matter of crude oil and in the one of lumber , concerning which we talked , our position will be stronger if the tarirr ievy is omitted and authority is given the Executive to impose a duty In appropriately stated circumstances . I hope your committee will find it consistent to give consideration to these suggestions . WARREN G. HARDING . Representative Byrnes of South Carolina asked Mr. Fordney if President Harding had not written him another letter on the subject of the tariff , pointing out that the letter read was different from extracts of a letter from the President that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a secont letter ' but refused to produce it . Democrats Win Victory . No sooner had Mr. Fordney suffered defeat in the oil controversy than another fight . occurred over the files-el:1 attempt of the majority ( 31 the Ways and Means Committee to amend . the bill without holding meetings to which the minority had been invited . Representative Longworth informed the House that he wished to offer a committee amendment to increase the duty on citric acid to , 12 cents a pound instead of 10 as provided in the original bill . This precipitated a dispute which waged for more than half an hour and which in the end was won by the Democrats . Representative Garner , a member of the committee , objected on the ground that the full committee had not passed on the amendment and that therefore the proposition was without authority . Representative Garrett , acting Democratic leader , insisted that the right of the minority would ' be swept aside ' and parliamentary Government destroyed if this procedure were followed . Mr. Longworth admitted that the procedure was technically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expedite action on the bill . He offered to withdraw his motion and proposed that the House adjourn so ' as to give the full committee opportunity to perfect the bill . Representative Garrett , for the Democrats , declined to permit the motion to be withdrawn and insisted that the chair , Representative P. H. Campbell , should rule so as to establish wjiat he regarded as an important precedent . The chair ruled and sustained the Democrats . This embarrassed the majority , as a number of other amendments were to be offered in the same way . Accordingly Representative Fordney arose and made the House laugh by summoning the committee for tonight . When order was restored . the cotton schedule came up and after brief debate a committee amendment placing a tax of 15 per cent . ad valorem on one . and one-eighth-inch staple cotton , was adopted by a vote of , 105 to If .                     