@@690933

txt On one day we are told that England has written a note to the League of Nations " demanding hands off " in Egypt , on another that because of England 's high regard for the League and its sense of the great importance of League deliberations the new Foreign Secretary will give all possible information as to Egypt when he takes his place at Rome as member of the League Council . It is a situation that invites analysis , but also endures and rewards it . The note which is interpreted as " demanding hands off " was not addressed ' to the League . Written on the day of the assassination of the Sirdar , it was - addressed to the Powers individually . In that crisis it became necessary to notify them that when Great Britain granted Egyptian " sovereignty " she made certain reservations which , until she specifically abandoned them , guaranteed control of her vital interests . The note said , " His Majesty 's Government " will not admit the reservations to be " questioned or discussed by any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " an I unfriendly act " any attempt at inter- ference " by another Power . " Passages from this letter were quoted in Great Britain 's recent note to the League , but only to make clear the fact that if Egypt signed the protocol and appealed to the League she must do so with a sovereignty strictly limited . As summarized by our Geneva correspondent , the note closes with the assertion that , with regard to the matters reserved , Great Britain will not recogpize a right on the part of Egypt " to invoke League intervention . " It would be interesting to know if this last word was actually used . Under neither Covenant nor protocol is intervention possible . Under Article XL of the Covenant , to be sure , when " any war or threat of war " arises , the League " shall take any " action that may be deemed wise . and " effectual . " Considered apart from the context , the words " any action " might be held to vest the League with the powers of a super-State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrupulously respected . No sanction is provided which does not leave then free to determine each for itself what forces it shall contribute and to command those forces at all times . The protocol acids only that the nations shall " cooperate loyally and effectively " each " in the degree which its geographical " position and * * * armaments " allow . " Under the so-called Japanese amendment , such Egyptian problems as are " domestic " to Great Britain may become subject of League " consideration " ; but , except by a wholly unwarrantable stretching of Article XI. , there is no possibility of " intervention . " This situation AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN is. to explain . " I think it is quite clear , " he said on his departure , " that what has " occurred in Egypt does not come with " in those provisions of the Covenant " which invite or suggest interference " by the League . " To all appearances , England sees the situation clearly and sees it whole . She is not willing to permit interference in matters specifically reserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and national sovereignty . Nor is she bound to do so by either the Covenant , which she has signed , or the protocol , as yet unsigned , which her late Ministers negotiated . But she is cheerfully prepared to discuss her course in Egypt before the Council and before the world . Once again it is to be remarked that as an organ of public opinion the League is functioning steadily and powerfully . When the time comes , as eventually it must , that resort to international law is obligatory and the sanctions of world peace are operative , it can only be on a basis , previously prepared , of respect for international law and the enlightenment of world opinion . -                     