@@696077

txt Railroad stocks were active and firmer Saturday . These issues were taken in hand and moved ahead after industrials had encountered considerable week-end profit taking to even accounts . As a result there were recoveries from the lowest levels in a large number of industrials before the close , although the market was generally irregular . A. moderate amount of short covering developed in the last half hour in various issues which had been under liquidation in the early dealings . This demand came from traders who had put out lines at higher levels during the middle of last week and did not care to carry their commitments over Sunday . Conservative observers continue to advocate reducing long holdings during all the recoveries because of the confidence that the market will keep backing and tiling for some time , or at least until the credit situation is again looked upon as satisfactory by the Reserve authorities . On the theory that liquidation could be increased by any unfavorable de.velopment these interests also favor the use of stop orders by those desiring to maintain their long positions at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have been working for higher prices in a number of stocks recently were still urging followers to take advantage of reactions to accumulate the recent strong leaders . It nas been noted that those who have followed this policy recently have been accepting quick profits when obtainable on rallies , and this selling has been an influence in halting the upturns In the past . Trading Commission houses were again credited with having sold on balance . The supply has not been large , but it has come every time the market has shown a tendency to rally . What new buying developed on reactions has not been sufficient to offset this liquidation . Professionals and floor traders were again active on both sides , but purchased on balance because the late short covering was somewhat larger than earlier selling by this element . Money It is realized , of course , that the money stringency - recently was caused by the April 1 . financial requirements for dividends and interest , and late last week it was apparent from the easier conditions and lower rates that this period of tight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . bankers point out that this ease should not be taken as a precedent for the future and believe that the recent erratic fluctuations will be repeated from time to time as conditions in the money market change . Another factor which must be taken into consideration is the Federal Reserve Board and its possible policy . Nothing has occurred which would indicate any decided relaxation with relation to loans on securities . There was a report in circulation Saturday that some of the nearby banks had taken the first step to curtail credit to individuals where securities have been used as collateral . This policy may spread to other institutions . Many important market interests recently have been financing their own purchases with outlying banks . As a result the total amount of money involved has not been reflected in the brokerage loan figures . A change in this practice would probably be reflected in the market in a number of securities which have been put up on such private loans . Business Those who expected peak business to be reached in March now willingly admit that all indications favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good earnings for leading companies in various industries . Economists maintain that steady expansion in exports of manufactured products may be expected to offset , in part at least any decline which develops in the domestic demand in the coming months , so that the business horizon remains clear and is one of the outstanding optimistic influences in the stock market . The Worrying Process It is considered probable that the market will be compelled to be confronted with what many term the " worrying process ' because of the attitude of the Federal Reserve authorities . Such tactics in the past have demonstrated that they bring about the desired liquidation of weak positions . Unexplained fluctuations in the call money market and other such factors in the past also have influenced the situation , because they have restrained speculation for a rise on the part of many professionals who have been standing on the side lines in recent weeks . Pool Operations Several pools have started operations again , judging from the actions of certain stocks which recently have been moved forward . However , thus far it has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because conservative commission houses have advised customers to keep out of such stocks until the financial atmosphere has been definitely cleared . The stocks with pool domination which have moved ahead have enjoyed some participation from floor traders who helped to establish advances in such issues . Rest Period Needed That a rest period would be highly beneficial for the market , is the view in some banking circles . It is contended that if stocks are permitted to fluctuate naturally , without the impetus of pool activities , the general situation would be improved materially , because at such times there is considerable liquidation on the recoveries . This would bring a good reduction in brokers ' loans , perhaps sufficient to satisfy the views of thesEteserve authorities . Radio Trade publications the commenting on a rumor that Radio Corp . has closed , or is about to close , for the purchase of Carl Fisher , Inc. , the largest standard music publisher in the world . This would be just another step to put the company in the front ranks of the amusement field . Bethlehem Steel Bethlehem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been pointed out in this column from time to time in recent months . However , Wall Street , seeking still another explanation , now has a rumor that the management may offer rights to stockholders to subscribe for additional stock later in the year , somewhat along the lines recently - adopted by U. S. Steel Corp . to reduce its bonded indebtedness . Youngstown Because Youngstown Sheet &; Tube has lacked market sponsorship , the stock has been more or less reglected , so that the remarkably strong financial position of the company is not generally appreciated . Net current assets are in excess of the entire funded debt and the company 's place in the steel industry is an important one . Earnings have been increasing . Estimates from Youngstown are that the first quarter probably will show 55 a share . This would mean that the stock is out of line with other steel issues . General Motors Action of General Motors has been attracting the attention of market students . The volume has been increasing without much advance in the price and this has lead to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motors again become popular this issue should be an outstanding leader . Celotex Celotex. one of the recent additions to the list , has been the subject of some comment in commission houses .. The company 's product is now widely used as an insulating medium and in other activities so that growth has been rather phenomenal . " Celotex " is made from the fibre of sugar cane which was discarded only a few years ago as of no commercial value , and the company dominates this field . Earnings last year were 56 65 a share and interests well informed state the outlook for this year is for much better results . There are approximately 195,000 shares of common outstanding , carrying an annual dividend of $3 a share . Standard of California Pacific Coast interests are still optimistic on Standard of California . regardless of the action of other oil shares . Persistent buying has come from the Far West whenever the stock has been reactionary . Special developments in the Kettlema.n Hills field are being talked of as optimistic for the future of the company . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring benefits for stockholders . The issue has been one of the features of the oil group for some time . Coppers There have been several periods of rather heavy selling of coppers during the past week . The supply has been coming from outsiders who have been disappointed because the stocks have not continued to move into higher territory . There has been some drop in the demand for the red metal , but this is natural following such a sustained buying movement at advancing prices . Reports heard in the financial district are that the statistics for March , to be published next Friday or Saturday , will show another strong position in the metal . If the liquidation continues for a time it is possible this report will be used for a demonstration in the coppers against any short interest which may possibly exist Adams Express Because of the high selling price for Adams Express , it is considered probable that there will be some financing , particularly in connection with American Railway Express purchase . It is believed also in Wall Street that a split-up in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the company is expected to function in the future as an investment trust under the direction and guidance of some of the most important interests in the financial districts .                     