@@695364

txt With a simplicity unmatched in diplomatic history the general treaty for renunciation of war will be signed tomorrow afternoon at 3 o'clock in the Palace on the Quai d'Orsay which houses the French Foreign Ministry . Setting a new style for such occasions the flood of oratory will be dammed . After a short address of welcome by Foreign Minister Briand the representatives of fifteen countries will affix their signatures in silence . Speeches full of sunshine and roses which various Foreign Ministers had . prepared will not be delivered , including an . oration by one wellknown statesman recalling Woodrow Wilson and his presentation of the League of Nations in. the same historic Salle de l'Horloge a decade ago . Such is tbecIiiit of Secretary Ke/-logg . He desires to make no speech himself , and in accord the French Foreign Office officials have asked others to refrain from expressing their sentiments . It is formally announced tonight that there will be no other address than that of M. Briand . Program of the Ceremony . The delegates will gather around . 2:30 in the office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be escorted by two ushers to their places in the Salle de I'Horloge . After the address by the French ' Foreign Minister the treaty will be signed without further ado . Follow ' ing this simple ceremony it is announced officially that tea and cake will be served in the garden . There have been tremendous ef ? forts to obtain the few hundred tickets to be issued for the ceremony , The French Foreign Office has been besieged by Americans with various sorts of claims for admission , and there is every prospect of a crush matching that so well recalled when on April 11 , 1919 , the League covenant was presented to the world : However , there promises to be small glamour and pomp to the ceremony , which Mr. Kellogg has wished be so simple and so silent . While other statesmen are disappointed ? at least some of them  --  that they will be unable to deliver their speeches to many microphones placed to broadcast all over the world the orations which were expected , it has been suggested to them that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League of Nations . If the plans perfected tonight work out , the microphones , except for the address of : M. Briand , will have to broadcast only the rollcall of the nations and the scratching of pen on parchment . However , guarding against the impetuosity which may lead some statesman to express himself , Mr. Kellogg will take along a short statement in the event that a speech by any one else makes it necessary for him to say something about his treaty . Kellogg Discourages Discussions . Whether or not one criticizes the mutism of Mr. Kellogg  --  and it is being criticized  --  there is no denying that he has impregnated the whole gathering with that characteristic . Not only in his meetings with other statesmen is Mr. Kellogg refraining from all discussion of pending international problems , but apparently every one else has now decided that formal discussions ' can best be left for other , times and places . Dr. Stresemann called on M. Briand today burning to talk over the Rhineland , but it is reliably . stated that the French Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion - of the various maladies from which the . two Foreign Ministers have . been suffering . - - - Mr. Kellogg , himself , . had . a : busk day . After atteflding religious services at the American Pro-cathedral this morning the Secretary of State received President Cosgrave of ' the Irish Free State at 12:45 , when they arranged the details of ' the Secretary 's trip to Dublin , and , remarkably enough , Mr. Kellogg promised to make a speech in the Irish capital . At 1:45 Mr. Kellogg received Ambassador Claudel. - After luncheon at the embassy Mr. Kellogg welcomed Count Ochida , the Japanese delegate , with whom he talked a whole hour . At 4 o'clock Foreign Minister Zalewski of Poland called , and at 5 o'clock Mr. Kellogg went with Ambassador Herrick to call on Premier Poincare . Their conversation was limited to an exchange of compli : ments of a personal and national character . Dr. Stresemann left his card at the embassy today soon after his arrival . He will be received by Mr. Kellogg probably on Tuesday before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Mr. Kellogg confirm that the Secretary of State has stuck to his announced policy of discussing no foreign problems other than the treaty . while in Paris . This leaves some of them unhappy . Tomorrow evening the delegates will be entertained - at dinner by M. Briand at the Quai d'Orsay.                     