@@685827

txt TEST OF THE PEOPLE . The Election as a Measure of American Character . To the Editor of The New . York Times : The Republican smoke screen has now been blown aside , disclosing Mr. Harding with a program that is not only impractical but impossible to carry out . He states that if he is elected this country will not join the present League ; but states he favors a world court and a new world relationship . It does not seem to occur to Mr. Harding that the thirty-nine member nations will not and can not abandon the existing League and run the risk of Bolshevisni , bankruptcy and disaster while they wait for Mr. Harding 's attempt to construct some kind of a substitute for the League . The enforcement of the treaty , the dearly bought victory of the war , the peace of the world and the future of civilization are wrapped up in the League , Which Mr. Harding , with childlike simplicity , proposes to throw on the scrap heap . The proposition is impossible . While we sulk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republican misleaders , the League of Nations is at work . On the first day of the financial conference at Brussels , under the League , the statement was made that an urgent matter for consideration Should be the reduction of armament , the greatest item of expense . The first intelligent , concerted effort in history is about to be made to oppose war and militarism , to reduce the burden of armament and taxation , to heal the wounds of war and put the world back on its feet , and Mr. Harding would ask the nations to stop and Start all over again  --  some time in the future ! If the Church which has preached it and the men and women who have listened to it have any real faith in the message " Peace on earth , good will to men , " now is the time to prove it . It looks as though this election is not a test of the League , but of the men and women of this country , and there is an old Indian proverb which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's boat across the Stream carries himself ever also . " H. P. CHADBOURNE . Boston , Oct. 1 , 1920 . Harding on the Panama Treaty . To the Editor Of : t em ; rorh TIMCS : In your issue of Sept. 26 you quote the ringing phrases uttered by Senator Harding on the 20th regarding President Wilson and the Panama tolls . The candidate therein says that the President " begged Congress and his own partisans to ignore their pledge becalm England objected that such action would viole , te the ' purport of an obsolete Clayton-Bulwer Treaty . " If this is a sample of Mr. Harding 's knowledge of American treaties it seems to explain his disposition to vest the framing of treaties in some Senatorial group . The healthfulness of a Senatorial regency over any great department of public affairs remains a matter of grave doubt to the student of America 's past . M. L. HINSDALE . Grand Rapids , Sept. 29 , 1920.                     