@@686512

txt Admiral W. Benson , Chairman of the United States Shipping Board , served notice tonight on the members of the marine unions , who are on strike , that the full power of the Government would be employed to move its vessels . To emphasize his position , Admiral Benson called upon the Commandant of the Navy Yard in the Third District of New York to give Whatever assistance Its required to move United States mails . The immediate request was for assistranee , if necessary . in manning the Old North ' State , carrying United States mails from New York to London , Boulogne and other European ports . Its Importance , however , laid- in the . fact that it showed Admiral Benson 's determination to maintain operation of the ships under the jurisdiction of the United States , even if the United States Navy had to be called into service . In setting forth his position in regard to the strike of the engineers , Admiral Benson made this statement tonight : " A review of the developments of the regrettable marine labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the course pursued by the United States Shipping Board Is sound . Insists cut Is Justif " Existing economic conditions fully justify the readjustment of wage scales and working conditions on the moderate and reasonable basis announced by the board . It will indeed be unfortunate if the personnel of the merchant marine persists in refusing to do their part hi the labor liquidation of the marine industry while still benefitting by the labor liquidation in other industrial fields . " The Shipping Beard is continuing its efforts to keep its ships in operation . The reports from its districts on all Coasts show that it is meeting with gratifying success . This indicates that the personnel of its shops agrees with the position taken by the board . " This is a time for all loyal citizens to rally to the support . of their flag . , Poll protection , both now and after the controversy is settled , will be given by the Shipping Board to all those who Cottle to its assistance in keeping the VhiPs in operation . " The Shipping Board will continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests in the merchant Marine of the people of the United States . " Conferences Continue All Day . Hope of a reconcilation had not been entirely abandoned this evening . Throughout the day - Secretary of Labor Davis and Secretary of Commerce Hoover were in conference with Admiral Benson and representatives of the operators and of the workers . Admiral Benson saw Mr. Davis and Mr. Hoover in Mr. Hoover 's office . He was unwilling , to recognize any efforts at mediation until the workers had agreed to ge back on the ships at the reduced wages . He was firm also . in his position that , even if further negotiations were held . he could not recede from the position that a wage decrease of 15 per cent . was essential . Admiral Benson said he had the fullest sympathy with the men and believed that they would come to terms . In the meantime , however . he said , the Shipping Board would make every effort to obtain recruits to man the ships Under its jurisdiction and would give full protection to all who helped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing that will bring more difficulty to the American situation today than a long continuation of the marine strike . It will back up all goods on the railroads , break foreign contracts and create a great deal of uhemployAnent outside of the industry itself . It ' comes at a time when we can least aflord any interruption in our commerce. ? Davis Still Seeks Conciliation WASHINGTON , May ** J. Davis , Secretary of Labor , continued IA , efforts to settle the marine dispute vy conciliation . Late today he called W. S. Brown , President of the Marine Engineers ' Beneficial Association , into a conference at which present wage scales and working conditions were discussed at length and compared with pre-war figures . Indications were that the labor secretary was pursuing the methods he has followed in previous labor disputes , of talking seiyarately with representatives of the contending factions in an effort to obtain concessions from each that would be acceptable to the other . He is expected to continue his conference tomorrow . Brown predicted that the ship owners will come to terms " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , " there are comparatively few ships tied up , but as they come into port and are unable to sign crews the owners will be anxious for a settlement . I know for a fact that a number of shine left port in the last few days with half cargoes in order to get to sea before the old agreements expired . " White House officers said it was their understanding that appointment of a Federal commission to mediate in the controversy awaited acceptance by the owners . President Harding on Saturday placed the whole question into the hands of Secretaries Davis and Hoover , and it was said today that the Commerce Secretary was in communication with the operators in an effort to have them accept the mediation proposal . Meantime the 13 per cent . wage cut ordered Saturday by Chairman Benson of the Shipping Board is in effect on Government merchant craft . Early reports to the board , officials said , showed that only two board ships had been held in port by the refusal . of seamen to accept the wage reduction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut went into effect on Sunday it was explained that it probably would be late today or tomorrow before an accurate idea of its effect could be had . It was said at the board 's offices that little difficulty in obtaining crews for ships was anticipated , because 30,000 . seamen were idle .                     