@@686449

txt Representatives of the automotive industry are spending considerable time at Washington advocating conservation of federal highway expenditures through their concentration on roads of interstate importance under direction of a federal highway commission . At a hearing before President Harding and other officials , including Chairman Townsend of Senate Committee on Post , Offices and Post Roads , which will soon begin in ? vestigations of highway legislation , the principal viewpoints of the industry were brought out . Imperative need of adequate maintenance to protect the enormous investment already made in highways and a broader appreciation of the entire road question as a problem in transportaticin rather than simply an engineer ? ing matter was emphasized astwere points which sought to show that highways are no important a part in the do . mastic policy of the nation as to demand a larger recognition in an administrative sense . G. M. Graham of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce and vice-president of Pierce-Arrow Motor Car Co. , called attention to the fact that there are five main kinds of transportation : Steam electric , inland waterways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " he said , " that their interests are common , not opposed , and that the best wisdom involves alloting to each medium the type of halage it can best , perform . " The need for a proper method of credit for all transportation enterprises was developed and the point emphasized that discriminatory taxation could but be a restrictive burden of far reaching effect upon all industry . While accepting without complaint any just share of taxation which might be necessary , Mr. Graham said that the automotive industry is now the most taxed of all groups . It is subject to five levies , including sales tax on the vehicle , that on parts , state license fee , municipal and personal property tax and national and state income taxes , the last two of which , of course . are common to all industry . It is pointed out that the theory that tax on motor vehicles is a tax on wealth is disproved by the fact that two-thirds of the 9,000,000 motor vehicles now in use in this country arc owned by individuals whose income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  