@@685364

txt Nothing could be more orthodox than the recent procedure of the Federal Reserve Bank . It has applied the obvious and correct remedy for inflation . But the economic conditions themselves are abnormal . There are no rules in the bankers ' code for situations in which the raising of the discount rate can not affect the exports or imports of gold , or alter the currents of trade between nations . When destitution is extreme , bankers ' rates and prices of goods are of no avail in - lessening the demand from buyers , who will give anything they have for supplies , and promise more . When prices already are so high that they are a source of complaint , the raising of the cost of production by raising the cost of money is more likely to increase trouble than to decrease it . If traders ate doing their best to liquidate their affairs , though hindered by interruption of transportation , it is irritating to have their misfortune considered a fault and to be penalized by higher interest rates . Without criticising what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which it has acted is admirable , the fact remains that the proceedings at Washington last week were along familiar lines , which have hitherto been disappointing . The reduction of ' war paper which crowds commercial borrowers away from the supply has been small . And the commercial borrowing is larger than ever . The patient 's resistance to the orthodox treatment has been stubborn . ' Might there not be a change of prescription ? ? There are two obvious suggestiorts -- -one that the conditions should be dealt with more sympatheticalIx ; as affecting the patient and the other that the treatment should be more according to particular cases than according to general rules . The consulting doctors of the Federal Reserve last week were all of Class A. That is , they were all representative bankers , and of high repute . It is no reproach , and it is but natural , that bankers should think more of their reserves than of the condition of trade . Our reserves are double England 's , and our ability to replenish any loss of reserves is many times England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The reason is simple . England 's bankers are merchant bankers , and think more of trade than of finance . Might it not be so with us if the Directors of Class B had been summoned to the consultations at Washington ? Their qualifications are that they at the time of their election shall be " actively engaged " in their district in commerce , agricul " tore or some other industrial pursuit . " The Federal Reserve Bank has chosen to fortify itself with statutory directions as to what shall be done by way of relief , and how it shall be done . It has obtained a law giving member banks a line of credit and providing that their rates of rediscount shall be graduated accordingly . There are cases in which that would be a suitable method of reducing inflation , hilt there are cases which the method provided does not cover . Discretion and discrimination are the suitable way of dealing with irregular situations . The original law provides ' that the Federal Reserve Bank " may " discount for member banks . That puts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides further only the conditions limiting rediscounts to commercial and agricultural advances and national obligations . The object of the amendment might have been obtained by original action of the Federal Reserve under a simple rule or by counsel privately addressed to offending member banks . A statute is not well adapted to situations so widely different as those in the various Reserve districts , and the publicity and rigidity of action under the law have been shown to have objections in the particular cases to which the amendment has been applied . More sympathetic treatment of trade by the bankers , more discretion in their action , would earn praise from customers of the banks . This is said without any tenderness whatever for inflation of an obnoxious sort , or for speculation . But there is a justified feeling that deflation of finance ought , if possible , to be obtained without deflation of trade .                     