@@688435

txt That automobile parking in the loop must be prohibited and pedestrians must observe traffic signals , if Chicago is to be saved from a complete failure of its transportation system was the opinions voiced by a majority of traffic experts and business men who met in the Union League club yesterday at the invitation of the Chicago Association of Commerce . A committee was appointed to work with city authorities in bringing about sweeping reforms In loop regulations . " There is space along loop curbs for 37.000 parked cars , " said Maj. R Kelker , city traffic expert . " and that space Is filled all the time . Clear these streets and solve the greatest part of the problem . Scouts One-Way Street Plan . loop mbvements . Chicago 's traffic problem is unlike any other . We can solve it only through direct . cotipemtion of every city department and park board on a unified and practical plan . " Alexander H. Revell related his experiences with loop parking and declared that street storage Must be stopped and parking spaces provided outside of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic policemen makes parking regulations now a failure . Blames City Hall Influences . " Influences reaching the mayor and city hall have blocked all our attempts at relief of the loop congestion , " he declared .. " . Millions are being lust an nuelly by Chicago merchants and the public because of parking and the fact that a few with influence can regulatii this service to their own selfish gain . " Christopher Wiehe , president of the West Park board , urged better sign posting on all Chicago streets and explained the success of west park traffic imprwements . " Cong tion istdangerous as well as wasteful , " he declared . " But the most dangerous thing wo have to face is the refusal of the posh:ace department to compel the drivers of their mail trucks to obey traffic laws . Drivers of these trucks break every city ordinance , cause scores of accidents and refuse to observe , a single rule . " W. M. Ellis was appointed chairman of the committee charged with the Investigation of all plans for traffic reform and recommendation of improvemepts- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kelker , Lieut . John Martin of the traffic ' division , D. F. Kelly , E. T. Stevens , T. B. Cain , A. H. Revell and representatives of the Illinois Automobile club , Chicago Motor club , traction lines and other civic bodies .                     