@@690924

txt - Secretary of Labor Davis recommends that immigration restrictions be lifted whenever farmers and laborers are needed in the country . The Third Party candidate could have used about 10,000,000 of them only a few weeks ago . " Indian Potentate Officially Named. ? Every cross-word fan knows it was a nabob . The Week . Congress is seriously taking up the Onestion of funding the French debt . . . . French delegates are preparing to greet our Debt Commission with the usual formula : Moratori salutamus . . . . The Democratic campaign deficit is $300,000 , which would mean only 4 cents for every deficit Democrat In the polling booths . . . . The Communist uprising In Esthonia may easily develop into a menace to the peace of Europe , provided you know where Esthonia is . . . . On this same point some utterly irresponsible person writes in to suggest that in Esthonia there was a sound of Revairy by night . . . . President Coolidge went to Chicago on an ordinary Pullman sleeper without being exposed by Senator La @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnings . . . . Mayor Hylan has written a 2,500-word letter to Governor Smith , and Governor Smith has written a 174-word reply to Mayor Hylan : the Governor 's letter was probably intended to be read during the rush-hour in the subway . . . . Transatlantic radio photography has now been proved feasible and henceforth it will be faces across the sea as well as hands . . . . Mussolini has been put to the necessity of washing a good many black shirts in public . . . The limitations of the English language are now being exemplified in Great Britain , where the Laborites say that the Conservatives are spoiling the Egyptians and the Conservatives say that the former Labor Government spoiled the Egyptians . . . Mexico 's most drastic revolution took place last week when one President was peacefully succeeded by another . . . . On the other hand , the Republican Senate caucus took up the case of La Follette and his associate rebels and proceeded to do Its Christmas chopping early . Declaration by the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ round of applause in the directors ' room . It was probably the slowest outburst of enthusiasm In history . Grace Before Football . On the whole , the confession of the captain of the West Point eleven that his habit is to offer a prayer before going out to kick goals has created little stir . It is not inferred that the cadets are a set of mollycoddles . They may become veritable thunderbolts of war , like other pious soldiers  --  Cromwell and Stonewall Jackson , for Instance . Older men may be reminded of a famous baseball player at Yale of a generation ago , who also acknowledged that he sought Divine aid before going out upon the diamond . His piety , combined with his prowess , moved a Princeton poet to compose the following : Oh , Stagg is a wonderful pitcher , He pitches a wonderful game ; Ile always prays Before he plays , But he gets there just the same . There is a world of virtue  --  and of humor -- in that undergraduate " but . " Prayer may not impart skill but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nowadays to buy what $1 could buy ten years ago . This means that many public utterances are now worth 45 cents . . Joint Debate . Mr. Clarence Darrow upheld the negative in a Town Hall debate last Sunday on the question , " Is the Human Race Worth Working For ? " The eminent Chicago lawyer maintained that there is in life neither goal nor purpose and that people are no happier than they ever have been . To drive home the point that Progress is an illusion and that the course of human events moves in a , monotonous circle Mr. Darrow might have cited the very history of American debating . In this popular indoor sport we are getting back to where we were about the year 1800 . At that time it was being most frequently Resolved , that the pen Ss mightier than the sword , that civilization has derived more profit from Greece than from Rome , and that Shakespeare is a greater poet than Homer . About the year 1890 the great change came . The rich and juicy topics of discourse were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that freight rates should be regulated by the Federal Government , that the Nicaragua route is preferable to the Panama route , that indirect taxation is more desirable than 41A per cent . certificates , and other practical subjects . We are now moving back to ISM . The undergraduates still insist on debating prohibition and Treasury certificates and crime statistics , but their elders have gone in for the earlier , buxomer interests . The Bible is being debated . The new morality versus the old morality is being debated . The prerogatives of Art in the matter of no clothes are being debated . And now the basis of everything , the meaning of life , Is being debated . The change , on the whole , is for the better . Since no debate ever settles anything or convinces anybody , we might just as well have the big , fat problems of humanity left unsettled as the dry , little problems . We might just as well have the audience leave Town Hall with the same views it brought In on immortality or human destiny as on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tier . Perhaps Mr. Darrow is right , and there is no such thing as human happiness . But man seems to come closest to attaining the genuine article when he ise talking . Probably the happiest people that ever lived were the Athenians , whom Paul of Tarsus found continuously engaged in upholding either the Affirmative or the Negative . Our Common Heritage . Reference was made in this place some time ago to a number of successful translations of the Bible into the popular tongue of today . When the work of making Holy Writ understandable by the plain citizen has been completed , attention might turn to acts of Congress . This would be a service not only to the public at large , but to members of Congress , who are , after all , an estimable hcdy of citizens and are entitled to know what they mean when they pass a law . At present the only way in which a Congressman can secure information with regard to the operations of his own mind is to wait until the law gets into the Supreme Court for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of Congressmen are now on tenterhooks waiting for the courts to decide what Congress meant when it provided for the publicity of income-tax returns . They could avert such recurrent Periods of suspense and at the same time set up a check against the usurpations of the Supreme Court by a short but thorough course in the principles of English composition . If that fails , there will be nothing left but to exclude the lawyers who make up the great majority in Congress and replace them with longshoremen , baseball umpires and plain business men , who are normally successful in conveying an adequate idea of what is in their minds .                     