@@694532

txt ALMOST TEN MILLIONS OF US . In the launching of a New York Metropolitan District , with a radius of forty miles from City Hall , an area of nearly 3,800 square miles and a population of close to ten millions there is news and not news . It is not a discovery that there is a metropolitan district , or zone , or area , extending far beyond the ; limits of Greater New York . We have long been aware that the sub , urbs are economically very much a part of New York and socially and culturally a considerable part . Newspapers in enlarging their circulation have familiarized us with the metropolitan area . Big producers of retail commodities have stressed the metropolitan consumption district . Metropolitan New York 's ten million newspaper readers or department store patrons or commuters are no novelty . What will be news to most people is that the Metropolitan District has had and will have a more tangible character than is usually connoted by the term . It will be , in a sense , a legal character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Census Bureau has been taking cognizance of a metropolitan district with a ten-mile radius from City Hall as a unit for the purpose of counting population and recording manufactures . The Census Bureau now approves the forty-mile radius and in 1930 will count heads and industrial output accordingly . In the determination of the new boundaries the Merchants ' Association and the agencies with which it has consulted have taken into consideration such factors as daily commuting , retail store deliveries , freight rates , switching limits , telephone service , relative ! density of population . But the great ? . est of these , and he is properly named first , remains the commuter . It is still presumably the phrase in Great Britain , " where the writ of the King runs . " The smaller Metropolitan District now abandoned would be the region within which the commuter runs . The new big district is also the zone wherein the commuter 's delivery wagon runs . For the expansion of metropolitan boundaries with closer integration within these boundaries first credit belongs to the agency responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There has been great improvement in the comfort of commuter railwaying by electrification and some improvement in the way of railway schedules . But by themselves they would not have been enough . It is no longer true that the commuter runs for his train . He speeds for it in his car . The saving of perhaps an average fifteen minutes has been added I to the railway ride , with a consequent extension of the commuting zone . But perhaps as important has been the delivery motor truck . It has permitted the department store to stretch its beneficent tentacles over an area of nearly 4,000 square miles . Will New Jersey take pride in the fact that she contributes nearly two-thirds to the New York metropolitan area ? Or will there be a rankling sense of vassalship ? We expect the former . Proper State and county spirit are not incompatible with federalship . Under the old boundaries Westchester did not surrender her soul to Manhattan , nor Bergen to Queens . On the other hand , it is a comfort to think that no future Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city limits of an inhabitant of New Canaan or Massapequa or Cranbury , N. J. , as a dangerous alien .                     