@@694313

txt A year ago a leading English physician made an address on the medical aspects of the use of tobacco . At that time be quoted a study of college students made by Dr. Em ' of Antioch College , Ohio . Among 304 boys brought under observation it . was found that the nonsmokers were more successful than the smokers both in scholarship and athletics . It now appears , however . that this conclusion was too hasty . Dr. ** has pursued his investigations further and writes to The Lancet that the new results reached by him " definitely weakened the " case against tobacco as a cause of mental inefficiency . " He still main tains that the non-smokers are superior , but admits that this may not be because they do not smoke . It ? sometimes ' seems , according to him , that tobacco tends to sort out the weak from the strong , and that the inferior are such not because they smoke but because they were born so . There appears to be something like good sense in this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? they who use fusees All grow by slow degrees ? Brainless as chimpanzees . It is needless to identify a quotation which so " dates " itself as does the above by its obsolete reference to chimpanzees . They are today a sort of White Hope of the biologist and anthropologist , and are showing , under intensive training , an amount of brains which might make the average man envious . The dispute about tobacco and ability , especially its effect upon creative genius , is old but ever new , which is doubtless a sign that it will never be settled . The individual will set himself up as a judge of his own practice , against all the doctors and scientists . Probably most heavy smokers would maintain that their habit is really a proof of possessing ' a finer kind of intellect . They would say that " scholarship " as reported in the Antioch . College test is a special and restrict , ed form of mental effort . May not the higher flights of imagination be helped rather than hindered by the brooding and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tobacco smoke ? ? It is a ' question to which no de- , cided answer can be given on the basis of present knowledge . Let it be noted , however , that the material , for inquiry has bean largely increased by the numbers of women who have taken to cigarettes . We have traveled far from the time when COWPER could write : Pernicious weed ! whose scent the fair annoys , Unfriendly to society 's chief joys , Thy worst effect is banishing for hours The sex whose presence civilizes Ours . The fair are today among the chief producers of the scent . How will this affect their brain power ? Time will tell  --  or perhaps it will not . Doubling the number of tobacco users may turn out to be unhappily too much like doubling the number of voters by giving the women the franchise . The more you double , the more it remains the same thing .                     