@@687595

txt Interstate Commerce Commission has postponed until May 17 the first of the public hearings in its investigation of the adequacy of existing air brake equipment of railroads and the possibility of improvements therein , originally set for April 6 . Class I carriers are given until May 1 to file their replies to a searching questionnaire on the subject , issued by the commission . While the Commerce Commission clearly indicated in its questionnaire its purpose to- asscertain whether and to what extent loss of life , damage to property and delays to trains are involved with the question of the efficiency of present-day braking equipment and practices , and to ascertain what , if any , improvements therein were available , the American Railway Association has officially taken the attitude that no improvement worth its cost can be made . In a letter to the member roads President Aishton informs them that the general committee of the Association 's mechanical division has delegated the handling of ? the matter before the commission to the committee on safety appliances , which is to be given any assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He adds that among the conclusions reached by the general committee of the mechanical division is the following : " Further , that the committee on safety appliances he directed to advocate that present brake arrangements are satisfactory , and that the percentage of mileage on grades is tor. ; small in proportion to total mileage to warrant any greater investment in brake appliances . " AVTOMAT1C STOP DEVICE:51 The whole subject of braking equipment is more or less connected with that of automatic train stop devices a separate investigation of which has already been set on foot by the commission . ? Obviously any such device must function through the braking appliances , the efficiency of the former depending directly upon that of the latter . In his report upon a recent collision between a pre-senger train and a work train , which resulted in the death of one employe and injury to 11 passengers and three employes , W. P. Borland . chief of the Commerce Commission 's bureau of safety , said : " One of the primary causes of this accident was the failure of an engin:la:an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To guard against such failure= is the function of the automatic train stop , but under the conditions existing at the time it is probable that an automatic train stop would not halve prevented the accident resulting front this failure . The evidence discloses that the engineman made an emergency application of the brakes before passing the signal in the stop position . which is all that could he accomplished by an automatic train stop . The failure of the emergency application to stop the train was probably due to the prior service application or inefficient air brake equipment . An efficient air brake system is one of the fundamental requirements if the automatic train stop is to afford the protection for which it is designed . "                     