@@691393

txt ward to the suburban bUngalow . There are wainscoted rooms in which the least detail dates from a single decade of the sixteenth century , and there are improvements " sd newfangled as to justify the publicity man 's challenge : " You think your home is " modern , but you 'll be surprised at " the Grand Central Palace . " It is the regional plans that chiefly challenge attention  --  and baffle it . The future of London and Manchester , of Paris , Rio Janeiro and the City of Mexico , is delineated in blotches of color which a marginal key explains , but only to the ' eye that is already familiar with local topography . It is plain , however , that cities will no longer be permitted to sprawl over the landscape . Railway systems and industrial areas are to have a coordinated development together with the residential districts . There are to be broad arteries for facilitating traffic and outlying parks and parkways . Residents of Greater New York will find airplane photographs pieced together so accurate and distinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and at the same time gain a new sense of his relation to the city as a whole . One plan shows the marginal boulevard around Manhattan of which many have dreamed for . so long . There is a drawing of what City Hall Park will look like when the Coiart House and the Postoffice have been done away with and a new approach fashioned for Brooklyn Bridge . The cupolaed belfry of City Hall nestles i at the foot of the soaring Municipal Building , itself similarly crowned , and each gains by the contrast as it does by the freer perspective . In spite of great obstacles , many still love this city , but only those who study the plans for its re-formation can really know it . Yet it is the small houses that come nearest home to the multitude . One is hung over the edge of a cliff , like an eyrie , with no front yard and garden save the spreading valley below . Another . on its half-acre plot , is sunk in the depths of an imipenetrable forest . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front porches overlooking the sidewalk , clipped lawns and no unneighborly barriers except low hedges or boundary trees . And , as if this were not sufficiently sociable , each neighborhood has its community centre . Among the visitors half a dozen languages are spoken , for the occasion has attracted city planners and architects from the leading countries of both hemispheres . But the purpose of the exhibition will have been served if we discover just what we think of ourselves .                     