@@694802

txt Plans of the Chicago Homes Economic council , recently organized to do away with peak renting seasons on May 1 and Oct. 1 of each year , have Progressed to a point which spells sue ' cess and which , backers of the plan declare , will end the semi-annual moving jam which has held the city in its grip from time immemorial . More than 200 concerns In Ole renting division of the Chicago Real 1 , . : s ? tate Board have agreed to support the project . Among the organizations who have swung behind the movement are the Chicago Real Estate Board , Chicago Association of Commerce , Chicago Mortgage Bankers ' association , Chicago and Cook County Bankers ' association , Builders ' associtalon , Electrical Contractors , Chicago Coal Merchants ' Advertising council , and Movers ' association . To Change Lease l'i'ording . Under the Home Economics coonCirri plan , leases expiring On May 1 or Oct. 1 will be made out for 13 , 14 , 15 , or 16 months at the tenant 's option , thus removing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This applies to the first renewal only . Subsequent renewals will then be for one year . Since that council 's campaign was started , it was revealed , members of the Chicago Real Estate Board 's renting division have agreed to place 50,000 apartments , available May 1 , under the new leasing plan . This figure is estimated at one out of every live of the 250,000 apartments vacated semi-annually . According to Oliver S. Turner , chairman of the council 's committee , and vice president of d Poague . Inc. , the number probably will be greatly augmented by May 1 . Other officers are A. H. Hollander , vice chairman , president of the Illinois Furniture WarebOUSe association , and John W. O'Leary , treasurer , president of the Chicago Trust company . Evils Long Opposed . " The almost universal practice of terminating leases on either May 1 or October 1 has been fraught with many economic evils , " Mr. Turner asserted . " It has challenged , the earnest attention of every property owner , tenant , tradesman , real estate agent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hard to slay . But WO . find that this evil has finally reached the point where it is costing citizens several million dollars annually . The Homes Economics council , backed by these organizAtions , Las decided that this expensive habit must be broken . " Advantages cited for the tenant under tile new practice will be better and far quicker service from moving , ? telephone , gas and electric companies . Children will not suffer through being transferred from one school to another at a time when there arc only six or seven weeks remaining of their term . A choice of apartments will always be on hand .                     