@@694912

txt A hundred years ago the American Institute of the City of New York was incorporated for the purpose of encouraging and promoting domestic industry . Its name is . not as well known now as it was in its early days , when HENRY CLAY and DANIEL WEBSTER were its honorary members , or a generation later , when HoRAcE GREELEY was its President. , Yet it takes to itself some credit for the century Of industrial progress of which it makes record in a thick volume reviewing the achievements in thirty different fields as told by thirty leaders , with a preface by one who has an acquaintance with all fields , Secretary HOOVER . The story begins when man quits the nomadic existence , with agriculture , and ends with aviation and radio . There is talk along the way , not so entertaining perhaps as " The Tales of a Wayside Inn " or as full of color as the stories told on the road to Canterbury , but far more thrilling in real import to one who can see into what human values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines and the forests , the cargoes of the ships and the tonnage of the railroads , the petroleum and the meat , and withal the labor of tens of millions year by year are transmuted . The whole has a sequel that suggests with what practical and alert mind this old association faces the new century . For it now is giving its influence to the sort of project of which it dreamed in its youth . It functioned originally through fairs and exhibitions of various kinds . EDWARD EVERETT , who was the orator at the opening of the first of them , held at Broadway and Pearl Street in 1828 , and again at the fourth , spoke of the " most gratifying spectacle " which even those exhibits presented . CALEB CUSHING grew eloquent over the twelve thousand articles exhibited at the ninth , in 1836 , and saw in them the prosperity and glory of a republic expanding from the shores of the Atlantic . The Institute gave first exhibit to the magnetic telegraph and the McCormick reaper and crowned with its medal the first sewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in promoting legislation in behalf of internal improvements , notably the Erie Canal , and gave the initial impetus to the first geological survey of this State . It was not till 1871 that it gave to the public a view of the magnificent project which it had in mind for the city ? " a perpetual exhibition such as never before was seen . " It proposed the erection of an imposing edifice , at an estimated cost of $2,000,000 , to be the home of a universal as well as a perpetual exhibition . Its chief features were to be : An exhibition of the finest examples of American workmanship and ingenuity , grouped geographically . A department of contrasts , " wherein may be seen the obsolete " mechanisms of a century ago in " juxtaposition with the marvelous " machinery of today ( 1871 ) , to " gether with such as would indi " Cate the intermediate steps . " Museums of American minerals and American Geology . A Museum devoted to the fine arts which would include a permanent gallery of American Paintings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Musical Conservatory . A department " consecrated to Learning . " This was to include a Lecture Hall for lectures and discussions on the sciences , a great scientific Library and a Chemical Laboratory and workshops . The panic which came shortly prevented the realization of this dream of a great industrial palace . Since then , however , two of the proposed purposes have been splendidly fulfilled in the Museum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum of Art . It is to the third that the Institute at the beginning of its second century now turns its attention  --  a Museum of Peaceful Arts . A beginning has been made . It should now , with our immensely greater wealth , be easily possible to complete the program which the American Institute set for itself a half century ago , and tell the story in a language that may be read of all ,                     