@@688115

txt A marked change in the political situation , generally attributed to disturbed industrial conditions , is discernible in Michigan . State Senator Herbert Baker , radkal.farmer-labor candidate for the BePublican nomination for United states senator , has forged into the foreground t , f the contest . As the apostle of discontent , of dissatisfaction with the record and policies of the Harding admin. istration , he is gaining ground rapidly on the strength of recent developments M the strike situation , and is regarded by not a few conservative leaders as a dangerous competitor in the primary next Tuesday . Politicians who assured me a month ago that the race in the senatorial primary was between Senator Townsend and Congressman Pat Kelly now think that the contest is between Townsend and Baker , at least in Detroit . which polls one-third of the vote of the state , and in other Industrial centers . Townsend Has Advantage . Townsend , with his strong organization and the support of the conservative farmers and the business med , still has the advantage , it one may judge from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is centering his tire on the senator and conceding he has Townsend to heat . Baker him . elf appears none too Confident , for he puts in a good deal of time warning his audiences that if Townsend is renominated former Gov . Ferris , the Democratic candidate for senator , will he elected . Two factors stand out unmistakably in the situation . One is the increasing dissatisfaction with the Harding ad. ministration among all classes , which has not been dispelled even among conservatives by the Invocation of the injunction process in the railroad strike . That reacts unfavorably upon the candidacies of both Senator Townsend and Congressman Kelley ' , who are administration supporters . Bitterness of Labor it Factor . The ? other factor is the growing aggressiveness and bitterness of labor , TNtt profits the canbiacy of Baiter , Nolo Is sounding a note of radical disaffection attuned to Samuel GomPeva ' denunciation of the Daugherty injunction . A record breaking labor veto is looked for in the primary and Batter wilt be its chief beneficiary . I Baiter 's View of Court Pietlen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Baker . " with an injunction grant ' ed railroad operators by a federal court t hat make , the workers On the ran ' roads powerless as outlaws . The lengths to which this injunction goes are limith ? ss . It prevents all organize , Lion action ; it would make an outlaw of you if you sent money or food to a striker or should counsel with one ; it Prevents feeding the hungry by their awn relatives . " Congressman Kelley alSo has come out against the injunction . " In She case of a railroad strike , " he says , " we are all agreed that it is the first duty of the government to keep the trains running . If the operators and workers can not agree on terms then I believe the government should run the lines until such time as they do agree . I am utterly apposed to any attempt to settle such a. strike by Injunction. "                     