@@695963

txt Wall Street hailed President Hoover 's inaugural address as confirmation of its belief that the new administration would do nothing to interfere with trade prosperity . However , technical conditions in the main body of stocks bad been temporarily impaired by last week 's pre-inaugural celebration , and traders rushed to take profits on publication of the new Chief Executive 's remarks . Realizing sales flowed into the market in fairly steady volume the greater part of the day . New lows on the reaction were reached by Steel . and other industrial leaders , and price movements in the general list were extremely unsettled throughout the session . Demand credit conditions were easier . Call money was in good supply at 8%. reflecting the return flow of the month-end disbursements . Most observers were expecting a period of relative ease in demand funds until preparations were begun for the huge turnover scheduled for March 15 m connection with tax payments and Treasury financing .  - -  Ilowever. the irfluence of this outlook was . counterbalanced by a firmer tone in the commercial credit market . where 514.  - -  o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level seen since the ost-war inflation period . Considerable nervousness was also in evidence regarding the possibility of further restrictive measures by the Federal Reserve . Reports were cuesent ' that a questionnaire would be sent to member banks , to determine their loan position , and many traders decided to retire from the market until the uncertainty inrethis connection was cleared up . While pivotal shares displayed a generally downward trend . the decline proceeded in orderly fashion . Buying on a scale down appeared : n the nrincipal trading stocks , and this support .. , nted bearish operations from making extensive progress . Copper shares resisted the reaction impressively , due to buying of Anaconda , Kennecott and other leaders of the group by powerful interests sponsoring their markets Chrysler was the outstanding bright spot on the upside , rising to new high ground on movement on a large turnover . Strength in Chrysler was due to the operations of William C. Durant. who is one of the few big operators maintaining an aggressively bullish attitude regarding the market . ? ? ? Reference in the inaugural address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with policies which Mr. Hoover has stressed since first entering the Cabinet . He has consistently opposed government ownership and government operation , and in many speeches has specifically come out in favor of state rather than national regulation . Mr. Hoover has never been opposed to the idea of large combinations or holding companies . He maintains these are essential to the raising of new capital necessary for tocpansion of utility service . ? ? ? 1 . International Paper &; Power common is- sues were strong , reflecting the expected operation of assuming Si ' , ; ? control of New England Power Association common stock . International Paper has 45f ; , of this stock , and has an option until around the middle of April on the balance of 36,4 , of the outstanding issue . It is anticipated that some financing will be done shortly to acquire the shares , which were formerly property of Northeastern Power . The acquisition will take about $35,000,000 . As a means of financing , it is possible that a new holding company may be formed for controlling the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , corresponding to Canadian Hydro-Electric Corp . in Canada . ? ? ? U. S. Industrial Alcohol received special attention from interests bullish on the possibilities of its chemical subsidiary . U. S. Industrial Chemical Co . Although little is beard of this important unit , it has become one of the largest factors in the chemical business . New and profitable products are rumored for the near future . Industrial Alcohol earned a little more than $10 a share on 320,000 no-par common shares , compared with $7.25 on 240,000 no-par common shares in 1927 , and it is estimated that earnings will reach $14 a share this year . Capitalization will consist solely of common stock . after April 15 . The affiliation with Air Reduction Co. suggests to many investors that Industrial Alcohol may sell at better than 20 times its common share earnings as is the case with the former . Outlook for the alcohol industry in general is the best in years .                     