@@686326

txt European statesmen believe that the next word in the League of Nations debate must be spoken by-the Harding Administration . It was predicted in these dispatches that members of the Council of the League would reply to Secretary Colby 's Iiote on mandates in a manner intended to involve the new Administration in direct negotiations with the League . That prediction is borne out ht the text of the note to ' Washington , made public here today . the.substance of which 1 cabled last night . The Washington Government  --  which means in effect the new Administration ? is directly , challenged by . the Council to make known its attitude toward the League in these words : " and the Council not only welcomes , but feels justified in claiming the sympathy and support . of the Governments which devised the scheme which the Council is to administer . " If it is borne in mind that trie Council 's note was practically dictated by the Paris and London Governments , it requires no stretch of the imagination to see that these words are intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are intended to bring a reply which will make it clear whether America desires to aid the other powers in the work of re-establishing peace conditions in Europe . This statement is made with some knowledge of the sentiment back of the Council 's note . If further proof is needed ? of the Council 's determination to have Ainerica state . her position , one . may read it in these words of the note : " But the American Government - will itself recognize that the situation is complicated by the- fact that the United States , for reasons which the Council would be the last to question , has so far abstained from ratifying the Peace Treaty and has not taken her seat on the Council Of the League of Nations . " Satisfaction in ' Washington . ' Special to The . New York Times . WASHINGTON , March ** reply of the Council of the League of Nations to Secretary Colby 's note of protest on the subject of mandates was received by the State Department . today . The tone in which it is written is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be of a satisfactory nature , because it appears to recognize the validity of the Government 's claim to being consulted in the determination of mandates , states the decision of the League Council to Postpone ? consideration and action on the Mesopotamian , Syrian , PaIestifie and South African mandates until May or June to enable the United States to have its say . in the matter of these particular mandates , and shows that the League Council ' has referred the American note , to the Governments of France , England , Italy and Japan for consideration ' as to the misunderstanding existing over the allocation of Yap to Japan . ? The State Department- also received today the reply of the British Government to Secretary Colby 's note of Nov. 10 - relative to the Mesopotamian mandate . The League Council 's reply was made public , because it was also- given out in Paris , but the text of the British note has been withheld , pending an agreement with the British Government relative to its publication . It will not be made public by Secretary Colby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed until after March 4 . While gratification was expressed over . the tone anti contents of the League Council 's reply , officials refrained from comment on the British reply , ? pending publication of its text . It was asserted by officials , however , that they were not despondentover the outlook for the protection of .. American rights . ' : Department officials now regard the whole mandate controversy as in good shape for consideration by the Harding Administration .. It is their view that they have filed a caveat protecting the interests of the United States , and that future proceedings and action on behalf of ? this Government now belong wholly to the next ' Administration . Norman . Davis , Under-Secretary - of State , said for quotation : We have taken steps to protect the position of the United States Go.vernnient ; and  --  th ? matter is now in position to . be ' dealt with as effectively and in any manner the incoming Administration may see - fit . " ? ? Text of . the ' Council 's Note . The English translation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations was made public by the State Department as follows : " To the Secretary of State of the United States of America : " I ' am directed by the Council of the League of Nations to acknowledge the receipt of your communication , of Feb. 21 on certain matters contained with the mandates which under the provisions of the covenant will define the responsibilities and limit the powers of the Governments intrusted with the administration of various territories outside Europe formerly in the possession of Germany and Turkey . is that the ' approval of the United : States of America is essential ' to the validity of any determination which may be reached ' respecting the , ? mandates which have been or may be submitted to the judgment of the Council . The United States was one of the leading actors both in the war and in the negotiations for peace . The . rights which it acquired are not likely to be challenged in any quarter . But the American Government will itself . recognize that the situation is complicated lay the fact that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last to question , has so far abstained from . ratifying the Peace Treaty , ' and has not taken her seat on the Council Of the League of Nations . " The Council might easily h.a.ve ? dwelt on ' the controversial aspects of the American note . But this procedure would ill represent their true attitude . They prefer to examine the subject from the broad basis of international co-operation " arid friendship , in the belief that this course will appeal to the spirit . of justice of the Government and people of the United States . ' " The Council has taken several- important decisions with regard to mandates which it confidently hopes will commend themselves to the American Government . Defers Action on A and B Mandates . " The Council had already determined on Feb. 21 , before the receipt of the . American note , to postpone the consideration of the A mandates over former Turkish possessions , including Mesopotamia ' : No conclusions will therefore be reached . with regard to A mandates until the United States Government has had an opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approve finally at the session now being held the B ' mandates for the former Central African colonies of - Germany . In view of the desire expressed by the United States the Council ' is , however , deferring its consideration of these mandates until its next session , which will probably take place in May or June . It is hoped that the delay will not hamper the administrative progress of these territories . " The ' Council invites the United States to take paid . in its discussions at the ' forthcoming . meetings , when the final decisions as . to the A ' and B mandates will , it is hoped , be taken . ' A - problem so intricate and involved as that of the mandates can hardly be handled by the interchange of formal notes . It can only be ' satisfactorily solved by personal contact and by direct exchange df opinion . " Not only do such direct negotiations . which correspond to the true spirit of the League . of Nations , effect an increase of freedom , flexibility and speed , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-operation among people meeting around the same table . ? " Regarding the third type of ? mandates , the C group of former German possessions in South Africa and  --  the Pacific , the Council . has not the advantage of the same Ilberty of action as . in the A and B types . The C mandates were defined by the Council at  --  its meeting in Geneva on Dec. 17 , 1920 . , Themain American . ' in this case , it is understood from Your Excellency 's note , is to the effect that : the Island of Yap was ? ihcluded by the Coln-101 in the mandate given to Japan , whereas Your . Excellency . states that the United . States has on several occasions refused to agree tothe allocation Of ' this island to any one State .. " The League of Nations Council would remind your Excellency that the allocation of ' all the mandated territories is a function of the Supreme Council , and not of the Council of the League . The League is concerned not with the allocation but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the name of the Allied and Associated Powers that all the islands north of the equator had been allocated to Japan , the Council of the League merely fulfilled its responsibility of defining the terms of the quently , if a misunderstanding m nccloant se e. exists as to the allocation of the Island of Yap that misunderstanding would seem to be between the principal allied powers ' rather than between the United States and the League . However , in view of the American contention the Council of the League has hastened to forward the American note to the Governments of France , Great Britain . Italy ar'djhaeri Council:The hopes that explanations will prove satisfactory to the United States Government , and that reciprocal good , will . find  --  a solution ' in harmony with the generous spirit which Inspired the principle of the mandates . " GASTAO DA CUNHA . " President of the Council of the League of Nations . " The postponement of action by the League on the Class A and B mandates is understood to have been taken to afford the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Allied Discussion . Respecting Class C mandates , under which the island of Yap was allocated to Japan , the construction placed on the note in high quarters here is that , while the Council itself disclaims jurisdiction over the allocation of mandates , this be-. ing a matter for the principal allied and associated powers , nevertheless , if the United States as one of the " principal allied and associated powers " has been misrepresented by , the allied powers , such misrepresentation is a matter that the American Government can consider along with the four other principal allied powers , to which the Council has Feb. 21. already referred the Colby note of ? In that note Secretary Colby pointed out that the United States had been misrepresented in the draft form of the Class C mandate oovering the former German islands in the Pacific , which was so framed as to make it appear that the agreement for the allocation of the islands to Japan . had been made by the allied and associated powers . Secretary Colby pointed out ' -n his note that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was the prirrcipal " associated power , " had never been consulted concerning nor agreed to the form of the Yap mandate . The Council in its answer received today admits that the Yap and Close C mandates were submitted to it " in the name of the Allied and Associated Powers , " and says-that , having been so notified , it merely fulfilled its responsibility- in defining the terms of the mandate : ' but it remarks that if any misunderstanding exists as to the allocation of Yap that misunderstanding " would seem to , ' , be between : ' the principal allied powers rather than-between the United States and the League . " Officials feel that there would be no impropriety in the sending by the United States of , a representative to discuss the mandate Problems with the Council , at " the latter ' s ' invitation , as ' the fact Can not be ignored that the League does exist and fa , functioning ; but- the- , deterurination as to sending such a reprosentative to discuss the matter with the League is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and there is not sufficient time left within which the Outgoing Administration could send a personal representative to Paris . Mr. Davis is continuing his converse-. tions with the leading delegates to the International Communications Congress. ? but up to the present time it has been impossible to set a date for the resumption of the sittings of the convention . It Is understood that Japan refusals to proceed toward a solution of the cable problem so long as the United States associates the question of Yap with that of cables ; and the United States is maintaining the position taken by President Wilson that the question of Yap is indissolubly a part of the cables problem . There is a possibility that the Communications Conference will be discontinued until the question of Tap is decided , but decision on this point awaits the installations of Presidentelect Harding and Mr. Hughes in office . ' The main points brought out in the American note , if 1 may be permitted to summarize them . are that the Unit , States must be consulted before any mandates are allotted or defined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view should be encouraged . In the A mandates exception is taken to the possible limitation of commercial opportunity as regards oil in Mesopotamia and in the C mandates to the allocation of the Island of Yap to Japan . " The : Council wishes to express its deep satisfaction at the interest shown by your Government - in this question , which the ' Council has long felt to be among ' the most important ' assigned to the League . Undoubtedly . also it is - one of the ' Most difficult , and the Council not only welcomes but feels justified in claiming the sympathy and support of the ' . Governments which devised the scheme which the Council is required to ddreinister . " . The most ' fundamental contention brough , ' forward by. , the American note                     