@@688189

txt A serious situation is developing in the matter of rates on transportation east and ' west via land lines and through the Panama canal . Water rates on coasttocoast business have recently been cut so low that neither the railroads nor the steamship companies are making any money on it . Mani observers say the situation will soon correct itself in some degree through bankruptcy of water carriers . Other relief movements , however , are in motion . Transcontinental railroads have pending before the Commerce Commission applications for reduced longhaul rates . They admit that they can not meet the porttoport rates of the water lines , but hope to approximate the k rail-water rates on business moving , for example , from eastern interior points to Atlantic ports and then by water to the Pacific coast . To recover a share of the lost traffic they consider it necessary to make long-haul rates less than the short-haul rates between interior points , but this they can not do without specific permission of the commission . They sought this relief early in the year , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water rates to still lower levels . It is known that the commission is reluctant to reduce rail rates because of water competition that is not ? really sustaining itself , and particularly where this means granting exceptions from the long-and-short haul clause . One remedy continually in mind is legislation giving the Shipping Board  --  older suggestions made it the Commerce Commission  --  power to fix coastwise water rates . But the Shipping Board could now give some relief by withdrawing government competition from these services , in which case rates would revert to the old conference tariffs abandoned last June . Before that the intercoastal lines drew freight via Atlantic ports from as far west as Pittsburgh and Cleve , land in competition with the . transcontinental rails . Differential at points east of Pittsburgh was about 25% in the Interstate Commerce Commission from railroads seeking to reduce their long-haul rates so that they can apz proximate the rail-water tariff . A preliminary report thereon , filed before the commission by Attorney-Examiner William A. Disque its April and argued in July , awaits the action of the commission . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ *Ir . Disque records that the transcontinental lines propose the establishment of lower rates from and CO Pacific coast terminals than are in effect from and to intermediate points , on traffic having origin or destination in the socalled defined territories lying , generally east of the Rocky mountains . The intermediate territory involved extends as far east as Helena , Denver , Albuquerque and El Paso , known as inter-mountain territory . The applicant railroads are supported in their proposals by various interests situate at their terminals , but opposed by representatives of the inter-mountain territory and by the coast to coast steamship lines , says Mr. Disque . Statements filed by both rail and water lines show that the traffic destined for the Pacific coast was moving by water in increasing volume late in 1921 and in ... January 1922 , and more recently it has assumed unprecedented proportion . Competition was found to be far keener and the service far more efficient than at any time before the war . Considerably more than half the traffic in most commodities was shipped by water , all but a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buffalo-Pittsburgh territory . This indicated that most Pacific coast purchasers were buying in that district , which is a tributary to the water-lines , thus making the low rates applicable to their shipments . None of the proposed rates meets or approximates the coast-to-coast rates of the water lines , Mr. Disque asserts , adding that they are not - generally intended to draw or hold any large amount of port-to-port traffic to the rail lines , but that they do approximate the charges available from certain interior points to the Pacific coast terminals by rail and thence by water , plus such additional charges as marine insurance , unloading and transfer at Pacific terminals . " Obviously , therefore , " he points out , " they should secure to the rail lines a very large proportion of the traffic from the interior . " MINOR ADJUSTMENTS Some of the rates proposed by the rail lines , it is said , were lower than the carriers would have proposed had they been familiar with established water rates , but as the water rates have since been cut indiscriminately , this will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroads , in their zeal to protect themselves reasonably against the water lines , probably did not give due recognition , in all instances , to the superiority of the rail service which might require slightly higher rates in some instances than were applied for . This , however , would not affect the principle for which the transcontinental lines are contending , Mr. Disque holds , nor justify an absolute or unqualified denial of their application . " If the application were approved in principle , proper adjustment could be made for these differences , " he concluded . The water lines opposed the application in toto , but , expecting that the commission would grant the rail lines a reasonable measure of relief , suggested that the differentials should be greater than proposed . They contended that the rail rate should be higher than the water rates , including incidental charges , by at least 15 cents on beans , 20 to 25 cents on canned wads , and 30 to 35 cents on dried fruits , pointing out that if the differentials are not made substantinfly greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to be reduced or the traffic abandoned .                     