@@696829

txt The statutes and charter of tho new Bank for International Settlements , which will act as a sort of clearing boas ? and trustee for repsrations payments , were made public today . The statutes , charter , and trust agreement of the institution were signed last night by the delegates , who have been hero for the last six weeks for the purpose of initiating the bank in accordance with the provisions of the Young plan . While the statutes and charter were made public , the trust agreement , about which there had been much discussion , was not given out , as it Le merely in draft form and can not be I completed until the second Hague conference by the powers . Statutes Comprise 7 Chapters . The statutes consist of seven chapters , giving the objects of the bank and the place of its seat , its capital , its powers , its management , general meetings , accounts and profits , and general provisions . At first it was decided that the charter should not be made public , but later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which country ; the bank will be located , at Basel , has agreed to grant a charter for the bank and not to amend or supplement it , except in agreement with the organizing powers . All funds deposited with the bank by any government In pursuance of the Young plan will be tax exempt and the bank Is exempt from taxation on its capital reserves and pronto . Thebank is immune from censorship , requisition , seizure or confiscation in peace or war . Traylor Acts as Spokesman . Melvin A Traylor of Chicago , American delegate to the conference , who received the American correspondents this afternoon , expressed the opinion that the conference had evolved decidedly creditable and workable documents . The reason , he said , why the trust agreement was not released was the fact that it was in draft form and could not he completed until the powers at The Hague agreed just how they want the reparations ' payments schedules arranged . In a nutshell , " he said , " the trust agreement provides how the bank for international settlements shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gilbert is agent-general for reparations . ) Mr. Traylor asserted that there was no danger whatever of the international bank becoming a political organization , as the central bank governors are the real powers behind It and they know better than any one else the pitfalls of political mixing-in . Ile also said . there was no danger of the bank invading the field occupied by private banking . Explains National Aspect . As to the national aspect of this international institution Mr. Traylor %sped : ' Every nation is protected through the central bank governors ' veto right against any operations of the bank or International settlements inimical : o that nation 's interests . " Capital stock of the bank is fixed at 500,000,000 Swiss francs about 06,896,500 , divided into 200,000 ; hares , of which 112,000 must be subscribed before the bank begins bustaces . The subscription of the total capital s guaranteed by the central banks sf Belgium , England , France , Germany and Italy , also Messrs . " X , " tcting in place of the Bank of Japan , and Messrs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portion of the bank 's : apital stock may be offered otherNese by a two-thirds majority vote of ; he board but only to countries inerestedain reparations or satisfying he practical requirements of the gold .. xchange standard . In none of these uses may more than 8,000 shares be ) ( fared . No Shares Issued Below Par . Only 25 per cent of the valve of each share shall be paid up at the time of subscription . The capital may be in:Teased or reduced by a two-thirds majority of the board in general meeting . No shares shall be issued below Dar but shares shall be transferable , Provided the transferee is agreeable Lo the bank of international settlement and the issuing central bank or equivalent institution . Shares will not carry voting rights , the latter being vested in the respective Central bank or its nominee or corresponding institution . Subscribing institutions may either issue shares directly to the public or certid ? cater against the bank of international settlement shares owned by them . Chapter three contains a so called " veto clause , " after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of international settle .. ments must be In conformity with the monetary policy of the central banks of the countries concerned , the statutes continue ; " Before any financial operation Is carried out by or on behalf of the bank on given market or in given currency , the board of directors shall afford to the central bank or central banks directly concerned an opportunity to dissent . " If there is disapproval the operation may not take place . The bank 's permissible operations Include : Buying and selling of gold for its own account or the account of the central banks ; holding gold for its own account under the earmark of the central banks ; accepting custody of gold for the account of the central banks ; making advances to or borrowing from the central banks against collateral of prime liquidity ; buying and selling of exchange for its own account or that of the central banks ; buying and selling of negotiable securities other than shares , and maintaining of current or deposit accounts with the central banks . Tho statutes fix acceptable deposits RS including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trustee agreement 's between the bank and governments , and such others as are within the scope of the bank 's functions . The bank may act as agent or correspondent for any central bank or arrange with the latter to act as its agent or correspondent . The bank also may enter into agreements to act as trustee or agent In connection with international settlements , provided such agreements do not encroach on the bank 's obligations toward third parties . PrOvidee for Special Situations . To provide for special situations , such as might arise in the United States , the statutes add : " Any operations which the bank is authorized to carry out with the central flanks under the preceding article may bo carried out with banks . bankers , corporations , or individuals of any country , provided the centrali bank of that country does not object . " The bank may enter also into ape . cial agreements with the central banks to facilitate the settlement of i International transactions between Bums . Things which the bank of Interne  --  tional settlements may not do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchange , making advalkee to kovornments , opening of current accounts ' in the names of governments , and acnuiring predominant interest in any business concern owning real estate , except when unavoidable . The bank must be administered with particular regard to maintaining the liquidity of its accounts . Chapter four vests the bank 's adMinistration in a board , composed exofficio of the central bank governors of the seven organizing countries or their appointees or alternates , who will bo seven persons representative of ! finance , industry , and commerce , each appointed by his central bank goVernor . Board Meetings Fixed . If , in the cane of the United States , the governor does not wish to act or appoint some ono. the governors of the banks or other nations may invite two nationals of that country not ob . jested to by the rospocUvo central bunk . ? Besides these fourteen directors , one German and one Frenchman may in addition be appointed by the respee. tive central bank governors , so long as Germany pays on its reparations account . in addition , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nominees from other countries , an provided by the Young plans Non exofficio directors hold office for three yearn , but are raligibie . No government official except a central bank governor , nor any member of any legislative body , may become a director of the international bank . Tho board of directors must meet at least ten times annually , of which four meetings must be at the domicile of the bank . The powers of Lite chairman of the board of directors , who also will . be president of the bank , are sweeping ; " subject to the authority of the board , the president will carry out the policy and control the administration of the bank . " His term of office is three years but he also is realigible. , The hank 's general manager will be appointed by the board of directors on the proposal of the president . Chapter five of the statute 's provides that , at general meetings , voting rights shall be in proportion to the number of shares subscribed In the country of each institution represented at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statutes , increase or decrease the hank 's capital or to liquidate the bank . Chapter six fixes the financial year beginning April 1 . The bank must publish an annual report and at leant monthly statements . Prevision on Liquidation . Chapter seven provides arming other things that the bank may not tic ilquldated except by ahreo-fourths nue jority in a general meeting and not before it has discharged all obligations assumed under the Young plan . . Disputes anent interpretation or application of the statutes shall be referred to an interpretation tribunal ' establishea under the eondon agree-1 ment of Aug. 30/ ? 1924 . By common consent both parties may refer any dispute to the president or any mem-                     