@@693338

txt How perilous have become the relations between Mexico and the United States Is indicated in the recently published note of Secretary Kellogg dated Oct. 30 , in which he speaks of " the extremely critical situation affecting the relations between the two countries which would inevitably be created " if the Mexican land and petroleum laws , to become effective on Jan. 1 , should be enforced " in such manner as to violate the . , fundamental principles of international law and of equity and the terms and conditions of the understanding arrived at in 1923 . " Since the publication of the Mexican exchange of notes , editorials and news items have appeared In a number of papers , even of conservative hue , talking of war possibilities if Mexico refuses to back down . As a matter of fact Mexico , in her note in reply to Secretary Kellogg 's , has given the assurance that sh " will be disposed to repair " violations of American rights in all cases " in which recognized principles of international law lay have been violated or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has made no published reply . Apparently Secretary Kellogg has published the exchange of notes to give Arnt.rican public opinion an opportunity to crystallize on the q estion of what ' tould be America 's course if Mexico by Jan. 1 refuses to accede to the American demands . Is this an issue on which American pubIlia opinion will tolerate war ? If not , n ' -v is the time ' : public opinion actively to assert itself . After Jan. 1 It may be too late . What , then , is the issue ? Americans and other foreigners have acquired title to certain valuable oil properties in Mexico . Under the Mexican oil law owners who acquired titles prior to the enforcement of the Constitution of May 1 , 1917 , are required under penalty of forfeiture to apply within one year for " confirmation " of their titles and to accept concessions for not more than fifty years from the time exploitation work began . Thus , " the Mexican Government , " declares Mr. Kellogg , " claims the right to convert unqualified ownerships into terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be exchanged for concessions of limited duration . " Is the compulsory transformation of a freehold interest into a term of years such a violation of international law that foreigners have a right to object , and has there been such an agreement during the course of the 1923 negotiations as has the binding force of ? a treaty ? The real question is not whether America is right in the stand which ? ecretary Kellogg has taken or whetEer Mexico is right . Granting that America is , if diplomacy fails and Mexico refuses to accept the American view , what then ? Will the American people tolerate an ultimatum ? One thing is clear . Gaining one 's way by ultimatum process is not the American way . Until 1914 America had always stood strongly for arbitration and led the nations of the world in that direction . In the Alaskan boundary question , in the famous Alabama claims controversy , in the North Atlantic fisheries dispute , in other instances of vexed and heated controversy , America has submitted the issue to arbitration . If ever a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this one is . It is the kind of question courts are pre-eminently fitted to decide . It is a " question of international law " and precisely the type of problem which the Permanent Court of International Justice , popularly known as the World Court , was created to decide . If America stands true to her traditions , the American people before Jan. 1 will make it known to Secretary Kellogg in emphatic terms that settlement of such an issue by war or by sabre rattling rather than by an international tribunal of law will never be tolerated . FRANCIS B. SAYRE . I Cambridge , Mass. , Dec. 2 , 1926.                     