@@693367

txt Head-on accidents like that in which Captain ' Harold G. Foster , a reserve officer who served in the World War , and three lieutenants of the Air Service of the regular army , lost their lives when their two airplanes met at Chanute Field today do not frequently occur . Officers tonight were unable to recall a collision in which all of the crews of colliding planes were killed in an accident of a similar nature . There have been accidents in which more men have been killed . but these were not head-on collisions . Captain Foster , whose home is understood to be in Chicago , was not a member of the regular army . Lieutenant Ralph L. Lawter was stationed at Bolling Field , Washington , until last month , when he was transferred to Chanute Field for a course in communications . He was born in Indiana on Ont . Et 1902 , entered West Point from Ohio on July 6. 1920 , and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Air Corps on June 12. 1924 , the rank he held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Field , Texas and from there he went to Bolling Field , in this city . He married in October Miss Mildred Emmett. niece of Edward Emmett of Martinsburg , W. Va. , and is survived by his bride , who lives at Rantoul , and by his father and mother . Lieutenant Albert J. Clayton was born in Pennsylvania on Not , . 17 , 1886 , was appointed from Delaware as Lieutenant in the Aviation Section of the Signal Officers Reserve Corps on Nov. 8 , 1917 , for service in the World War , and served overseas , reaching the war-time rank of Captain on May 28 , 1919 . In the demotion that followed the close of the war he was made a First Lieutenant of Field Artillery , on July 1 , 1920 , but was transferred in the following October to the Air Service . In 1921 he was graduated from the Balloon Observation School . Ills station was at , Scott Field , Belleville , Ill. , and he specialized in lighter-than-air work . Lieutenant Henry W. Kunkel was born in Missouri on Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War , entering the service Feb. 17 , 1918 , as a first-class private in the aviation section of the Signal Service Reserves Corps , and serving - in that capacity until Sept. 2 following . Then he was promoted to a lieutenant in the regular army . He leaves a widow and two small daughters . Tne accident was reported to the War Department tonight in a dispatch which gave the names of the officers killed , but which lacked other details . In the absence of details officers were unable to explain the . accident . That none of the officers was able to use his parachute was probably due to the fact that all were stunned by the force of the collision , in the opinion of officers who commented on the accident .                     