@@695267

txt How fermentation is developing into one of the mightiest of industrial engines ? how germ power Is becoming only secondary to mechanical ' horsepower in economic importance was hinted yesterday la the discussion of commercial fermentation by chemists assembled at the American Chemical Society institute at Northwestern university led by A. I. Kendall . Looking forward one might guess that ? mankind In a few decades will gain more from the domestication and training of micro-organisms than from the domestication of the 60 Species of larger creatures that he has heretofore tamed for economic production , amusement . sport or war . The importance of the gods and myths of fermentation in ancient mythologies  --  they rank after the Promethean fire myths and are much latter origin  --  is now vindicated . PrImltree man was not such a bad judge of values after all . It is a bit confusing to recognize Bacchus at this late day as a grand sire of Industrialism  --  but from the primitive wine vat , the brewery and distillery there are now evolving industries and trades of transcendent importance . Ritzy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other deities of yeast were often honored thus . They deserve niches in many a factory today , which the average man would not associated with the pot bodge . That the new intercommodIty corned-. tion is not even well started is the impression carried by every confab of chemists . Yesterday the battle between forest produced cellulose and cellulose from the fields was assuming the potential propositions of an Armageddon . That industrialized agriculture will not only intensify the problems of all producers of fossil and contemporary organic products , but that the fight between the older natural fibers like wool , cotton and flax and the newer synthetic fibers will be vast , fast and furious was clearly indicated . In the fight for a place in the human stomach agriculture is today witnessing the fiercest kind of competition among grains , seeds , nuts , fruits , roots , tubers ? in natural and processed states  --  the parts of the plant which have usually been harvested . But now that we are beginning to use nll parts of the plant and have found that when reduced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made into almost any nonmineral article and into many articles which can compete with mineral products , we are hiodnching a whole series of new competitions . We are also on the verge of profound alterations in relative crop and land values . As one gels nearer the tropics the fruit or seed of plants , . as a general rule , tends to become a smaller proportion of the total weight of the plant . It is obvious that when all the plant becomes valuable southern crops and southern lands will enjoy a differential unless biologiCal science Increases the ' plant bulk and the cellulose and fiber percentage of the northern plants . It is also obvious that In the competition of agricultural cellulose , fiber and distillate chemicals and fuels with the similar products derived from the forest and tho mine , the products of the soil will tend to gain  --  because they can be renewed , which minerals can not  --  and renewed more rapidly than forest wood as a rule . This was touched upon last night by R. W. Thatcher , president of Massachusetts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new and undeveloped natural resources is now nearly over . As soon as the temporary post-war situation has disappeared the need for careful scientific development of the products of a nearly fixed acreage of agricultural land will become apparent . " Also the steady but rapid depletion of the natural resources of raw materials for industrial manufacturing which have been produced by long centuries of undistributed vegetative processes , lumber , - coal , fiber and pulp , resins , fuel oil and gas , is going to call for controlled production of these materials as a. new phase of agricultural operations . " W. J. Hagenah Becomes Byllesby Vice President Announcement of the election of William J. Hagenah as a vice , president and special counsel of the Byllesbe Engineer . Mg and Management corporation , was made yesterday by John . J. O'Brien , president . Mr. Hagenah is an authority on public utility valuations and rates and formerly was connected with the Wisconsin bureau of later and the Wisconsin railroad comrWssion . Wilk Carlte &; Co. , Investment Security deal crs , announced the election of Thomas H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of directors .                     