@@687729

txt The Genoa conference , which was opened some six weeks ago with large anticipations , will be closed tomorrow with small realizations . At a plenary session , beginning at D o'clock , there will be adopted a report of the Economics Commission of little practical importance , the plan for another Russian conference to begin at The Hague on June 15 and the eight months ' truce between Russia and the rest of Europe . Today the Political Commission , with the Russians attending , adopted the final drafts of The Hague and truce projects . Ambassador Child handed to Premier Facta , President of the conference , a new communication from Washington today . The text is not published , but I am informed that it reiterates the American position and contains nothing changing Washington 's attitude as set forth in its previous note declining the invitation to attend The Hague conference . Mr. Child dined with Mr. Lloyd George tonight . America 's Stand Criticised . In a day in which there was not much work except the packing of trunks the diplomats did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the invitation to The Hague . While , the French and their allies are pleased With what may amount to the torpedoing of Premier Lloyd George 's Hague conference , the other delegations do not feel the same pleasure . In eampaother than the French one hears unkind criticism of the Harding Administration , perhaps more unkind than it deserves seeing the kindly sentiments expressed in the American note . Dispatches in today 's Italian papers from Washington blame the American refusal on the Senate irreconcilables , and coupled with the report , widely spread at the time , that Harding and Hughes would have accepted the Genoa invitation had they not feared the irreconcilables would defeat the naval treaty , this explanation was quickly accepted at its face value . Just where the general expectation of American acceptance came from is hard to tell . It probably never will be fully . explained unless the instructions sent from Washington , to Ambassador Child are published . But the fact remains that the English and Italians particularly , and all the delegations generally , thought Washington would accept . Had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been sent . This general expectation , coupled with the formal Italian announcement Monday night that America had accepted , caused a reaction easily imagined when the refusal was received . holes of Three U. S. Ambassadors . The Genoa situation calls forth general discussion of the role of the three American Ambassadors , Harvey , Herrick and Child , in the Russian negotiations . It always has been believed in European diplomatic circles that Mr. Harvey gave Mr. Lloyd George to understand at Cannes that Mr. Hughes would accept the invitation to Genoa . It . was upon the attitude of Mr. Haney that the French have always said M. Briand made the announcement that the United States would attend . At Genba Mr. Child has been regarded as reflecting the kindly attitude of America toward Mr. Lloyd George 's conference , while it is generally charged that at Paris Mr. Herrick , whose devotion to France some call blind , has been assuring Premier Poincare that America : entirely supported the French view , vihicn is against Premier Lloyd George 's plans . The European diplomats here are probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , charging that he misled them . There is not the slightest doubt that Mr. Child has been sincere and thought lie was doing his duty to everybody in every step he made . I am not ill the position to . know what instructions Mr. Child had from Washington . In numerous conversations I had with him he never told me America would accept . However . I gained the ' impression that he thought America would . And apparently the diplomats gained the same impression . Mr. Child is not an experienced diplo ? mat and perhaps he did net conceal his impression as those with whom aa talked would have done , and conversely his favorable impression was taken too officially and too seriously . As far as I can gather from talks in many quarters Mr. Child sago freely that the provision against separate agreements during the negotiations and the provision , that Tie Hague de-. cisions depended upon the final approval of the Governments were two conditions without which America would not agree to take part in The Hague meeting . I have not found one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America would accept it those conditions were fulfilled . Nevertheless , the general impression created was that Mr. Child had been told by.Washington to let : it be under- stood that if those conditionA were fulfilled America would accept . ' That may have been the fault of other diplomats jumping at conclusions . It may have been , the fault of Mr. Child in his manner.of conveying his meaning . Anyhow , the malentendu was unfortunate and irritating in the extreme to those whose hopes were disappointed . One veteran diplomat said at lunch today : " It is a fine reflection on American diplomacy , if such a thing can be said to exist . " But then this man is noted for being a " grouch . " Say Secretary liughes Those who discuss the American position calmly say that if Washington does n't want to have any negotiations with the communists then the situation is clear . But they say if Mr. Hughes really meant what he said when he placed the American rejection of the invitation upon the Russian memorandum of May 11 , he built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the basis on which the four weeks ' negotiations were conducted . All during those four weeks the Russians had agreed to maze concessions ? if they got a loan . They had agreed to drop their counter-claims against the Allies and the United States . They had agreed to recognize the pre-war debts . They had agreed to give compensation for the foreign-owned property they nationalized . When they could not get a loan tney withdrew al/ their concessions and reverted to their original position in the note of May 11 , expressing exactly their stand when the conference opened and before the negotiations had begun . The Russians know the conditions of their memorandum of May 11 will never be accepted . It represents their starting point for bargaining . It is the subject of concessions for return concessions , by which they mean a loan . . Diplomats here further argue that Mr. Htighes erred in calling the Russian memorandum of May 11 the basis of The Hague ' negotiations . The ) ' point out that the powers did not accept that memorandum - at : all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threw the rest in the wastebasket . Therefore they say it is not at all the basis for The Hague deliberations . There is no understanding here of the widely published Washington statement that the door remains open for negotiations.with regard to American participation at The Hague . The powers have now accepted the plan Mr. Hughes turned down , and after they scatter tomorrow there can be no changing of the plan . Generally speaking , the opinion expressed openly of the way Washington can join The Hague party is by reversing its decision . . However , it may be pointed out that at the meeting of June 15 the experts will prepare a base for meeting the Russians later . If that base is found , and if it suits Washington , America could then come in . And it goes without saying that his base will not be builded on the Russian memorandum of May 11 and will be something with which to combat the Russian position as set forth in the memorandum of May 11 . There is feeling among many diplomats here that this point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood that Premier Facta , in a note he will send to Mr. Hughes , will call attention to the European point of view in this respect . Summary of Truce Compact . GENOA , May 18 ( Associated Press ) . ? The Political Subcommission of the Genoa conference adopted today , subject to formal ratification tomorrow by the plenary session of the conference , the plan - of The Hague meeting and the compact of non-aggression affirming the continuance of the truce throughout The Hague discussions and for four months thereafter . The conference did no other business , - and the delegations are preparing to leave soon after the final session tomorrow morning , which will be devoted chiefly to speechmaking . All the delegations , except those of France e Belgium and Germany , attended the Political Subcommission meeting . The non-aggression pact was not signed , but was adopted in the form of a resolution . each State pledging itself to respect it . Clauses of the Compact . The agreement contains six clauses , summarized as follows : Clause I. ? Provides for the appointment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the Soviet Government and other Governments , and with a view to meeting a Russian commission having the same mandate . Clause II. ? Not later than June 20 the names of the powers represented on the non-Russian commission and the Dames of the members of this commission will be transmitted to the Soviet Government , and , reciprocally , the names of the members of the Russian commission will be communicated to the other Governments . Clause M. The questions to be treated by these commissions will comprise debts , - private properties and credits . Clause IV . The members of the two commissions must be at The Hague on June 26 . Clause V. The two commissions will strive to reach Joint resolutions on the questions mentioned in Clause III . Clause VI . To permit the commissions to work peacefully , and also to- reestablish mutual confidence , the Soviet Government and its allied republics on the one side , and the other governments on the other , pledge themselves to abstain from any act or aggression and subversive propaganda . The pledge for abstaining from any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quo , and will remain in force for a period of four months after the conclusion of the work of the commission . The pledge concerning propaganda will oblige the Governments not to interfere in any way in the internal affairs of other States , and not to assist , financial ' or . by any other means , political organizations in other countries , and will oblige them to suppress in their territory " any attempt to commit acts of violence in other States or aiming to disturb the territorial or political status quo . " The final adoption of the truce compact was without incident except that Lithuania inquired whether the truce would prevent powers , other than Russian , from attacking each other . In other words , Lithuania was anxious to know whether Pceane would be prevented from attacking Lithuania in connec- tion with the dispute over Vilna or the . other boundary questions between the two nations . Assurance was given the Lithuanians that the peace would be general . Child Makes Clear Our Attitude . Sir Edward Grigg announced on behalf of the British delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Government , and that it did not seem likely the United States would participate in The-Hague meeting , at least until the scope of the meeting was better understood . Asked to explain the British delegate 's statement , Richard Washburn Child , the American Ambassador , mist the correspondent he had conferred with Foreign Minister Schanzer of Italy , Prime Minister Lloyd George being present , and had amplified the American position roncerning The Hague meeting already explained in the note of Secretary of State Hughes . The object , said the Ambassador , was more fully to explain the attitude of the United States , in order to make it clear beyond the possibility of a doubt . The American Ambassador and Premier Lloyd George conferred again this evening on the subject , however , ann again hope is expressed among all the delegations that the United States will finally decide to participate : Interest in the final Eissi:1- : tornorrry ? ? centres especially in the addresses of the British Prime Minister anLt Tchitcherin , head of the Russian delegation . Mr. Lloyd George announces that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak after most of the other delegations have been heard and will endeavor to make his remarks a reply to them . After the close of the plenary session , probably about noon tomorrow , the British delegation will give a luncheon to the Italian press , at which Mr. Lloyd George will make another address . The British and American press representatives . as well as Premier Facts . and Foreign Minister Schanzer and many other prominent Italians , will also be guests . The British delegation will leave for London on a special train immediately after the luncheon . The Russian delegation will not leave before Monday . There are many rumors that the Soviets may conclude other agreements before they proceed to Berlin . Owing to the rapidity with which the conference is ending , it is understood that Pope Pius has abandoned his plan to send his substitute Secretary of State , Mgr . Pizserclo , back to Geona to continue.negotiations on the Papal memorandum concerning liberty of religion and religious teaching- and the restitution of church properties in Russia . The Vatican will continue its conversations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to remain in Berlin until it is time to go to The Hague . and important developments are expected in Russian relations within the next few weeks .                     