@@688940

txt Rumors that Bethlehem Steel Corp . was contemplat : ing new financing were definitely disposed of by Eugene G. Giace , president of Bethlehem who , questioned on the subject , said : " Certainly not . There is no necessity . All important maturities have been taken care of and we are not in need of working capital . Our working capital position is good . " Mr. Grace qualified his statement by pointing out that a $15,000,000 issue of preferred stock had been authorized when Lackawanna Steel Was absorbed last year . This has not yet been issued , and issuance has not even been discussed recently , but there is always a. possibility that this stock might be sold . No other financing is considered even likely . Mr. Grace said Bethlehem was proceeding with its construction program at the Lackawanna plant at Buffalo , 112,000,000 having been authorized on this account up to date , all of which was being provided from current cash . COMPANY EARNINGS Mr. Grace was asked regarding earnings , lie referred to his statement last month that March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividends on the entire capital , including the stock exchanged for Midvale , and added : " April was better than March . " Midvale properties since - their absorption April 1 , have been contributing their pro rata share ' to earnings . That is , they have been showing enough profit to cover all charges and dividends on the Bethlehem stock exchanged for Midvale . Lackawanna properties have not beeb doing so well , but have more than covered interest charges on their bonds . Failure of Lackawanna to contribute its full share toward dividends was due partly to unfavorable contracts taken last year , but more to the fact that the Bethlehem management has been concentrating more on developinglind rounding out the properties as part of the entire . Bethlehem organization , with a view to future profit , than on getting the Hest immediate results . LACICAWANNA Bethlehem management isconitdent.regarding eventual outcome of its purchase of Lackawanna . To cover deriedation , ? interest charges and dividends on BethSliesliiiiaferred And common exchanged for Lackawanna , the properties must earn only about $450,000 a sucestb . The plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that earnings must average only $41 a test . Lackawanna is one of the lowest cost plants in the country and will doubtless have even lower costs when the present construction program is finished . its average earniars per ton should greatly exceed the $3 minimum required for dividends . Mr. Grace expressed himself as entirely Ilatilded with the business outlook . He regarded slowing up of steel heying --  , which has not affected Bethlehem serieurly ? as " wholesome and good " and said he did not fear any adverse effect from it . There bad been no appreciable weakening in prices and no effort on part of customers to delay deliveries . Business , he declared , was in good shape . He was MA worried regarding heavy production of steel , which he considered needed . " Bethlehem is booked ahead as far as we want to be . " ItrIliR AND AMERICA . Discussing effect of a possible st : , : lentent of the Buhr situation on American business and on steel trade in particular , ' Mr. Grace pointed out the occupation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American steel and said he hoped for a settlement as " the United States is not in a position to supply the world with steel . " He believed that any disparity in pricee'llilad would give Europe a temporary advantage , would be ironed out by the stabilization of exchanges when European affairs were settled . He said : ' Under pre-war conditions we will take our share of the business . " Bethlehem 's offer to Cambria minority stockholders of 081 a share for their stock expired on May 15 . Up to that date approximately 20,000 of the total 24,000 shares had been turned in.                     