@@693922

txt An increased tendency toward conservatism was noted in financial district yesterday , and judging by comment heard this was due to substantial increase reported in brokers ' loans . Many observers were advising custmers to lighten their long holdings by accepting profits and It was stated that this recommendation was being followed in many houses . However , market students insisted that there was a good absorptive demand during periods of selling and maintained that support orders were being encountered in numerous issues which were somewhat lower . This , they argued , indicated that those who have been directing market movements are not yet willing to step away from bullish aide . A number of new features were brought forward , including Texas Pacific Land Trust which scored a sensational advance and was up nearly 10 points before encountering sufficient selling to cause a reaction . General Motors also was made a feature and rose to a new high record during the session . After the close there was a feeling in most quarters that market should be allowed to point out its own course for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional selling it was shown conclusively that few are willing to urge adoption of short side at this time . in fact warnings against short selling came from many quarters . TRADING Commi , sion houses sold on balance . A supply came from leading firma In early dealings , but when stocks continued to show resistance offerings ceased . Later in the day when sr reaction started in many issues selling for profits was resumed . , However , there was steady buying through leading houses on reactions for account of those who have missed market in the past and were anxious to adopt long side of their favorite issues . Professional operators and floor traders purchased atocka in early dealings , were sellers around middle of day and took again in lust hour , buying moderately on balance . It was general impression that late demand from this clement represented covering of short obligations . It was only natural that increase of $97,000,000 in Federal Reserve Bank 's brokers ' loans for week ended June 1 should be chief topic of disLssion in financial district . However , those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over failure of pressure to develop on a large scale . Total now is only $80,750,000 under peak of January 6 , last year , but optimistic insist that because of fact that more than $2,000,000,000 have been added to listings in that period this total can not be construed as a danger signal . CHRYSLER . Effects of accumulation of Chrysler made itself felt yesterday when that stock assumed leadership of motors and advanced quite sharply at one time . Heavy covering of shorts was credited with responsibility for part of the upturn . Some weeks ago there was a tendency to sell medium priced motors on theory that prospects for that industry was uncertain and would be reflected in prices for these stocks . This resulted in a sleeping short interest in a number of issues . During this period of selling there was quiet accumulation of Chrysler by interests identified with company and while no explanation for buying was given advices were sent to clients to hold on to long position in that stock . According to reliable information , a new group has started operations in Freeport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into that stock yesterday . There are rumors of important discoveries which have been a factor in the past . Those who were original sponsors for Freeport are said to have taken profits in past two months , but stock has resumed its advance recently and this is considered confirmation of reports of new interests taking bullish aide . In contrast with other oil stocks which have been reactionary for months , Atlantic Refining has held remarkably well and has recently started an advance similar to others made on two previous occasions since last October . For this reason stock has been attracting an outside following recently . Those who have purchased stock contend that as company is principally in marketing business and as it has ample resources to take adyantage of cheap oil , company is likely to show a more rapid come-back when oil situation improves than many other concerns not so favorably situated . ? TEXAS PACIFIC LAND TRUST One of low , priced issues which has been an outstand , ing feature recently has been Texas Pacific Land Trust.1 That stock has moved forward with increased buying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in circulation to explain strength has been that Humble Oil interests have been buying stock to have representation in company and thus be in a position to get favorable treatment regarding some of land held by Texas Pacific which is considered valuable from oil standpoint . RAILROAD EARNINGS Dismission ' on railroad earnings arc becoming quite general , with pessimists putting emphasis upon fact that certain lines reported decreases in April , compared with corresponding month last year . In this connection one student of railroad affairs points out that some roads reported excellent increases for first four months of this year , adding that the following group actually showed 30% , or more , in excess of first four months of 1926 : Bangor &; Aroostook , Chicago &; Eastern Illinois , Hocking Valley , Norfolk &; Southern , Chesapeake &; Ohio , Rock Island , International &; Great Northern , Pennsylvania and the Virginian . ROCK ISLAND Buying of Rock Island common is believed to be based on remarkable earnings . For four months ended April 30 , last , company 's gross exceeded that of like period last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained more than 88% . Interests who have been optimistic on this stock for some time have continued to advise easterners to add to their holdings , and several houses report having received good sized orders at prices somewhat below those now prevailing , which will act as a foundation when profit taking develops and recessions come . ERIE trio issues continue to be favored in many houses . One firm which was advising clients to take profits in Western Maryland on holdings which had been accumulated at much lower levels some time ago was recommending that proceeds be placed in Erie common or first preferred . All Erie issues have been growing if popularity with                     