@@693716

txt Sentiment is becoming more mixed in financial district . Many of those , who - were outstanding optimists up to a few days ago have adopted a more cautious attitude toward market and are advising profit taking . Some of professionele who were leaders in pressing stocks for sale indicate a return of confidence and have been supplying various issues . Most conservative observers continue to call attention tofact that market-is decidedly two-skied . They are urging customers to use utmost discrimination when entering long aide , and quite a few have advocated policy of standing on side lines for time-being until market shows more uniforrility of action among recent leaders . Commission houses were sellers on balance . They reported profit taking by customers who were following advices sent out by leading firms , and , although some buying came through various houses at times , in most instances this represented covering of shorts in some of recent weak issues . Professionals covered shorts in several of high-priced issues and , while Many of them were sellers at times durin session , this element was credited with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a two-sided attitude toward market , and are buying into some stocks while at same time they sell others short as hedges against - , nng commitments . This has been responsible for some of irregularity which has been witnessed recently . THE RAILS Railroad shares continue to hold in favor in many quarters . Feeling pzeyails that this group could hold comparatively steady even selling wave developed in industrials . For that reason , a number of shrewd observers are advising clients to confine operations on long side to leading rails for present . Theory is that rails will again be leaders on a recovery from a reactionary trend , should one develop and that they involve less risk than many industrials . Warnings against becoming over-enthusiastic at present continue to emanate from conservative interests . They point out that unusual volume at near peak prices usually precedes a reactionary trend , which may be only technical , but because of high prices established may be quite considerable . For that reason these interests are strongly in favor of caution and discrimination . Period has been reached when quite a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquidate part of their long holdings . They maintain that some stocks have given indication of meeting resistance and these especially should be disposed of with the view of replacing- holdings during any good reaction that might develop in near future . Interests who have been prominentiti market for International Telephone &; Telegraph in past continue to ad vise purchase on recession . While they admit arguments recently made that stock is selling at unusually low yield basis , they contend prospective earning power is favorable and must be reflected in stock . Company is steadily expanding its activities . Lima Locomotive has reacted quite some from its high price , and during this period there has been selling by outside following which was attracted when stock was moving forward under impetus of bullish advices sent out by many houses . On reactions stocks have been quietly accumulated by interests close to insiders who point out that dividend was earned twice over last year and 1927 promises to make good showing also . Investment houses have mile New York Central their favorite among rails , according to advices received by sonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which less likely to have spectacular movements such as may occur in other rail stocks , is certain to give a good account of itself in any rail market , and should continue to encounter investment demand on all recessions as additional funds come into common stocks of li , gb calibre . CAR LOADINGS Car loadings of more than 1,000,000 for third successive week are viewed by optimists as decidedly encouraging . Interpretation placed upon figures by this element is that they indicate continued good ultimate consumption and mean at least a fair outlook for business in next few months . Chart students of individual stocks maintain that Colorado &; Southern has been in an upward trend for more than a year , and for that reason they are advising followers to pick up some stock oh any reaction that might develop . Point is mode that unless maintenance charges arc increased to a radical extent in current year road will show earnings of perhaps between $12 and $14 a share , and with such results stock could show considerable appreciation . - Those who follow values closely , based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Radiator . They assert that company 's large surplus and strong treasury position , - in their opinion , would justify directors in declaring some extra dividend at any time during current year . CORN PRODUCTS It is reported that ' one of large insurance companies has beensXurchasing Corn Products quietly but steadily in open market for some time and that this has materially reduced floating supply in Wall Street , so that stock could be immediately ? responsive to any outside buying movement . Several conservative houses have been reeomending purchase of Corn Products in any general reaction . Buying of Montana Power during its moderate - reactionary period has come from those who had accumulated before last advance started . Houses which often execute orders for important interests have been taking the stock and have added Montana to its buying recommendationi again on all further recessions . PACKARD Accumulation of Packard has been started by same group which had been so active in Hudson Motors a few weeks ago when that stock was moving forward . Private advices received by several firms from what they term responsible quarters are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase over corresponding period last year . Some state gain is actually as much as 1 ' 5% . AMERICAN SUMATARA During period of selling in most tobacco stocks there has been quiet accumulation of American Sumatra by operators who are credited with having first hand information on ? tffairs of that company . Among other things , they state company is gradually buying in its preferred stock and that this action is improving position .                     