@@695303

txt U. S. Steel assumed the leadership in the stock market Saturday and moved upward . This gave encouragement to many of the groups which have been operating in various stocks and advantage was taken of the situation to mark these issues to higher levels . Loose Wiles , Consolidated Gas and several other stocks also enjoyed a demonstration of strength . Many other issues were influenced by profit taking on the part of long who were evening their accounts over the week-end . Because of the uncertainty in the money situation it was noted that most of the holders were not willing to hold stocks over until today . Many feared there would be stringency in call funds again and that this would result in another wave of liquidations Sentiment is inclined to be pessimistic . It is pointed out that while individual strength might be shown by a few issues , the selling which has developed from time to time recently indicated less confidence among longs . Any sharp raction is expected to encounter heavier Walddation , and conservative observers continue to advise taking profits on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far below prevailing quotations . Trading As professionals and floor traders have been fighting higher prices for some time it was only natural that this element should be a buyer on balance Saturday , due to short covering for the purpose of evening accounts . There was some new selling late in the session irom these operators , but it was not persistent and had little ilifluence on stocks . Commission houses continued to sell on balance , because of the strong advices to take profits which came from most of the leading commission houses . lore is a growing tendemy in large firms to select individual stools for purchase and to recommend liquidation in others . This has resulted in many outsiders stepping out of the market recently . Business Conditions Reports on business conditions from all sources indicate there is a cheerful feeling in wholesale and retail circles . All Indications point to a good fall and winter trade , which should be reflected in many lines . 1linnev A number of conservative observers contend that money conditions are rapidly and consistently assuming , domination over all other market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cautious policy . It is known that bankers arc disturbed by the credit situation as it exists at present . especially as the steps taken or planned have had little or no effect , and it is the desire of these interests to effect a reasonable cost rectzon Time money at 61 , ois considered highly significant . Under ordinary conditions , such a rate would bring considerable money into the market for employment over the longer period . but thus far the supply is reported to have been limited . and an active demand has been responsible for the higher rates . Under the circumstances , few market students expect any encouragement for the bull side from the call money market . They are talking of continued firmness during the current %%tale with probable influence on the marl:et . Yields It is considered certa.n in many quarters that a revision of the yields on stocks will be made IF the present high rates on time money ale continued for any extended period . The contention is that with time fundr bringina. , it will be logical for high-grade investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower their prices to meet such conditions . Treasury Financing Financing for the ' United States Treasury is not so far away , and many argue that this makes cheap money desirable . and probably necessary . Usually such financing is accompanied by a rather stronz market for a time . and market interests wou1.1 not he surprised if a ? emonstration developed when the time for arrangements approaches . Buying By Industries The commission house points cut that the market ran no longer he considered as a unit and that ? buying by industries " will probably become more popular in the corning weeks This firm calls attention to the industries which have or ne now turning the corner . including copper , leather , packing and fertilizer . ? heat An influence regarding is loch little has been said . but which might become impoi tart in the coming weeks , is the drop which has occurred in the price of wheat . The combination of a prospective large crop in this country and Canada together with a large carryover has depressed the price of %%heat futures about GO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quotation in four years . It is argued that it will require a bumper crop to compensate the farmer for the lower price a bushel. and could affect the sales of products which are usually taken in the agricultural districts during piospetous years . Local Department Stores Reports from most local department stoles are that business has been holding up remarkably o ell dui tug recent necks , although this is normally a period when the absence of vacationists is felt in the sales , With the prospects considered bright for the fall and winter these stores should report increased sales and earnings and become more prominent marketwise if general conditions are satisfactory . Columbia Gas Columbia Gas a , Electric continues to move forward under the impetus of a persistent demand irons scattered souoces . Talk is heard of excellent earnings just now and some contend that revenues are running at the rate of $1 a share a month . This discussion has brought some outside buying into the issue , although many believe the figure is too optimistic . Johns Manville Rumors are widely circulated that some financing will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will give rights to present holders . Selling has come into the stock from some quarters on the theory that such an announcement , if made , would cause the establishment of lower levels before any favorable reflection would be shown in the issue , Gold Dust Estimates are heard that Gold Dust for the year to end this month will show earnings in excess of $7 a share , compared with $6.20 a share reported in the preceding 12 months . Further strength also is expected to be shown in the financial condition through the balance sheet . Present dividend rate is $3 a shale per annum and with the earnings showing steady growth it is the belief in some quarters that the holders of the junior issue are in a favorable position with respect ' o getting increased distribution in the not distant future . Recently the stock has been picked up quietly by several of the important houses which were active during strength in the past . No attempt at a demonstration has been made , which might be considered significant as it indicates it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cluett Peabody Cluett Peabody is selling around its low of the year and some Interests contend that the unfavorable conditions attending the the business probably have been discounted . particularly as they point out that the company is now operating plants under new production methods which reduce costs , increase speed , make quick turnovers possible and contribute toward smaller inventories . However . Cluctt has met considerable liquidation as new lows have been established , and leading commission houses are advising amonst purchasing the stock until it shows ability to record and hold a good recovery . F. S. Steel Rumors persist In usually responsible quarters that there is something big brewing in connection with U. S. Steel . The possibility of segregation of railroad and other properties not connected directly with steel making is hinted at as a development of the not too distant future Ownership of its own ore carrying railroads gives la S. Steel an advantage over its competitors in regard to costs and while the steel independents are not disposed to complain over the competitive methods of the big company they would be glad undoubtedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this sort is done it may be assumed that one or more corporations will be formed to operate the properties and that the stock thereof will be do tributed to Steel stockholders . However , if Mesa s . Morgan , Taylor and Farrell have any soch plan in their minds they are not talking about it . The matter so far is laregly conjectural . Loose-Wiles Loose-Wiles was one of the strong features Saturaas , The stock was purchased by a prominent house which has been active recently in Montgomery Ward . Cominental Can , Chrysler and other leaders . This firm contenls that the tone : nay of the present d ? scrinfim tog market to discover investment merit of important companies in record position in their indus , ries has been bringing this company to the fore in a manner similar to the rise in the stocks previously mentioned .                     