@@695806

txt The mention of J. P. Morgan as one of the American members of the reparations experts ' committee has caused German hopes to soar concerning the forthcoming meeting . " We now feel that the meeting is bound to be a success , because we know Mr. Morgan will never put his name to any plan that wo n't work , " is the best expression of the official viewpoint . It is also considered that Mr .. Morgan is the man in America most interested in. a satisfactory solution of reparations , not only because ' he- is financially interested but because his reputation as a world financier is at stake unless practical results are now achieved . The entire German press gives the name of Mr. Morgan the most prominent display in the day 's news . The consensus of opinion is that the banker 's appointment , which is taken for granted , makes the Paris conference the most important international gathering since the conference of Versailles , and it is hailed as the beginning of " final liquidation of the war . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The choice of Mr. Morgan as a member of the committee creates a new situation . It raises the position of ' the committee experts to a different and higher level . The real independence of a man like Morgan reacts upon the other experts . Finally , his appointment indicates that , aside from fixing ' the number and 1 size of German payments , the problem of mobilization of the debt will be taken up and energetically pushed to the foreground . " The appointment means that American intentions are not to permit things to be done the wrong way , such as allowing the predomination of political views without proper consideration ? of economic and financial possibilities . Also we consider the close connection of the commercial  --  ization of loans the Allies obtained on the New York Stock Exchange through the firm of ' Morgan , and the German reparations debt . " In bankinc , circles he is held to have a greater single interest in reparations than any man in the world , having underwritten the largest part of the loans obtained by the Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a banker for all the war debts his firm will be the most im1 portant . financial institution for the sale of German reparations bonds . Think He Will Control Committee . Also it is believed that as perhaps the best informed man in the world concerning conditions both in the American and European money markets he will , while not the titular head even of his own delegation , actually be the directing head of the entire negotiations . The evening papers print a statement from the American Embassy today to the effect that President Coolidge has given no statement expressing his views as to how the committee of experts should solve its problems and that he had made no statement from which conclusions 1 could be drawn as to his opinions concerning the total amount of debts or the size of the annual payments .                     