@@690190

txt A calculation by the Bureau of Economics of the Department of Agriculture shows the purchasing power of the farmer 's dollar in March at 74 cents . While this is obviously not all that could be desired it is hopefully true that since 1021 there has been a constant , although slow , upward movement . Readjustment may well be a long process , but it is working itself out . Since the outbreak of the war there has been a wide swing in the purchasing power of the farmer 's dollar . With the exception of 1016 , in the years between the beginning of the war and the- deflation period , the power of the farm dollar ranged from 106 to 112 cents . On the downward movement it went to 67 cents and has been working ' upward from that level steadily since the beginning of 1023 to the present neighborhood of 74 cents . When the farmer 's dollar was at its lowest in 1921 the price index of non-agricultural goods stood at 161 . That figure moved upward until in April , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month the farmer 's dollar stood at 70 cents . This shows an increase in trend and in March of this year was at 161 or just where it was in 1921 when the farmer 's dollar was at 67 cents . There : s a less satisfactory showing in the wage situation . When the farmer 's dollar stood at 67 cents the monthly wages of farm labor without board had an index figure of 143 . The trend has been somewhat disconcertingly upward since then , until in March of this year the index was 153 . The movement in wages may be called general , as in the same period those of New York factory workers increased from the index average of 206 to 222 . Demand like this shows why farm labor is scarcer and able to exact more . In actual experience , however , this has not worked out badly for the farmer . Since the war began there has been an increase of 18 per cent in the productive capacity of the workers , which malies a whole lot of difference . It can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are meeting the wage situation in the right way ? by greater efficiency and more production to each worker . This official index tells a sufficiently reiterated story of hard conditions since 1920 . It further tells of skill and courage on the farm in meeting such conC.:tions . Wiping away the political dust that has been thrown in the eyes of the agricultural community , it is even possible to gain an assurance from these figures that our farmers themselves are meeting the situation in the only businesslike way . Their greater efficiency in production , taken in relation with a falling price index for the commodities they consurna , means the only sort of readjustment that can bring them permanent good . Agriculture enters the present season with the best outlook since 1920 and it should restoro a waning selfrespect to reflect that the improvement is due to the farmer himself and not to the politicians .                     