@@691144

txt The establishment of a separate British air ministry having complete command over all the army and navy , and to a large extent the civilian air forces was the result of experience of the first three years of the world war which proved so costly in lives , money and fighting efficiency . Because of the discussions 01 congress at the present time over the proposal to ctablish a department of algation , separate from the war and naval branches , the results obtained in England through its air ministry arc of timely interest . Tho outbreak of the war found the British flying forces in practically ' the situation as the present one in America , with the army and navy operating separate flying establishments . This system was found entirely inadequate for four reasons , the obtaining of technical equipment ; , personnel ; divided command , and lack of direct contact with government heads . Fighting Efficiency Low . The fighting efficiency was many times lower than it should have been because the army and navy had purchased different classes of planes and consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When a new part was wanted for an army plane it could only be secured from the army reserve stock and the same things , of course , applied to naval planes . Furthermore huge additional expenses resulted from the army and navy bidding against each other in the airplane market , costing the taxpayers millions unnecessarily . Unity of command was found to be utterly impossible of attainment so long as the two services were maintained . Orders often conflicted , caning serious drawbacks . Air Ministry a Success . Towards the close of 1917 , Winston Churchill and Sir Samuel Hoare realized that the confusion of the air forces seriously impeded the hope of allied victory . Both started a furious drive in government and political circles and the newspapers , demanding the establishment of a unified air force on equal terms with the army aild. navy establishments in the cabinet . The move was successful and the beneficial results which followed immediately Justified the move . The separate air ministry removed the bureaucratic restraints and jbalousy ' , of ' the older service 's ; which otherwise ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of 1321 the air ministry ' was functioning smoothly and there has been steady progress down to date , While some defects have deVcloped , the British government and people are strongly upholding the air ministry , which unquestionably ' has conic to stay . The principal defect , results from the lack of opportunity afforded to young men to attain . high ' ranks . This is because the air service requires many flyers and observers , but few high officials , unlike the army and navy . Every Officer an Aviator . A promise . ' now under consideration would make air training . a part of the education of every officer in the armyand navy . It is planned to transfer all officers to the air service for one or two years , . resulting in an eventual situation where every officer in the British forces would be able to operate a plane , if needed . The plan is gaining momentum in the public mind since the realization that the future frontier , If war comes , would notbe the channel , where the navy has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force would be able to handle an emergency requiring quick mobilization in the event of a war wtih a continental power . The air force now has 2,000 pilots and plans a large increase in planes . The air force is asking f t7,500,000 ( $.87,500,000 ) in - the corning year 's budget , allowing the creation of seven new squadrons . Public interest In the air force is so great as to snake the granting cf the full appropriation almost inevitable .                     