@@693532

txt President Coolidge 's memorandum suggesting that the naval powers signatory to the Washington naval accords empower their delegates at the forthcoming meeting of the Preparatory Commission for Disarmament Conference to negotiate and conclude at an early date an agreement further limiting naval armament , was handed to Foreign Minis , ter Briand by Ambassador Herrick this morning and immediately taken into consideration by the Quai d'Orsay . To M. Briand personally any suggestion-L-especially when it comes from the United States  --  which may further , the cause of peace ? is- a matter for mosteaseful consideration . ' There is no doubt that he and the Govern , ment will give to the President 's suggestion all the importance which could be desired . However , in this matter the issue is not in French minds by any means so much the cause of peace ( toward the realization of which they ate using other means and organizations besides that of the disarmament and Geneva conferences ) as the respective merits of two methods of disarming about which there can be no fixed rule . What Has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a second instalment of naval disarm. - ment . But at Geneva throughout ten months of preliminary discussion the French and indeed the majority of members of the commission have consistently voted against any piecemeal treatment of disarmament such as the separation of land from naval questions . For this attitude  --  and it will probably be the attitude which will cause France to decide against the President 's proposal  --  there are many reasons , of which the first is that while England as an island and the United States as a continent are primarily naval powers and secondarily military , France in appearance is primarily military and secondarily naval . Yet her seaboard lies on two widely separated seas and as a colonial power she has needs equal to those of a first-class naval power . In such a position she feels that any discussion of naval disarmament separately from land disarmament places her at distinct disadvantage . At Washington she was treated as a. secondclass power and her consent to be ranked at sea with Italy , who has not the same width of interests , never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remain a great military power . With colonies so far flung as IndoChina , Pacific Ocean islands , Madagascar , the African coasts and the Antilles , France has lines of communication to protect and , native populations to police far beyond the power of her present navy . Her program of construction of light cruisers , torpedo boats and submarines is as modest as her means are modest at present , and so far as she is concerned there is nothing to be feared from the President 's proposal . Construction Potentiality a Factor . There is scarcely any possibility of her reducing her naval forces further than they are already reduced . But the principle involved is one which seems likely to have as its outcome final rejection of President Coolidge 's proposal . The Geneva preliminary conference has spent the last ten months studying disarmament possibilities as a whole , and it is in that way the French wish to contimle to have the matter treated . ' As important in their idea as the number of ships a'ny country has actually on the water is its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ever denounced . There will be , of course , no question of any definite rejection of President Coolidge 's proposal either immediately or later . His suggestion is not exactly presented to the powers in a take-it-or-leave-it manner . He has invited them to - indicate whether they are disposed to empower their representatives at Geneva to initiate negotiations toward an agreement for the limitation of classes of naval . vessels not covered by the Washington treaty . Such an invitation can not be replied to with any direct negative . It can be met only by preliminary inquiries as to what is intended and consent in principle to do everything possible to further the cause of peace , to which may be attached a query as to whether this proposal is so designed as to accomplish its object . The present moment , for instance , when the navies of all nations are gathering in the China seas to protect the ' interests and lives of their nationals , is not likely to be considered by a nation conscious that its navy is already far reduced below its needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may still further limit its powers . If disarmament is to be the road to peace it must not , the French think , be done in fits and starts with one weapon or another . but scientifically , carefully ; consistently and , above all , by free agreement .                     