@@696218

txt Definite announcement was made yesterday that Col. Charles A. Lindbergh would lead the fleet of 25 trlmotored planes that will take Chicago stiles managers to Milwaukee May 23 for a joint meeting with the Milwaukee Sales Managers ' association . The " Lone Eagle " will fly doWn from Milwaukee the morning of ? May 23 , land at the municipal airport and lead the planes to Milwaukee . The day previous he will he the principal speaker at Milwaukee at one of the meetings in connection with aviation week . Officials of the department of commerce and of many large cities , as well as nationally prominent civil engineers , will meet today in Cleveland for the first national airport convention sponsored by tho Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce of America , ? - ? - ? A resolution asking the city council to submit a bond issue to the voters at the November election to determine public sentiment regarding the proposed expansion of the Municipal airport at 63rd street and Cicero avenue was adopted yesterday by the aviation post of the American Legion at a meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the Shell Petroleum corporation , and J. A. Strong , distribution manager of the company , will arrive in Chicago from SL Louis today in a tri-motored Fokker plane which the company is using In a tour of its refineries and plants throughout the United States , The airplane is expected to take a week to make the tour which formerly required a month . The first personally escorted tour by airplane will leave Chicago Saturday for the Kentucky Derby at Louisville . The tour Is conducted by the HogieSpears tour . The twelve passengers R1111 be carried in a three motored Fokker cabin plane . . ? - ? ? ? ? ? City Treasurer Charles S. Peterson was yesterday elected chairman of the " Chicago  --  the Air Capital Committee , " composed of representatives of various civic organizations which was organized recently to promote the aviation interests of Chicago . Other officers elected are : . Walter R. Hoyt , first vice chairman ; Mrs. Henry W. Hardy , president of the Chicago and Cook County Federation of Women 's Clubs , second vice chairman ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richter , executive secretary ; and C. Daniel Boone , vice president of the Junior Association of Commerce , treasurer . J. Howard West . Jr . and Mrs. Edward H. Bdmis , former county commissioner , were elected members of the executive committee .                     