@@686384

txt Mediation of the packing industry wage adjustIment has got under way at Washington . Its suc-I cess will depend upon the spirit of fair play which the agents of the immediate parties to the controversy are able to show . The public will watch the proceedings with keen interest , for we are con sclous of the effects which failure of agreement and a resort to strikes or lockouts will have upon the general business situation and on the private pocketbook . The public feels that it has a right to comaideralion as a party deeply interested . It has a right to demand that the employers do their utmost to meet fair demands and that the employes recognize the economic and financial conditions of the industry and do their part toward meeting a difficult situation . If there is a real Intent on both sides to keep the industrial peace and to give fair play to the other fellow , the government 's mediation will be a success and differences can be adjusted so as to avoid measures of industrial war which would be an injury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as good a chance to show public spirit and real patriotism as any In war time . We are still suffering from the war and our country needs and deserves the devotion of all its citizens to assist her in the restoration of her vigor and prosperity . DOES JAPAN KEEP YAP ? Viscount Uchida , the Japanese foreign minister , saps that Japan will retain her mandate over Yap and will stand firmly on her rights . The only rights Japan obtained were obtained so questionably that no one implicated in the transaction seems to care to say much in its defense . Mr. Wilson was given to understand that his demand for the internationalization of the cable and radio station was accepted , and with that understanding created Japan was given the island . Mr. Wilson did not ask that the United States bo given it , but merely that its facilities for the transmission of intelligence be kept open on fair terms to all nations . The powers evidently are willing to freeze the United States out of cable rights , but at , the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readjustment . The basis of any coöperation must be good faith , and tho United States is not exactly helpleSs in Insisting that it be dealt with in good faith . Baron Uchida , may be right . Japan may keep Yap . If lie is right the United States is duped and submits to it . TAKE A TIP FROM MEXICO . It may go hard with the United States government to take a tip on a matter of national policy from the so frequently erring government of Mexico , but pride should not blind us to our own best interests . On the contrary , the spectacle of our neighbor , ragged and battered , under-nourished , ignorant , needy , - and neglected , but still capable of one definite act for the protection and benefit of its citizenry , should emphasize our own slackness on the same point . Mexico has barred the immigration or all foreign laborers . Tho United States still welcomes laborers , tradesmen , mechanics , and'others , subject only-to the same restrictions which prevailed while every industry and business in tho country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moves to protect its citizens . The United States hesitates to make such a move . We allow foreign labor to crowd in by thousands each week , underbidding American workers , lowering American standards , pauperizing American citizens or becoming paupers to be supported by American citizens . Darkest Mexico sees the light . It is high time that enlightened America should thrust aside its darkness .                     