@@693565

txt Americans must be all over the place I in Nicaragua . How extensive their peaceful penetration of that republic had been few in this country could have known . Apparently their " life ' and property " are scattered all up and down both coasts and far into the interior , for it is to protect our own citizens , so the State Department gravely assures the public , that eleven American warships are patrolling Nicaraguan waters , while more than 5,000 American marines and sailors are occupying , or are about to occupy , city after city in Nicaragua and are to guard various railroad lines . This , of course , is not intervention , for the Government at Washington declares I that it is not . But it must look uncommonly like it to Nicaraguans , especially to those in arms against their own Government , which has been recognized by the United States . That this state of affairs is highly irregular is tacitly admitted by the American Government , for it now proposes to make everything seem normal and natural by negotiating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to sign one along the lines of our treaty with Panama , virtually setting up an American protectorate . The ostensible legal grounds for it would be that the United States already has a treaty with Nicaragua , for which we paid in hard cash , conceding to us the exclusive right to construct a Nicaraguan interoceanic canal , if one is ever needed , and also to take possession of a Nicaraguan Island as a naval base . We are solemnly informed that in order to maintain these invaluable rights it may be necessary for the United States to do in Nicaragua what it seeks to do in Panama and what it has done In Santo Domingo and Haiti . President DrAz of Nicaragua is reported to be ready to do whatever our Government asks . There are obvious reasons why he should wish to stand from under and allow the United States to take up the white man 's burden which he finds too heavy and grievous upon his own shoulders . But to dignify with the name of treaty any agreement which he might make with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Uncle Sam . It is much to be desired that the air of unreality in which this whole Nicaraguan affair is shrouded may soon be dispelled . If the real aim of our Government is to prevent the Diaz rftime from being overthrown by the Liberal revolutionists in Nicaragua , it ought to be frankly declared . That would expedite the effort to arrive at a compromise in Nicaragua , and to set up a Government under which there might be some hope of peace and order and stability . But while such a purpose , if honestly entertained , is delayed in accomplishment our great and unprecedented display of force in Nicaraguan territory and along Nicaraguan shores can not fail to raise serious questions at home and to cause uneasiness and apprehension throughout all Central and South Amerleai A will be ?                     