@@692915

txt Sidney W. Curtis , dead at 73 , had many years unique position in Wall Street . His own ' fortune never seemed large but his relations were with those foremost among the richest and the powerful . For a time he was a commission broker , then became an operator for personal account : and in every relation he commanded esteem . Of the official papers of New York Stock Exchange presidents , one that through decades had shone out for terse enuciation was delivered by J. Edward Simmons at a farewell banquet that marked his retirement . He was earnest for a quickened spirit of progressive sentiment and practice within the institution . " We ' have duties we neglect , we have opportunities we scorn , " was earnest conviction that President Simmons persisted in cogtinuously declaring  --  and easy going optimists gaily chafFed him . " I will set down the facts , " he avowed , and summoned a stenographer ; but when the record was before him in black and white he was inclined to smooth his rhetorical edges a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I want you to listen to something , " saluted the president . " But , first , tell me in plain candor what is an independent man 's opinion of the Stock Exchange ? " " In strict confidence , " rallied Friend Curtis , " the greatest financial institution in the world  --  the same ' esterday , today and forever : " " Do n't quizz  --  that 's old . You can say things original , " countered the far from displeased Big Board 's head . " Now , see if you ca n't put into a single sentence a picture of the Stock Exchange  --  one that need n't be just complimentary , but that is . a fair . a real picture . " " I will do better than tliat , " Mr. Curtis smiled . " I will give you what Addison Cammack has told me : : that the Stock Exchange has btcome an asylum  --  these are Carnnaack 's words , and I mildly quote him ? an asylum for superannuated brokers and rich men 's sons . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the president . But when a day later banquet caine and oratory hat its way , as a very climax to J. Edward S:annons ' parting blessing upon assembled Stock Exchange Governors was that precisely reiterated epigram -- 2and Sidney Curtis long-cherished a morocco-bound copy of the address , autographed by J. Edward Simmons on its title page : " Blessings on Old Bruin 's gall ! "                     