@@693863

txt Commander Richard B , Byrd and his big Fokker plane , the America , moved into a position yesterday , thanks to weather delays , where it seemed that he would get an even start for Paris , after all . Captain Charles A. Lindbergh , who plans to fly alone in his smaller plane , said last night that he did not think he could get off this morning because of the bad weather between here and Newfoundland . This will put him and Byrd on an equal footing if the weather is clear tomorrow . Lloyd Bertaud , pilot-navigator of the Bellanca plane , almost put that machine out of the race yesterday by obtaining an injunction restraining Charles A , Levine , owner of the plane , and the Columbia Aircraft Company from making the flight without Bertaud in the crew , but Bertaud announced early this morning that he would withdraw the injunction today and that Levine had withdrawn his decision to displace Bertaud with another navigator . The truce was reached in a conference lasting several hours at Levine 's home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his quarters in the Garden City Hotel at 3 o'clock this morning , and then made his announcement that the controversy had been virtually settled and that only a few minor differences remained to be ironed out later in the day before he withdrew the injunction . Bertaucl 's Statement . Bertaud made the following statement : " At a conference between Mr. Charles A. Levine and myself , an amicable discussion was had at which all our differences were satisfactorily adjusted . As a matter of fact , these differences were of a slight nature , due to misunderstandings between us , which were cleared up at our talk . I will instruct my attorneys to withdraw the injunction against the Columbia Aircraft Corporation , following further talks this morning between Mr. Levine and myself . " I am satisfied that as a result of this conference I will ue with Clarence Chamberlin as navigator and co-pilot in the Bellanca on the transatlantic flight . " The peace conference was brought about by G. M. Bellanca , designer of the plane and President of the Columbia Aircraft Corporation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would mean the end of his ambition to have a Bellanca plane make the flight . Bellanca , who was the third man at the conference , was overjoyed at the result , and made this statement : " I 'm awfully glad that the thing Is practically settled . I have worked very hard to put this across and did not want to see my efforts go for nothing . The main differences have been adjusted . The rest is merely incidental , and I am sure that by this afternoon every one will be in perfect accord . " The conference began at 11:30 P. M. and broke up at 2:15 A. M. When Bertaud arrived back at Garden City be was bubbling over with joy and expressed confidence that everything would go smoothly from now on . Bertaud and Chamberlin are said to be in perfect accord now on the route to be taken , which had caused some difference of opinion between them . Writ Signed in Brooklyn . The injunction was signed by Supreme Court Justice Mitchell May in Brooklyn and was made returnable before him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law office of Clarence Nutt , 34'r Madison Avenue , attorney for Bertaud . It was issued against both Levine and the Columbia company . Kassam also obtained an order directing Levine to show cause why he should not be restrained from substituting any other pilot-navigator for Bertaud . This order also was made returnable tomorrow . Bertaud and his lawyer were about to serve the papers in the injunction suit on Bellanca in the Garden City Hotel early last evening , when Bellanca persuaded them to wait until he had a chance to make an appeal to Levine at the latter 's home . Bellanca then motored to Belle Harbor , persuaded Levine to see Bertaud , and summoned Bertaud to the conference which ended lin peace . An affidavit signed by Bert ud and submitted with the application said that Bertaud signed a contract with Mr. Levine and the corporation to act as pilot-navigator on the flight . and that since then Mr. Levine had intimated that he would not allow Bertaud to be the navigator or pilot , and that on Tuesday Mr. Levine told him the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Bertaud also set forth in the affidavit that he had asked Mr. Levine several times to be allowed to fly the plane , but that Mr. Levine had refused . Mr. Levine. at his home at Belle Harbor early in the evening , said the plane would leave , but that Bertaud would not be on it despite the injunction . " Because of the frequent threats on the part of Mr. Bertaud to get an injunction , 1 have looked into the matter and completed plans for discounting the move . " he said . " Had the weather been favorable for tomorrow morning the necessary steps would have been taken tonight to have the temporar ; injunction lifted . " I am not in the least disconcerted by the action of Mr. Bertaud . It is not the first hindrance he has put in the way of the flight , but it will be the last . because his elimination as a member of the crew has been complete for some days . I am going ahead with plans for the flight , and the Columbia will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' " So far as Mr. Bertaud 's ability as a navigator is concerned , I congratulate him on his prowess to land with such glowing success in the newspapers . " The weather again held back Captain Lindbergh . Although it was clear in mid-Atlantic yesterday , there was fog between New York and Newfoundland , and a stormy area developing off the coast of France . Lindbergh wants clear weather between here and Newfoundland , 4-tis jumping off place over the water , so that he may check his course by the land that far , at least . After keeping to his course as far as Newfoundland he is not ' worried about steering straight the rest of the way . But the probabilities last night were that the weather would not permit him to get away before tomorrow morning . Byrd Gets Runway First . If that occurs it will place him and Commander Byrd on an equal footing on the start , although if both decide to start the same morning Byrd will probably get away first . The field where the only runway suitable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Byrd 's flight , and although permission has been given to both Lindbergh and Chamberlin to use the runway , if Byrd wished to start tomorrow he would undoubtedly have the first use of the field . Lindbergh could follow on his heels , and as he has the faster plane he might easily leave Byrd behind . The circumstances which have put Byrd back in the race . although both he and Grover Whalen , Mr. Wanamaker 's representative , refuse to admit that it is a race , have been remarkable . The quick preparations of the late Lieut . Commander Noel Davis , made it seem , until he was killed and his plane wrecked , as if he would easily get away first . His only competitor was the Bellanca , which had just completed a record endurance flight . Then Byrd 's big Fokker turned over in its test flight and the set : back appeared irretrievable . Despite the Injury to Byrd 's wrist , and the damage to his plane , he refused to lose hope . Since his plane has been at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Anthony H. G. Fokker , the builder , has been swarming over it , and last night only one , or at the most two , tests remained to be made . It was learned yesterday that the preparations are further advanced than even Commander Byrd believed . Another weighing of the plane showed it to be between 5,400 and 5,500 pounds , some 500 pounds less than had been estimated . It was also found that an error had been made in determining the last load , which was about 13,000 pounds , instead of 12,600 . This means that only a little more than 1,000 more pounds must be added to the load for the final test , and as the ship lifted easily in between twenty-five and twenty-seven seconds on its last test , it is believed now that it will get off the ground in not more than 2,500 feet with the full load of more than seven tons . The lighter weight of the plane also gives it an added margin of safety and will make possible the carrying of more gasoline for a longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prepares Rations . Lieutenant George 0 . Noville spent the afternoon superintending the stowing away of the emergency rations , lifeboats , regular , . rations and other emergency materials in the America . The hold of the plane is just aft of Commander Byrd 's navigation compartment , behind the big gas tank in the fuselage and separated from the navigation room by a. fabric wall . Commander Byrd also described in detail the telephone line arm the emergency message system by which he can communicate with the pilot 's cockpit . The emergency rations include five gallons of water , sufficient , according to Noville , to keep the three men alive for three weeks or more . The food supply includes enough emergency raI tions of pemmican and the regular army ration for six weeks , allowing about fifteen pounds to the man . Besides pemmican the supply includes malted milk , hardtack or pilot bread . Neither Commander Byrd nor Lieutenant Noville will carry chocolate , which they believe increases thirst . The pemmican and malted milk lozenges contain some sugar . These supplies are stowed close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which is 14 feet long . If circumstances force the America to the water Commander Byrd feels that in moderate seas they might be able to live a month . They are carrying fishing tackle with a supply of bacon for bait . " We chose bacon , " Commander Byrd said , " because if the fish did n't like it we could eat it . " Boat Can Be Sailed . If it should be necessary to use the boats Commander Byrd expects to use the larger and inflate the other to use as a " life boat " should the larger fail . He said it would make a first-rate emergency sail . A large box kite completes the equipment , which would serve a double purpose  --  support for an emergency radio antenna and a sail . Commander Byrd said he would ascertain their position , and if winds were fair he would fly the kite for a sail . Then the fishing lines would be rigged and the three men would set sail for the nearest land or ship lanes , the queerest craft that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric lights for the chart room and a telephone line to the cockpit by which the navigator will give his orders . A control for the earth inductor compass communicating with the dial on the instrument board runs into the navigation compartment by which Commander Byrd will be able to correct or change the course on the dial without even letting the pilot know . Besides the emergency rations and the two-boat fleet the hold contains a Very pistol with twenty cartridges and flares . Although the big ship did not fly yesterday because of cross winds , preparations went on . Mechanics built a guard arc around the course of the generator vane which flew off during a test flight . Workmen graded an artificial hill some hundreds of feet long with a 10 or 15 per cent . grade at the head of the runway by which the America will gain $ high speed quickly on the take-off .                     