@@696542

txt The active and energetic new - management of the Democratic National Committee today poured more hot shot into the tariff revision which the Republican members of the Senate Committee on Finance have ? nearly coraf all Two Democratic members of the committee , at the instance of the publicity bureau of their party 's national organization , came out in spirited statements which accused their Republican associates of juggling tariff - rates in a way to deceive the uninitiated  --  that is. the people . generally  --  and manipulating the sugar schedule so as to increase- considerably the burden of living - to the American family . . These statements . are symptomatic of the assault to which the Finance Corbmittee 's ? tariff revision is*-to ? bit subjected by Democrats and insurgent Republicans when it comes before the Senate . ? The major part of the revision of rates , still , not completed , will be given to the Democratic members of the Finance Committee - tomorrow when the Senate reconvenes at noon to resume its extra session activities . interrupted by the recess taken in June for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tropical Summer and to enable the less fortunate members of the Finance Committee to redraft the tariff revision , bill which was passed bit the House . Democrats Get Rates for Study . The bill as so far finished will not be introduced , however , until the Democratic members of the Finance Committee have had ample opportu ? nity to examine the revision made by their Republican associates . A gentlemen 's agreement exists that the Senate shall transact no business until Sept. .4 ; two days after Labor Day , when ; according to expectation . the completed revision  --  will be laid formally before , the Senate . On the eve of the tariff battle some regular Republican Senators are pessimistic over the outcome . They are convinced that a formidable combination of ' Democrats and insurgent Republicans has been . arranged and that it will - be powerful enough . to play havoc with many of . the rates proposed by the Republicans on the Finance Committee . The belief exists among this Republican regular contingent that the Democratic - insurgent Republican combination will be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will permit the adoption only of such as furnish benefit to the particular parts of the country represented in the combination . . Republicans Fear for Whole Bill . It is evident also that the fear exists in ' RePublican circles that ? the whole tariff legislation may be defeated in the Senate . In the opinion of certain Republicans this might be a blessing instead of a calamity to their party , . for they conceive that . the revision already is so unpopular in the country that if enacted as now contemplated public opinion might turn- against the Hoover administration and the Republican Congress in next year 's Congressional elections . Tomorrow 's session probably will last a few minutes only and the Sen- ate will then adjourn until Thursday . The.plan is to have adjournments for three days at a time until Sept. 4 , when all Senators are expected to be in Washington . The House will not reassemble until Sept. 23 and even then no business will be transacted for at least three weeks . An understanding was reached before the recess was taken that members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 . In the three weeks interim the few Representatives who will be here will adjourn the House from Mondays - until Thursdays and from Thursdays until Mondays. pending passage of the tariff bill by the Senate and its return to the House . Valuation Method Under Fire . When Chairman Smoot of the Senate committee gives the completed portion of the tariff bill to the Democratic members shortly after noon tomorrow he will furnish copies of it to the press for publication . The Republican demmitteemen will then resume work on the uncompleted portions of the bill , comprising the administrative sections of the act . They include the controversial matter of the method of valuating imported goods , whether by the cost of production abroad . when ascertainable , or by one or the other of the methods known as American valuation and United States valuation . The Democrats intend to make vigorous objection to whatever method is proposed , and they also will wage battle against giving to the President authority to raise or lower tariff rates . Basically , this is the flexible tariff provided for in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by the House in a way which , the Democrats contend . would give the tariff committee and the President greater authority to modify rates fixed by the Congress . Hardly a day passes that the Washington headquarters of the Democratic National Committee does not give publicity to statements from party Senators and Representatives calling attention to what . it is contended , are to be iniquitous preenisions of the Republican tariff revision . The two Democratic members of the Finance Committee whose broadsides were furnished to newspapers by the National Committee 's Publicity Bureau are Senator Harrison of Mississippi and Senator Walsh of Massachusetts . Their contributions were in line with the educational campaign undertaken by the National Committee under Jouett Shouse , chairman of the executive committee . and Charles Michelson. director of publicity . See Rise in Cost of Living . The purpose of this campaign is to convince the electorate that the tariff revision undertaken by the Republican Congress is wholly bad . in that it greatly raises the protective tariff wall , grants additional benefits to prosperous manufacturing interests whose directors have been heavy contributors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of manufacturers who produce the articles which the farmer has to buy . and generally will increase the cost of living to the consumer . In his statement Senator Harrison contends that the sugar rates adopted by the Republicans " are without justification or excuse . " He called it " a compromise without courage , a scheme to increase by more than $50,000.000 the present exaction on the consuming public of a quarter of a , billion dollars . ' An ? important feature of Senator Harrison 's statement was his virtual prediction that the sugar schedule would be defeated in the Senate . " This increase in sugar , " he said , " can not be defended , and I have not the slightest doubt that the Senate will repudiate the action of the committee . " Senator Walsh gave a number of instances , which he called " tariff trickeries , " to show that through the use of new or misleading terms in describing dutiable products the tariff revisers sought to conceal abnormally high increases in the duties on these products . " Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retained in the Finance Committee 's measure , according to Senator Walsh , and new dodges are invented . with the result . he charges , that " all past achievements bid fair to be surpassed . " To this he adds : " New records for making increased rates look like reductions and will make the high-and-still-higher protectionist tariff experts of former times look like butter-fingers at their business . " Replies on Free Sugar at Hotels . Senator Harrison poked fun at Senator Smoot 's recent contention that since hotels and restaurants make no charges for serving sugar with meals , " the ordinary consumer . " to quote Senator Harrison 's way of explaining what Senator Smoot said . " could have small reason to complain of the slight increase in the cost of living that his individual consumption of the sweetening would involve . " Mentioning that the hotels do not give sugar away free , but cover it into other charges , Senator Harrison says : " It would be just as logical to assume that because in most instances the salary of the musicians comprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ check , it was not embraced in the total price of the meal . " A statement attributed to Senator Smoot that 3,000,000 tons of sugar used in various industries would not affect the consumer , and that he would be obliged to pay only about 22 cents A year increase in his individual sugar bill , is answered by Senator Harrison by the argument that the domestic consumption of sugar must be considered on a family basis , and that the consumer will have to pay tae increased cost of sugar that goes into candy , soft drinks . canned fruit and many other products . could not supply one-fifth of the amount this country uses . " It ought to be perfectly obvious that when the most convincing excuses for extortion that the advocates of the high tariff rates can adduce are the childish absurdities typified by my distinguished colleague 's statement , the whole plan of tariff lifting at Allis time : s disingenuous . which is just another way of saying that it is -a dishonest attempt to take money from the pocketbooks of the many in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rate . Senator Walsh gives a number or instances of changes in the designation of measuring dutiable products which , he contends , conceal high raises in rates . One of the examples , as he gives it , relates to the duty on potatoes . Previous to the 1922 tariff , potatoes were made dutiable by the buehel . In the tariff of 1922 , they were assessed by the pound . In the H. use bill which the Senate Finance Committee is revising they are assessed on lots of 100 pounds . " The object of this phraseology , " according to Senator Walsh , " is to keep the consumers from readily perceiving that they are to be mulcted 45 cents per bushel on one of the prime necessities of life . " Mr. Walsh accuses the Republican tariff makers . of trickery . He expresses their procedure this way : " The intended trick is clever indeed : Get the duties high on the things the favored interests care about and low on the things ' they do n't care about , and both accomplished , often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Instancing the proposed duty on pocket knives , Senator Walsh contends that through assessing both specific and ad valorem duties on them , a particular grade of imported knife is assessed at 119 per cent , but the language of the tariff act conceals from the purchaser that there has been a big advance in the rate . Concerning the proposed duties on wools , the Senator charges that they would work out so that there would be discrimination against that branch of the industry which produces ? cloths. dress goods , . blankets , &c.,; used by the masses of the people . The wools they . tie obliged to : import , says Senator Walsh , would be taxed 125 per cent . " The new compound duties , designed always to hit the cheaper goods , are very numerous in the tariff bill as drafted by the House , " Senator Walsh remarks . " In many instances the specific part of these duties ghee up to an act valorem equivalent to well over 1,000 per cent . " Hoover Confers on Sugar Rate . Spec:fel to The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luray ' . Va. , Aug. ** conferences last night and today on the tariff bill . especially the sugar schedule , President Hoover is represented as having declined to define his position exactly when the sugar compromise and other tariff details which Congress will act on in the revised bill were.laid before him by Senator Watson , the Republican floor leader , and Senator Sackett . It is understood that the President was pleased with the reduction made by the Republican majority of the Senate Finance Committee in the rate on Cuban raw sugar from the 2.40 cents a pound in the House bill to 2.20 cents . Mr. Hoover told his visitors he thonght that a. rate sufficient to protect the menufacterer and consumer was necessary . Those who have talked with the President on the sugar schedule are of the opinion that he desires to have the rate reduced to 2 cents a pound . But . when he was asked by Senator Watson to go on record on the 2.20 rate , it was said that he declared that it was the duty of Congress to fix @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Fight . Senator Watson informed the President that . judging by the sentiment in the Finance Committee and a poll . of Senators . the 2.20 rate was the best . compromise obtainable . In his opinion , he said , it would be accepted by the Senate , although he declared that this schedule as well as others would be subject to a hard fight , which might end in the tariff bill : being almost ? totally revamped by the - Senate itself . The Senate debate ? on the tariff , which will not begin until early in September , will continue late into October , in Senator Watson 's opinion , with the probability that the legislation will not be enacted until the middle of November . The recess , in Congress the Senator said , had been a good thing , . as the members would return to their duties with a fresh canvass of the opinions of their constituencies , which , he thought , would enable Congress to thoroughly represent 1 he position of the country by the bill it passes , a bill that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the voters . The precedent set by Congress in recessing during consideration and drafting of a tariff bill . in ? dr . Watson 's opinion , had been a good one . It was his opinion that the iezislation will not cause any politica-1 reaction , such as followed enactment of the Payne-Aldrich bill . Expects Armament Debate . Senator Watson indicated to the President that the Executive 's action in stopping construction of cruisers ? on the heels of a similar move by England undoubtedly would be projected into the early debates , since the Republican leaders intend to support Mr. Hoover 's position by authorizing a resolution to ? make certain of his legal - authority for such a course . The debate ? precipitated may embarrass the Administration in the negotiations on armament limitation , the Senator said . In addition to discussing the tariff situation the President had an opportunity to confer with Representative Fort , secretary of the national committee , as to the composition of the committee after the resignation of Chairman Work becomes effective next month . Claudius Huston , who , at Kansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , is supported to succeed Dr. Work . The duties of all three political committees , National , Congressional and Senatorial , will be combined and placed upon an efficiency system . All of the officers are expected to have the approval of the administration . which is seeking to build up the organization for the Congressional election campaign . Says Somebody Always Pays . " Somebody always pays for the tariff , " says Senator Harrison , " and that somebody in the last analysis is the man who buys the products concerned . " Concerning the refusal of the Finance Committee Republicans to adopt the scale of - sugar duties , Senator Harrison had .. caustic comment as : follows : " Even Senator Smoot , in his sliding-scale scheme , which was blown up by a unanimous volley of ridicule , freely admitted that the plan.was to lift the price of sugar to a figure that would insure the suagr-beet industry certain profits . To do this he was willing to impose a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars on all sugar consumers , though the beet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  