@@686861

txt Forty indictments , charging officials , professional sluggers , and members of the Bakers and Confectioners ' union with conspiracy to boycott , slug , and blacklist in an effort to win their strike against the master bakers , will be asked of the state grand jury this morning by Assistant State 's Attorney James E. . Announcement to this effect was made last night by Ben Newmark , chief investigator for State 's Attorney Crowe . He declared the state 's offlcials have received three confessions from officials of the union which made the voting- of true bills against at least forty men virtually a certainty . These confessions , according to Mr. , reveal one of the most Startling and cold blooded attempts on the part of a labor union to win a strike by violent methods ever bared by the state 's attorney 's office . Admit Hiring Sluggers . The high lights of the confessions made public last night by Mr. are : Admission by union officials that they had organized a reign of terror and hired professional sluggers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bombs and , revolvers were also used . Admission that Henry Pfab , a union man , killed while resisting arrest last week , was one of the men delegated by the union to hire sluggers . Admission that a strike committee of twenty-five members , although refusing to go on record officially as In favor of violence , verbally instructed tile business agents and officials to employ every means in their power to keep nonunion men out and to force grocers to buy only union bread . Fii nancial and moral support was promfwd . Admission that odor bombs specially designed to destroy bread , both while being baked and while in process of transportation to grocers , were widely used . Thousands of dollars ' worth ' of bread was destroyed . Raid Brings Confession , The confessions were obtained yesterday after detectives from the state 's attorney 's office had raided the union headquarters at 21S-20 West Oak street and seized the books and records of the union . Forty men found in the headquarters were taken to the Criminal court building by Sergeants Kelly , O'Brien , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other union men were seized during the evening by roving groups of detectives and hurried to the state 's attorney 's office , where they were questioned . Among these were sixteen men who will be held pending grand jury action . The name of only one man who confessed was revealed . This was Martin Kett , an admitted slugger for the union , who was booked at the East Chicago avenue station on a charge of assault to commit murder in connection with the slugging of Albert Diebold , a non-union baker who was attacked last Tuesday . The Reign of Terror . On May 30 the agreement between the Bakers and Confectioners ' union No. 2 and the Master Bakers , an organization of the biggest bakers In Chicago , was terminated by the latter . The union was told no new agreement would be made unless the workers accepted a 20 per cent wage reduction . This the union refused to do . For a week the union , composed of about 2,600 men , tried to win the strike by legal means . Then at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged and a period of terrorism was begun against dealers in bread , drivers of non-union wagons and nonunion bakers . Windows were broken , grocers were boycotted , non-union men were slugged and odor bombs thrown . Attorney Hope Thompson , representing the union , appeared at the state 's attorney 's office in an attempt to have several of the men in custody released . He declared that all the trou ; - bles could be laid at the doors of the master makers . He charged they had been the first to resort to slugging and methods of violence . Indict Milk Union Men . Martin De Frice , business agent for the bakers ' union , and Fred Bryant , business agent for the milk drivers ' union , were indicted yesterday by the grand jury after several witnesses had testified to a " reign ' of terror " the milk wagon drivers ' union is alleged to have spread about several sections of Chicago .                     