@@687699

txt ? Many years ' experience in the stock market , tested by Charles H. Dow 's theory of its movement , has taught students the significance of a " line " in the averages . To be of real value the requirements are strict . The industrial and railroad averages should confirm each other . The period taken should be long enough to afford a . real test , relative to the volume of trading . The fluctuations from day to day should ' he so narrow that they can be confined within a range of less than four points . Given these conditions an important deduction may be drawn . In the stock market there has been a development of this kind , of both present and ultimate significance . From April 7 , for twenty-four completed trading days , to May 5 , inclusive , the twenty active railroad stocks have not sold below 83 or above 86 . This is a remarkably close line , particularly as the only time when the average went up to 85 was on April 25 , closing at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 10 , for twenty-two days to May 5 , inclusive , the twenty industrials did not sell below 01 or touch 94 . This is a period long enough to satisfy the requirements of experience . Such a line indicates either accumulation or distribution . On the strength of this " line " a student of the averages , ' writing to the Boston News Bureau , takes a bearish view . He says that the " pools " and " insiders " seem to have been unloading on the public . This may be the case but the conclusion does not follow from his premises . The market in both averages is nearer giving a bull point than a bear point . If , indeed , the twenty industrials sold at 94 or over , with a closely previous or subsequent confirmation by the railroads at 86 , it would be good ( knee that accumulation had exhausted the floating supply of stocks . A vigorous resumption of the bull inovemeat would be as nearly certain as human probabilities admit . If , on the other hand , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures than this supposed advance , sold below 83 , while the industrials gave a nearby simultaneous bear point under 91. further reaction would certainly be indicated . The inference would be that the market had reached saturation point and that at least a secondary swing would be in order . This wou d not indicate the end of the bull market , and a subsequent recovery of the averages to 94 and 86 , respectively , would be strongly bullish . Of one thing our Boston friend may be sure . This is that the market itself is bigger than all the " pools " and " insiders " put together . But the " line " is a most interesting one . There has not been one like it since the autumn of last year , before the present major bull swing set in . Great Britain 's lower taxes are a result of high direct taxation when other nations were fooling themselves .                     