@@688106

txt A great German industrialist and a French Senator . representing 130,000 proprietors of the regions ravaged by the Germans have reached an agreement which it is hoped will lead to making good thirteen billion francs of losses . It is a small instalment of Germany 's total bill , but represents a great advance over futile political conferen ? es . The bankers have presented a united front from the beginning , their minimum and maximum remaining now what was originally declared by the United States to be the sole path to financial health . Now come the induStrialists with another agreement between nationals of Governments unable to agree . Other agreements may ' follow between other groups . Wars make strange rearrangements between nations which have been enemies and allies in almost every possible combination . The acceptance by France is more significant than the German proposal to pay in goods rather than in gold marks . Hitherto France has objected on the ground that reparations in goods or services would be prejudicial to French workers . That objection can not lie.to the proposal now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It benefits Germany by allowing payment in marks at home for exports of goods . Differences of price levels are to be arranged by negotiation . One of the lessons of war finance was that the burden of production and destruction necessary for hostilities must be borne during the fighting , and that finance can provide only for future redistribution of the losses . But France as a whole will benefit by whatever it receives from Germany in reparation of damages . France has already spent many million francs in restorations . Materials from Germany will not repay those disbursements nor balance the French budget , but France will benefit by Germany 's reduction of her bill . The beginning of the present Franco-German economic entente dates from last September , when French and German Ministers arranged it at ' Wiesbaden . HUGO STINNES then opposed it , and RATHENAU has been assassinated . Some German comments now chide STINNES for reconsidering his position and accepting a commission of 6 per cent . on the amount involved . " Patriotism for 6 per cent . " is the sneer . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Wiesbaden agreement and the one now lacking only Government ratification there is enough difference to acquit STINNES of inconsistency , if he cares about the accusation.                     