@@686739

txt The Earl of Craven , who married Miss Cornelia Bradley Martin of New York in .1893 , was drowned this morning off the Isle of Wight . How he got into the water is not known , but it is believed that he fell off his yacht Sylvia while it was still dark and no one saw him go or heard his cries for help . Lord Craven , who was a well-known member of the Royal Yacht Squadron , had taken Solent Lodge , the Cowes house of the Marchioness of Ormond. , for the season . Accompanied by some friends , he joined the Sylvia , a yawl of sixty-three tons , at Southampton on Saturday morning and started foe a cruise in the Solent . The yacht arrived at Cowes Saturday afternoon and anchored about half a mile from the Parade . Lord Craven came ashore and dined with friends of the Royal Yacht Squadron . He returned to the Sylvia in a motor launch ' about 11:30 P. M. He appeared at the time to be in the best of health and spirits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crew , saying that he intended to remain on deck for a time before turning in . No surprise was caused by this , as lie was . accustomed to sit on deck on fine nights to enjoy the cool air after the heat of the day . At half past 8 this morning Lord Craven 's valet went to his cabin to call him , and was surprised to find it empty and to see that the bed had not been slept in . His Lordship 's cap was found on the table of the saloon . It is conjectured that Lord Craven went to the after part of the yacht , which is unprotected by rails , and there stumbled against a rope or some other object and fell overboard . He was able to swim , but it is aupposed that he must have struck something in falling and so nave been stunned for a time . It is reported that a cry for help was heard from the shore last . night . As soon as the Earl was missed a friend who had slept aboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The police and port authorities at once began a search for the body , but it was not till afternoon that it was discovered floating near Guarnard Bay , a few miles away . In the police description of Lord Craven it was stated that his family crest was tattooed on his breast . The Earl of Craven was well known to many Americans through his marriage to Miss Martin , daughter of the givers of the famous Bradley Martin ball , and the visits of his wife 's friends to his ancestral estate , Coombe . Abbey . in Yorkshire . This beautiful country : : : eat of the family was purchased in the seventeenth century by Sir ' William Craven with the profits of the tailoring business that he founded during a career that carried him , like Dick Whittington , from beggar boy to Lord Mayor of London . Sir William 's son . made a peer for military services , is credited in the British " Who 's Who " with Laving married Queen Elizabeth of Bohemia . Those who question this statement note that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes no mention of the match in his diary . The late Earl was born Dec. 10 , 1868 , and was the fourth to bear the title , created in 1801 . When his engagement to Miss Martin was announced there was the usual public discussion of whether or not he brought a fortune with his earldom Opinions differed . ? One report gave him an income of $400 , - 000 in rentals and ? 1,000,000 in securities , in addition to the magnificent cenntry property that all knew he possessed . ? More critical estimates called him a poor man , and said that his poverty had forced him , to sell the family mansion in Berkeley Square to the Scotch millionaire , iNIcEwa.n . It was further said that he might have been rich but for the fact that the first Earl had alienated In favor of his second son all his valuable holdings of ? London realty . Later it was pointed out that when the Earl and the Countess were , in London they made their home with the Bradley Martins in Chesterfield Gardens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viscount liffingtOn , whose own marriage was one of the romances of the wai While undergoing military traininr in Scotland he tell in love with the pretty 18-year-old daughte.i- of the clerk of the borough . The boy 's family gave in to the girl 's charm , and It was In tht.ir home that Lady Uffington 's little bo , i , presumably heir to much of the Bradley Martin weal th , . was born . The Viscount went with his regiment to France , where he lost a leg and received a severe injury to an arm . In 1911 ? King George appointed the , Earl of Craven a member of the Royal Household on his being gazetted Comint.ntler of the Yeomen of the Guard on the nomination of Premier Asquith . He ? are the Countess were in New York last December to attend the funeral services for Mrs. Bradley Martin .                     