@@695124

txt Leaders from many camps were busy early this morning in an endeavor to solve the Republican Convention problem of a candidate for the Vice Presidency . Out of all this activity . results were expected in time for action when the convention is called to order this noon . At 1 o'clock this morning ( 3 A. M. New York Daylight Saving Time ) , Secretary Mellon , representing Pennsylvania ; former Senator James W. Wadsworth , representing New York ; General W. B. Atterbury of . Pennsylvania , and Mrs. Ruth Hannah McCormick , representing Illinois , were in conference over the Vice Presidential situation . While the names of Senator Deneen of Illinois and Senator Moses of New Hampshire are foremost in the consideration being given to the Vice Presidential question , the name of former Governor Channing Cox of Massachusetts was entered in the list of those regarded as available for second place on the Hoover ticket . Mr. Cox 's qualifications are being strongly urged by the Pennsylvania delegation on the ground that if he were Hoover 's running mate the chance Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be Materially reduced . Cox Known as a Campaigner . Mr. Cox has the reputation of . being a great campaigner , and this is a qualification ardently desired by Republican leaders for the Vice Presidential nominee , as it is felt that there should be somebody on the Republican national ticket to combat Governor Smith 's remarkable stump I speaking ability . At 1:15 o'clock this morning Secretary Work and Ogden L. Mills , as spokesmen for the Hoover headquarters , entered the conference in Secretary Mellon 's rooms at which the New York , Connecticut , Pennsylvania and other States were represented . Apparently the group was waiting for some word from Secretary Hoover and were prepared to agree upon a candidate for Vice President acceptable to him . Secretary Work announced that he had talked with Mr. Hoover by telephone on the subject of the Vice Presidency , but declined to indicate the nominee 's choice . Again Talk of New Yorker . Word came from the conference at 1:45 o'clock that the conferees had decided that the nominee for Vice President should go to the Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong candidate , would be honored . Alanson B. Houghton , Ambassador to the Court of St. James 's , was acceptable to the group , which was quickly- informed , however , that the Ambassador did not wish to be . considered. , Senator Walter E. Edge did not meet with the approval of the conferees , who had under consideration the necessity of carrying New York , New Jersey-and Massachusetts . At that - late hour , it is believed , ex-Governor Cox of Massachusetts , was still under consideration . He had been urged by Chairman Butler and William V. Hodges of Colorado , former Treasurer of the Republican National Committee , as well as others . Participating at times in the conference in Secretary Mellon 's room were Senators Phipps of Colorado , Reed of Pennsylvania , Bingham of Connecticut , Sackett of Kentucky and Gillett of Massachusetts , Representative Burton of Ohio , Senatorelect Vare of Pennsylvania and Governor Fisher of Pennsylvania . Secretary Work and Ogden L. Mills , Under-Secretary of the Treasury , were reported as bringing a message from Mr. Hoover , giving his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . - Early last evening Representative John Q. Tilson of Connecticut , Vice President Dawes and Senator Moses were being put forward vigorously for second place on the Republican ticket . Following the nomination of Hoover , the drift in the Vice Presidential contest turned to Senator Illinois , leading among the candidates from the Middle West . Supporters of Senator Moses declared late tonight that they had enough votes to nominate him if he met with the approval of Hoover . Former Governor Henry J. Allen of Kansas , who had been prominently mentioned in the early gossip , announced that he was not an active candidate and that in his opinion the fight rested between Moses and Deneen . Senator Moses as Permanent Chairman of the convention has gained much popularity with the delegates by the manner in which he has directed the proceedings , winning friends in many delegations , including those hostile to Hoover , by his fair dealings and the vigor of his address . He was one of the first of the prominent leaders to declare for Hoover and has been a powerful driving force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leaders were called immediately after the convention adjourned tonight to discuss the best man to balance the ticket . Several of the delegations , including Pennsylvania and New York , will caucus tomorrow morning and the nomination will be made tomorrow afternoon . There was every indication tonight that Secretary Hoover held the key to the situation and that the dominant leaders intended to confer with him and have him name his running mate . It is understood that the matter was discussed with him by telephone after the close of the convention 's sessions . It was believed that the control of the convention by the Hoover forces was sufficiently strong to avert any movement to stampede the convention for any one he might consider undesirable . ? While the Presidential nominating speeches were being made last night many rumors were in circulation about the probable selection for the Vice Presidency . One of these was that Mr. Tilson had been in communication by telephone with Secretary Hoover at Washington and had been told that he would be acceptable as a running mate . Ogden L. Mills , Under-Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York State Committee , were said to be sympathetic to the nomination of Tilson if an Easterner was to be selected , and various aspirants from their own State were counted out of the picture . It seems probable that Tilson would receive strong support in the New York delegation if a formidable movement for him should get under way . It also was reported that when the roll was called California would give way to Connecticut and be prepared to cast twenty-seven of its votes for Tilson . Another persistent rumor was that , while considerable support existed in the Pennsylvania delegation for Dawes for second place , Secretary Mellon had come around to the viewpoint that Dawes would not be acceptable to either President Coolidge or Secretary Hoover . Circulation of this kind of talk did damage to the cause of Dawes , which had received a decided impetus when it was found that C. Bascom Slemp , former secretary to the President and o ; of the Hoover supporters , was working for him . A mild boom was - started , for Governor Fuller of Massachusetts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his State would begin a vigorous campaign if any encouragement came from Secretary ' Hoover . Hooverites declared the Secretary of Commerce would not interfere , preferring that the convention have a free hand , but many delegates from various States who were questioned did not accept this statement at its face value . The boom for Senator Curtis of Kansas was revived , but ran into trouble when the cry was raised that Curtis had made himself unavailable by declaring in effect a few days ago that the nomination of Hoover for the Presidency would place the party on the defensive until election day . Curtis probably would have been far in the lead of all ' Western candidates had it not been for that statement . Hanford , former Assistant Secretary , of War and one-time Commander of the American Legion , probably will get a big complimentary vote on the first ballot , but there are few who believe that he has any chance of obtaining the nomination . Those working for the nomination of said they had about 200 delegates pledged to his candidacy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times . WASHINGTON , June 14 . ? Secretary Hoover , when asked tonight concerning a Kansas City report that John Q. Tilson , Republican floor leader of the House , had asked Mr. Hoover by telephone about the Vice Presidency and had been told that Tils-n. would be acceptable , said the report was not true . Mr. Hoover , said Mr. Tilson had not telephoned him , nor had he telephoned Tilson.                     