@@688910

txt Complete unionization of the bituminous industry and the abolition of " open shop " operations in West Virginia and other States would bring about cessation of strikes and elimination of coal - shortages , officials of the United Mine Workers of America declare in arguments filed with the United States Coal Commission and made public today . The arguments were prepared by WilIliarn Green , international secretarytreasurer of the union , and Philip Murray , its vice president , in response to the reecntly indicated desire of the commission for " constructive suggestions . " Mr. Murray in his statement declared the commission " oy an aggressive and i fearless attitude can compose all differences which exist in the unorganized mining sections . " By guaranteeing the ? " right of workers to organize and bargain collectively . " through the United Mine Workers or other union systems , he said , miners would achieVe " uniformity of wages and working conditions and regularity and continuity of employment . ' The union , he added , has no purpose of establishing revolutionary or wcrker control of the mines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the coal industry . " Secretary dreen , asserting that strikes were constantly encountered in the operation of non-union mines , said taat " union recognition and joint wage ? agreements provide the only way , through which the coal industry can be ' stabilized . " I " It may be charged by those opposed to union recognition and collective bar ! gaining that if the United Mine Workers were completely organized they would Istrike and paralyze the industries of the nation at will , " Mr. Green continued . " It must be frankly admitted that if this were true it would constitute a grave menace to the welfare , comfort and happiness of the American people . The answer to this is : " First  --  There could be no strike except at the termination of a contract period , and then only in the event of a failure to agree upon a new wage agreement . " Second ? The moral responsibility of the operators and miners would be so great and solemn that they could not , except in extreme emergency , refuse to agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage scale . " Human experience shows that responsibility sobers men so that they seriously consider their obligations and duties to themselves and their fellowmen . They hesitate under the weight of such responsibilities to incur public displeasure and fly in the face of public opinion . ' Then , back of it all is the powerful , irresistible rorce of public sentiment . it is the court which , after all , compels recognition . No organization or group of men can successfully carry out a movement which is opposed to public sentiment and , vice versa , organziations and groups of men are compelled to respond to the demand of crystallized public opinion in an affirmative way . ' ' It is this powerful , compelling , moral force which . after all , settles every great question affecting the public interest . The inevitable result of the working of such a plan would be wage agreements for fixed periods of time and uninterrupted operation of the coal mines . " Travel Lecture at Newspaper Club . James Branch Riley , a lawyer of Portland . Ore. , gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Club . 133 West Forty-first Street , Yesterday afternoon . Mr. Riley . an authority on the Northwest , is President of the Nazama Club , an organization or mountain climbers . Part of his lecture was devoted to the mountains in the National Park . Mr. Riley will repeat his iecture at the City Club tonight .                     