@@685528

txt In the past public feeling has been mainly sympathetic with labor . But in the past year there has been a reversal of sentiment which labor leaders would do well to heed . This change is becoming articulate , and recently found expression in a series of remarkable resolutions passed by the Board of Trade of New Orleans . Those resolutions recite facts which show that for more than nine months that city suffered serious losses through unnecessary strikes , the cessation of work and the curtailment of export and import freight movements . They squarely assert that all this turmoil has been caused by outside union agitators . who would bar every non-union man from the right to work . To attain this end the city was made to suffer intolerable deprivation . But there is a limit to human endurance . New Orleans has reached it , and now asserts itself . In a set of its resolutions it serves notice upon both capital and labor that the state is still sovereign . It declares that all men possess the equal right to associate for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collective dealing confers no authority over those who do not desire to act or deal with them . It declares squarely that a citizen of the United States can not be denied the right to work for whomsoever he pleases , as long as he pleases , and for what wage he pleases . " Organized labor , " say the resolutions , " must realize that the State of Louisiana and the city of New Orleans intend to stand or fall in defense of this principle . " Passing from this point to the subject of shorter hours , the resolutions declare that the workday should be such as to produce the maximum output consistent with the health and well being of the worker in any industry . A reduction of working hours below such economic limit should be made with full acceptance of the fact that it involves a commensurate loss in the earning power of the worker , and that a limitation of output increases cost of the commodity . Production , not hours , should be the measure of efficiency and compensation . There should be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membership in an organization should not imply equality of skill and ability . This is New Orleans ' declaration of independence , which the union aggre -- fitn has forced it to make . It is fairly typical of the temper of the whole people . Will labor heed the warning ?                     