@@694878

txt To a really busy citizen there is nothing more exasperating than a telephone call from a perfect stranger attempting to sell life insurance , or offering to buy or sell stock at some price not specified . An insurance company wnicia Knew its calmness would put ns soot sown on that sort of canvassing It makes the company just one enemy . every time . Our modern " go-getters " do n't think so . but they have to look tremendously busy and the telephone is a great help in the stage-setting . A ' valued Brooklyn reader . ii a letter of protest . points out that this sort of thing a few years ago was confined to the salesmen of mining stocks and other getrich-quick propositions . but that these have abandoned it . Ile is himself a holder of bank blocks ? some recently active , but he does not consider that the stockholders ' list should be regarded as a " sucker list . " He says that reputable brokerage houses adopt this telephone practice far too often and that they are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real and the banking or brokerage house which permits its canvasser to make a nuisance of hiranelf in this way has only itself to thank if it gets a bad name . That is not the way to open business . The telephone has a proper and a great use in the conduct or even the closing of negotiations but there is such a thing , as common courtesy . The invasion of the time and privacy of a total stranger is an intolerable outrage . those who are troubled-in that way will do well to hang up the receiver at once . There are other ways in which the uses of the telephone are overextended . Another reader obligingly offers an instructive specimen . He did not like the way the shares of the bank in which he kept his private drawing account were being manipulated in the market , with accompanying rumors , not at all to the credit of a dignified and respectable bank . He therefore moved his account to another institution . A month afterwards he was called on the telephone by someone describing himself as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why he had closed his account . A bank officer who would discuss such a subject over the telephone would be himself an excellent reason for a depositor taking his ' business elsewhere . The victim patiently pointed this out and offered to discuss the matter with his interrogator at his office . The invitation was not accepted . Really busy people , who therefore know bow to delegate routine tasks , can always find the time to see a legitimate caller . But there is a right and a wrong way i of approach and the unmannerly offhand telephone message is emphatically the wrong way .                     