@@695324

txt On the steps of the State Capitol building , two miles from the site of the thatch-roofed cabin in which he was born , sixty-eight years ago . Senator Charles Curtis today was formally notified of and formally accepted his nomination for Vice President by the Republican Party . i.ne exercises were more than simply a political ceremony . They partook of the nature of an old-fashioned Mid-Western " old home week , " for the city was crowded from early morning with citizens of all classes and parties , and the only talk in. town was of " Charlie Curtis . " Crowds , proudly wearing sunflower decorations with " Our Charlie " blazoned on them , surrounded the candidate wherever he went . Bands and choruses greeted him at every corner . To give the festivities a climax a band of Indians from a- nearby reservation whooped up onto the Capitol steps shortly before the Senator arrived and greeted him with war cries and dances . This was their celebration of the honor they felt had come to them in Senator Curtis 's nomination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Crowd . Old-time residents who have seen notable receptions here  --  those to Blaine , Harrison , and Roosevelt  --  were sure that this was the greatest or them all . When Senator Curtis rose to speak in response to the notification address of Senator Simeon D. Fess , he looked out over a gathering of 50,000 persons . They interrupted him repeatedly with cheers and applause . The candidate 's address of acceptance was a thirty-minute effort , in which he dealt in considerable detail with many questions of the campaign . He stressed particularly the problem of agriculture and referred to the two bills designed to aid the farmer which he had introduced in. the Senate . The question of farm relief , he said , was an economic one which should be handled in a nonpartisan way by a joint committee of inquiry of the House and Senate. - " The solution will be found , and . found promptly , " he declared . Meanwhile , he said , much could be done for agriculture by the development of means of transportation and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect them from foreign competition . The candidate declared that capital and labor had come to see that they were economic allies , and then took up the question of prohibition in some . detail . Opposes Repeal of Dry Act . " Not only am I heartily in favor of faithfully enforcing all ourhe declared , " but , further , I am opposed to the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment or the Volstead act . " Other points In the address . of Senator Curtis were the encouragement of the active participation - of women in the Government ; the reduction of the public debt , of public expenses and of taxes ; - the maintenance of peace ; the avoidance of entangling alliances ; a thoroughgoing protective tariff , and an ? adequate system of flood control for the Mississippi Valley . The nominee paid a tribute to Herbert Hoover , whom he called a credit to the party and to the nation , " both in the eyes of our people ' and of the world . " He also expressed admiration for the policies of President Coolidge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lincoln and Roosevelt , as well as of Mr. Hoover and . himself . His peroration was an appeal to the Republican party to present " a united and impenetrable front . " The ceremon : es were held under a broiling sun , on a temporary platform erected over the Capitol steps . The Rev. Dr. , pastor . of the First Methodist Church . of Topeka , delivered the invocation . Then Governor Ben S. Paulen , master ? of ceremonies , introduced Senator Simeon D. Fess of Ohio , who delivered . the notification address . Senator Fess promised that . " farn1 // dente , R. I. , and a son , Harry Curtis of Chicago . Indians in Their War Paint . Bands stationed along Kansas Avenue , the main street , entertained the crowd of visitors coming into the city during the day . Indians mingled with the visitors . They were dressed , for the most part , in war paint and the feather headdresses . Under a broiling sun the crowd awaiting the ceremony began taking its place early in the afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State House grounds were quickly filled . There was no jam for the front . Amplifiers from the temporary stand erected on the south steps of the Capitol carried music from the radio to the early arrivals and gave assurance that the ceremonies from the platform could be heard at almost any point on the spacious lawn stretching about the State House . Many of the women pushed up umbrellas to gain protection from the sun , which was beating down hotly . There were only a few benches on the grounds and these were marked " reserved , " but it kept members of the National Guard , who were doing the policing , busy chasing out those who did n't have the coveted " reserved tickets " for these seats . Braves Descend on Scene . The scream of sirens from motorcycle police heralded the passage of the official Notification Committee , which was traveling by automobile to the residence of Senator Curtis to escort him to the Capitol . And then came the redskins . With a war whoop , the Pottawatomie braves descended on the grounds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while photographers got busy . A band concert opened at 4 o'clock with a piece in which the first strains were " Hall . Hail , the Gang 's All Here . " The notes of " How Dry I Am ! " were soon floating over the sun-baked crowd from this old-time dry State . The crowd applauded . One after another then the bands proceeded , and when there was no music the Indians stepped down to inchOge in another of their weird dances . Presently the Notification Committee walked to the front of the platform from the State House . Chairman Work , accompanied by Mrs. David Mulvane , wife of the National Committeeman for Kansas , led the march . There was a faint cheer from the crowd . Members of the family of Senator Curtis followed . It took some time to give each his proper place on the platform , and the crowd looked on attentively and patiently . The appearance of Senator Curtis , bareheaded and walking behind Governor Paulen , was the signal for an outburst from the crowd , and it made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Indians helped out with their whoops . The Senator wore a blue sack coat and white trousers and smiled broadly as he stopped at the front of the stand to acknowledge the greetings . A group sang " Charlie relief would be supplied and supplied quickly " by the Republican Party . Other points in his prepared address were that the Kellogg treaty gave America " the moral leadership of the world , " and that the United States would stay out of the League of Nations . Besides those who covered an eight-acre space in front of the Senator , millions of others probably heard the notification ceremonies over the radio . An extensive chain had been provided by the National Broadcasting Company , and microphones on the platform at the Kansas Capitol carried the nominee 's words all over the United States and , probably , to many other countries . One of the picturesque , unscheduled incidents of the day was contributed by two little negro boys , who , in order to have a good view of the proceedings , climbed up on a statue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' platform . There , in the Emancipator 's lap , and with their arms twined around his neck to hold on , the negro boys watched the ceremonies In entire unselfconsciousness. him to subside , and as he began reading his address , Indians standing by the speaker 's stand let loose some real whoops . He laughed with the crowd and waited again for them to quiet down . The nominee 's declaration against repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment or of the Volstead act was cheered . On this declaration the Senator raised his voice and literally shouted into the row of microphones before him . Soon after he began speaking some of the crowd on the outskirts moved out . But most of the throng stood attentively by to the end of the thirty minutes address . Senator Curtis lingered a few minutes after ending his address to wave to friends in the crowd . Again with his right hand extended , shaking hands with those he passed , he walked out . Tonight the nominee was host at an informal dinner party in the Jayhawk Hotel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party leaders . Senator Curtis will leave Topeka tomorrow night for Washington before proceeding to Rocky Point , R. I. , to deliver a speech on Thursday . He will travel by way of Kansas City and Chicago , but intends to stop in each city only long enough to make train connections . No conferences en route are planned . Chairman Work Greets Nominee . TOPEKA , Kan. , Aug. 18 ( W ) . ? This was " Charlie Curtis " day for Kansas , and Republican leaders from every State in the Union gave way to the deluge of old friends and constituents of the Senator who crowded about the smiling , happy nominee at the Jayhawk Hotel during the morning . Chairman Work of the Republican National Committee , accompanied by Governor Fisher of Pennsylvania , dropped in on his return from the Pacific coast , but he had to get in line with the Kansans in order to meet the Senator . Photographers broke up the reception long enough to get pictures of Senator Curtis and Chairman Work , which were taken on ' - he hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luncheon tendered the nominee and the notification committee by the Chamber of Commerce , Senator Curtis found himself in the midst of a new flock of friends as he entered the Kansan hotel lobby . : - Ie smiled broadly in response to the applause which greeted his entry and then made the rounds of the crowded lobby , shaking hand : - with everybody . Admitting he was somewhat weary from the strenuous morning hours , the Senator hastened from the luncheon to the family residence on Topeka Avenue . just around the corner from the State House , to await the notification ceremonies . There was his family , including a sister who resides here and her husband , Mr. and Mrs. R. Colvin ; another sis-                     