@@684845

txt A public hearing into the breaking up by the police of the " amnesty " parade up Fifth Avenue on Christmas morning was begun yesterday by Commissioner of Accotints David Hirshfield , by order of the Mayor . Miss Fannie Witherspoon , one of the leaders of the League for Amnesty of Political Prisoners , the organization that put on the walk , characterized Commissioner Hirshfield 's manner as " most unpleasant , " and said that " at times he adopted the tactics of a bully . " The witnesses called were Miss Witherspoon . Joseph Stein of 359 Seventyninth Street . Brooklyn real estate dealer ; Miss Tracy Dickinson Mygatt of 23 Bank Street , a playwright ; Arthur S. Leeds , a silk merchant , and the Re . ' . Clarence V. Howell of 304 East Fortysecond Street , a Methodist Episcopal clergyman , and the flag bearer of the " walk . " How the parade started at the Church of the Ascension was told by Miss Witherspoon . At Twenty-sixth Street and Sixth Avenue Miss Witherspoon said three policemen came out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off , " she said one of them remarked to Miss Mygatt , indicating the placard she carried Miss Witherspoon said the placardeer protested and the policemen , who " were enormously tall , " then " very roughly and ' rudely tore the placard off . " The witness said that the purpose of the demonstration has been to protest against the further incarceration of " political prisoners , " and when Hirshfield , pressed here as to what she meant by " political prisoners " she said prisoners who had been convicted of violations of the selective service law and the Espionage Act , including Eugene V. Debs , Kate Richards O'Hare , and Rose l'astor Stokes . One of the first things the Commissioner sought to get from Mr. Stein was his opinion with regard to the Red deportations . Mr. Stein declined to answer these questions on the ground that they were not relevant . During Stein 's examination several of the walkers protested against the line of questioning , Miss ' Witherspoon and Alice Riggs Hunt loading the objectors . Commissioner Hirshfield replied that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and also as to their personal opinions in order to ascertain whether they held opinions which might affect any recommendations which he would be likely to make . Miss Mygatt , in outlining the reasons , for the walk , denied that the league had staged the affair in the interest of Reds , or that the organization had anything to do with radicals of that type . Atwood C. Wolff , an attorney of 005 Newark Avenue , Jersey City , appeared at the hearing and declared that he was an ex-soldier and was present to testify as a witness against the walkers , if called . After Hirshfield had adjourned the hearing until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning Miss Witherspoon sent a letter to the Mayor , protesting against what she termed the Commissioner 's action in " holding a star chamber inquiry into the private views of witnesses and insisting upon quizzing them on all manners of irrelevant matters . " In a subsequent statement the league accused the Commissioner of wasting time at the inquiry " by making long speeches himself about Bolsheism and the revolutionary movement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence of the persons before him . " In conclusion , the league stated that " If the Commissioner persists in his present attitude we shall simply withdraw from the hearing and denounce the whole affair as a piece of official bad faith . "                     