@@691944

txt Continuing the report on the social consequences of prohibition , compiled by the Department of Research and Education of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America and copyrighted by the Rev. F. Ernest Johnson , the most ' striking statement in today 's second instalment is that the disappearance of the saloon and the " treating habit " has undoubtedly been a great material boon to the American workingman and hence a benefit to business and industry , Today 's report aeals chiefly with two phases of the prohibition question ? deaths from alcoholic diseases and the effect upon business . The report shows that deaths directly due to alcoholism decreased tremendously during the war period , the three years prior to prohibition , and then showed a sharp rise from 1920 to 1923 ; the rise , however , not equaling the rate from 1910 to 1917 , The report is very emphatic in the statement that industry has profited materially since prohibition , through heightened morale , though the results of a questionnaire sent to 1,000 business men asking for their verdict on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , apparently because of strong personal prejudice and -dissatisfaction with the social and political results of prohibition as they saw them . The report touches on the question of the effect of the . suppression of liquor on individual character , saying : " Very extensive case studies would be necessary to find out what is the total effect upon individual character and upon home life of the forcible suppression of the liquor traffic . Probably few socially minded persons credit the oftenheard statement that the use of stimulants is necessary to a large portion of the population in order to furnish ' release ' and ' oeicape ' from the conditions of a rather prosaic existence . Nevertheless , such a function has undoubtedly been performed by liquor drinking for a large section of the population which suffers from the drabness of a monotonous routine of work . The persistent call of workingmen for their liquor is in no small part A reflection of the esthetic and spiritual poverty of our industrial system : The forcible suppression of an activity creates new problems and the nature and extent of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . Furthermore , there are doubtless many individuals who have been cured of the liquor habit by the intervention of the law in whom Personality defects which formerly showed themselves in /the form of indulgence in stimulants are now expressed in other ways . The religious and moral forces which take upon themselves responsibility for instituting new measures of social control can not consistently stop short of taking responsibility for character rehabilitation in those lives which they have forcibly changed . " Deaths From Alcoholic Disease . On the question of alcoholic disease , the report says : " There are , fortunately , full data at hand from 1010 to 1923 , inclusive , for all so-called ' registration States ' reporting to the Bureau of the Census showing the death rate per one hundred thousand of the population from alcoholism and cirrhosis of the liver . ( The latter is considered to be predominantly an alcoholic disease ) . The graphs of the death rate from these diseases have the typical form of those representing the consequences of liquor consumption ? a drop in 1920 and a rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drop in 1923 . It . will be noted that the death rate from alcoholism fell lower proportionately prior to 1920 and has risen higher proportionately sin ze 1920 . It would be expected that the death rate from alcoholism since 1920 would increase much more rapidly than that from cirrhosis of the liver  - -  because a considerable proportion of the deaths reported as due to alcoholism since prohibition went into effect , and particularly during the last year or two . were in reality due to poisoning from bootleg liquor . On the whole , therefore , it might be assumed that over a long period the death rate from cirrhosis would be q , better index of the extent of post-prohibition drinking than the . death rate from alcoholism . On that assumption . the data give much satisfaction in that the death rate in 1923 returned almost to the level of 1920 . ( Figures for 1924 are not yet available ) . ? ? ? " It has been pointed out by medical men that the clinical picture presented by alcoholic wards of city hospitals underwent a decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there a considerable proportion of acute cases for which bad liquor was responsible . but chronic cases showing the typical degenerative effects of tabitaal drinking became decidedly fewer . It is stated now , however , at Bellevue Hospital , New York City , thlt there is a drift back to pre-prohibition conditions in the type of alcoholism that prevails . Alcoholic . Parenoses . " Carefully prepared figures are available on the percentage of cases of alcoholic insanity and of the intemperate use of alcohol among first admissions to civil State hospitals in New York between 1910 and 1924 . These percentages show the same general curve that we have observed in the other indices . The low point for intemperate use is reached in 1921 instead of 1920 , but the similar : Sty between the curves is impressive . Figures for Massachusetts . so far as available , show the same tendency . " It should be said , however , that - ha increase in alcoholic psychoses indicated here is called in question by medical men who insist that many cases of alcoholism are clas , , : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correct diagnosis would exclude from ids category . It is a noteworthy fact that in New York City certain typical forms Of , alcoholic insanity became exceedingly rare following the adoption of prohibition . Here again , however , it is to be feared that the drift is backward toward pre-prohibftion types . " The experts who prepared the statistics , Dr. H. M. Pollock and Miss E. M. Furtnish , have recorded /he following general conclusion : ' Alcoholic insanity in this country is now much less prevalent than it was in 1910 , but more prevalent than in 1920 . The rate of decline since 1910 has been greater among women than among men . The reduction in alcoholic cases is due in part to a change in the habits of the people and in part to restrictive laws . ' Alcoholism as a Factor in Morbidity . " The statistics of alcoholics discharged from the Department of Public Welfare Hospitals and from Bellevue and Allied Hospitals in New York City , 1914-24 , showin general the same trend that we have been noting but with this important feature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the following table indicates : DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WELFARE HOSPITALS . 1914 51 1920 33-1915 41 1921 1916 60 1922 1917 1823 3919 27 1924 1919 BELLEVUE AND ALLIED HOSPITALS . et 1914 1 ' 0 1920 1915 102 1921 42 1816 124 1922 67 1917 q4 1923 105 19Th 40 1924 97 1919 44 Alcoholism in the Army . " Another noteworthy set of data has to do with alcoholism cases in the United States Army from 1914 to 1924 , inclusive . These data would seem to be sufficiently representative of the country at large to be significant . ADMISSION RATES TO ARMY HOSPITALS PER 1,000 AMONG ENLISTED MEN SERVING IN THE UNITED STATES , DUE TO ALCOHOLISM . 1914 13.46 1920 .. 6.34 1915 13.07 1931 . 6.97 1916 11.18 1917 2. q1 1 3.82 1918 1.06 1924 . 9.13 1919 2.15 " The movement of the curve in this case ' is , of course , due rather to wartime discipline than to the coming of prohibition , since the sharp drop occurs in 1917 and the low point in 1918 . In 1922 the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that figure may be assumed to have been abnormally high , the curve appears to be still rising . The Surgeon General states in his annual report for 1924 : " ' The number of admissions to sick report for alcoholism can not be accepted as an index of the amount of alcoholism in the military service . Probably an equally important factor , especially during recent years , is the injurious character of the illicit liquor consumed , since this results in a greater relative number of such as use intoxicants becoming ' acutely ill and consequently requiring medical treatment ' Prohibition and Vital Statistics . " Much has been sag et the falling death rate during the last few years as an evidence of the effect of prohibition . It is true that this decline and the increased expectation of life have greatly impressed insurance actuaries , but one can not with certainty assign to the prohibition regime more than a moderate influence in bringing about the reduction . The trend downward has been distinctly greater among the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 's industrial policy holders than In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a much less prominent factor . The company attributes much of the gain to health education and there is reason to believe that the same cause has operated on a large scale throughout the country . One of the authorities consulted in this connection points out that similar improvement has occurred in countries where prohibition has not been attempted . " It is probable , however , that wherever there has been an improvement in economic status , a feature of the prohibition regime which we shall presently notice , the tendency is toward a higher standard of living and thus , naturally , toward improved health and increasing longevity . Effect of Prohibition ' upon Business . " We come now to the economic reSults of prohibition , concerning which it must be said that they are among the most significant in the series and set the hardest to measure . Probably no careful observer will say that the abolition of the saloon has not effected a.very substantial amelioration of large numbers of the working class . The virtual stoppage of beer drinking alone on the part of millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to have had a profound effect on the economic status of their families . At the same time the appeal to specific economic data  --  increased business activity , growing bank deposits , &c.?to; prve the effects of prohibition must be made very guardedly . All attempts to measure this increase in quantitative terms are fraught with danger because of the great increase in prosperity since 1921 , clue to other causes . "                     