@@693247

txt While sweeping Democratic victories in yesterday 's Senatorial . elections leave in doubt whether the Republican Party will retain control of the Senate in the 70th , or next Congress . whose term will begin March 4 , 1927 , and last for the balance of the present Coolidge Administration , returns received up to an early hour this morning indicate that control of the Senate may hang on a margin of one or two seats . There is a possibility that the outcome of the Senatorial elections may give the Democrats just half of the ninety-six members of the Senate , which would leave the deciding vote on party questions to Vice President Charles- G. Dawes , unless Senator Henry Shipstead , the only member of the Farmer-Labor Party serving in the upper House . should vote with the Democrats . In which event the Democrats would control by a majority of two . It is also possible that the Democrats may control the Senate without any help from Shlpstead , as early returns favor the election of candidates of that party in States in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith May Be Ousted . A further element of doubt is injected into the situation by the likelihood that gepresentative William S. Vare of Pennsylvania and Colonel Frank L. Smith of Illinois . both Republicans , who were elected to the Senate yesterday , will be deprived of their seats on account of the revelations concerning large expenditures of money in behalf of their candidacy in Senatorial party primaries . ' Latest returns of the contest for seats fn the House of Representatives indicate that the House will stand in the next Congress. ? with the outcome in nineteen districts doubtful : Republicans 224 . Democrats 190 . FarmerLaborites 2 . This gives the Republicans majority of 32 over the combined opposition . Even should the Democrats capture all of the nineteen doubtful districts the Republicans would still have a majority of thirteen over all . This would not be a working majority , however , as the Republican figures are inclusive of ten La Follette Republicans from Wisconsin . who with some others of kindred dispositions could overturn the Republican regular organization in the House by combining with the Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sufficient number of the doubtful seats to insure a working majority for them . It is possible there will be no Socialists in the next House of Representatives . Representative Victor L. Berger of Wisconsin . probably the most conspicuous member of his party in America , was running neck-and-neck , in latest returns , with former Representative William H. Stafford , La Follette Republican , who has beaten Berger before and in turn has been beaten by the Socialist Representative in Congressional contests . In the present House . with three va- , cancies which were filled in yesterday 's elections , the Republicans have a majority of sixty over the combined opposition of Democrats , Socialists and Fa rifler-Laborites . Two Contests Are Still in Doubt . The outcome of the Senatorial con= test in at least two States is in doubt . While the indications are that the Republicans have retained Senatorships from Ohio and Illinois , early returns suggested that they might lose these seats . However , on the basis of the latest figures , victories are conceded in the tabulation of THE NEW YORE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received up to an early hour this morning indicate that with the Senators elected yesterday the next Senate will have forty-six Democrats . forty-six ** and one Farmer-Laborite , with the outcome uncertain in the two instances - mentioned . There is a vacancy . in Maine . The defeat of Senator James W. Wadsworth Jr . by Judge Robert F. Wagner , the Democratic candidate , and the defeat of Senator William M. Butler of Massachusetts by his Democratic opponent , former Senator David I. Walsh , were the outstanding features of the Senatorial contest from the viewpoint of public interest . Considerable national political significance is certain to be attached to the defeat of Senator Butler in Massachusetts . In addition to being Chairman of the Republican National Committee , Senator Butler is President Coolidge 's closest political friend and adviser and the President was more deeply interested personally in Mr. Butler 's candidacy than he was in , other Republican candidates in the ' Senate . Although it was indicated by the President that he would take no active part whatever in this year 's political campaign , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter , which was given out to the newspapers , advocating the election of Senator Butler and Governor Fuller , who was a candidate for re-election in the Bay State . Senator Butler made the President 's endorsement of him the chief issue of his Senatorial campaign . He took the position that his defeat would be a repudiation of President Coolidge by the people of his own State and even went beyond that , for what he said in his concluding campaign speeches was equivalent to the suggestion that if Massachusetts went back on the President it would be a repudiation of the President by the whole country . It goes without saying that Democratic politicians , and especially Senators . will seize on Senator Butler 's defeat as an indication that President Coolidge is " slipping " and that if he should be a candidate for another term , he would be vanquished in the Presidential election of 1928 . Two Presidential Booms Nipped . At least two budding Presidential booms were nipped as a result of yesterday 's elections . The defeat of Senator Wadsworth is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his friends to bring him forward as a candidate for the Republican nomination for President . It has been generally accepted among politicians that should Atlee Pomerene be elected Senator from Ohio he would be a most serious contender for the Democratic Presidential nomination against Governor Smith of New York in the party 's National Convention in 1928 The defeat of Pomerene , following his defeat for reelection to the Senate in 1922. is expected to take him out of the running . Another Ohio aspirant for the Democratic Presidential nomination came prominently into the Presidential running through victory at the polls yesterday . He is Governor A. V. Donahey. who. like Governor Albert E. Ritchie of Mariland , was elected yesterday for the third time . A Donahey-for-President movement was started in Ohio recently and it is everywhere accepted in that State that he will contest Governor Smith 's efforts to obtain the highest honors within the gift of his party . Governor Ritchie , who was Maryland 's candidate for the Presidential nomination in the Madison Square convention of 1924 , probably will be put forward again in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Millard E. Tydings , Democrat , has defeated Senator Ovington E. Weller , Republican , in Maryland ; that Elmer Thomas . Democrat , has defeated Senator John W. Harreld in Oklahoma , and that neck-and-neck races are on in Colorado , Kentucky , Nevada and Oregon for seats now all held by Republicans . Democratic candidates for the Senate have /apparently captured Republican seats In Maryland . Massachusetts , New York , Oklahoma , Missouri and Arizona . It is also likely that their candidates will win in Oregon and Kentucky . The outcome in Nevada is doubtful . with the indication that the Republican candidate . Senator Tasker L. Oddie , will be re-elected . While early returns indicated that Senator Wesley L. Jones , Republican , had been reelected in the State of Washington , some doubt of his success has been thrown by a surprising vote obtained by his Democratic opponent , A. Scott Bullitt . Should the Democrats capture Oregon and Kentucky in addition to the other States mentioned , the outcome of the election would classify the next Senate as follows : Democrats , 48 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be elected from Maine the latter part of this month ; Farmer-Laborite , 1 . Should Junes be overturned in Washington and Oddie lose in Nevada , the Democrats would control the Senate . While returns are Incomplete and the contest in these States must be regarded as in doubt , the indications appear to be that Representative Harry B. Hawes has defeated Senator George H. Williams , Republican , in Missouri . One of the most surprising developments in the Senatorial battle was the close race in Dadiana , where both the Senators , James E. Watson and Arthur R. Robinson , Republicans , were candidates . Close Race in Indiana . Watson and Robinson made a showing much poorer than they were expected to make and for a time last evening all the indications pointed to the defeat of Senator Robinson by Evans Woolen , his Democratic competitor . Early this morning the count showed Robinson as well as Watson forging ahead , with the indications that both of them would be elected by greatly reduced pluralities . Should Representative Hawes have defeated Senator Williams in Missouri , Mr. Hawes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court of Impeachment assembles on Nov. 10 , as Senator Williams is also serving by appointment until his place is filled by election . Colonel Frank L. Smith , Republican candidate for Senator in Illinois . seems to have won over the Democratic candidate George E. Brennan although the returns are not yet complete and Brennan 's managers are insisting that there is a chance for victory for their man . In Ohio Senator Frank B. Willis , Republican . seems to have won over former Senator Atlee Pomerene , Democrat , but it is expected that his plurality will be very small .                     