@@690869

txt The Board of Tranaportation , of which John H. Delaney , is Chairman , hopes Within a few weeks to have ready for public consideration . plans for Mayor Hylan 's project of an independent municiparly owned and operated subway sy:stem , is was annotmeed yesterday . An Important feature of these plans is that the trunk line of the system in Manhattan leading to Washington Heights is to be under Sixth Avenue and not under Eighth Avenue , as the Transit Commission had decided In its plans . Tn undertaking to drive this new subway under Sixth Avenue . it was said , the Board of Transportation has found it necessary to effect some arrangement with the Hudson-Manhattan Railway Company , whose tubes run under that thoroughfare between Ninth and Thirtythird Streets . The arrangement . it is believed , provides either for the virtual forfeiture of the franchise of the Hudson tubes uptown extension of one mile and a quarter , or , as Is thought to be more probable , embodies a joint traffic agreement under which some compromise may be effected looking to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the new municipal subway also . Such a plan might involve rebuilding and enlarging of the- Hudson-Manhattan tubes betwet-.4- It ! egg Thirtysecond Streets . writ ' liRtnetin4e.a.x .. y. payments or Offii*V : =Arr . : - *ire ' part of the city to the Hudson-Manhat ! an Railway Company . The tube company has always been eager to extend its uptown terminal from Thirty-third Street to Titnes Square . It is thought possible that through an alliance with the municipal transit authorities a traffic treaty may lie . achieved  --  or may be already ? assured  --  under the provisions of which there may be a joint use of the enlarged tubes and station platforms by both systems , the city 's operating company carrying Hudson-Manhattan passengers to or beyond Times Square as , in part , a reciprocal concession for the use of the tube franchise arid facilities . Three Tubes Already Under Street . Some such arrangement as that suggested has been made a necessity by the physical conditions encountered , once it was determined that Sixth Avenue mist be the route of the subway hunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Thirty-third Street intersect in Herald Square , underground conditions are unique . Beneath the street surface level  --  not to mention the higher level of the Sixth Avenue elevated line  --  there are three subterranean levels through which rapid transit ok crates . Closest to the street surface and Just beneath it are the Sixth Avenue tubes of the Hudson-Manhattan Company . On a lower tier run the trains of the Broadway branch of the B. M. T. system . Still lower . through Thirtythird Street . is the crosstown tunnel of the Pennsylvania and Long Island Railroads . As soon as the engineers of the Board of Transportation faced the planning of a Sixth Avenue subway this became one of their major problems . To tunnel beneath all the present tubes would ? mean driving the new subway at a depth of something like 1:50 or 200 feet beneath the street . From an engineering point of view this would be practicable enough , but it was realized that New York passengers never would willingly tolerate the congestion due to elevator service and like inconveniences at a point which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . Accordingly overtures were said to have been made looking to some sort of an agreement with the Hudson-Man batten Railway . There were laid to have been conferences between that corporation and representatives of the city . It was even suggested that the city , either by purchase or by exercising the right of condemnation and eminent c ; omain. might take over the Sixth Avenue section of the Hudson tubes and convert them to the eity ? s purposes . This proposition was said to have been met with nothing but indignant protest and refusal on the part of the management of the under-river line , built originally by William Gibbs . The Railway Officials ' Views . " To surrender at any price our uptown outlet would be to give up one of our best assets . " protested the HudsonManhattan officials . When it was suggested that the city could utilize only the section-Of about a mile and a quarter between Ninth and Thirty-third Streets and that the IIudson-Manhattan Railway could move its uptown Manhattan Terminal down to Eighth Street 1.2 was declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all and it might just as ' well carry all its passengers to and from the Hudson Termina , Building downtown . Thee was all the difference in the world between dumping passengers for New York City in the section of old Jefferson Market and in the populous business neighbor- hood of Herald or Times Squares , the railway officials argued . Whether or not the primary difficulties encountered in reaching some agreement were overcome could not be learned yesterday . But it is known that the City Administration 's transit plans will involve a Sixth Avenue trunk line and that it is not intended that it shall he buried beneath the right of way of the other three tunnels . Mayor Ilylan 's determination to favor Sixth instead of Eighth Avenue is said to rest upon several considerations . In the first place , he is eager to eliminate from sixth Avenue the entire elevated railway structure. , That can not be done until other adequate facilities are supplied . Property owners and residents along Slide Avenue are as eager . 1,10rer ) ? er , as i the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inaugnrsted a new era in transit construction ' aetually  --  volunteering to beat a large share of the cost of rztrrva3 , Construelion , in consideration of the added value such an improvement would bring to the property holders . In the overshadowing mice rt. : ty where the city may hope to get the millions wherewith to build the comprehensive subway sysI tem which the Mayor plans such a publie-spirited attitude on the part of property owners is a factor to be encouraged , ' it Is , pointed out . The municipal subway plan will propose a Brooklyn crosstown line with ' two sets of tubes under the East River to Manhattan . Though the Board of Transportation has kept its plans to itself it is known that the program embrace 's Mayor Rylan 's idea of connecting the Brooklyn crosstown rout with Manhattan , where the main trunk line will run to Washington Heights . Two Under-Rarer Tunnels . The East River tunnels joining the Brooklyn and Manhattan trunks will be placed Uptown and ' down , though the exact locations are still a secret . In addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jamaica serving that section , of Queens . The system will also include a route through Long Island City touching the vicinity of the great traffic hub at Queens Plaza in Long Island City . On its - southerly end the Brooklyn ' crosstown line will be planned to run the length of Kings to the ocean . This plan is a far different proposition from the one formally approved by Mayor Hylan and the Estimate Board in August , 1023 . This plan , mapped out by the Transit Commission and revised to meet objections at City Hall , provided for a Brooklyn crosstown line from Queens Plaza , Long Island City , through Greenpoint and the centre of Brooklyn to Bedford Avenue and Halsey Street . : It also provided for a Washington ? Heights line from Fifty-ninth Street up Central Park West and thence far into the upper reaches of Manhattan . The plan which the nylon Administration approved In the Summer of 19231 contained no additional tubes under the : East River . The 1023 plan was not ; mapped out primarily as an independent system , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the routes would be linked up with the present B. M. T. system . thereby ' giving an extension of service for one five cent fare . Under the new plan the independent municipal lines , would set UP a third subway system , requiring a separate fare . The projected new municipal system ' would cost in the neighborhood of $300 , - . .000.000. ?                     