@@689801

txt nual , report a that admirable institar . tion , the- praise . will hive to be uttered here , in defiance of possible criticism as Immodest . seems that in 1923 the Museum was visited 1,036,703 persons , a large number , considering , that the attractions there are all of an . intellectual or esthetic sort and appeal almost wholly to people who either have some degree of culture or want to get some . It can not be ' claimed , of course , that all of the million-plus were resident New Yorkers . Oaf such residents many have never heard of the Museum , and a lamentably greater number have never entered its doors . Just how many of . the ' visitors were from out of town , le not revealed by the statistics given , but doubtless there . were many of them . In most cases , however , the country cousin is taken about among the city 's sights by his New York relative or acquaintance , and in that way the New Yorker who otherwise would stick closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " obliged , much to his benefit , to learn what the country cousin learns eagerly . It is a , little humiliating to metropolitan pride that it took the sensational discovery of Ttar-aatit-AmEN 'S tomb to bring a record ; breaking crowd to view Ithe Museum 's - magnificent Egyptian collections , but as it was only human nature that something like that should be required to awaken general interest in them , there is no need to be miserable about it . And now that so many people ' have found out how much the Museum could teach them about Egypt , they are likely to realize better than before that it can teach them as much about practically every country on earth if only they will go there and use their eyes . More observers than Tips Before one have noted . this ' and After year , what they think Christmas . an unusual difference between the manners and conduct , before Christmas and after it . of the now enormous class expectant at that season of presents in the nature of money tips . For several weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the members of that class were all obligingness . They simply could n't do enough for the promising " prospect , " they leaped to service with a gladsome smile , and their efficiency was remarkable  --  and remarked . But afterward  --  when the mine had been worked , and would not be productive , or as productive for another year  --  how great the change ! In instances that at least have seemed many , literally since then , there has been " nothing doing ' that was not in the strictest letter of the bond , and there be those who report that the bigger the Christmas tips the greater has been this change . Probably this conclusion is sounded on special rather than general observation , but there does seem to be a basis for the belief that tips win less than in other days . Instead of lamenting this , why not see in it a promise that some day the whole wretched tip system is to be abandoned , not only ' at Christmas , but for all the year ? In many cases the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , enabling him to avoid the paying of a living wage to his servitors . There were days , in some Farts of this country at least , and not so very long ago , either , when nobody took tips end nobody would have dared to offer them . Now the system has grown so ' extensive and has taken such exaggerated form that on15 a determined optimist can pre tend to hope that ' it soon will come to an end . Whether college chapel Yale and should be compulsory or Harvard not is a question that . Odds at seems likely to be disAre cussed ' anew because of statements just made by the Rev. EDWARD C. Moose , President of the Harvard Board of Preachers . He was expressing something like resentment at the charge that Harvard was " godless " because its students can attend the morning exercises in chapel or not , as they please , and but few of them do go . That , he said , was a better state of affairs than the one existing at Yale , where the chapel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Penalized ; for there , he declared , " the I-turmoil during the service is terrible . " His implication was that , the Yale students were at least as " godless " as ' those of Harvard , and no more of them derived religious benefit under the comI pulsory chapel system than of the Harvard students under the voluntary system . Most elderly graduates of colleges big and little can remember rushing to chapel in the . cold-of early Winter mornings , sleepy , reluctant and with much trust to a long overcoat ; but not all of them can remember that they profited largely from the performance of that stern duty . At the time they tried to agree with the prevailing belief that anything painful was virtuous , but not all of them succeeded in doing it , and such as did n't still have their original doubts . TOPICS OF THE TIMES . If the beginning of Cruel Cold this Winter had been Just marked by the usual . Contraststorms and the accusby tomed amount of snow , New Yorkers would not have regarded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monday . and kept it still submerged yesterday , as particularly severe . All through December and well into January , however , the weather was that of late March or early April , and , something on the principle underlying the cynical definition of gratitude as " a keen sense of favors still to come , " we now feel the resentment natural in those who find the stream of favors suddenly cut off . We 're not " thinking on our marcies " already received , but on the pi ospect . that our confident expectation of a winterless Winter was fallacious . And it was the contrast with the immediate past that made the winds of Monday and Tuesday so cruelly cutting . If those days had followed the sort of weather that Winter is wont to bring we should have regarded them rather as pleasurable than as hardships , talked about the t'bracing air , " and used the word " seasonable . " The official prophet says that it is- to be warmer today ? " much warmer " is the way he puts it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only too often , when the temperature changes in Winter from notably low to considerably higher , there is apt to be snow , and of snow New York has the reasonable dread that is founded on a long series of painful and expensive experiences . Not only do we have here no use whatever for snow , but it is , when at all deep , an almost intolerable nuisance , interfering with all our accustomed activities and inflicting another and very appreciable twinge of pain on the taxpayer 's already tortured pocketbe ok . Out in the country ' and in small towns snow may be viewed with equanimity , and even with satisfaction , but here it has pb friends . ' As no outsiders have A Million been heard , as yet , Went to saying a , good word for . MuseumNew York and its apthe predation of the Metropolitan Museum of Art as demonstrated by the figures given in the an-                     