@@691740

txt Subscriptions to CAILLAUX13 new internal consolidated loan opened on Monday and will be received during the coming six weeks . Upon the final success of this measure largely depends the fate of his entire financial program . His purpose is two-foldto reduce the outstanding short-term debt and to cut down the annual interest charges . Incidentally , the terms seem to indicate that the F , zench Government is definitely preparing to revalue the franc at about five cents . Should this be done , it would greatly facilitate the task of stabilizing exchange and of readjusting the entire financial system of France . It implies , of course , a heavy loss to the original purchasers of internal bonds before the franc began to depreciate . But there is apparently no other way out . The new loan fixes the value of the franc as one ninety-fifth of one English pound sterling . The nominal rate of interest of the bonds is 4 per cent. , but this is calculated on the basis of the fixed value of the franc . In other words , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still be figured at the rate of four ninetyI ifths of a pound per hundred francs . If the franc should fall to 120 to the pound , for example , the semi-annual interest payments would amount to about 2.52 francs , or at a rate of a little more than 5 per cent . No matter how much the value of the franc improves , however , the interest will not fall below four of the " 95 to 1 " francs on every hundred franc unit . The new bonds , which are in the form of perpetual renter , are free from income tax . They are obtainable only in exchange for the so-called National Defense bonds , of which there are about 56,000,000,000 francs outstanding . The annual interest charge on these Is nearly 2,650,000,000 francs . Those who avail themselves of the new offer will exchange short-term notes of a high yield in paper francs for a perpetual loan , the interest rate of which is fixed on the basis of the pound . At present this is equivalent to a gold basis . What the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the new loan appears to have a sound value and to constitute a charge which France can meet un-less some unforeseen catastrophe takes place . Owing to the provisions that interest , on the new loan is on the basis of the pound , and that the Government agrees to buy up the bonds at a rate of not less than fifty times the value of the half-yearly interest payments , the Government may find the issue expensive if the franc undergoes any great changes in value . If it sells at more than 95 to the pound , it will cost the Government more to pay the interest . If it falls to less than 95 , the Government will still be . obliged to pay the same interest as at 95 , and will be unable to profit toy the better exchange . Putting in round figures , if the total issue Of the new loan comes to 30,000,000,000 , the interest at the fixed rate of 95 francs to the pound will be about 1,200,000,000 francs a year . If the franc goes to 120 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per year . If it rises to 80 francs to the pound , the Government would still have to pay 1,200,000,000 instead of only 996,000,000 francs . There is consequently a strong inducement for the Government to prevent too great fluctuation of the franc . This may turn out to be one of the most important results of the entire project .                     