@@694379

txt King George shook hands today at Buckingham Palace with 276 Americans , members of former National Commander Savage 's party of American Legionaires who have been touring Europe since the convention in Paris and who will return to America from Southampton aboard the Leviathan tomorrow . Queen Mary also shook hands with the men and women of the party , Comprising more Americans than had ever been received at one time by the British monarchs . The Queen did more than that . She moved forward from her place beside the King and reaching out her hand clasped that of Frank Schobel Jr. , blinded World War veteran from Wincote , Pa .. who could not see to grasp hers . It was a spectacle provocative of mingled thoughts and emotions , this encounter of symbols of the Old World and the NeW in a gorgeous hall dominated by ? the ? twin thrones behind their MajestieS , . and ... two portraits behind the- Legionaires : One portrait was that . of King George III , the Sovereign against whom the thirteen English Colonies in America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . The other portrait was that of Queen Caroline . his consort . Both the historic portraits and Ambassador Houghton were sphinx-like as one after another the American veterans filed past Britain 's present Sovereigns , the names of each being announced to their Majesties by former Commander Savage , who stood by the King 's side . Uninvited Guest Arrested . Strict etiquette ruled the entire proceedings . The entrance to the palale was carefully guarded and admission was by ticket only . One ambitious American was arrested trying to bluff his way into the royal presence , but later was released on his showing that his motive was no more serious than curiosity . Dozens of charabancs took the Legivaires to the gates of the palace at 10:15 o'clock this morning , where a small crowd of Londoners and the abinuitous camera men awaited them . Each privileged Legionaire 's ticket and seat in the charabanc were numbered and there was a check at the ' gate to see that the proper persons had the Droner numbers . There were three checks before the gathering breached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were scarcely noticeable . As the charabancs wound their way into the inner courtyard the Americans caught a swift glimpse of the old ceremony of changing the red-coated , black-busbied palace guards who had preceded them by a I matter of minutes to the palace , accompanied by shrill fifes and rolling drums . Entering the palace , a striking vista was presented . A broad stairway led upward between marble pillars , a red-carpeted stairway flanked with scarlet-coated footmen . But magnificence was not the dominam note . There was a warm fire crackling on the hearth in the foyer ? a hospitable blaze to warm the guests who had come in from a chill October fog . Members of the gathering were swiftly relieved of their wraps and ushered up the broad stairway , whose walls are lined with full length por- traits of departed royalty beneath the chandeliers of a bygone age , ponderous pendents of glass and crystals . Taken into the room where the red-canopied thrones confronted them , the Legionaires were lined up by a deft master of ceremonies , who instructed them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Ceremonies . " It will be very simple , " he reassured them . " Their Majesties will enter this side door . All you have to do Is turn to the right , keep your place and file past . The gentlemen will shake hands with the King and shake hands and bow to the Queen . The ladies will either bow or courtsey to the Queen . " The ladies courtesied . It all came to pass as the master of ceremonies forecast . The Queen was first to enter , punctually as the wall clock showed at the appointed hour of eleven . She was wearing a rosetinted beige gown which reached to her slipper tops . A single strand of pearls was about her neck , diamond adornments in her ears and a jeweled bar pin across her breast . She wore no hat , but the wealth of white hair piled in curves upon her head was ample crown to express her dignity . She took a place a few feet before the throne and looked out over the gathering , smiling slightly but cordially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . King George is a slighter person than the Queen , less towering and majestic , but more rubicund of countenance , and his eyes twinkle merrily . " A typical fog we have for them today , " he said to Ambassador Houghton in passing him , smiling and bowing . Mr. Houghton 's answer was indistinct and brief . Sing Talks of the Fog . The Ambassador then presented former Commander Savage , who stepped forward to meet their Majesties . " We are glad to have you here in England with us , " the King said in clasping the Legion leader 's hand . His voice was audible to the furthest corner of the room " I am sorry we have foggy weather , but I hope you are having a good time anyway . " Commander Savage assured him the Legionaires were enjoying themselves . " I do n't suppose you have very much free time , " the King then observed . " Every minute is filled , " rejoined Commander Savage , " but we are liking it . " " Are all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking out over the gathering . " Every one , " was the reply . " A fine looking lot , " said the King , and then there was a lower voiced brief exchange . Comander Savage stepped to one side of the King , unfolded the roster of visitors and read the first name and the march past their Majesties was on . Mr. This and Mrs. That , he called as the guests stepped past quickly , silently clasped hands and bowed , then stepped out by the door at which the King and Queen had entered , into a high-walled gallery of art treasures and portraits of all eras and schools , a collection which the Master of Ceremonies assured them was one of the best in Britain . Blind Veteran Wins Sympathy . As the blinded Legionaire Schobel approached the King took the initiative and reached out his own hand to clasp that of the faltering guest . " I am glad to meet one who has contributed so bravely and gallantly to winning the World War , " he said quietly . The Queen saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand her husband had let go . " Where were you wounded ? " asked the King . " Verdun , " answered Schobel . " When was it , what part . of Verdun ? " the King asked . " Near Nantillos , on Oct. 5 , 1918 , " answered the erstwhile Lieutenant of the 318th Infantry of the Eightieth Division . " I am very sorry , " the Queen said softly . " It was too bad it had to happen so near the end of the war . " Schobel bowed and gave way , and the file continued unbroken and silent until the ceremonies were ended . " She was very gracious , " said some New York women of the Queen as they left for their hotels after the ceremony . " She is better-looking than her pictures . " commented a Californian . I " Oh , boy , we 've held the hand of three Kings and two Queens on this trip , " said a voice from Nevada . " There is a poker hand for you . " Following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ driven to the Guildhall , where they were the guests of the Corporation of the City of London and the Lord Mayor , Sir Rowland Blades , at luncheon . Among those attending were Sir Austen Chamr berlain , Secretary of State for For-1 eign Affairs ; the Lord Chancellor , Lord Cave ; Lord Reading , Lord Desborough , Ambassador Houghton and prominent Americans of the permanent American colony in London . The Lord Mayor , proposing the toast to the Legion , recalled the time when General Pershing received the sword of freedom the city gave him in that hall and the times when Presidents Grant , Roosevelt I and Wilson had been honored guests there . " I am glad the members of the American Legion have had this visit to France and Britain and had an opportunity of renewing the comradeships which must help further the cause of world peace and establish world friendships , " he said . " The visit to France must help revive memories of the most brilliant work done by the American Army ' in the last darkest days of the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Wales has said . " I wish you a deep and sincere welcome to London , a pleasant voyage home and a happy reunion with your families . " " I am glad to see the British and American flags entwined here on your ancient walls . " said Commander Savage in replying . " The American Legion agrees here with the thought expressed by Prime Minister Baldwin the other night that war between your country and ours is unthinkable . We as visitors have tried to increase a friendship already deep . The members of the British Legion will agree that our affectionate regard and mutual esteem was so strengthened in the trying days of 1917 and 1918 as to have become an enduring bond . As long as it lasts the friendly and cordial relations of our two countries must follow . " I hope we cemrades of the World War may have the honor of cementing relationships between all countries so that the slogan , " A war to end war , ' with which we entered the conflict may be justified . The reception accorded us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , begun as a sentimental journey to places where we took part in the war , has culminated in a great friendship with the European nations which will remain a lasting memory to us Americans . " Following the luncheon the Legionaires visited the Tower of London and tonight they gave a farewell banquet to their friends of the British Legion . They will leave here at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning , as will also Ambassador Houghton , bound for the United States .                     