@@686719

txt At the meeting of representatives of the Republican organizations of the five boroughs the appointment of a committee of twenty-five was authorized to invite co-operation from all other anti-Tammany groups and to receive suggestions as to platform and candidates ; and a committee of which Mr. HENRY W. Tarr will be Chairman is to draw up an address to the public . Presumably a committee presided over by Mr. Tmer will be wise enough to disabuse the public of the impression , which some Republican leaders have been industriously conveying . At this meeting one of these leaders said that in past fusion contests the Republicans had always " played second fiddle in the naming " of candidates and mapping out of " campaign plans to elements which " went shy when it came to deliver " ing votes . " Now the Republicans , while graciously pleased to accept outside suggestions , are going to play first fiddle . The old " order must be reversed if victory is to be achieved . " Such talk shows a painful misconception of past , and present political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a union of Republicans with independent Democrats and all independents is there any possibility of beating the Tammany ticket . Independent Democrats , such as JOHN MITCaEL , have naturally been selected heretofore ; but there is no reason why an independent Republican , a Republican whose candidacy will be satisfactory to the various independent elements , should n't be selected , if his nomination seems the strongest that can be made . There has been altogether too much patter about a " straight " Republican ticket. , The independents , including a considerable body of independent Republicans , can take no interest in a campaign whose lofty object is the ' grabbing and division of the spoils of municipal office . It is fair to assume , however , that the Republican politicians who express this narrow view are merely speaking their professional and technical language , intended for the ears of " the boys . " They , know that nonpartisan fusion is the sole practicable means of turning out the Hylan Administration and reinstalling competent , effective and civilized government at , the City Hall . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a miracle not to be repeated and having no more relation with the actual number of Republican voters in the five boroughs than lightning has with the price of buckwheat cakes . Our Republican neighbor , The Herald , reads the law to the brethren . It tells them that " to as " sert that what some local Repub " lican nominees did in the Harding " avalanche as straight ticket candi " dates can be done again now with " out the 1920 issue is tin whistle " bravado . " It tells them that " common sense dictates fusion . " Finally , in a warning politely made general , but calculated for straight Republican latitudes , it rubs the truth in , good and hard : If Greater New York Republicans , independent Democrats , plain Independents and other anti-Tammany voters want to put the Murphy-Hylan organized appetite out of the Mayoralty and the Board of Estimate they will get together and stick together on a fighting fusion ticket . If they want to hand the municipal election to the Tammany tribe on a gold platter they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It into futile fragments . There is the pikestaff for our Republican friends to carry if they want to follow the road , a rough one at best , to a victory over Tammany.                     