@@689342

txt Opinions of government Treasury officials that conclitions were such ' that no increase in rediscount rates was warranted at present nipped in the bud a bearish rumor that crops out every once in a while , or when open market ' rates for money stiffen for mile particular reason . . money rates naturally have hardened in the late summer and early fall . This , hoWever , - was due solely to natural causes . Funds are flowing from New ' York to the interior for harvesting purposes , together with other com mercial demands . It is natural for interim ' banks to draw down on their balances with New York eorreaeondsnts . These extractions have a natural and temPorary influence upon .. local money quotations , but the situation rightsitself whCn crops have been moved or marketed . NO INCREASE IN REDISCOUNTS A significant factor in the present money situation is that notwithstanding this flow pf money to the interior , there has not been any increase worthy of mention in recent weeks in the volume of paper rediscounted with the Federal Reserve banks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely from their own resources . Commercial paper at 51 , . i ' 74- and even 51 ; : erir is not regarded as anything but normal at this season of the year . Brokers ' time money is obtainable at ' ; ' e and ** depending upon the name and the duration of the loan . Call funds continue to fluctuate moderately as a result of the day-to-day money market influences . But rates are normal with a supply always available . There is said to be a large amount of new financing ready to be launched this fall . Perhaps many borrowers will await until the bulk of the crop-moving credit demand bas been satisfied before entering the money market . More urgent borrowing , however , may appear before rates settle to any extent . JAPAN SEEKS CREDITS HERE Japan , according to bankers , is expected to seek large credits both in New York and London for the purchase of necessary reconstruction materials . Already orders are coming in for carious materials , principally steel and steel products , The First National Bank of St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , banking and credit conditions continue easy and there is no present prospect either for the remainder of this year or for the beginning of next year that money rates will become high . There may be fractional advances but there will be an ample supply of tredit for the legitimate business needs at ' a moderate cost to industry . "                     