@@690324

txt The Farmer-Labor Party convention will end tomorrow with the adoption of its platform , which was received with much approval when read tonight but finally referred back for further action , The organization which is to lead a national Farmer-Labor Party in the Presidential campaign was formally laid down tonight , however , and the report recommending it was adopted by an overwhelming vote . In form the proposal is a compromise between the ideas of the Communist delegation headed by William Z. Foster and that advocated by William Mahoney of the Minn  --  sota . Farmer-Labor Party , fount an dorigin and only begetter of this convention , who was permitted to read the report tonight . In fact , the plan gives Foster and his Communists the same chance to bore from within which they got in the organization of this convention , and which they utilized to take the convention out of Mahoney 's hands . What it comes to is , that the Bolshevist camel who thrust his nose in the Farmer-Labor tent last March has now shoved Mahoney clear out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ door and claim that he and the camel hid the tent in joint tenure . The plan of organization declares that this convention " favors majority rule and will seek to get control of this country by majority rule ; public officers elected by the National Farmer-Labor r party are to be responsible only to the occupational and economic groups which elected them . " These economic and occupational groups : that is unions , mainly ? are to be the basis of representation . The new party is to be run , however , by a national committee of two members from each State " and two from each national organization affiliated with the movement . " This means such roganizations as the Workers Party and the Federated Farmer-Labor Party , under whose authority Foster and his fellowCommunists got into this convention . Leave Way Clear to Back La Follette . The Executive Committee will consist of the Chairman and Treasurer of the National Committee and five other members , State organization will be carried on by the National Committee . There will be a national convention after the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political organizations , " but the committee will run things through this Presidential year . Also , this National Committee is authorized " to negotiate with any other group which favors the organization of a National Farmer-Labor Party and to give such groups representation on the committee . " This means , of course , the La Follette Conference for Progressive Political Action , which is to meet in Cleveland , July 4 . Insttead of nominating candidates , the committee will try to get abroad the La Follette band wagon . From all present indications it will be I kicked off , however , and after that the committee wil have to make up its mind about another candidate . Mr , Foster , in recommending this program in the name of the Communist delegates , said that there had been serious differences in the organization committee which threatened the life of this convention . " The endorsement of candidates . which we favored at first , seemed to us insignificant in comparison with the organization of a Farmer-Labor Party , " he said . " Unity in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But we did net yield any fundamental of our views . " This seems quite true . Foster has his usual chance to bore from within . For while tonight it looked as if the Communist machine . which has won all the substance of control in this convention , though occasionally yielding to the Mahoney faction so much as was necessary for the sake of saving Mr. Mahoney 's face , would walk away with the platform which was presented by Joseph Manly . Foster 's son-in-law . That it did not . was due to the fact that the apparently irresistible force of the Communist machine met the immovable body of the Woman 's Party . Alice Paul and her band of workers for the Woman 's Equal Rights Constitutional amendment tried to get the Platform Committee to incorporate their plank . It refused ; not that the convention opposes equal rights for women , but it did not want to run into the opposition of powerful labor organizations , opposing the amendment . But Alice Paul 's supporters started arguments from the floor for her plank and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of those who opposed the platform thought it was too Ing  --  it was only about half as long as that adopted by the Republicans at Cleveland . Others thought it was too short . Taking heart from the arguernent . Frank Starkey , of the St. Paul Trades Association , a Mahoney supporter who was threatening to bolt this afternoon long after Mahoney had come back on the reservation , declared that " it looks like a propaganda sheet to me " and demanded time for further study . Then the Communists eve in and C. E. Buthenberg . Secretary of the Workers Party , moved that the platform be printed so that everybody could read it and that the committee hold another meeting for further suggestions tomorrow morning . What the Platform Calls For . The platform is not a downright COMmuist document and Mr. Manley in presenting it had said that he would " forego some Communist ideals for the sake of unity and harmony . " But it calls for nationalization of mines , superpower plants , railroads , banks , grain exchanges arid telephone and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industries in their management . It also provides for government loans to farmers without interest , guaranteed employment at a minimum wage with unemployment insurance at regular union rates , and use of police and soldiers in strikes on the side of strikers . The platform had been received with great approval by the majority of the delegates and had ridden over one serious obstacle before the Woman 's Party supporters upset the program . - E. R. Meitzen , delegate from Texas and an old worker for the Non-Partisan League , made a vain protest against the section providing for " the abolition of discrimination against the negro in places of public resort . " Though declaring in favor of the removal of political and economic discriminations against the negro . he warned the convention that " the Jim Crow " law of the South embodied an insurmountable feeling and that a new party which hoped to gain votes in the South was going about it the wrong way . Stanley J. Quinn , a Communist , of St Louis , declared that " some time we will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . ' He said that 68.000 colored voters in St. Louis were ready to turn against the Republicans on the Klan issue and that the new party could get much of their support . " Let 's forget that men are of different color , " he pleaded . Otto E. Huiswood of the Negro Tenants ' Protective League of Chicago , who was received by the convention with uproarious enthusiasm , also spoke in favor of the platform declaration and it was carried by . an overwhelming majority , but the machine could not run over Alice Paul 's Amazons . so the platform will be fought over once tomorrow . While the convention waited tonight for the report of its committees , nose Pastor Stokes and other orators held ; forth on the familiar theme of the sins of the capitalist press , to which this convention has turned in moments of depression as readily as did the Ford peace party . This was ungrateful , however , for such superficial harmony as the convention displayed today was largely forced on it by the St. Paul papers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won in the fight for organization of the convention , Mr. Mahoney told several newspaper men that he and his friends of the Minnesota Farmer-Labor Party would bolt . This does not mean so much as it sounds like , since the principal leaders of the Minnesota Farmer-Labor Party have had nothing to do with this convention . Senators Shipstead and Johnson and most of the candidates for leading State offices have kept away from the convention as if it were a case of smallpox . Nevertheless Mahoney 's organization had called the convention , and Mahoney believed till the opening session yesterday that he would keep the Communists in their place . Finding that this was a vain hope , he said last night that he would bolt if a Communist program were put over . Naturally . the St. Paul papers carried this news in big headlines . and when the convention opened this morning Mahoney rose on a question of personal privilege and waved the papers in the face of the audience . He denied that there was any truth in the story . He appealed for unity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He went on to add that " if this convention is Communist , it does not represent the Farmer-Labet Party of Minnesota , " but he appealed for harmony and brotherly love and working together of Communists and Farmer-Laborites for the common good . Foster Adds to Love Feast . Thereups Foster rose and added his bit to the love feast . " Such Communists as may be present , " he said , " have not come here for the purpose of capturing this convention . We understood perfectly well that for a Farmer-Labor Party to be a success it can not be communistic . We do n't expect a Communist program , a Communist organization or Communist candidates . " We expect that the platform , the organization and the candidates will be such as to attract the great mass of workers and farmers . The statements made in the capitalist press have been made with the sole purpose of destroying the Farmer-Labor Party movement . " Immediately after these declarations the convention proceeded to the election of committees , and in every committee Communists or Communist sympathizers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of State delegations , though nominally the Workers ' Party and the Federated Farmer-Labor Party , the only two Communist organizations present , had only 10 of the 870 votes . Mahoney had said that he would n't bolt , but some of his followers were far from satisfied and declared that if the Bolshevist program were put through they at least would have nothing more to do with the organization . Features of Proposed Platform . The platform presented to the convention tonight begins with the statement that " there can be no general public ownership till the workers and farmers control the Government The FarmerLabor Party will carry on the struggle to create these conditions . " Demands are made for the nationalization of all large-scale industries , such as mines , super power plants and means of communication and transportation , and the organization of workers in industries so nationalized , thus developing an industrial democracy subject only to such control as will protect the interest of the producers as such . The repeal of the Federal and national banking acts and Government ownership and operation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of agricultural and industrial workers to organize in labor unions . The- abolition of the- 2106 ca - the , courts to issue injunctions in labor disputes . The use of police , militia and armed forces to protect the workers in their struggle against exploitation , " In place of the use of these instruments of Government for the suppression of the workers and farmers as in the existing capitalist Government . " The enactment of laws for the adjustment of hours of work so as to employ all workers in each industry , the maximum working day being eight hours . A Federal Constitutional amendment making the employment of children under 16 years of age a crime . and compulsory education with the maintenance of pupils at Government expense . A minimum wage for all workers fixed in cooperation with labor union leaders . Social insurance and old-ago pensions for all city and rural workers , the funds to be obtained through increased taxes on incomes , excess profits , Inheritances and unearned incomes . A national maternity insurance law . providing for maintenance of mothers one month before and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the right to vote . The establishment of a system of land tenure which will eliminate landlordism and tenantry . Public ownership of the means of transportation and marketing institutions and of the organizations for distribution of farm products and the participation of farmers in their management . Legislation providing for loans to farmers in distress without interest through Government banking institutions . The development of marketing organizations , owned by the Government , with farmer participation in the management , the charges to cover only the cost of administration . Full economic and political equality for negroes and the abolition of the existing discriminations against negroes in places of public resort . Compensation during unemployment at regular union wages for all city and rural workers , the funds to be found by taxes on excess profits , inheritances and - unearned incomes . Full diplomatic and commercial recognition of " The First Workers and Farmers ' Republic " in Russia . Immediate independence for the Philippines and the right of self-determination for all colonies and dependencies of the United States , their future relations with this country to be settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haiti , Santo Domingo and Nicaragua . Absolute non-interference in any other country to safeguard investments or collect debts due to the financial interests . Reds Named to Committees . The morning session , though featured by the declarations of Mahoney and Foster in favor of harmony and against the intrigues of the " capitalist press , " showed that the Communists were in control as the committees of the convention were appointed . Members were selected by the State delegations and most of the Communist leaders were selected by States other than those of their residence . William Z. Foster , now of Illinois , and Alexander Howat of Kansas were appointed to the Organization Committee from their own States . But on the Nominations Committee C. E. Ruthenberg , Secretary of the Workers Party , was appointed from Ohio . and on the Platform Committee Ludwig Lore , the New York editor , served from New Jersey , and Benjamin Gitlow , the former Assemblyman tried for sedition in New York , was the member for Massachusetts . Duncan Macdonald of Illinois and Howat of Kansas were other Foster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red faction had control of a majority of the State delegations . The session had begun with the second keynote of the convention delivered by the Permanent Chairman , Charles E. Taylor . Like Mr. Mahoney 's keynote of the first day , it was peaceful in tendency and aimed at prodlcing harmony between the two factions of the convention . Mr. Taylor earnestly denied that he was a Red or anything like that , and declared that the need of the day was for the formation of a great massclass farmer-labor party . The rest of the morning session and virtually all that of the afternoon were filled up with time-killing oratory by old wheelhorses of the radical moveent , while the committees did the day 's work at the Labor Temple . Whenes-er the speakers ra.n out of other themes they could always get a hand by dragging out that familiar topic , the iniquities of the press                     