@@690946

txt It is devoutly to be hoped that the yesir will be allowed to end without any further revolutibnary outbreaks in south and Central America . Of the numerous major subersive movements chronicled during the past twelve months only one has been successful  --  the peaceful change of government in Chile . where the president 's chair is still empty and the military " Junta " earning laurels for prudent and sober administration . In Brazil the lull of a few vecks is not entirely reassuring , since no section of the population appears to be contented with existing conditions . As , however , exchange is steady at a rate much exceeding the average for the . ear and business improving , it is possible that President Bernardes ' government will survive their own muddled tinance . Mexico 's problem is of gravest importance to American investors . The revolution to follow President Calles ' inauguration has been so extensively advertised that the chances are it will not come to a head . Forewarned is forearmed , but the best guaranty of peace is General Flores ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy has been one of reconciliation . He is no admirer of Calles , and may he depended upon to keep a watchful eye on politics at the capital , but it may ieasonahly he doubted that he is capable of plunging the country into another civil war before the new president has time to show what he intends to do . Moreover , he is admittedly a competent military leader . and it is absurd to suppose that , if he intended to start a revolution , he would , like Mr. Snodgrass , take off his coat with the utmost deliberation and solemnly announce that he was ready to begin . President Legula of Peru has been so unfailingly successful in discovering the conspii acies aimed at his undoing . and in suppre , sing those oho hatch them , that there Is now exery reason to believe he will finish his long term in peat e . The Paraguayan : . are weary of civil war , and too busy with the new cotton plantations to think about politics . The government of Ecuador unpegged exchange . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently no other reason for fighting . Nineteen twenty-four has been a turbulent year on this continent , but now there is a good chance of peace and good will at Christmas from Nome to Ushuaia.                     