@@688699

txt The majority report of the Charter Commission puts forward the only practicable plan to take and keep the schools out of politics . It is a mistake to infer that by it State control would be increased . The City of New ' Fork is already a school district . What is proposed is that the schools In this " district " shall , as in thousands of other districts of the State , be administered by the educational authorities entirely free from the statutory control of municipal authorities . Under this plan there would be a separate school budget , with the school tax as a segregated amount in the tax bills and tax receipts , though it would be assessed and collected as are the other taxes . The " district " would have as full home control of its ecttopis as it now has , but it would exercise that control solely through the Board of Education , which should be directly responsible to the people . At present there is a divided local control , which results in conflict of authority , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really lies , and in the inevitable tendency to the- control of the board from City Hall . The Mayor has the appointment of the members of the board , and though in theory he acts for the State he is popularly assumed to act as Mayor . Reflecting that popular conception , he attempts , and with some color of reason , to control the anls of the appointees for whom he considers that he is held responsible . The only way in which such interference can be effectively prevented is ter free the Mayor officially of this presumed responsibility . The Board of- Estimate should also be relieved oV the financial responsibility , with consequent control , which it has under the present dual system . T-he sum of it is that the Board of Education would under the proposed plan have full responsibility and control , *Subject only to such limitation soi the Legislature may fix in.the matter : Of total expenditure . The State , though its Education Department , would continue to exercise such powern-of supervision of educational stinilards and school attendance as it has : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expense of education in order to equalize the burden throughout the State . For education , as the courts have determined. , is a State function , and , while nothing should be done to discourage the:initiative and zeal of localities , it must be realized that it is the constittitional duty of the State to see thp.t'schools are maintained in which all'the children may be educated . lt-will doubtless he feared that without : : the check provided under dual control the school expenditures will he extravagant . Very likely more will be - sDent in some cities , if the board is tree to maintain such schools as they- Should have . But there is no real ground for fear in the experience of cities by and large . The preliminary announcement of the results of an educational finance inquiry that has been carried on for some time under the direction of Dr. GEORGE D. STRAYER of Teachers College contains the general statement that data secured from 377 cities located in all parts of the United States show conclusively that the " separate financing " of schools has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with respect to fiscal administration as between the two types of control  --  that is , between the financially independent and the dependent Board of Education  --  are such , adds Dr. STRAYER , as to leave the question of the desirability of one form over the other to be determined by other than financial considerations . Decision should be based on the educational values of the two systems . There can be but one conclusion . The Charter Commission has reached it . The commission might have gone one step further and indicated the manner of the appointment or election of the Board of Education , but it is an immense public service that it has rendered in showing the initial step out of our present disastrous policy of dual control .                     