@@695639

txt Secretary of State Robert Moses wrote today to Attorney General Ottinger and the District Attorneys of each county informing them that he had no power to dissolve a corporation or control its activities , but that under the recent ruling of the United States Supreme Court in upholding the validity of the Walker law every secret organization was required to file a sworn copy of its constitution and oath and a roster of membership and officers . He pointed out that prosecution for violation of the law rested with the District Attorneys . Though the Department of State had no means of knowing whether the Knights and Women of the Ku Klux Klan , Inc. , was a corporation coming within the provisions of Article V-A of the Walker law , requiring the filing of a copy of its constitution , by-laws , rules , oath of membership , list of members and officers , Secretary Moses declared that no such papers have been filed by this corporation or any unincorporated association having a name containing the words " Ku Klux Klan . " Secretary Moses also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Alpha Pi Sigma , Inc. , in 1923. and its change of name to the Knights and Women of the Ku Klux Klan , Inc. , in 1925 , stating that the latter corporation had not filed the required data with the Department of State . In conclusion , Secretary Moses wrote : " I am furnishing the desired information in order that you may take such action as you think proper . if you have reason to believe that the provisions of the article of the civil rights law mentioned are being violated in your county . " In a statement upon the Supreme Court 's sustaining the Walker law , given out to clear up the " misapprehension that the Secretary of State is clothed with power to create and dissolve corporations , " Secretary Moses said that such was not the case , and added : " Under the New York laws , a membership corporation comes into being by the filing of a certificate of incorporation with the Department of State . It is the duty of the Secretary of State to examine such certificates for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements of the statute . " If they conform to the statute , the Secretary of State is compelled by law to place them on file , and is without further power in the matter , He can not dissolve a corporation nor control its activities in any way . " Then , citing the requirements of . Section V-A of the Walker law and asserting that no organization having the words " Ku Klux Klan " in its name had complied . he concluded : " The statute declares that a person or corporation violating any of its provi=lons shall be guilty of a misdemeanor , but the enforcement of the penalty in the case of violation rests with the public prosecuting officers . "                     