@@688144

txt ' Immediate steps will be taken by organized labor to have Attorney General Harry M. Daugherty and Federal Judge J. M. Wilkerson impeached for their . " flagrant and arrogant violation and disregard of their oath of office and use of their respective offices ' in promoting the so-called open shop . " This announcement was made here tonight by the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor . The proposed impeachment proceedings will be made a political issue in every Congressional district in the country in the . Fall elections , it was declared . Samuel Gompers , President of the Federation , was instructed to inaugurath the impeachment proceedings by drafting a bill to be introduced in Congress setting Sorth labor 's charges of maladministration against Attorney General Daugherty and Judge Wilkerson involving alleged violation of their oath and malfeasance of office . The Executive Council declared that it is , not concerned further with what the Attorney General and Judge Wilkerson may do about the present injunction against the railroad shopmen . The council . asserted . that it considers " that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four winds and by this action have demonstrated their unfitness to further trust in public office . " " The Executive Council at its session today , " an official statement said , " opehed its campaign against all who prove untrue to the ' people 's constitutional rights and who would use their position of public trust to ? promote purposes foreign to and in conflict /with the legitimate functions delegated to them in their representative capacity . Every possible . effort will be made to arouse the people of America to the necessity that government by injunction must stop . " Mathew Woll , Vice President of the federation and one of the official spokesmen of the council , said tonight that " labor does not intend to permit this demand for impeachment to die or to become buried in a pigeon hole in the House of Representatives . " Labor , " he added , " is determined to press home the determination that the constitutional rights of the people can not longer be ignored or be swept aside . " the settlement of the railroad strike by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complete vindication of the conviction that regulation of labor by governmental boards , commissions and injunctions is nothing less than a legal fraud and an economic fallacy , and that such institutions do not establish industrial peace or tranquillity . " The decision to demand the impeachment was reached following a discussion of the injunction proceedings and the Attorney General 's alleged statement that he would use his power to maintain the open shop . The council also had before it hundreds of telegrams from labor bodies throughout the country , including the Central Trades and Labor Council of New York , demanding impeachment proceedings . President Gompers outlined evidence gathered by the federation which he said proved that the Administration and the . Attorney General were aiding the open-shop interests of the country . He said the Attorney General was guilty of malfeasance of office when he " swung the injunction club on the.striking shopmen , as this was purely a move to aid the railroad executives in their attempt to destroy organized labor . " The agitation will be/iv:died in the Fall election campaign through the National Non-Partisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that an unnamed member of Congress had volunteered to introduce the bilL President Gompers is to draft . Building Tie-Up Threatened . ? The council today also considered the jurisdictional fight between the Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners and the Sheet Metal Workers ' Union , which threatens a nation-wide tie-up of building operations . John Donlin , President of the Building Trades Department , said the Building Trades Unions were disposed to combat any attempt by the carpenters to assume jurisdiction over the installation of metal trimmings in buildings . work which has been awarded to the metal workers by the National Board of Jurisdictional Awards . He urged the council to bring pressure on the Carpenters ' Union to obey . Frank " Duffy , Secretary of the Care penters ' Union and a member of the council , said that the board 's decision could not be heeded under present conditions . The dispute is said to have tied up millions of dollars worth of construction In Cleveland , Detroit and other cities because bricklayers and other building trades unions men refused to work where carpenters attempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The convention adopted an amendment to the union 's six-day law providing that subordinate unions may enact for a period of not more than eight weeks in any one year a five-day law to tide union workers over periods of Unemployment . The convention pledged its support to the striking printers and will continue moral and financial aid until the fortyfour hour week is established throughout the ebuntry . The convention rejected a resolution providing for establishing co-operative printing plants with the men as co-partners wherever a strike is in progress . /Special to The New York Times . CHICAGO , Sept. ** J. M. Wilkerson tonight declined to comment on the action of the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor in passing a resolution demanding his impeachment and that of Attorney General Daugherty on a charge of promoting the open shop .                     