@@691672

txt Sir FLINDERS PETRIE , after tracing civilization back through any desired number of centuries in Egypt , arrives at a civilization whose arts must be referred to some source outside of Egypt . It is common with the Solutrian age of Europe , an age whose remains take their name frOm a cave in the South of France where chipped flints of certain ornamented design were found . The theory has its particular interest in that the stone arts found both in Egypt and in France are assumed to have had their origin in the Caucasus . Out of these stone cultures have grown the bone implement arts . In Egypt Professor FsTHIS speaks of combs and spoons worked in Ivory , while in the South of France the fauna of that ancient time , the horse and the reindeer , the mammoth and the rhinoceros , the cave lion and the bear , are still remembered in the carvings on tusk and bone . This report of a prehistoric cultural home in the Caucasus comes into the news on the same day with the report of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that general region . In order to make possible a more intensive state of agriculture and so to give support to a greater population , it is proposed to Lead the water of Lake Gokeha or Sevanga , a body of fresh water over 6,000 feet above sea level , 40 miles long And 540 square miles in area , down into the valleys of Armenia not far from the foot of Mount Ararat . The purpose is to enlarge in productive capacity what is left of the national home of the Armenians . It is stated in the dispatches from Erivan that over a hundred thousand acres can be brought under higher cultivation and that this will provide for the maintenance of 15,000 Armenians now in exile in other parts of the world and eager to be among their own people again . Incidentally , this bringing of the water from the hills to the plain should also furnish power for additional industries . Another project relating to the Caucasus is of a purely cultural nature . It is the proposed study of the ' Cauen clan languages by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the course of ages numbers of dispossessed tribes have successively taken refuge in the Caucasus and some have stayed in the particular valley which they occupied . Here it is hoped to find languages and forms that have died out elsewhere , and so to trace the relationship between families of languages as well as to throw light upon their general history . Into this region Norwegian scholars are to go to make research as their navigators have gone out into the Polar regions . So the Caucasus , on whose northern rim , according to the Greek myth , when the gods had " quenched the mountain tops " and covered them with snows , Prometheus was chained to the rock through seven long years , and on whose southern rim , according to the Scriptures , the second experiment with man was begun , has come into the news of the twentieth century archaeologically , culturally and pconomieally . Old things are indeed become new .                     