@@685385

txt Two years ago today the 1st division , American Expeditionary Forces , Maj. Gen. It . L. Bullard commanding , went over the top after two hours ' vigorous artillery preitration . It was the first offensive delivered by the American troops in the great war , and in that fiery trial American fighting men proved the stuff they ere made of . What happened may be best summarized in the words of Gen. Pershing 's report . This is what the commander in chief says : " On April 26 the 1st division had gone into the line in the Montdidier salient on the Picardy battle front . Tactics had been suddenly , revolutionized to those of open warfare , and our men , confident of the results of their training , were eager for the test . On the morning of May ** this division attacked the commanding German position in its front , taking with splendid dash the town of Cantigny and all other objectives , which were organized and 1151d steadfastly against vicious counter , attacks and galling artillery fire . Although local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It demonstrated our fighting qualities under extreme battle conditions , and also that the enemy 's troops were not altogether invincible . " To us at home the news of the battle came with little ' emphasis . The public knew that our men had been in the trenches off and on , for training purposes , since the preceding autumn . The attack at Cantlgny seemed a more serious matter . Pershing himself , it was reported , was at the front anti it was said our own staff had planned the operation . But on the whole , few Americans seized the moral significance of the smart success achieved , Indeed , the day preceding the assault , that is , May 27 , the Germans had begun another of their tre ? mendous thrusts , had swept the British and French troops from the Chemin des Dames and while our 1st division was engaged in repelling with splendid courage the vicious counter attackh by which the Germans hoped to regain the positions taken by the " green " soldiers of their new adversary , America , with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention on the victorious rush of the German troops toward the Marne and Paris . Then a week after the Cantigny attack came news that American troops , brigaded with the French , were defending Chateau Thierry and the line of the Marne , and on June 6th we read that the Marines had struck a savage blow on a two mile front northwest of Chateau Thierry and on the fol. lowing day the four days deadly struggle for Belleau Wood sent a thrill along the nation 's nerves . Cantigny was almost forgotten in the flood of glorious news of that historic episode . That is the fortune of war . America was at last awake and ? heering . The headlines blazed across the land , The stories of heroism poured into the press . " They can fight , " wo said , though we had known all along they could fight and would fight . What we were really thinking was . " They have shown the world they can fight . " What wo did not knots then and hardly realize now was that that question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Italy , above all , perhaps , in Germany , already had been answered . It was answered not only at Chateau Thierry by the Marines on June 6th but at Cantigny on May i.Sth by the magnificent 1st division . " Though local , " as the soldierly report sets forth in military terms , Cantigny will go down among the decisive victories of our historic armies , for its moral influence was world-wide . So it is today we celebrate the second anniversary of the battle that answered the great question , " Can the Americans fight ? " Ali honor to the men that fought that day at ( 7antigny and bletsed memory to those who died there . Through their blood the flag of the republic , hints with a brighter glory .                     