@@691336

txt The campus i of the Princeton Theological Seminary- was astir with excitement today over the dismissal of Dr. Charles R. Erdman from the post of student adviser , which he has held for eighteen years : While opponents of Dr. Erdman maintained his removal by the Faculty came at the request of the Student Council , his friends asserted that the recommendation was made by a small group of students under the influence of Professor T. Gresham Machen , and was strongly opposed by 75 per cent , of the student body . Dr. Erdman 's friends declare the ' action was the opening gun in a campaign of the Fundamentalists to bring about the disruption of the Presbyterian Church at the General Assembly in May at Columbus . The party headed by Dr. Machen and Dr. Clarence Macartney of Philadelphia . Moderator of the Presbyterian Church , is accused of desiring to drive out of the church the Presbytery of New York and many preachers in other areas who are unwilling to subscribe to the Fundamentalist doctrine . See a Crises In Church . Professor Machen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the vacant chair of apologetics in the seminary , declares Dr. Erdman is indifferent to doctrine and refuses to " fight for the faith , " at a time when he sees the church as passing through a great crisis , and being undermined by heretical and pagan teaching . Dr. Erdman 's friends maintain he represents the vast majority of Presbyterians through the country . The party led by Dr. Machen and Dr. Macartney does not deny the possibility of a split in the Church . Its leaders insist that purity of doctrine is a vital issue which must he fought out now . They declare that Princeton is the last stronghold of the faith , when most other seminaries have gone over to the rationalists . Dr. Erdman and his friends assert there is no such widespread defection from the doctrines of the Presbyterian Church . that most Presbyterians are orthodox , and that the magnitude of the issue exists only in the mind of the Aachen group . Student Feeling Acute . Dr. Erdman had little to add today to his statement . of yesterday except a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , have persistently been misrepresenting his theological position for more than a year . He said his preaching and writings are the proof of his conservatism and loyalty to the standards of the Church . Feeling on the issue is acute In the student body . Today two members of the Student Council declared that in their opinion the action of the council in requesting the Faculty to appoint a new student adviser in place of Dr. Erdman did not represent the desires of the students . An incomplete canvass of the undergraduates seemed to show a considerable majority leaning toward the Erdman side of the controversy . Dr. Macartney is to speak here tomorrow on the subject of the Presbyterian Church and its creed . At the meeting , which is under the auspices of the Student Association , resolutions are to be offered thanking Dr. Erdznan for his services as student adviser .                     