@@688625

txt The constitutional amendment which will permit the State to issue bonds for $45,000,000 for a bonus for New York State veterans of the World War was today adopted in the Senate . In the Assembly it was favorably reported by the Judiciary Committee and advanced to the order of third reading . Its passage in the lower house is assured . The amendment will overcome the decision of the Court of Appeals which held that the State could not issue bonds to pay a bonus to veterans . Having been adopted by the last Legislature , the amendment will go to . the voters this Fall for their approval . If it is approved , the veterans probably will receive the bonus early next year . Governor Smith , in a special message ' to the Legislature today , called attention to the pressing need for better hospital facilities for disabled veterans . particularly those who are suffering I from mental diseases . " The failure of the Federal Government . " the Governor said . " to cooperate with the State to bring relief to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men who lost their minds by reason of military service has steadily increased from April , , , 1921 , to ... Tanuary , 1923 , until it has reached 81 per cent . " The Governor pointed out- that on Jan. 1 of this year there were 1,194 veterans under treatment in State hospitals . Of , this number , he said , 573 had their maintenance paid by the Federal Government . The remainder had been unable . doubtless through temporary loss . of mentality , to convince the Federal Veterans ' Bureau that there was a direct connection between their war service and their condition . " There is little probability , " the Governor said , " that the Federal Government will quickly , if at all , enlarge its hospital facilities for the care of these men and this is a matter about which the people of the State should be very deeply concerned . " He added that the best provisions in the State for former service men who were suffering from mental diseases was ' afforded at the Kings Park State Hospital . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in New York State hospitals today , at a reasonable cost , than by extending immediately the facilities at Kings Park to meet the needs of all patients among former service men from the metropolitan area , including the Counties of New York , Kings . Queens . Suffolk , Nassau , Richmond , WestchesI ter , Putnam , Dutchess , Rockland and 11 Orange , and , in fact , from other parts of the State , because I believe the objection on the part of relatives to their transfer into institutions far from home will be overcome when the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars will be able to convince them that it is for the soldiers ' own good . " In discussing the veterans suffering from mental diseases the Governor said : " These , men are all of the same age and nearly all are similarly affected . They should all be in one place where they could be made the object of special treatment and not spread out among the unfortunate wards of the State , many of whom are far past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the earliest possible moment a State memorial hospital into which these men can be collected and receive the best treatment that modern medical science can provide . The amount received from the Government will make it possible to install the best agencies for treatment . " In closing his appeal the Governor said : " Additions to the military memorial division of the Kings . Park State Hospital could take care of 1,000 patients . The details of how this can be done will be supplied to your committees . with the necessary drawings , plans , &c.,; by the State Architect , who estimates the probable cost at $1,500,000 . " I earnestly recommend that your honorable bodies ? give this matter your serious consideration to the end that the State may to the best of its ability take care of these young men out of gratitude to Almighty God for the safe and sound return of so many American soldiers . "                     