@@686040

txt What is right and what is wrong In Congress ? Senator HARDING , in taking his farewell of the Senate yesterday . bespoke for the next Administra. tion a helpful relationship with the opposition party , which he declares is " sometimes insistently wrong . " The Democrats in the Senate and in the country were not " insistently wrong " about the meaning of the League Covenant . They were right ; upon the Incontestable authority of the.League itself it has been proved that they were right . The Republicans were insistently and desperately wrong . Which party is right in respect to - the country 's need of an immediate revision of the revenue laws , a revision that will provide money for the Government in some way less destructive of enterprise , less harmful of industry and trade , less burdensome to the people than the present excess profits and individual income taxes ? The Democratic President and the Democratic Secretary of the Treasury , Democrats of prominence in Congress have dwelt with emphasis and insistence upon the need of immediate legislation as imperative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the short session , of postponing the subject of Federal revenue until Congress is called to meet after the , Ith of March . Who is right , who wrong ? We rejoice to see that Mr. HARDING aligns himself upon the side of right , for we can not see how the words he used yesterday can be construed in any other way than as a reference to tax ? revision . He would have the House and the Senate join in making the next three months " fruitful rather than wasted months . " He continued : " There is so much to be done and we have already had co " much of delay that I should like " unanimous recognition that there are no party ends- to serve , but . " precious days are calling for service to our common country . " By no stretch of imagination can it be supposed that the Senator was referring to the League of Nations ; even though there has been " so much of delay " in respect to that most important of all subjects , lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unques- ' tionably , the next most important subject is that of the revenue laws . INre hope we are right in this opinion , we hope that Mr. HARDIN ? will use his now necessarily very great , influence with the members of his party in Congress to get them lo buckle down to the work of freeing the people of the country from the oppressive exactions , frotti the - injustice , from the dangerously harmful effects of the income tax laws . The Federal Government . will Geed a great income ; it is not easy to see how it can get along with less than $4,000,000.000 annually for the . next two or three years ; but public opinion in the country is rapidly taking form in favor of substitutes for the ' income taxes that will provide ample revenue without strangling industry . . The Republicans of Congress have little to say about this aspect of revenue legislation , but are voluble upon the subject of high customs duties . There are in Congress Republicans grown old in service who would be unable . to.understand , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican tariff would smite our industries like the plague . There arc many Republicans newly come into the service of their country as lawmakers who.burn with the desire to do some , thing for their districts by - boosting the tariff schedules . They are new bottles into which the old wine of protectionism has been poured . They have no new thoughts , they speak the old language . If Senator HARDING 'S adjuration is to he heeded , if the coming three months ' are to be fruitful rather than wasted , these 13'ourbon Senators and Congressmen , old and new alike ; - must be persuaded to take a different view of their duty and the country 's need . If the short session is to be devoted to the tariff , its time will be not ' merely wasted , but flagrantly and hurtfully misused. , If the revision of the income tax laws is postponed until the extra session , the fiscal year will end before the subject is disposed . of . Yet the new . laws must apply to the business of the calendar year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business that corporations and individuals should know at the earliest possible moment under what system of law they are to be taxed . IIf a sales tax is to be enacted , and the opinion of business men is turning more and . more toward a sales tax as the best substitute for the excess profits tax. ? and the higher surtawes on individual incomes , then manifestly manufacturers and mew chants , all men engaged in producing or buying and selling , should know without any unnecessary delay the incidence and rate of tax . That is the great subject as to which there has been " so much of delay , " : tha-Vis the field of legislation in ' which the session of Congress which began yesterday is called upon to perform a " service to our common country " second to no other in importance  --  a service which it can not defer without failure in , its plain duty .                     