@@695301

txt The American crew beats England by half a length ! When that fact was registered this afternoon at the finish of the final event in : the Olympic regatta  --  the eight-oared race , not only for the Olympic but also for the world championship  --  thousands lining the bank of the Sloten Canal got one of those great thrills that " come so seldom.during a lifetime . Those few , however , who saw the race - from the press autobus that kept even with the shells from ' the start , got a.succession of thrills that left them trembling . with excitement at the finish , for few such races ever have been seen ; such merciless driving when every man gave his- last ounce of strength . The shells were so even over the entire course of 2,000 meters that the bow of one was never more than a few yards ahead ' of the other .. The radio annowteer in-the first car was so gripped by the spectacle that he forgot to send the news to the crowd at the finish of how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last 580 ? meters , when England gained momentarily , ' every one 's nerves were so on edge that it seemed something ' must break . Every second we looked for one crew or the other to collapse , but both swept on with the same magnificent precision that made them worthy opponents in ' one ? of the greatest ' crew- races ever held . Don Blessing , the American coxswain , was responsible for a good part of that . half length which gave the California crew Its victory . Although diminutive in stature , Blessing 's lungs are magnificent and for the entire 2,000 meters he gave what by unanimous accord was one of the greatest performances of demoniacal howling ever heard on a terrestrial planet . Never for a second did he cease . Bobbing up and down in his seat , sometimes raising clear up on the thwarts until it seemed be would slip into the water , he gave the impression of a terrier suddenly gone mad . But such language and what a vocabulary ! What magnificent flights of rhetorical vituperation ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cruel whip across the backs of the galley slaves . And howl his slaves did respond ! When England began to creep up , Blessing 's yells suddenly increased until they were heard above the roar of the crowd . And the crew bent the har-1 der to its terrible task ; while the- coxswain literally beat with his fists on the sides of the shell  --  to speed it faster to the finish line . British Coxswain Well Dressed . Compared with the sullen British coxswain , immaculate in blue and red blazer , white shirt andlie , Blessing , in a torn and worn shirt and old flannel trousers , looked like a young tough  --  but it was just that young tough who was necessary today to insure the American victory . Prior to the race the Americans were inclined to underrate their opponents despite the fact that the Britons were the favorite in the betting . Coach Ebright , whose first name . is Carol , but who refuses to answer to it , kept dinning in their ears ever since they won from the Canadians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly had reasons for his belief , for this same British eight had won the Grand Challenge Cup twice in the- Henley ? regatta and among its oarsmen had such individual stars as Jack Beresford , four times winner of the Diamond Sculls , and Guy Nickals , who has rowed seven times - for the Grand Challenge Cup . - The same crew also had rowed within five , seconds of the Henley record . However , as Ebright is known as a confirmed pessimist , the California youths did not take him too seriously until after the starting gun of the race . When the race was over , Don/on. the stroke , called from the shell , " Ebright was right . " The coach . not to be ungracious , then admitted that after long months when he never was satisfied with the men 's work , at last he was pleased with his Golden Bears ? from California . Winners Get Laurel Wreath . The Bears , after getting their laurel wreath and rowing past the stands to be greeted by Prince Henry , hurried to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all winning crews  --  namely , ducking their coxswain . Blessing 's late galley slaves now became his genial playmates , who gathered him unto themselves and with words of encouragement  --  such as they hoped he would drown  --  tossed him almost to the middle of the canal . An easy victory for America in the double sculls , followed by the triumph of the Californians , made America the winner of the regatta by five points over England , which finished second . The single sculls , as was expected , resulted in a comparatively easy victory for Bobby Pearce , the Australian giant , over the American , Ken Myers . But as Henry Penn Burke , American team manager , remarked at the end of the race , " This Pearce is not a human being . He should be permitted to race only against motorboats . " Undoubtedly today 's performance stamps the Australian as the greatest living oarsman and , as Burke also remarked , Australia , having only one man in the entire regatta , did remarkably well . California 's victory in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the Naval Academy triumphed at Antwerp in 1920 and Yale came home in front in the 1924 regatta in Paris . Score a Great Victory . SLOTEN , Holland , Aug. 10 M1. ? California 's Golden Bears are now champions of the world . Their bluetipped oars flashing irrestible power through the narrow waters of the Sloten Canal this afternoon , these brawny native sons of Uncle Sam maintained their unbeaten record and brought the Olympic regatta to a thrilling climax by beating the Thames Rowing Club , Britain 's greatest crew , in the eight-oared final . California 's great victory in the final event , following the triumph of the Yankee double scull combination of Charles and Paul Costello over Canada , the latter figuring in his third successive Olympic triumph , saved the day for America . They came after the American single sculling hope , Ken Myers , had been decisively whipped by the 22-year-old Australian marvel , Bobby Pearce . by five lengths , and the Yankee four without coxswain had lost a heartbreaking race to the British four by a bare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events in the seven finals contested , plus a brace of second places and one third which was g. ed in the pairs without coxswain , totaled 17 points on a 5-3-1 basis . Britain finished second with 12 , Switzerland third with 8 , Italy , 6 ; Germany and Australia each 5 ; Canada , 4 ; France , 3 ; Austria , Belgium and Poland , 1 each . A. crowd of perhaps 10.000 lining the picturesque Sloten banks anticipated the biggest thrill In the eightoared final , pitting the youthful Yankeen crew from the Golden West against the seasoned British array , and they were n't disappointed . Stirring Race Is Staged . From the start until the Americans swept under the finish line amid a din of old-fashioned Yankee cheers , cruising their usual course in the path of the oarsmen . Ky Ebright 's broad-backed stalwarts finished the tenth and last race as impressively as the first . They beat all college rivals at home in five races from 2,000 meters to four miles . At the sprint route they won five more races here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sloten course records were broken in three of the seven events , while the United States broke even against British Empire competition in fourfinals . The Australian , Pearce , won the world 's sculling title impressively . He started as favorite , but a fivelength margin over Myers was unexpected . The American battled gamely to hold his rangy rival in the first half , but tired and was decisively Whipped in the last 1,000 meters . The American doubles scullers , the veteran Costello and , not only outclas : ; ' d the Canadians , Wright and Guest , but broke their own course record by winning in 6:41 2-5 . Their previous mark was 6:43 4-5 . The Penn Barge Club four without coxswain lost to the British in the most exciting finish . The Americans led for 500 meters , but were unable to stand the spurt of the British quartet from Trinity College , Cambridge , who won by a single second , barely half a length . Switzerland , Germany and Italy divided the remainder of the regatta honors . The blue-shirted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Germans conquered the British pair without coxswain by one length , and the Swiss defeated the French pair with coxswain by two and a half lengths in two other record-breaking races . The Germans were clocked at 7:06 2-5 , beating the best previous time of 7:12 , while the Swiss , in 17:42 3-5 , eclipsed the former record of 7:16 1-5 . Pine Weather for Races . Fine weather prevailed for today 's finals of the regatta and the village was gaily decorated . A. stiff breeze was blowing down the course , . giving promise of improving the oarsmen 's times . Heats for third race positions in the regatta preceded the seven big races for the Olympic titles . The American contingent got off to a good start in the pair oared shells without coxswain , taking third place honors from the Italian crew . John Schmitt and Paul , the American pair , led from the start and won by 2 ' lengths . Their time was 7 minutes 20 2-5 seconds while that of the Italian pair was 7 minutes 24 4-5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Swiss Schochlin brothers beat the French Marcelle brothers by two lengths in 7:42 3-5 . This reversed the outcome of the meeting of these same crews just a week ago , when the French won by a foot . It was the Thames Rowing Club that the California eight beat to take the title . The Bears took the lead early in the race and held it practically all the way . At 250 meters the prows were level , with both eights hitting a high beat . At 500 the Californians were a quarter of a length ahead and the margin was slightly more than this at 1,000 meters , the half way point . At 1,500 the Golden Bears led by one length and , the furious British stretch drive could get back only half of this . Italy won the first of the seven championships when it defeated Switzerland by seven lengths in the four-oared shells with coxswain , while Germany took the second championship in the pair-oared shells without coxxswain , defeating Great Britain . The Italian victory in the fouroared shells with coxswain aroused tremendous enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The men gave the Fascist salute from their shell and then paddled to the judges ' platform with their arms so extended in salute . There ' they received a big wreath of flowers and the laurel wreath emblematic of their championship . In the pairs without coxswain the brawny German pair , Kurt Moeschter and Bruno Muller , who eliminated . the American crew in this event , led the British pair , O'Brien and Nisbet an the way , winning by a ' length . The Germans ' time Was it was a race to quicken pulses . Except for the first 100 meters , when the British got a slight jump , the Californians led all the way , but at no stage was their margin quite a full length nor at any time , except in the last furlong , was the result an apparent certainty . Youthful power and drive and an unconquerable spirit such as they have displayed in all their races this season enabled the Golden Bears to beat the more experienced Britons  --  a powerful array ? individually , but lacking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power to overcome a rather poor start and take a commanding lead . Under the vocal lashing of their coxswain , Don Blessing , and the impetuous stroking of Pete.Donlon , they had the reserve to withstand a great British challenge in the last half of the race . The race was won in the first 1,000 meters but saved in the last 1,000 , as both put everything into their stroking without their relative positions changing more than six feet at any time . Blessing did not wave the dirty towel which has been California 's battle signal in most of its previous close finishes , but the coxswain beat the sides of " the Golden Gate " ever faster with the tiller handles as he yelled for a higher and higher stroke . Donlon and his mates responded with probably the fastest racing beat they have ever maintained , going up to 40 per minute at the start of the last 500 meters and finishing at , 42 . The Californians ' time of 6 minutes 31-5 seconds was slightly slower than their best mark for the course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented the fastest race they have rowed . The Britons were clocked at 6:05 4-5 . Ducks Cruise Along Canal . The Bears thus put the finishing touches to a triumphant campaign which began last April at Seattle and ended in a colorful Holland setting , where the regatta excitement did not disturb the farmers ' work or prevent a flock of ' tucks ' from 7 minutes 6 2-5 seconds and the British time was 7 minutes 8 4-5 seconds . A big German delegation lined the canal banks and went wild , cheering and waving German flags as their compatriots received the laurel wreath , while the bands struck up the German national anthem . Britain won by half a length in the four without coxswain championship final , being timed at 6 minutes 36 seconds , to the Americans ' 6:37 . The Cambridge collegians came from behind to win in a desperate race . After the Americans had led by nearly a length at the halfway point , the British spurted and cut the lead to a half length at 1,250 meters , then nosing up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarter of the course . The Trinity College ( Cambridge ) boys clung to their advantage in a. thrilling stretch drive , despite the supreme efforts of the Americans , who , exhausted , keeled over in their shell at the finish . The British likewise were about rowed out , but appeared slightly the fresher . The American double scullers , Paul Costello and Charles Mcllvaine , arrayed against Joe Wright Jr . and Guest , scored a surprise largely because of the decisive fashion in which they won . The Canadians were rowed out completely after the race . Wright said he had rowed his hardest , but could not get any speed out of the shell . Near the halfway mark the Canadian shell seemed to lose life , while the . Americans were sculling in great style .                     