@@693442

txt The British Government as a result of repeated consultations and close examination of recent developments has now definitely fixed its policy in regard to China . It is asserted in official circles that the British attitude is fundamentally unchanged and that the Government now , as before , is prepared to negotiate with the responsible Chinese authorities , whoever or wherever they may be , on treaty revision , including questions relating les administration of the concessions . It is evident , " However , that if the policy defined tonight involves no change a new and definite approach is to be made to the Cantonese Government with a view to putting it into effect . Active steps are simultaneously to be taken for the defense of British lives and property at Shanghai and other centres . Warships and troops are to he sent to China , possibly to represent the armed hand within the velvet glove , which is again to be extended toward the Cantonese authorities . though this is not admitted in official circles . The principles defined in the declaration issued here on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pious expectations that may be abandoned as difficulties increase . It is the intention to apply these principles whenever and wherever the situation in China permits their application in any degree or form . It is declared that Britain only desires to maintain in close agreement with the Chinese people the necessary safeguards for trade between Britain and China . O'Malley to Make Proposals In view of this clear declaration of policy it is understood that Counselor O'Malley , the British representative now at Hankow , will be able to make definite proposals to Eugene Chen , the Cantonese Foreign Minister , regarding administration of the British concessions in that part of China now controlled by the Cantonese Government . Proposals are said to have been contemplated for a long time by the British Government and the fact that they are to be made to Chen now in the present difficult circumstances at HanRow is represented as a demonstration of persistent British good-will . It is not hoped that they will go to the full extent of the Cantonese claims , but it is declared that they certainly represent all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In other than official circles the approach to the Cantonese Nationalists on these lines is regarded as a policy whose results should make it perfectly clear whether the Kuomintang Government is prepared to establish relations with foreign powers on reasonable principles or whether mob violence is to be the dominating feature of their policy . The British Government meanwhile is stated to be determined to protect British nationals against any repetition of attempts to incite mobs against the foreigners . All precautions , it is learned , are being taken by the British Government to insure the defense of the British interests at Shanghai . More Troops to Be Sent . It was officially announced at Southampton today that two steamers of the Union Castle Line , the Kinfauns Castle and the Kildonan Castle , had been requisitioned by the Government to convey troops to China . Preparations are being made at Southampton to convert them speedily into troopships , and the Kildonan Castle will sail on Jan. 26 and the Kinfauns Castle on Jan. 29 . They are sister ships of 10,090 tons . A battalion of 1,000 marines was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday aboard the steamship Zeeland , which will arrive at Shanghai six weeks later . The First Cruiser Squadron , except the Dauntless , leaves Malta tomorrow for China . It is understood that the hospital ship Maine will accompany them . The report of the Willingdon committee , which inquired into methods of devoting the Boxer indemnity to the advantage of China , recommends that 5 per cent . of the indemnity fund should be devoted to famine relief and rural credits , 25 per cent , to other agricultural education and improvement , 23 per cent , to scientific research , 17 per cent . to medicine and public health and 30 per cent . to other educational purposes . As the report is unanimous , it is generally expected it will be adopted by the Government . Chen States Cantonese Case . Chen has telegraphed a message from Hankow to The Daily Express in which he epitomizes the aims of New China and " demands back the lost independence " of his country , subject to Chinese recognition of British property rights and their protection , which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign comments ascribe to me too much neo-Latin calculation . I reject the moral technique of European diplomacy , with its jungle of finesse and obliquities . British criticism illustrates afresh the aptness of Bismarck 's cynical remark , that he always told the truth because none believed him . " These are the facts : On Jan. 3 armed British forces bayoneted several Chinese ( two have been in hospital in a serious condition ) who formed part of a patriotic crowd at the boundary of the British concession here . The British authorities were warned that the continued presence of these forces in the concession must inevitably lead to bloodshed . These forces were later withdrawn , but that failed to end the crisis , which continued to be grave . " With British consent , my Government authorized the protection of the concession by Chinese forces . This was followed by the British Municipal Council abdicating its powers and it became necessary to organize a Chinese Municipal Commission to administer the concession in order to avert the collapse of its public life . The institution of this Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which must be regularized by negotiation between the British and Nationalist Governments . " In reply to the specific question as to what the powers should do to insure a smooth resumption of international relations , I must define concisely the larger issue with special reference to the British . The latter were the first to subject China to political and economic domination of the West . This was the work of the opium wars , in whin , the British defeated China and imposed a system , not of visible conquest , as in India , but of invisible conquest in the form of a regime of international control known as the ' reign of imperialism . ' " Tyical features of this regime are expressed in the British-controlled Chinese customs , extraterritoriality , alien-administered settlements , the concession consortium and other limitations on Chinese sovereignty contained In the general body of unequal treaties . " A country so controlled and fettered is obviously not independent . Chinese nationalism , therefore , demands back the lost independence of China . Our terms are the cancellation of unequal treaties on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The situation arising out of the new status quo in the concession is not only profoundly significant as an act in history , but as a direct summons to British statesmanship to take the lead in recognizing the justice of the nationalist demand for Chinese independence and to proceed to the redress of a great historic wrong . " In this connection I must categorically repudiate the suggestion that British humiliation is desired by us . But we do demand a settlement of the question of the concession which shall not deny its effective reincorporation within the Chinese territorial system , subject to nationalist recognition of the validity of all property rights of British nationals in the concession . "                     