@@694673

txt Upward revisions arc being made in estimates of the increase in unfilled orders of the U. S. Steel Corp . as of December 31 , last , to he published at noon today . Predictions now are that the gain will probably be between n00.000 and 400,000 tons , and sonic are looking for the higher figure to be exceeded . This will be the largest increase reported in several years . A rush of incoming orders in the last few days of the month , and adjustments of contracts which were made at the end of December are given as the reasons for causing the big increase . Originally the estimates were that bookings would show a gain ranging between 200,000 and : 300,000 tons . There has been a substantial increase in new orders . Usually the holiday season at the end of the year is a period of slackness because of inventory-taking and other activities which take the attention of consumers . This year . however , there was steady buying during the holiday period . This contributed materially to the good showing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would bring the total on the books of the corporation on December 31. last , to approximately 3.730.000 tons , the highest since January : 31. 1927 , when they totaled 3 . S00.177 tons . Orders at the close of November , 1927 , were : 3.341,040 tons . Operations of the corporation have been increasing steadily since the holiday shut-down , when they reached a figure slightly blow W.-I- . At present they arc in the neighborhood of 71 ? " c . With such a large increase in orders expected , it is only natural that plants should be speeded up . Should most  --  of the business now in sight develop into actual orders in the next few weeks , it is probable that the ingot production of the Steel Corr before the end of the month w ill be in excess of 75,1- . Finishing mills will increase the activities proportionately to take care of the demands of customers . Prices in heavier steel products are holding firm . Consumers who have come into the market with attractive inquiries have reported that the Steel Corp . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concessions to get these orders . It is the consensus among the leading steel trade authorities that , if orders continue to be booked in these heavier products at the present rate , the leading manufacturers will undoubtedly make moderate advances in their quotations . The difference between costs and recent selling prices have " left much to be desired , " as one steel man puts it , and a higher price range would be justified in many products . It is pointed out that this justification will be shown conclusively in the earnings of the steel companies for the last quarter of 1927 as they will probably reflect . the small margin of profit obtainable in that period .                     