@@695419

txt Fred S. Purnell , congressman from the 9th district of Indiana , today told an audience of 6,000 persons the story that Herbert Hoover fixed the price of wheat in 1917. was a lie . Mr. Purnell was dispatched here by the Republican national committee . He spoke from the platform at the 72d annual Williamson county state fair , from which former U. S. Senator T. P. Gore of Oklahoma for the Democrats yesterday repeated the peice fixing story . Today was Republican day at the fair . Representative Purnell followed Louis L. Emmerson , candidate for governor , and Oscar E. Carlstrom , candidate to succeed himself as attorney general . Assails Gore Story . " The story that Herbert Hoover fixed the price of wheat is an , unmitigated lie , and Mr. Gore , the former senator , knows it , " Congressman Purnell said . " He probably was dellIrr , ately falsifying . " The price of wheat was fixed by the then fair price committee appointed by Woodrow Wilson . Herbert Hoover at the time asked Wilson to be relieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement to the effect that Hoover was not responsible . Every member of the fair price committee made and signed the same kind of statement . This included Harry A. Garfield , the chairman , and Eugene Funk , the . member from Illinois , " The ' ; Indiana congressman , after speaking , left for ' Chicago where he is to broadcast tomorrow night . He said he had heard many of the farmers in the corn belt were blaming Hoover for the drop in the price of wheat when it t vas fixed more than ten years . ago and , that he is out to ' make speeches on farm relief and to nail that propaganda . The Republican state candidates , including Ruth Hanna McCormick , candidate for congress at large , Otis F. Glenn , candidate for U. S. senator , William J. Stratton , candidate for secretary of - state , are finishing their first week 's speaking campaign tomorrow . They have visited 32 counties , Here in the heart of the coal and fruit district of iou thorn Illinois the Republicans are speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Frankfort , in Franklin county , the principal mining town of the district . Another is In Mount Vernon , Jefferson county , Mr. Emmerson 's home town . The candidates here art telling the strongly union cdal miners the Republican party in Illinois always has been the friend of labor ; that it has passed many ' laws favorable to labor and will continue to be so . " As secretary of state for twelve years , " said . Mr. Emmerson , " I have had a great deal to do with the affairs of ? our state . I have been buying coal for the great penal and charitable institutions , the hospitals , and the asylums . Under ray administration of the office not one ton of coal that was not mined in Illinois has ever been purchased by the state , and not one ton that was not mined by a union miner has ever been burned . " This is true of my private as well as public ' life . I have been for home consumption of home products and for union labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney General Oscar Carlstrom also made an appeal to labor , but he spoke not only along local but national lines . " There is no state in the union that needs child labor laws except those which belong to the so-called solid south , " said the attorney general , " those states which ? have always been under the domination and administration of the Democrats . "                     