@@692005

txt Promising that France would work " to the limit of her strength " to pay- her obligations , Joseph Caillaux , French Minister of Finance , in a speech at the Lotos Club last night just before sailing for home on the steamship France , appealed to the " heart " of the American people and to those spiritual bonds between France and America , which he described as " above Questions of interest payments , " as the basis for a settlement of the Franco-American debt problem . In reply to a reporter 's question . Caillaux said he " might " return to this country in six months to resume the debt negotiations . M. Caillaux was the guest of honor at a dinner attended by about 400 members of the Lotos Club . Nicholas Murray Butler , President of Columbia University , who was toastmaster , was loudly applauded when he assured the Frencti statesman that the American people had a heart and that it would respond generously to the needs of France , despite " timorous " politicians . Myron T. Herrick , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he declared that money , politics or propaganda must not be allowed to sever the bonds between this country and France which have been made sacred by two wars . Tears came to the eyes of 11 . Caillaux as he listened to President Butler , who Paid an eloquent tribute to France , saying that her incalculable contribution to Western civilization and her repeated defense of that civilization on her own battlefield for many centuries had made the whole world , including the United States , permanently her debtor . Caillaux Deeply . Moved . As Dr. Butler ended the audience rose to its feet applauding . M. Caillaux himself , who sat on Dr. Butler 's right , turned to him on rising and embraced him affectionately , the applause increasing as he did so . Ae he began his own speech Calllaux 's voice shook with emotion . He Spoke in a low , tired tone , broken by occasional flashes of the fire he showed ten days ago on his arrival in this country . Apparently he was greatly fatigued by the strain of the Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " for me to answer Mr. Butler 's wonderful speech as I should do in my native language . " Caillaux confessed that he wept when he , heard a foreigner pay such eloquent tribute as did Mr. Butler to the battles France had fought for the common good of humanity and of civilization . He declared that Dr. Butler had spoken no more than the truth when he said that France had always stood-in ' , the front line in facing enemies that have always come from all quarters to assail civilization . Facts which Frenchmen will never forget , said M. Caillaux , are the manner in which France stood beside the young American Republic in its early days . and the repayment made by the United States when American troops joined the French in the World War " to preserve civilization once more . " " I shall go back after a hard journey , " he went on . " to give new proof of the good-will of America toward France . " " It is not a question of gratefulnesS on either part , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us something . we also owe her a great deal . These facts are in every mind . " M. Caillaux asserted that he ' had never realized how close the heart of . America was to the heart of France until he attended last night 's dlnn , r and heard President Butler speak . Appeal to the Heart of Armlet ' , " To the heart of America I appeal , he continued , " with no other thought than to ask all the people of America to look at my country with the same sentiments that were expressed here- a few minutes ago by Mr. Butler . ' In settling our obligations , be assuZeil that - we will do what we must do : tti the limit of our strength and that the real wealth of Fiance an &; the United States ' , is the common friendshIP ? their peoples . " There is something higher than ! t4 question of interest between men- 4iid between nations , and that , something-is the . common friendship between o ur ; : two peoples . In all these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare of France and the United States . " " Leaving your beautiful land and your friendly citizens , I bring to France memcries of the kindest greeting I ever had , ' of the most gracious , kindly and generous treatment on every hand . " M. Caillaux declared that France ' hoped for " peace eternal , " but that if civilization should ever be threatened by another war she would do her duty again as she has done it in the past . Progress Made , Herrick Says , Ambassador Herrick in his speech emphasized the sincere efforts of the French and American Debt Commissions to arrive at a settlement . That no final solution had been reached , he said , was a " grievous disappointment " to Americans as well as to French , especially because a settlement would have stabilized the uncertain situation which has prevailed for so long . " However , " he went on , " we must content ourselves with the fact that substantial progress has been made . ? We better understand each other 's viewpoint , and . consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this task to a happy conclusion . " Therefore let us consider that the day ' of final settlement is brought nearer , and we shall now resume the study of the problem better qualified to cope with its difficulties without bias or bitterness . " One of the outstanding facts of this conference had been the mutual respect . displayed by the members of the two commissions for each others opinions ' arid the evidence of mutual regard and determination to make no commitments ' that would embarrass their respective Parliaments , who entrusted their delegates with this delicate and important mission , each relying upon the sense of fairness of the other . " There seems to me to have been a concrete realization throughout the conference that France and the United hates cherish memories and unwritten Wedges , in trust for posterity too sacred to be effaced or marred in any circumstances . Therefore , the spirit which from the very first animated the Washington conference , impels me to say in paraphrase : ' What God has joined together , and mingled in the blood of French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics or propaganda put a. - under . ' " Ambassador Herrick announced that he would sail for France in a few days to resume his duties there . Butler Hite at Politicians . " Time and again , " said Dr. Butler , " we have within these walls in years past given welcome to notable representatives of France and public testimony to our appreciation of that noble country and our affection for her . Our guests tonight are facing homeward after having been engaged in as difficult and complicated a series of negotiations as can well be imagined . The American people appreciate the fact that a company so distinguished and so representative of different shades of opinion in the public life of France has come to discos , : in person with representatives of the Government of the United States the questions that have been at issue between them . " Despite what timorous or fractious politicians may say , and despite what sensational journalists may from time to time write , there never has been any doubt in the mind of the American people that settlement of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will always be made with sympathy , with mutual understanding stel ) vith forbearance . " The business of Government is in thc , : e modern days an involved and , lifficult matter . Many shades of opinion and many different interests , sometimes conflicting , are to be reconciled before any important public act van be taken . High officials in the executive branch of the Government must so conduct their affairs as to receive the support of their several Legislatures . " Then the press and public opinion itself are to be reckoned with . Government under these conditions is indeed a troubled and a stormy sea , and one may appreciate the saying attributed to Danton as he rode to his death , that if he had his life to live over again , he would I have nothing to do with the government . of men . France and America Alike . " Speaking in Paris some weeks ago , I ventured the statement that , judged by the community of ideas and ideals , no two modern nations had more in icommon than France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press for having overlooked the fact that the United States and England have a common speech , a common law and a common political tradition . The chiller , however , had paid no attention to what I said . Of course ? the United States is in language , In law and in political institutions the child of England , but , nevertheless , the communityl of ideas and ideals as to matters pond- I cal and matters social Is greater and closer between the United States and France than between the United States and England . The reason is this : " The revolution in England came so early that it overturned the political system without seriously disturbing the social system . The revolution in France , coming a century later , overturned both the political and social systems of the old regime anti brought about a situation wholly similar to that which had developed naturally , from English beginnings , in the newly made United States . The writings of Franklin and of Jefferson abound in evidences to confirm this interpretation of the facts . " Only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country of Burgundy , my imagination was touched for the hundredth time by the symbols and associations that surrounded me on every hand . Yonder a great battle was fought long centuries ago on whose fate hung the character of Western Europe for generations . French Straggles Recalled . " Over there a stand was made for freedom and progress which turned common men into heroes and brought the name of the place itself onto the permanent pages of history . In that town beyond , builders of Christian faith and aspiration six centuries ago began the beautiful cathedral which still dominates and ornaments the landscape . " To the right is the town where a great master of letters or a great artist or a great statesman was born . Great men and noble ideas seem to spring up on every hillside , and they have done a service to modern man which can never be repaid . We speak of debts ; for more than 2,000 years the modern world has been trying to pay its debt to ancient Greece , and the obligation grows heavier rather than lighter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France . " For 1,000 years she has made us all her debtor . Placed by nature where the paths of marching men converge , where the land is fertile , the hillsides beautiful , the river valleys rich and Inviting , and the shores abundant in charm , France has had to bear the brunt of every great struggle that hay taken place since Rome fell . " Through it all she has preserved her idealism , her power of reflection , her sense of the beautiful , her charm and her graciousness . These are the qualities which the heart of America feels and these are the qualities which lead the mind of America to the conviction that we shall forever be in the debt of France for what she has done for us all . " Gentlemen , hail and farewell . We offer you at once welcome and ' bon voyage . ' May favoring breezes and kindly seas make your homeward journey pleasant and may you always remember that , however difficult the public business upon which you have been engaged , you went out to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greed wishes of sincere and affectionate ' friends of France . " The speeches came to an end about 10 o'clock , and M. Cantu : : and his party were taken in automobiles , guarded by motorcycle police to the French Line pier , from which the France sailed at 11 o'clock . As the liner started to move out into the river M. Caillaux stood alone on the boat deck and waved adieu to friends who stood on the pier . The Minister had declined to discuss I the debt with reporters at the ship . All he would say was : 1 " I am going from America keeping souvenirs , memories and best feelings of New ' York , where I received much , courtesy , and also of Washington . " Senator Henry Beranger , Vice President of the French Commission , issued the following statement prior to the sailing of the France , " Our leave-taking is in no sense a stopping of our negotiations . It is merely a necessary interruption produced by the 3,000 miles . It would have been a joyous thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but when one realizes that one is de ling with millions of persons who ar4 so far away from each other , we believe we have accomplished a great deal . " Arrival of Caillaux Party Here . Caillaux and his party had arrived from Washington at Pennsylvania Station at 12:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon . He was welcomed by a committee of Frenchmen living in New York , include ing Maxime Mongendre , French Consul General . The Finance Minister motored directly to the Knickerbocker Club , where he was entertained at a private luncheon by Hamilton Fish Armstrong , managing editor of Foreign Affairs . Mr. Armstrong made public a list of guests at the luncheon , which included the following : Emile Daeschner , French Ambassador to the United States . erJaotesepphaSoismon , Vice President Societe GenBaron d'Estournslles de Constant , secrotary to M. Caillaux . It . Lacour-Gayet , financial secretary of the French Embassy . George F. Baker Jr . banker . ? Roland W. Boyden , ? f , ormer American member Reparations Commission . Archibald Cary Coolidge , Professor of History , Harvard University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . former Ambassador to Great Britain . Norman 1.1 . Davis . former Acting Secretary of State . Herman Had es of Morgan , Haes &; Co .. Paris . r Otto 11 . Kahn of Kuhn , Loeb &; Co . Frederick P. Kimmel , Director Carnegie Corporation . Thomas W. Lamont elf of P. bliorponrgteanCos ; Co. , former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury . James H. Perkins , President Farmers ' Loan and Trust Company . Frank L. Polk , former Under-Secretary of State . Seward Prosser , Chairman Bankers ' Trust Company . Benjamin Strong , Governor Federal Reserve Bank , Paul M. Warburg , Chairman International Acceptance Bank . After luncheon M. Caillaux , accompanied by the French Ambassador and the Consul General , took a stroll on Fifth Avenue , dropping in to see Pierre C. Cartier , the jeweler , in his office at 653 Fifth Avenue . DUPUY SEES DEBT PROGRESS . French Senator Predicts Early and Satisfactory Settlement . A luncheon in honor of Senator Paul Dupuy , owner of the Paris newspaper Le Petit Parlsien and member of the French Debt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , of which Senator Dupuy is an honorary member . In a short address the Senator referred to the debt negotiations and declared that a settlement satisfactory to both the Unites States and France eventually would be made . " We have just been staying some days in Washington , " he said , " in order to settle the French debt . We could not reach a final agreement , but it was a difficult enterprise on account of having to bring together two so different public opinions . Nevertheless good progress has been made and foundations laid on which future settlement will be built . It is an honor for the United States to have suggested the capacity clause , ' which constitutes a new element in international obligations , and Is equitable , especially for those resulting from the war . " We leave the United States not only I without any bitterness but with an ear1 nest feeling of esteem and sympathy to , ward the men with whom we have been negotiating . They have done their best and shown a perfect good-will , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France could offer . But the negotiations are not broken off . They are not even interrupted , and I have no doubt that in the very near future we can reach an agreement upon a solution satisfactory to both parties . " ; A member of the French group at I the luncheon interpreted Senator Du ; puy 's statement regarding the " capacity ' clause " as being a reference to Secretary Mellon 's welcoming speech in which mention was made of France 's ability to pay . Other members of ? the commission present yesterday included Vincent Auriol and M. Lamoureux , French Deputies , and Andre Gerand ( " Pertinax " ) , foreign editor of L'Echo de ; Paris . C. C. Green , President of the Advertising Club , presided . The speakers were introduced by Paul Meyer .                     