@@695945

txt The most revolutionary rules ever devised to regulate the conduct of lawyers , especially in negligence cases , and designed to end " ambulance chasing " or soliciting of retainers for any other branch of litigation were announced yesterday by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court , First Department . The rules apply only to the attorneys in New York and Bronx Counties . The new code , which also deals with the terms and with the settlement of litigation , is the response of Presiding Justice Dowling and Associate Justices Merrell , Finch , , Martin , O'Malley and Proskauer to the recommendations made by Supreme Court Justice Wasservogel in his report last October on his investigation for the Nppellate Division . The new rules prescribe many of the requirements which Justice Wasservogel recommended as necessary to stop ambulance-chasing. the only important features of the Wasservogel report omitted from the rules being those regarded as requiring legislative action . Bills have already been introduced to effect these reforms . Stress Importance of Rules , . Lawyers who studied the new code yesterday said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pending against seventy-four lawyers whose cases figured in the investigation because they declared to be " professional misconduct " any violation of the rules , and also provided for a session of court . at any time for the investigation of such violations . George T. Campbell , clerk of the Appelate Division , said that the special rules now promulgated were suggested originally ? by the City Bar Association and the New York and Bronx County Associations . These rules are the . result of the deliberations of the Appellate Division on the suggesstions of the associations and the recommendations of Justice Wasservogel , Mr. Campbell said . The first rule announced provides for their application to all attorneys practicing in the First Department , while the second , under the head of " Solicitation , " says : " No attorney shall directly or indirectly solicit a retainer or employment to present , settle , prosecute or defend any claim or action , or employ or authorize any person so to solicit on his behalf . " " Champerty and Maintenance " Rule .. The third rule , relating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new code Section 274 of the penal law in similar wording . For the violation of this section the penal law provides punishment as for a misdemeanor and also forfeiture . ot the right to practice law . This rule , which applies not only to negligence cases but to street openings and other branches of litigation which in the past have been profitable for lawyers , says : " No attorney shall by himself , or by or in the name of another person , either before or after action brought , promise . give or procure , or permit to be promised or given , any valuable consideration to any person as an inducement to placing in his hands , or in the hands of another person , any claim for the purpose of making a claim or bringing an action or special proceeding thereon , or defending the same ; nor shall any attorney , directly or indirectly , as a consideration for such retainer , pay any expenses attending the prosecution or defense of any such claim or action . " The rest of the code consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing with negligence cases , the first of which relates to " Statement as to Retainers . " The revolutionary nature of this subdivision is shown by the following text : " Every attorney who shall accept a retainer or enter into any agreement , express or implied , for compensation for services rendered or to be renederd in connection with any such claim or action , whereby his compensation is to be dependent or contingent in whole or in part upon the successful prosecution or settlement thereof , shall , within ten days from the date of any such retainer or agreement of compensation , sign and file in the office of the Clerk of the Appellate Division , First Judicial Department , a written statement setting forth the date of any such retainer or agreement of compensation , the name and address of the client and of the attorney , the date and place of the occurrence of the personal injury , and the terms of compensation . No attorney shall accept or act under any written retainer or agreement for compensation in which the name of the attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Must Deposit Collections . own merits and with regard to the individual interest of the client . " The same rule applies to any attorney for a defendant . A rule said to be designed to prevent claim agents of casualty companies from making settlements with claimants without the knowledge of the attorneys in such cases reads as follows : " No attorney shall communicate directly or indirectly upon the subject of any such pending claim or action with an adverse party plaintiff or defendant known to him to be represented by attorney without the latter 's knowledge and consent ; nor shall he permit any claim agent or other representative of his client to interview an adverse party plaintiff or defendant or obtain any statement from him , or make any settlement with him , without the knowledge and consent of the latter 's attorney . " The final rule provides that the Appellate Division may designate from time to time , either upon the application of the bar associations or upon its own motion , a Supreme Court Justice to hold " an investigation into the practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown to be reasonable cause to believe that they are engaged in objectionable practices in connection with any such claims or actions . " Some Proposals Omitted . The recommendations of Justice Wasservogel 's report , not included in the new rules because of the necessity of amending existing laws to carry them out , and which are now embraced in pending bills at Albany , relate to declaring 331-3 per cent a maximum share of any recovery to be paid to an attorney for his services when a contingent retainer is made with a client , and also deal with an extension of the power of the courts to punish perjury and criminal contempt . Justice Wasservogel recommended the addition to a judiciary law of a clause describing the power of the court to punish for a criminal contempt , the following : " Wilful disobedience to its lawful mandate , or the doing willfully and knowingly of an act without the mandate or authority of the court , where a statute requires such mandate or authority to be procured before such act may be done . " Justice Wasservogel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a misdemeanor . The rule provides further , under the heading " Deposit of Collections . Notice , " that whenever an attorney collects any money upon a claim or action , either by settlement or after a trial , he " shall forthwith " deposit the money in a " special account , separate from his own personal acrount , and shall not commingle the same with his own funds . " The lawyer is required within ten days afterward to cause to be delivered to his client , either personally or by registered mail , a written statement as to the sum received and all other information concerning the payment , together with notice as to the sum claimed by the 2ttorney to be due tam . Another subdivision , prohibiting the " combining or grouping of claims . " provides that no attorney for claimant or plaintiff " shall for the purpose of settlement or payment combine or group two or more such claims or causes of action or judgments therefor on behalf of separate clients , " and " each such demand action shall be settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  