@@693710

txt Twelve offers to adopt Roberta Jane Pratt , C-year-old foster daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Everett S. Pratt of Des Moines , Iowa , who accuses Mrs. Pratt of bruising and burning her with a curling iron , were received yesterday at the headquarters of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children . The offers , most of them from prominent New York residents , came in the form of letters and telephone messages to the society 's headquarters , 2 East 105th Street , where the child is being held pending the disposition of her case as a neglected child next Tuesday by Justice William Young fn the Children 's Court . Until the case is disposed of , the question of Roberta 's adoption can not be settled , according to the Children 's Society officials , who said they would oppose the Pratts in their efforts to regain possession of the girl . Opposition to the Pratts having custody of Roberta , it was said yesterday , would also be made by David T. Thompson of 159 West Sixty-sixth Street , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and told him he was a stepbrother of the girl . Mr. Pisarra took Roberta from a room in the Motel Plaza last Friday night after he had received a complaint the child had been neglected and mistreated . As a result of the child 's story he obtained a summons for Mrs. Pratt in the West Side Court . She appeared Tuesday before Magistrate John V. Flood , who adjourned the hearing to 10:30 Saturday morning , when Mrs. Pratt will give her version of the manner in which Roberta received her bruises Mrs. Pratt has denied beating the child . She wants the hearing to be secret . An attempt is expected to prove the child 's story untrue and that her bruises were self-inflicted . John J. O'Hara of 75 Maiden Lane . who is counsel for Mrs. Pratt , said yesterday his client would not only exonerate herself from the alleged charges of cruelty but would be able to convince the Court she and her husband were the proper guardians for the girl . He explained the Pratts never took out final adoption papers for Roberta because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her to quiet down before applying to the Des Moines courts for the final papers . Mr. O'Hara said that although the Pratts evinced a desire again to have custody of Roberta . he would suggest they relinquish guardianship and return her to the Juvenile Court in Des Moines . He frankly expressed doubt that his clients would follow his suggestion .                     