@@694909

txt " Go slow or conferences and treaties for the next few years , especially on naval matters . " said Philip Kerr tonight , speaking before a large group of M. P.s of all political complexions . The meeting had been arranged by the National Council for the Prevention of War , and the audience included politicians ranging from Lloyd George and J. R. Clynes to Shapurji Saklatvala , the Communist from Battersea . Mr. Kerr , who was secretary to Lloyd George during the war and now is secretary of the Rhodes Trust , insisted that conferences on delicate technical international matters were " fraught with grave danger " in the atmosphere of intensive publicity and popular attention they were bound to have . Urges More Informal Contact . What could do far more good , he suggested , was more and more informal contact in the next two or three years between British and American financiers , business men and journalists , and even the highest heads of State , to prepare ground for some future agreement . Such a course of action , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like those at Geneva last year , or by delicate points of interpretation which most naval treaties contain , or finally by the danger of Senate rejection in the United States . The all important date for a conference on navies was 1931 , when the time would come for continuance of the Washington treaties . Describing American opinion as he found it , Mr. Kerr said : ? " First of all , the United States wants equality for its navy , not inferiority . not predominance . Secondly , United States opinion demands freeaom for American trade in the event of any war arising in which it is a third party . That is the long established conviction of leaders of American thought  --  a conviction dating back to Napoleonic days , when to Americana Britain was the lawless nation on the high seas . " If it had not been for the sinking of the Lusitania and the invasion of Belgium similar British interference with American trade would have caused seriously strained relations . " Americans are determined never again to have their shipping interfered with . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kellogg 's proposal , but said important practical questions had to be answered . " How will the Kellogg proposal affect the signatories at war with a third power ? " he asked . " What will happen to the outlawry agreement in a case of self defense , or how will self defense be defined ? " He said that if war was to be outlawed some alternative to war , like conciliation and arbitration , must be found for settling international disputes . Lady Astor Scores in Commons . In the course of the resumed debate on the naval estimates in the Commons , First Lord of the Admiralty Bridgeman was again called upon to defend himself against accusations that the British delegates were responsible for the failure of the Geneva disarmament conference . One member expressed the view that Britain should have made greater concessions , as " AngloAmerican friendship would be worth a big price . " Morgan Jones , Labor , who was in America immediately after the failure at Geneva , said he found the general belief in the United States that the failure was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked the Government to offer to the United States some measure of cooperation in its movement for international peace . Viscountess Astor asked whether in the cause of peace between Eng land and the United States it would not be better for everybody to forget the Geneva conference , to stop harping on its failure and to press forward for another conference and further agreement . Her words were received with cheers . Mr. Bridgeman , replying to his critics , said there was reason to suppose that any alternative plans would be acceptable to the Americans at Geneva . He agreed with Lady Astor 's suggestion . They had honorable differences at Geneva , they never had violent animosities . It might be hoped that if feelings were not aroused and mischief done between the two countries they would be able to get some satisfactory limitation in the not very distant future .                     