@@686533

txt Practically all the building trades unions are willing to submit the question of wage reductions to arbitration , according to - William Hutcheson , president of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America . This statement , coming immediately after a meeting of the executive council of the building trades department of the American Federation of Labor , may ho taken as the semiofficial expression of opinion of that body . It amounts to an offer 9f arbitration between cmPlovers and employs In the building labor strikes or lockouts which are now blocking construction and helping to keep up rents In Chicago , Boston , Philadelphia , and numerous other cities . Let the employers go as far and the early resumption of building on a fair wage basis will be assured . Few persons want the wages of building trades men cut below a decent living rate. - Many persons want building resumed at a cost which will make It boons . We do not believe that the two things are incompatible . If the.mrtiticial restrictions of graft and conspiracy are removed -a great step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage scales would be a logical step in the same direction . If it comes soon It will mean a much greater season 's income for the workmen , even at slightly reduced wages per hour , than If the best building days of the year are lost In the deadlock . The federation has opened the way . Let us hope an agreement may be reached . THE BOY MARCHES . Boys ' week began yesterday with a parade of the high school cadets , marching , by the way , like veterans , the Boy Scouts , the Sea Scouts , and other organizations . The parade was a " hummer  --  a great credit to Chicago boys and their drill masters and leaders . It was an ocular demonstration of the stuff of American manhood , full of spirit pod inspiring in its promise of democratic aitizenship . Wo in the great western valley are proud of our crops , but hero is the- best of our zrops . Here is the guaranty , of the republic , here its blood and sinew and soul . Hail to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less ! We back him to meet any fate  --  the Aeanest , finest specimen of mankind the world ims seen . Three years ago his elderS ? marched sway to the world war and , thade it glorious page in history . The boys who marched yesterday in the sunshine of peace- are as ready as those we now call our veterans to do . and die at the call of . heir country . May they never be called upon to pay the price , but may they ever be ready in soul and body to pay it with a will . And peace , too , challenges them to service , to the service ef. ) , : igorous citizenship , to clean living , to - industry , to ? achievement for themselves and their country : ' : ? - - ? - . Boys ' week is America 's weede . KEEP IT . SPIKED DOWN . . City hall influence is behind a bill to release the sale of school property from the check now put upon it in the form of a requirement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : he well organizfd house with ease , the measure sailed into rough waters in the senate , where it is tow reported to be sinking for the third time . It is to be hOped there will be ho rescue . Chicago ' feeds under : it s Present rtgline all the cheeks on disposal of Its property that it possesses , and a fact more . If tare is anything left when the regime is wiped out it will be because it . was spitted dawn and clinched . THE TRADE COURT . One reason why jUstiCe is tardy in this communal ' is that courts have to try many disputes which never ought to reach them . These disputes turn upon questions- of fact , , and business differences which do not involve the interpretation or application of the laws , but which go into the courts when direct negotiation ' fails beCause there Is no other ready means of . deciding differences .. The Association of Commerce in establishing a voluntary tribtMal ? a:trade court -- is trying an interesting experiment . If it succeeds It will prove a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid litigation but to the community , which will find the courts more expeditious and the laws more ProMptly enforced . At present these trade disputes clutter up calendars and absorb much tiine of judges and juries wise might otherwise be trying real taw cases , and estieciaily criminal eases , That justice should be swift Is almost as important as that it should be certain , and the delays incident to our judicial ; ulministrattonof the la Mt are a harden unit a demonstration we should long ago have escaped . If , as we hope , the trade court is a success , our courts can ' work within their legitimate field at a , Speed hitherto unknown . ' rite suitor . will not lose time and money , through long delays . The offender wilt find punishment on the heels of his offense . That - will ' mean more for good government and orderly society than we can now estimate .                     