@@693795

txt The United States Navy dirigible Los Angeles was ? kept from landing for sixteen hours after its return from a training flight to Pensacola , - Fla. , by high winds . It finally landed at 2:30 o'clock this ' morning , ivhen the storm had subsided . The airship had reached her home airdrome at 10:30 o'clock yesterday morning . Lieutenant Commander Charles E. Rosendahl , a survivor of the Shenandoah *reek , who had been ? riding out tile bad weather all day and night , sent ' a - radio message to the air station here about 1:30 A. Id . to the effect that he intended to make a landing and go right into the hangar , instead of tying up to the mooring mast until dawn , as had been the plan after the weather had made a daylight landing impossible . Three blasts of a whistle then called 100 civilian workmen to the air station to augment the regular landing crew of navy enlisted men . The villagers arrived on the scene with lanterns to help the navy searchlights illuminate the field . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was all ready for their task the air station sent a radio message to the Los Angeles to land . The airship meanwhile had been circling the territory some distance from the field . Soon the light in the bow of the Los Angeles was seen approaching the field and descending toward land . The light stood out in striking contrast ? against the pitch blackness of the sky . Next were heard the signal bells in the cabin . As the dirigible came still closer observers on the ground could hear the voices of the officers calling orders to the crew . Then the nose of the big airship came into view , dropping- down toward the ground , ropes were lowered and the ground crew worked the bulk down . The airship was technically ? landed at 2:30 o'clock . whereupon the ground crew began moving it into the ' hangar , an operation that was expected to take thirty , minutes . At 2 o'clock this morning the wind had abated and the ground crew had been summoned to land the airship whenever its commander , gave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Los Angeles was , then cruising back and forth over the landing field , but her commander had not indicated whether he intended to attempt a landing or to remain aloft . Commander Rosendahl had a crew of thirty-nine officers and men aboard . Admiral William E. Moffett , Chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics , who sailed on the Los Angeles from Lakehurst to Pensacola as a passenger , was not aboard the airship , having left her at Pensacola . Left Pensacola on Monday . The Los Angeles left Lakehurst early Saturday evening for an unannounced destination . An hour after tier departure she wirelessed that she was bound for Pensacola . She arrived at Pensacola on Sunday and tied up overnight to the mooring mast attached to the airship tender Patoka in Pensacola Harbor . Leaving Pensacola at ' 3:30 P. M. on Monday , the Los Angeles carried a 110 per cent . excess supply of fuel and plenty of provisions for her personnel , according to her radio messages to the air station here . She cruised up the coast and arrived over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was then , blowing about forty-five miles an hour from the northeast . Authorities said that a landing could have been made , despite the difficulties , but that Commander Rosendahl decided to remain aloft until weather conditions were more favorable . The field was recently stripped of 186 Marines trained ' in landing the airship when they were sent to join the Sixth Regiment , bound for China . The present landing crew consists of 125 navy enlisted men experienced in the work , an additional 100 navy enlisted men who replaced the Marines and 100 civilian workmen at the air station . After circling about the landing field and hangar several times yesterday morning , the Los Angeles flew seaward about noon and spent the entire afternoon idling along the coast within sight of the air station . She was kept headed into  --  the wind , which was still blowing strong , and was run on two motors in order to conserve her fuel supply so that for much of the time she was almost stationary . Sudden Storm ' Menges Plans . It was planned in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wind usually recedes . With that in mind , 100 civilian employes who left the station at 5 o'clock were ordered to report hack for , landing crew duty at 7 ? o'clock . They returned at that time , and the Los Angeles then came in from shore , circling around the flying field several times . The wind had gone down somewhat . the landing crew was all ready , and the doors of the hangar were open , but suddenly a strong wind blew up again with a heavy downpour of rain . Commander Rosendahl again decided not to risk a landing .. The civilian workmen were sent.horee'soon. afterward.                     