@@686766

txt " It is just as hot as New York , " , said Eamon de Valera as he came away from a conference with Premier Lloyd George at 10 Downing Street today . That was all he would say , but a formal statement was issued officially to the effect that the conversations had been continued and would be resumed on Thursday . A flood of light was , however , thrown on the whole situation by a statement ' issued by Sir James Craig , who with his colleagues , had arrived at Downing Street just before de Valera left at o'clock . De Valera and-'Craig were in No. 10 together for some minutes , but they did not meet or ' see one another . Sir James and his colleagues returned to Belfast tonight . Before leaving London Craig said : " I am returning home well satisfied with the efforts being made toward peace . Mr. de Valera hat broken his silence and cleared the ground by the statement in this morning 's press that he proposes to found his claims upon recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ity at our recent election , the constitu. tional method of expressing ' self-determination , ' the people of Northern Ireland have ' determined ' their own Par. * liament ; which was opened by His Gratz. ious Majesty in person . Ulster Claims Recognized . " Mr. de Valera and his colleagues have already admitted the right of self . determination on the part of Northern Ireland by the fact that they themselves stood as candidates for the . Northern Parliament and submitted their policy of no partition . This was the only issue placed before the electorate and no partition was rejected by the largest majority which , so far as I am aware , ever has been returned at a general election in any party of the world . " Such being the true facts , it now merely remains for Mr. de Valera and the British people to come to terms regarding the area outside of that of which I am Prime Minister . The people of Northern Ireland on behalf of whom I speak , while claiming in the most absolute way possible , as , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , do not make any claim whatever to ' determine ' the terms of settlement which Great Britain shall make with Southern Ireland . When this is accomplished I can promise cordial co-operation on equal terms with Southern Ireland in any matter affecting our common interests . " Having reached the present stage I go back to Ireland to carry on the practical work of the Government . I feel that our interests are ably represented in the Imperial Parliament and , of course , our services are available at any moment . " It is obvious from Craig 's statement that no common ground has been discovered which would permit of a meeting between representatives of North and South Ireland or of a full confer . ence in which the British Government could join them . De Valera wants what Craig wilt not concede . Although it is understood that Lloyd George has not yet abandoned hope of reaching a common ground and is far from despairing of the situation generally , his position was tonight described as that of a man caught in a cleft stick . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widening the cleavage , and it is suggested , as yet more in irony than in earnest , that the possible means of doing that is along lines of such recognition of " self-determination as would enable.Southern Ireland to declare its independence as a republic , subject to safeguards for Ulster and guarantees and compensation for South . ern loyalists . Hopes of Settlement Lowered , LONDON , July 18 ( Associated Press ) . ? Sir James Craig 's statement , which was given out tonight in the form of an in terview , has put rather a damper on the hopeful spirit surrounding the Iri.gb. negotiations . ' Though it had been thought possible from the first that Ulster might adopt such an attitude , this sudden dashing of hopes that a peace conference would be assembled as an outcome of the separate negotiations of the . Prime Minister with de Valera and Craig comes some . what as a shock to the public . Tne Ulster Premier now declares bluntly that the British Government ' must reach its own agreement with de Valera , and that Ulster is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole Sinn Fein argument that Ulster is in the minority and must bow to the majority in Ireland . There is , some hope , however , that when Mr. Lloyd George meets Mr. de Valera. again on Thursday he may he , able by some means to rescue the negotiations from the apparent deadlock. , While the Premier was in , conference ! with Mr. de Valera he sent a telephone message for the Ulster leader , who , arrived with the Marquis of Londonderry almost at the moment that the Premie ? was taking leave of Mr. de Valera : in fact , the latter was not aware Anti ' afterward that Sir James had been . sumAgntd. 1116 4411e1R3E91 , e0. shows that Mr. Lloyd George received the Ulster Premier and his colleagues after de Valera had departed . Mr. Lloyd George conferred with the Ulster Premier alone . The members of their respective Cabinets accompanied . both Irish representatives , but so far as is known did not participate in the conferences with the Premier . It was . at first supposed that Sir James Craig and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior engagement , and that while there they would have consultations respecting future movements on their return to London . De Valera to Stay in London . The long adjournment of the Lloyd George-de Valera conference ? until Thursday  --  was believed to indicate that the Republican leader had a similar intention of going to Dublin on a consultative mission . But in reply to a question after the conrerence he said that , it was not his intention to return to Ireland . Lie declined to discuss the day 's events , but seemed cheerful . ? General J. C. Smuts , the South African Premier , has again appeared in the forefront of the settlement . That he is continuing his moderating influence in the negotiations is considered a favorable sign . From a reliable authority it is learned that a deadlock has developed between Mr. Lloyd George and Sir James Craig , and it is inferred that this concerns Mr. ( le Valera 's insistence that under any possible settlement any powers given to the Ulster Government must be derived , not from the Imperial Parliament , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity of ' Ireland is , from Mr. de Valera 's standpoint , absolutely essential to any possible negotiations . Mr. Lloyd George had been at his official residence in Downing Street only a short time this forenoon after his return from the country when Viscount Fitz Alan . the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland , called at Downing Street and had a long talk with the Premier , during which they were joined by General Smuts , the conference continuing more than an hour . It was learned today that the Prime Minister and General Smuts had a long d:sc'ission of the situation yesterday at Chequers Court . The Sinn Fein leaders have declared that Mr. de Valera considers the Ulster Premier as outside the scope of the Present negotiations . and they have declined to indicate even whether the time might come when he could be regarded by them as a party to the discussions . They were leaving the British Government to deal with him , they declared .                     