@@696654

txt Captain Frank Hamer of the Texas Rangers , who is conducting an investigation of crime conditions at Borger , the riotous oil town in the Panhandle , today reported to Governor Dan Moody evidence regarding the slayers of District Attorney John A. Holmes . He declared that he had obtained affidavits which fix the guilt upon Icertain persons who were about to be charged before the Federal grand jury at Amarillo with liquor law vio'lations . Holmes was betrayed by a man to whom he had given his intended information . Captain Hamer said that conditions in Borger were deplorable . It is not improbable that martial law will be declared in Borger by Governor Moody in the next few days . Town Built on Two-Mile Street . BORGER , Texas , Sept. 22 ( A ' 1 . ? The tumult of special investigations and charges of official conspiracy which has followed the assassination here a little more than a week ago of District Attorney John A. Holmes is merely an unusually turbulent chapter in the brief history of Borger , the most picturesque oil boom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was founded three years ago there have been nearly twoscore murders and that the perpetrators of but two of them have been punished . A mushroom oil town in ? its infancy , the city now has settled down to a steady growth , depending largely upon the carbon black industry , which now is maintaining a monthly payroll of $150,000 . In 1926 , when oil was discovered , thousands of seekers of the black gold moved to Borger . The situation was turbulent and Texas Rangers were called in . For a time they made between 75 and 100 arrests daily . When drilling had been finished , the oil wells outlined a field about forty miles wide and sixty miles long . J. A. Whittenburg , who had bought his land for a few dollars an acre , owned the heart of the field and refused to sell land for buildings unless he retained the mineral rights . As a result , the main street of Borger , two miles long , runs between two lines of oil wells 330 feet apart , the distance specified by law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main street . The two-mile-long town has been surrounded by carbon black plants which fill the sky with dense black smoke as they burn residue for the black . Sixty-nine carbon black units are operated by ten companies in the Borger area and additional units are under construction . Smoke from the plants often hides the moon , while daylight hours almost always are hazy . Most of the buildings are of flimsy sheet iron or composition construction . The town is prosperous , its payrolls totaling about $1,000,000 a month . It has a population of about 18,000.                     