@@694375

txt County highway police under the direction of Lieut . Lester Laird late yesterday dragged ponds near the links of the Skokie and Bob-o ' - Link Country clubs in their search for Teddy Franks , 15 year old caddy , who disappeared from his home at 1558 Jonquil terrace Just a. week ago . The police said they had found several witnesses who believed the boy might have been murdered , and today they are to drag a deep clay hole on the golf links and carry on further search for ' his body . They took action after they had questioned a dozen or more caddies , the boy 's mother , . Mrs. Irene Franks , and a number of others . Arrest One on Threat Charge . One rival caddy , Arthur Oral , 17 years old , of Highland Park , known among his companions as Gumbo , was said to have made threats against the missing boy . He was arrested on a charge of making threats and released on bond after being held for fortyeight hours . In their investigation the police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young Franks might have been done away with . They said they had been skeptical but thialy  --  decided to push their search . They learned that Teddy was a popular boy , that t he was well known among the members of the Sunset Ridge , as well as the Skokie and Bobo ' - Link clubs , that he was courteous and that women members often asked to have him caddy at some clubs . Caddies Tell About Threats . Some of the caddies questioned said the boy received larger tips than any of the others on the courses and that that had aroused Jealousy and ill feeling among a certain element of the caddies . Orsi was arrested on the complaint of Mrs. Franks . The mother said she had received information from Robert Lewis , 23 , a roving caddy known as Whitey , and from Nicholas Etienne. 18 , of Wilmette , known as Frenchy , that Oral had threatened her son . These two boys were questioned by the county highway police , to whom they told the same story they had given Mrs. Franks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Link club a week ago last Saturday when they heard Oral warn young Franks to stay away from there . quote Warning Given Boy . " ' You stay away froth here from now on , or they 'll find you in one of these ponds , ' " they quoted Orsi as having said . 01131 , questioned about this statement , at first admitted having said it , but later said he did not make It was after he had been repeatedly questioned in the forty-eight hours he was held that the police finally placed the threat charge against him . The Franks boy ; was last seen near the links of the Bob . ' o-Link club late in the afternoon a week ago yesterday .                     