@@694035

txt Though the naval conference at Geneva appears to be deadlocked on the main question before it  --  that of cruisers  --  there is confidence , both at Washington and London , that some kind of agreement will finally be reached . The delegates could hardly afford to break off without doing something for reduced naval armaments . In the matter of other auxiliaries , destroyers and submarines , the chief difficulties have already been surmounted . In that item an agreement might easily be reached if the total cruiser tonnage , and its apportionment among England , the United States and Japan , could be fixed . Yet it is obvious that if the latter and bigger question is not resolved , even the approach to an agreement concerning submarines and destroyers might be retraced . All classes of auxiliaries hang together in the belief of the naval experts . In connection with cruisers the trouble does not lie in the ratio of strength between the chief naval Powers . Great Britain has specifically denied any ambition to be surerior in that arm of the service to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the United States . But the hitch comes over total tonnage allowed . The British Admiralty has laid down what it believes to be the " reasonable requirements " of the English Navy . But these run anywhere from 150 , - 000 to 200,000 tons higher than the American plan had proposed to establish as a maximum . Even if there should be a compromise , and the English cut down their program , there would be a difference between the two navies in cruiser strength of at least 50,000 tons to our disadvantage . This would at once mean a building program for the United States . We should have to add as quickly as may be five 10 , - 000-ton cruisers in order to attain that parity which the British have conceded our right to enjoy . This is all very fine , and it is highly probable that on such terms an agreement might be reached at Geneva , but in that event what becomes of the Coolidge program ? The President has steadily set his face against enlarging our navy . He has urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This advice he has based upon a belief that the conference on naval disarmament would cut the chief navies of the world deeply , and so make it unnecessary for us to expand ours . The American delegates were sent to Geneva for the express purpose of cutting down naval auxiliaries , particularly cruisers . Now if the outcome is to attain parity with Great Britain by ordering a lot more , the Coolidge plan of economizing in the naval budget will clearly have gone glimmering . This embarrassment plainly confronted the Washington Administration from the very beginning of the negotiations . It would have been easy for our Government to find out in advance what the British desires and demands would be . This it seemingly neglected to do . At any rate , it produced at Geneva a program directly in conflict with the British Thereupon the charge began to be insinuated that Great Britain was seeking again " supremacy " in naval power . This was promptly dissipated by the almost effusive invitation of the British to us to build as many cruisers as we liked up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several , as the result of our journey to Geneva in order to make sure that we needed to build none , is a fair inference from the state of the parleys as at present reported . In that event , it will be another case of good intentions going wrong because of not having been thoroughly studied .                     