@@688905

txt In contrast to the " outbreak " that characterized the meeting last Tuesday night here in the Pillar of Fire Temple , services were conducted here tonight under the protettion of the State police and local officers . There was no interference , although about five hundred persons gathered outside the Temple while the services , conducted by Bishop Alma White , National head of the Pillar of Fire Church in America , were in progress . Twenty-two State troopers , each with a revolver in his belt , and six local policemen , each armed with a nightstick and a revolver , were ready to cope with any emergency . The presence of the State Troopers , four of whom later remained on duty in the temple , seemingly was a surprise to the townspeople , as it was : lot generally known they had been sent for . They took up positions of vantage long before the time set for the services , and the result was that there was no demonstration when Bishop White entered the building with a score of members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Klux Klan had promised to attend the services tonight , but if any appeared they did so without being recognized . No one wearing the garb of the klan was in evidence either before , during or after the services , but it was reported late tonight that tweltle - strangers entered the temple in a body and took seats near the back , remaining there until practically every one had left the edifice . The usual Sunday night parade of the members of the Pillar of Fire Church was dispensed with . There were about 400 persons inside the temple when the services started . These included many women . There were also a number of men there who are are alleged to have taken part in last Tuesday 's disturbance . In her sermon , Bishop Alma White said : " A delegation of the Ku Klux Klan made a seventy-mile trip to see me last night . They assured me I would be given every protection here tonight and on all subsequent nights . They did not tell me they had asked for State troopers or police , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday night 's trouble would not be repeated , " She said she never harbored any resentment against either negroes or Jews , and added I was born and brought up among the colored people . They are all my friends , as they well know . As for the Hebrews , I devote six pages of my magazine to them every month . I have also written two books favorable to them . One of these is ' The Chosen People . ' and the other ' The Restoration of Israel . '                     