@@695015

txt While Mayor Thompson was refierating his denials that there is to be a shakeup of his cabinet , it appeared yesterday that the persistent rumors had thrown a scare Into the gambling element . It was said that the word to close down had been passed to tile gambling Joints and most of them hat complied . Tile shutdown was ordered by Commissioner Hughes before his departure for a rest at Excelsior ? Springs . Mo. , and he threatened to discipline those of his captains who disobeyed the order . Also , It was said ' . that Acting Commissioner ? John Alcock had declined to assume responsibility for wide open conditions during his superior 's absence . Mayor Quiets Rumors . The reports current for several days that Commissioner Hughes and two or three other department heads were slated for removal in the cabinet shakeup bad subsided somewhat in the face of Mayor Thompson 's continued denials . The rumors , emanating from socalled political insiders , have been that Hughes will be replaced at the city council 's meeting on Wednesday and . that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Ettelson and possibly President Thomas J. Houston of the civil service ' commission . The shakeup , it was said , would be a move by the mayor to restore public confidence in his administration after the primary defeat of his faction . Asked directly yesterday if reports of the shakeup were true , the mayor said that he knew nothing about it . " If irresponsible people circulated the report that the secretary of war and the attorney general were to.resign , President - Coolidge probably would say nothing , " ho added . " He would not countenance such reports even with a denial . " Wait ' and Sec , Is Word . Meanwhile Commissioner . Hughes was still playing golf at Excelsior Springs . In telegrams and by telephone ho repeated his statement that rumors he will resign are false . Most of the political dopesters , although placing less confidence in the shakeup reports , assumed a " wait and see " attitude . Although the premature publicity may have temporarily upset the mayar-fs plans , they said , the shakeup is sure to come later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mayor spent his third consecu- , Aye working day yesterday In his city tall office , apparently having quit his iedroom-office suite at the Hotel Shernon for good .                     