@@695601

txt A bullish demonstration as a result of the Republican national success aras staged on the Stock Exchange yesterday . The buying started with the opening of business , commission houses having accumulated a large line of buying orders which found offering levels advanced in most issues . The natural result was that sharp advances were recorded in many issues in the initial transactions . Later some of the pools resumed operations ana carried their favorites ahead , and this attracted a public following in such stocks . Profit taking which developed from time to time on the advancing scale was easily absorbed . because of short covering and new buying which became more impressive in many directions as the session progressed . During the afternoon the action of the copper stocks was the feature . These issues were remarkably strong , reflecting the excellent technical position of the group . Profit taking by outsiders who had followed previous upturns had been absorbed in the past ten days , and when a new demand developed it was demonstrated that offerings were limited . Sentiment . however , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength afforded an excellent opportunity to take profits in sonic of the issues which had been moved ahead rapidly , and in these quarters the theory is held that stocks sold during the current upward movement could be replaced at more favorable levels when the buying has run its course and the market reacts . Professionals and others who have persistently maintained an optimistic attitude were confident that the market would have materially higher levels before sufficient selling would be attracted to cause a reaction . Trading Commission houses were buyers on balance . Most leading firms had buying orders in the early dealings . and while several were advising clients to take profits at the higher levels , it was reported that the public was no : following the advice . Professionals and traders covered shorts actively during a great part of the session , but this buying was more than offset by the supply from these operators during the upturns . This element sold on balance . Election Enthusiasm Enthusiasm over the election results . which were better than the most optimistic predictions , brought heavy buying into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upturns . The advance on Monday was due to expectations of Republican success . and was the result of buying by professionals and other large operators Yesterday there was a much larger outside demand than there had been before the election . indicating that the public had waited for the outcome before reentering the market . Short Cinering Short covering was urgent at times during the forenoon The advances in some of the higher priced stocks uncovered buying limits on stops which had been placed in the market by the shorts , and this helped many issues toward higher levels . There had been a substantial short interest among outsiders in recent weeks , but the covering has been steady and the bulk of the present short interest is credited to traders who had been bearish on the market recently . Profit Taking Advices to take profits were sent out by many firms during the advance It was contended that when buying orders have been filled the market is likely to develop irregularity again . One firm in its recommendation to clients said " The conversion of paper profits into liquid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a fair average selling level , but will place accounts in a position to take richlantage of the onport unity that will be offered at the expiration of this period for the accumulation of meritorious stocks at mote reasonable levels . " Money Call money was easier . This aided the optimists . It is the theory that pools which have been operating in various issues in the past probably will be encouraged to resume activities with funds available in liberal quantities at reasonable charges . Outsiders have given little attention to the fluctuations in money rates , but the groups have been watching the monetary conditions closely , and firm periods have witnessed lessened activities by these pools . On the theory that iaiiroad merger might be given some impetus by the new administration to Washington after March 4 there are certain interests who are inch:led to adopt . a long ? osition on rails . These stocks have been showing signs of meeting more outside buying in the past few drive . and this is considered a response to the buying adviecs which nave come from so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail group , laniou Pacific has been meeting some excellent buying . The good earnings of the company , coupled with the valuable holdings of securities , arc factors which are receiving more attention daily . Odd lot buying of the stock has been growing larger . Canadian Pac.fic , Atchison and New York Central are also meeting with increased outside buying orders , many of them in small lots . These stocks are expected to be among the features when the mail group moves ahead . Public Utilities A group which is likely to receive particular exploitation because of the election is the utility department . Many mergers are pending . Those likely to be looltad upon as being for the public good and designed to lo  --  et the cost of service to the ultimate consumer are expected to meet with approval from the authorities . Buying of these stocks has come from interests prominent in the industry . Otis Oil stocks also are view ed as in a favorable position . as it is generally believed a major economic improvement is coming in which the government is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mergers and organized selling to foreign markets are influences which are being commented upon as favoring long pull purchases in this group Standard 011a Encouragement is given optimists on the oils by the action of the so-called Standard issues . The buying of these stocks has been impressive in recent sessions . It has attracted a public following , not only in the Standard Oils , but also in some of the other stocks . Copper Stocks Interests who have been active on the long side of the copper shares maintain that the outlook is still decidedly favorable in that industry . They call particular attention to the fact that the Copper and Brass Research Asssociation estimates that the proposed electrification of the Pennsylvania Railroad will require approximately 55. - 000,000 pounds of copper , and point out that other projects , still to be announced , will mean that the domestic demand for the rod metal will continue large . In addition there is evidence that foreign consumption will hold at a high rate for some time . American Telephone American Telephone &; Telegraph is still a favorite for investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by several firms have brought an increased odd-lot demand for the stock . The company cans 98 ' ; interest in Western Electric , which manufactures all the instruments used in the Bell system , and is becoming an increasingly important factor in the radio and talking motion picture fields Western Electric now makes and , through a subsidiary , sells and services all the equipment used in the Vita-phone and Movietone systems of sound and motion picture synchronization . Over a period of years the earnings from this source should become increasingly important . Chrysler An authority in the automobile outlook for Chrysler is as favorable as that of any interest in that industry . It is pointed out that the foundation has been laid for an expanding organization which has esa ellent prospects for the flame . This view has been responsible for scale buying of the stock during recent reactions N'rig ht Wright had a sensational opening advance . Offerings have been growing smaller recently , as considerable : tot% has been taken out of the market . A stoiy is heat that a group of bankeis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company 's properties recently and are enthusiastic as to the earning power possibilities for 1029 . These interests have been buying into the stock . Otis Elevator Earnings of Otis Elevator for the nine months ended September 30 were $12.31 a share , or pi actically equal to profits for the full year 1027 . Estimates are that oetween $15 and $16 a share will be shown this year . The company has been showing steady improvement in revenue , and this has brought some quiet accumulation into the stock . Vanadium Buying advices went out on Vanadium from one large commission and wire house which pointed out that the company 's expansion , as a result of its entrance in the industrial chemistry field and its production at the flex titanium mine in Virginia , should result in much larger earnings in the future . This arm estimates that earnings next year could be between $15 and $20 a share on the stock . The company is in a strong financial condition Many important intei eats have taken a long term position in the stock . Kroger Sales of Kroger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended October 27 the gain amounted to ** It has been this expansion which has brought accumulation into the stock during all recent recessions . The buying has come from scattered rources. but it is noted that higher prices did not attract profit taking from important holders of the stock .                     