@@692111

txt Two foreign observers , one from England and one from France , who were here on election day , were struck by the general good humor with which the results were received . They saw the defeated candidates taking their medicine gracefully and sending hearty congratulations to the winners . Moreover , they noticed the marked good will shown to Mayorelect WALSER , Governor Sauna and the Governor-to-be of New Jersey , Commissioner MOORE , by opponents who had been fighting them as hard as they could , sometimes even with bitterness . Of course , acquiescence of this kind was uncommonly easy this Week in view of the overwhelming nature of the victory won . There is no use in keeping up anger against a man who has conclusively proved that the far stronger battalions of voters are on his side . Even election bets are Paid cheerfully when the decision at the polls is so like an avalanche that no one thinks of waiting for the official count . It Is an old trait , often noted , this American good nature in politics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our civic temperament . They have said that it would be a good thing if we had more citizens who could remain evetted and wrathful during a whole year , instead of at once cooling off and smiling after the election is held . On the other hand , some political philosophers have regarded it as a form of . Amerlean belief in democratic institutions . We oppose a party , but when it has shown that it has a majority of the electors behind it we submit to its rule . This is said to be a part of our law-abiding instinct in this country ? an instinct which , in view of the vast amount of current lawlessness and crime , certainly needs all the bouquets that can be thrown to it . But no one disputes the main fact . Americans take their politics good-naturedly . This does not mean that all the flowers which seem to grow over the party wall as soon as the votes are counted are guaranteed not to wither . There is for the time being a great rush of compliments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of support from inveterate enemies . The hope is expressed , without the tongue being too prominently in the cheek , that he will make an excellent Mayor of New York . As for Governor Sams , his praises are loud in the mouths of his opponents . He has shown himself a wonderful political strategist and votewinner . State and city are called upon to pay to him their tribute of pride . The measures of governmental reform which he advocated and pushed to success are spoken of as a great constructive work , the chief author of which all the people delight to honor . All this is highly amiable  --  while it lasts . Probably no one knows bett-r than Mayor WALKER and Governor Sarno that it will not last long . The new Mayor will have troubles enough in his own political household . From outside it he will quickly corns in for severe criticism , whether wholly deserved or not . And at Albany , before January rolls round , it is certain that Governor SMITH , will find organized In the Republican Legislature an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry out the constitutional amendments just adopted by the people . Particularly in the matter of the reorganization and consolidation of the State departments will he discover all sorts of thorns strewed . in his path . Today 's good nature will be soured into partisan hostility . In that wise and at that time will came a test of the real quality of American good nature in politics . Isit simply an evanescent thing , good only for election week ? Does it really denote political indifference and callousness ? Or does the ready and cheerful submission to the will of the majority carry with it in the minds of the people an obligation to help in carrying out that will ? Politicians count upon short memories and easygoing dispositions . They may hope at Albany that the significance of the voting on Nov. 3 will soon be forgotten , and that their schemes to undermine and impair the work of Governor SMITH will pass unnoticed by the people . But that , if it comes , would be good nature carried almost to the point of criminal indifference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gets through with the next Legislature he will have to appeal to the people to renew their endorsement of his projects for the betterment of this State . According as they then respond to him shall we know whether their good humor and good will are merely conventional forms of speech , never intended to be backed up by action .                     