@@687169

txt The Arms Limitation , Conference will finish its work-within two months , one ' of America 's " big four " deleiates predicted Thursday . The parley , he said , is making better-progress on bOth liMitation of armament and Far Eastern questions than was expected , he said . The United States , the American ' delegate ' indicated , will present no comprehensive plan.for limitation of armies , discussion to be based on Premier Briand'a speech on this question before the conference next week . The " big nine " of the arms conference wentinto secret session ' today to go over China 's program for making the Far East less of an international trouble breeder . Japan 's position held the interest of those who , from the outside , watched the gathering of the heads of all the delegations now here . The question being asked was whether Prince Tokugawa would reply for Nippon to the Chinese proposals as submitted yesterday . NarroWing . of the Far East conference to the nine heads of delegations was taken to indicate an intention to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , questions involved . The " Big Nine " are the men whose approval or disapproval will in the last analyiis spell the fate of the various plans put forward . The arrival of the delegates was again watched by a crowd of onlookers , somewhat increased today by the improvement in the weather . The public was not permitted to get closer to the Pan-American building , however , than the steps leading from the street to the Plaza . A meeting was held Thursday of the sub-committee appointed to outline a course of procedure for the discussion of the Pacific and Far Eastern questions on the part of the full committee of delegates appointed by the conference to deal with those subjects , The sub-committee , consisting of heads of delegations of powers , recommended that at a meeting of the full committee of the delegates there should be , first , an opportunity for general discussion relating to China , and then there should be a discussion of the various particular topics in the order listed in the tentative agenda which had been suggested by the American Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese delegation in connection with the appropriate heads to which the several proposals relate . The Senate sub-committee adjourned . Full committee is to be convened at a time convenient to members of the delegation . Washington  --  The Committee on Far East and Pacific questions has been adjourned for two days , owing to illriess of the Japanese Ambassador .                     