@@689849

txt There is no necessity They Hurt to get excited over the Only failure of the German Themselves , Ambassador and his staff at Washington to see the propriety of putting their flag at half-mast as promptly as did the representatives of every other nation except the Austrian . Indeed , what one should feel in considering this unpleasant " incident " is something like regret . like pity , that there should have been such a display of sheer stupidity by men belonging to a race in so many ways highly intelligent . For stupidity it was . and probably little or nothing else , and stupidity of a kind often shown by Germans before , that permitted the giving of this Petty and utterly needless affront to the American people , and the giving of it at a time when Germany has been brought so low as to be more than willing ? to be eager  --  to accept American charity for her starving children . The Germans are privileged , of course , to believe , if they will and can , that part , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to acts of commission or of omission by Mr. WiLsox . He has had his critics here , too , as he has had in other countries , but only by the Germans and the Austrians has the manifestation of animosity or the expression of grievance been continued after death has closed the account . To make a bad matter worse , the refusal to half-mast the German and Austrian flags was explained , belatedly , but as soon as it was realized that an explanation was in order , by the empty technicality that Mr. WILSON was a private citizen and therefore not to be noticed by foreign Governments . That was only an excuse of the sort that anybody can find for any act by looking hard enough , and it was made the more absurd by the later statements that , as the departments in Washington were to close while the funeral was in progress , therefore Mr. WILSON was not a private citizen and the two flags would be lowered for a while . in other words , these Teutons lacked the courage of hate as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they could by a display of gross discourtesy , proceeded to harm themselves still more by an inadequate mitigation of their original conduct . Why is it that GerAre They mans so frequently a Race show a constitutional of Peasants ? inability to see the necessary consequences of their acts ? They are not lacking in education , of knowledge they have much at command , both general and special ; they have more than their share of some sorts of sensitiveness , and they have an elaborate system of manners for use on what they consider fit occasion . Yet again and again they have done things , sometimes seriously important and sometimes intrinsically trivial , the inevitable effect of which , instead of being advantageous to German interests and repute , was injurious to both . And always they are filled with indignant surprise at finding themselves unpopular  --  the objects of condemnation or ridicule ! in one of the more significant books of personal experience in wartime ? " An Englishwoman in Berlin " ? an old German Baron of the Junker type , but with unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble with the Germans was their Primitiveness . He declared that even their aria- 1 tocrats were only peasants slightly veneered . and that their errors in action arid policy were due to an underlying inability to understand the civilized world 's accepted standard 's . This is a theory which most Germans would repudiate violently , but it serves as well as any other that has been suggested to explain the most irritating of German peculiarities  --  the peculiarities that just now are most harmful to themselves . They have to contend with nothing in ' the way of racial prejudice in the ordinary sense of that phrase , for everywhere they are judged on individual qualities , good or bad , which is all that anybody in reason can ask Or expect , but many of them do have a most lamentable talent for offending their neighbors , and they seem to exercise it about as frequently now that they have a President as they did when they had ? and almost worshiped ? a I Kaiser . Among the almost One Quality innumerable expres Marks sions of condolence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all the peoples and all the lands in the world there are to be found every one of the old and established phrases for such use , but there also are to be found many that show in a remarkable degree a personal emotion , deeply felt . This is what imparts a certain originality to hundreds of these tributes , and they can be read with an interest that often is lacking to the words of official grief . In these messages , too , there often is to be seen exemplified the characteristics of the writers  --  they say what they would be expected to say , some saying it better and some not so well as knowledge of , them would lead one to expect . Of the purely perfunctory and of the insincere there is hardly a trace in any of these communications and appreciations . From former friends , and from former antagonists not less , the absolute honesty of Mr. WILSON 'S intentions gets recognition . and again and again it is Proclaimed that , though dead , his work is not done , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring the nations into new and better relations . Showing a consisHis Farewell tency of which he Like His Probably is proul . Mr. . ZANowiLt. , uses in his Salutatory last speech to Americans about the same tone that marked the first one delivered by him after his arrival and the others that followed it .. Ha - ovilently. ? - detarmain61 baarst started that he would leave to others the task of flattering us ? that he would say little or nothing ? about such virtues as we may have and a good deal about the faults that mark us . If " Mr. ZANCWILL . were a man of less ability , and of ability less well known in this country , he might be . suspected of adopting the rdle of brutal critic as an easy way to- achieve a notoriety that would pass for fame . Other foreign visitors have done that . and they had their reward . Toe-method is antiquated now , however , for we are less sensitive to the scolding of strangers than we used to be ; and as Mr. ZANCWILL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motive . What it was is something of a mystery . for his criticisms have not been marked by any-Ching like as much of accuracy as of vigor ; they have evidenced no great powers of observation , bit rather the reverse , and we know no more about ourselves than we did before he came . He has made the mistake of assuming that America and the Americans can be summed up in single words . The country is too diverse for that , its population too heterogeneous . Generalizations about us necessarily are of narrow applicability , and therefore they all are false . Anything- is true about some of us ; nothing is true about all of us.                     