@@694151

txt A lady who describes herself as a member of the Women 's Peace Society writes to this and other newspapers on the Sao:co-Vanzetti ease , offering what she is pleased to call ' the fundamental principle of the sacredness of human life under all circumstances . " There are some women and not a few men , for that matter , who are incapable of consecutive thought or reasoning . Nevertheless there is an opportunity for this lady pacifist to inculcate some of her views on the sacredness of human There are two murderers awaiting execution in Massachusetts to whom she can ex. /viand that doctrine with the hope of inspiring at least contrition . There is a woman alive today who would warmly agree with this sentimental lady on the sacredness of'human life . She is the widow of the paymaster these men murdered in cold blood , in order to loot a pay-roll and not for any political purpose , however wrong-beaded . These sentimentalists can never have read the evidence they profess to consider unconvincing . If they had they would have found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to influence or prejudice the jury in 1920 . That suggestion was introduced by the counsel for the defense , only after the cock and bull alibis had been proved preposterous and when the men themselves , as admitted by their own counsel , were shown to have lied , with no conceivable reason if they were innocent , in the first stories they told the police . Life is relatively but not absolutely sacred . It is a question of protecting the greatest number of lives in their relative sanctity . Murder threatens all society . This protesting lady 's sympathizers , the men who threw bombs into the New York subways on Friday night , showed that they had the same poor opinion of the sacredness of human life exhibited by Sacco and Vanzetti , to say nothing of the other three ruffians who escaped . Murder may be the sudden , terrible impulse of a mind not essentially criminal , under influence of jealousy or resentment of an affront . Such a criminal is not an enemy to society and the tendency is to treat him , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cold-blooded murder of a wounded man lying on the ground , in order to terrify the spectators is a crime against society . Society can not too quickly put the criminal beyond the possibility of further crime . In any ordered community where lifen and property are secure , capital punishment is a minor problem . The opponents of it in Britain , with its low-crime record , could always obtain a hearing but never any real foothold . In that country it has been found that one of the best assistants in safeguarding the sacredness of human life is the hangman . No doubt that " convention of a hundred whales " reported by an incoming steamer was beyond the 12-mile limit .                     