@@690576

txt With the State campaign in Maine entering upon its final week and its decisive stage , the Ku Klux Klan issue upon which the Democrats depend for victory has obtained new emphasis through a statement made to audiences today by William R. Pattangall , the Democratic candidate for Governor . Mr. Pattangall has been accused by speakers who have been sent into this State by the Republican National Committee of " dragging the Klan issue in by its heels , " with a view to beclouding the real issues of the campaign . In one speech delivered in this city last night and in addresses before audiences in other Cumberland County communities today Mr. Pattangall presented evidence to show that the Klan Issue was created by the Republicans . its chief sponsor being Governor Percival P. Baxter , who up to the time of the . Republican primaries . was looked upon generally ad the leader of the Republican Party in Maine . The Democratic nominee for Governor . in support of his statement . quoted from a speech made before the Lincoln Club in Portland by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this address , which subsequently was distributed throughout the State in pamphlet form over the Governor 's signature , the Republican Chief Executive of the State said that the Klan issue overshadowed all other issues in Maine . This was before the Maine primaries . at which the pi-01*ra Republican nominee for Governor , Ralph 0 . Brewster , won the nomination with ' .. he support of the Ku Klux Klan . Calls Klan a National Issue . Before leaving this city late in the afternoon to continue his campaign . which today will carry him as far as Bath and Brunswick , Mr. Pattangall said he felt certain that the Klan issue would remain in the campaign until the end , despite a statement from his Republican opponent made public today , in which the latter repudiated the Klan . Moreover , Mr. Pattangall said , the Klan , in his opinion , had become a national issue . " The Ku Klux Klan , " he declared , " Is the only issue In the Maine campaign today . I regard it as a national as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the South and spreading into Northern States , has made it so . John W. Davis . the Democratic nominee for President . has taken his stand boldly upon the Klan issue . Until President Coolidge comes out in the open and declares himself , the issue will remain national in its scope . And I predict that the President will not dare to declare himself until the ballots have been counted in the Maine election . " There is no doubt that the Democrats are optimistic over the outcome of the election Monday , to which the entire country is looking forward with interest as an indication of the way the political wind blows . There is no doubt that they are conducting a fight with real steam behind it and hope of victory to urge them on . The contrast between the situation and outlook one week before election day this year with the situation and outlook in the Presidential campaign four years ago , when the Republicans carried the State by about 65.000 in the State election and by 77,500 plurality for Harding in the November election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago Mr. Pattangall was a candidate for Governor . He got more than 76,000 votes , his opponent , Governor Baxter , winning by 28,500 , approximately . The Republican campaign managers , while Insisting that the repudiation of the Klan by Sehator Brewster , their candidate for Governor , has removed the issue from the Maine campaign , are nevertheless nervous and are anxiously awaiting the reaction from the statement made on the stump by the Democratic nominee , as well as that of their own candidate . Senator Brewster 's statement was made in a letter to Edward B. Tibbetts of Bangor . a Republican . Mr. Pattangall is scheduled to make a speech at Bangor tomorrow night Before leaving Portland this afternoon the Democratic ) nominee said he would take the Ku Klux Klan and its support of the Republican candidates as his text for the Bangor address . Quotes Governor Baxter . The part of Governor Baxter 's Lincoln Day speech quoted by Mr. Pattangall in his addresses today follows : " The most uncertain thing in Maine politics- today is the Ku Klux Klan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and who openly state they will control the next Legislature and elect their own Governor . This organization is growing daily and opposition seems to strengthen it . Its program is well defined , its leaders aggressive . ' : Our people are in hostile camps . They forget that there are other important issues at stake in Maine . In years past the dividing line between citizens was party , Republican or Democrat . Party principles were involved and the records of Administrations were scrutinized . Today racial and sectarian animosities seem to , have become campaign issues , to have taken the place of parties . It is most deplorable that these should dominate the political situation . " Maine formerly was a State of tolerance . Party harmony and respect for each other 's opinions , religious and Political . prevailed . That commendable condition has passed , and now families and communities are divided , and there is an undercurrent of discontent and suspicion . So unrelenting is the conflict that every candidate for office , from lowest to highest , it put to the test ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding administrative positions , about whom there is no taint of sectarian prejudice , are being threatened with defeat unless they declare themselves . Certain departments are criticized because of the religious beliefs of Some of their employes . If this continues our voting list no longer will be marked with capital R. or D. but with the letters denoting anti-Klan - or Klan . Outside of political life , what almost amounts to boycott prevails in some sections of our State , " Mr. Pattangall , in commenting on the I utterance of the Republican Governor . ) said that he undoubtedly depicted the situation on Feb. 12 . Of " **46;300;TOOLONG ' test was waged between him and Senator Frank Farrington , his opponent for ' the Republican nomination for Geyernor , " Mr. Pattangall said . " The sole ' issue ? betwen them-Mae , the- s e. - r ? The-condition which  - -  Governor described . instead , cs ? improviniree-grew steadily worse . The victory of the Klan in the Republican primary emphasized all of the evils which attended the attitude of the Chief Executive and which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of this utterance of the facts , is the argument being put forty by Senator Brewster 's supporters , Including the Governor himself , that there is no Klan issue in Maine and that alone am responsible for the introduction of the discussion of the Klan In Metric politics . " I appeal from the Governor engaged in a partisan campaign to the Governor addressing the people as their Chief Executive on the anniversary of the birthday of Abraham Lincoln , when the inspiration of the hour and the responsibility of his position led him to speak truthfully and frankly . " Senator Brewster 's Letter . The Tibbetts letter made public today by Senator Brewster reads as follows : " I have your letter inquiring as to my views . " I agree entirely with the attitude of John W. Davis and Charles G. Dawes that this is not a political issue . Both the Republican and Democratic platforms in State and nation have taken the same position . " I , am not now , nor have I ever been . a member of the Ku Klux Klan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraternity which I joined as an undergraduate at Bowdoin . Neither hi:ye I sought the support of any group or organization of our citizens , however bitterly they may , oppose me , " If anY organization in this State advocates taking the enforcement of law into their own hands , out of the hands of the constituted authorities , I am against such an organization . " If any organization seeks to apply a religious test for public office , I a:n against , such an organization , because our Constitution clearly provides that ' no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office under this State , ' and I shall gladly take my oath to uphold this provision in my exercise of the apwinting power . " If any ' in this State recognizes an un-American allegiance in determining the exercise of their civic obligations to our State and nation . I am against such an organization . " It is exactly as accurate to say that my opponent is the candidate of the Knights of Columbus , as it is to say . that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has always been my poor jsitiuostn . that neither charge was fair n " The came charge ' was made in connection with the charter fight and the council fight last year in the City of Portland . but the citizens of , Portland were not deceived and overwhelmingly endorsed both the new charter and the council ticket . The results have amply demonstrated that any fears were groundless . " My election as Governor on Sept. 8 Will be a Republican victory in the State of Maine  --  nothing more and nothing less . It will not be the victory of any other group or organization . I am proud and content to stand as a Republican candidate upon the Republican platform . Pattangall Expects Victory . In his addresses today Mr. Pattangall ? ' quoted- an editorial from the leading Republican newspaper here published on the : day following Governor Baxter 's Lincoln Day address . It praised him for his utterances and ? pronounced the Klan issue paramount in Maine politics . This ? news.Paner today is contending , with other Republican organs , that the Man issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the- on19 issue in the State campaign , " Mr .. Pattangall ' said-inair interviewttorlaare- ? " It is bound - to remain the ' dominant-Annie until the and of thelfight. , And let me add that ? while this is a difficult State to cover in a campaign and a difficult State in which to gauge sentiment , it certainly looks today as if we had the State . " The nearest comparison to the present campaign Is the campaign of 1010 . Our issue then was local option versus prohibition with honest enforcement , as contrasted with the raw attempts at nullification of prohibition by the Republican Administration , though ostensibly committed to prohibition in all its rigor . We carried the State by 7,000 in that year , the first straight Democratic victory In this State since the Republican Party was organized . I think we will repeat that feat this year . despite the frequently reiterated asset. - tion that Maine can not be carried by the Democrats in a year when a President is elected . " The Klan Issue cuts much deeper than did the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then . They are voting now . My observation has been that this issue has taken hold of them . They appear to feel more strongly on the Klan issue than do the men . " The only Protestant denomination which has shown substantial sympathy with the Klan IS the Methodist Episcopal Church . Some members of the Methodist clergy have been helpful to the Klan and a few very active on its behalf . There has been some manifestation of the same feeling among the Baptists . The Congregationalists and Unitarians are openly against the Klan fraternity and its principles and practices . The business people of the State , too , are very strongly against the Klan . They say it has had a bad effect in the mill towns , Says It Is a Elan Fight Solely . " The fight we are making now doss not touch national issues at all . Even political party lines are obliterated . The fight is solely on the Ku Klux Klan and anti-Ku Klux Klan lines . The Republicans are trying hard to bring in national issues , but so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election . Monday , campaign activities in Maine will be ende1i for the present year . There never is ank fight for the national ticket , unless it is conducted in connection with the State campaign . This . the Republicans have invariably done , with this year no exception . " Of course , everybody knows that I am going to support Mr. Davis and I have even stated on the stump that after the State campaign has been fought to a successful termination I would be willing to make a new campaign for the national ticket , but there is no likelihood at all that an.vthing like that will ' be done , " Mr. Pattangall aid . " It never has been done in the past and we are not contemplating a new departure this year . ' Mr. Pattangall said he had asked for no outside speakers from the Democratic National Committee . Senator Underwood of Alabama , who had the support of Mr. Pattangall for the Presidential nomination , is coming here this week , however , to make speeches as the campaign is ending . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in support of the Democratic State ticket , " Mr. Pattangall said . " But wo n't that hurt Mr. Davis ? " Mr. Pattangall was asked . " Will it hurt him any to have us win a smashing victory for the State ticket in an election which is regarded as a barometer ? " was his rejoinder . ' We regard it as good strategy not to alienate the votes of Republicans who are taking a friendly interest by injecting ti ' naonal issues in the State campaign . ' According to the last census , there are . 165,000 Catholics in Maine out of a total population of 475,000 . About onefifth of the vete ; according to a. close estimate . is Catholic-. : ? A. considerable Part , of:thia ? to ? be normally Republican : - The Democrats expect to get the bulk of it . Monday . a ( . ?                     