@@689718

txt The " death house " at the State Hospital for the Insane at Dunning . Ill. , became the fiery tomb or at least fifteen persons tonight when a swiftly spreading fire of mysterious origin destroyed two wings of the old wooden pavilion which id known by this grim name . Two or three others may have perished . Twelve of the dead are known to have been patients in various stages of insanity . The others were E. J. Caraker and his wife , attendants , and Lowell , their eight-year-old boy . Only one of the patients was identified , Michael Ledwith . The others were unrecogniziable , their bodies being burned to a crisp . In the excitement of herding the 500 to 600 insane men out of the blazing building some escaped . In addition to epileptics and others suffering from milder forms of insanity , a score or more of the violent type of maniacs got away . The scene was Changed in a moment from one of comparative peace , with a touch of holiday cheer , into a wild hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines for a march to safety through the rain with panic stricken faces at the windows of other buildings and mad cries in the night . Prompt action of nurses , attendants , police and firemen saved a situation , which might easily have become a general panic . More then 50I were led to safety , and the fire was confined to the Part of the building where it started . Five fire trucks with emergency equipment were stuck in the mud on the institution grounds and the firemen were greatly handicapped t their work . The institution fire brigade under Chief John Burke is credited with having saved several men from the burning building . Six bed-ridden patients were carried out of the " death house . " the ward which carries this name because it houses those in the final stages of brain disease . Seventy-five patients who were trying to escape were driven back into line by police , who arrived from several stations , nurses and firemen . Policemen rescued three men from a lavatory in the burning building . where they were hiding in fright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500 and 600 patients into this old wooden structure was declared necessary tonight by Dr. Daniel Coffey , Superintendent of the institution , who said that the hospital was being taxed to its limits every day by the number of cases sent out by the courts . All the other Illinois hospitals for the insane are also overcrowded . An investigation into these conditions Is to be started at once . Judge C. H. Jenkins , Director of the Statq Department of Public Welfare , left Springfield torright for Chicago after a telephonic conversation with Dr. Coffey . There are several theories to explain the origin of the fire , which started at 5:40 P. M. , while the patients were in the mess halls . They were to have a big Christmas entertainment later in the ' evening in the big amusement hall , a Quarter of a- mile away from the - building which burned . Special choir music had been arranged . but this had to be abandoned later to make an emergency shelter and hospital for the cold and exhausted patients . The most remarkable theory is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where paint , varnishes and oils were ; tore &; Inspectors of the Fire Prevention Bureau suspect defective wiring . A , oiler explosion was rumored at first , nit there was no boiler in the building . The building is old , with long , curved ? rings . The front of the structure is . wo stories in height but the wings are ally one story . " Escape " patients , rought back to the hospital , those ? eady for parole and the last stage : ases are housed in these wards . They Lre not classed as violent and they belayed exceptionally well , attendants aid , in tonight 's trial . Herman Hacker , an epileptic , whose mind Is clear , except during his attacks , was the first to see the fire . He had finished his dinner in Ward 5 messroom and had gone to his bedside , where he had kneeled down to pray . As he looked up he saw flames bursting out from the cupboard where the paints are kept . He ran out , giving the alarm . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hospital officials in the scattered parts of the institution and the fire drill was sounded . As soon as the alarm was given . Dr. Coffey called out twenty physicians and all the available nurses . They hurried to the aid of theattendants in the annex in driving the patients out of the building and in striving for a fire line . The flames swept through the old structure with great rapidity . If it had been at night , with patients in their beds , many more might have perished . Some lagged behind to get Christmas presents which were dear to them . There was no time to get coats . A few blankets were snatched up and the patients Mil into the cold rain . The bucketbrigade under Chief Bure was soon on the job . Chemicals were torn from the walls , but they were useless . The volunteers rushed in to save the laggards and to take care of those Who were unable to walk . A general alarm was sounded through the City of Chicago , and Fire Chief Edward Buckley and Assistant Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the violent wards rushed to the windows when the refugees from the burning wards marched past . They cried to be free , thinking they were trapped . They were driven away from the windows by police and attendants and order was restored . New water mains had been put through the hospital grounds during the Lowden Administration , and when the engines got into position they soon turned enough streams on the fire to stop it . The front part of the pavilion was saved , but the damage to the wings is estimated at $110.000 . After the flames subsided , firemen began to search the embers for hodles . It was soon established that fifteen or sixteen patients were missing , but it was thought that they had escaped or were wandering around the grounds . Soon , however , two bodies were found in the ruins of Ward 3. and a few minutes I later four more bodies were found In the place where the dining room had stood . Further search soon brought the list to I twelve , and late in the vvening this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater loss of life was attributed to the fact that the patients were not of the violent sort and leadilY submitted to discipline . Crowds of motorists were attracted to the scene and it was reported that in several instances they captured inmates of the hospital who had escaped the guards . The burned structure was part of the old Dunning Institution when it was a county home for the aged and poor . This particular building was known as the tuberculosis pavilion at that time . It has long been regarded as a fire USA                     