@@694534

txt then back across the ocean to this continent , all forgetful of their Aztec ancestry . The tradition is further disturbed by added unwelcome information.1 There were originally four wild stocks ? " Pilgrim Father stock , " it might be called  --  which ranged from Maine southward along the coast ; the Florida wild turkey , the Rio Grande wild turkey , which had its habitat in Southern Texas and Northwestern Mexico , and the real Mexican wild turkey , which ranged over Arizona , Western New Mexico , Southern Colorado and Mexico . Probably they are all varieties of common origin and most of the domesticated varieties " have descended from the Mexican wild turkey . " One might suspect that this is Mexican propaganda put out at this season to promote a kindlier feeling toward the native place of this toothsome bird did the word not come from such a high scientific source in the United States . Can hospital useA Yardstick fulness be measured ? for In these days of inHospitals , numerable standards of performance it is not surprising to encounter a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. E. H. L. COP , WIN of the Academy of Medicine thinks it would be of interest to the officials of a hospital to know " what percentage of surgical deaths every year were ascribable to bad judgment , poor technique , faulty anesthesia , post-operative neglect , infection , or undue exposure . " and how many fatalities were " the result of an unavoidable course of events . " Some hospitals recognize this " element of accountancy , " after a fashion , in surgical cases , but little has been done in the non-surgical departments . Dr. CORWIN believes that the public is entitled to know whether it is really getting its money 's worth from the hospitals . The recent fining of Smuggling three ladies for cusStill toms frauds is a reTolerated. minder that the prohibition law is not the only one frequently violated even by supposedly respectable citizens . Many men and women who would die rather than cheat their neighbor at cards thought nothing , even in the days before prohibition , of cheating the Government by smuggling . The Government has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with this evil . The Treasury has its own agents on the Continent and in addition pays thousands of dollars every year to informers . That is not a pleasant thing to contemplate , but dishonest importers and American travelers returning from abroad have brought it on their own heads . The task of the customs inspectors would be much easier if all homecorners emulated the example of the old New Yorker , with a New England strain in his conscience , who included among the dutiable articles in his declaration the gold fillings a German dentist had put in his teeth . Even the chirA Sailing Vessel piest invalid as a must sometimes Sanatorium . weary of travels in his armchair or radio reports of distant happenings . The very weakness that tics him to his room makes him yearn for high adventure . Happily for some invalids , scientific research has developed a theory that travel on the high seas is the best possible cure for tuberculosis . Sea air is generally purer than land air and is said to be favorable to the action of violet rays . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being fitted out in France as a hospital ship . It will have sun and promenade decks , light , airy staterooms and a pilot who follows fair weather . The proposed trip will take in the Azores , the Canary Islands and the West Indies . The patient-passengers should get , as much benefit from the stimulation of deep-sea sailing as from the curative powers of sea air and sunshine . They will see strange seas and ships and cities that do not usually pass the invalid 's bedside . One wonders if the healthier patients will be permitted to land at the ports of call , or whether the schooner will be like the Flying Dutchman , approaching land but never making port . It would be perhaps a good plan to send the I stronger patients ashore so that they I might return with colorful stories for these left behind . TOPICS OP THE TIMES . Scientists have An disturbed another Immigrant of our cherished traditions . They Native American . have taken pains to inform us through Science Service that . the domestic turkey of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Pilgrim Fathers hunted for the first Thanksgiving dinner : The principal stock from which the modern bird is derived , they maintain , was the " Mexican turkey . " These birds were found by the Spaniards in a domesticated state in the Aztec markets , whence they were carried back to Spain . Thence they found their way . into Europe and                     