@@695959

txt Another American has ridden up Pennsylvania Avenue through the cheering crowds and into the White House , the seat and symbol of highest authority . Toward the close of the day Washington and its thousands of visitors continued to make merry in carnival spirit over the inauguration of Herbert Hoover . It was typical that Hoover sat in comparative seclusion . withdrawn from the crowd , contemplating the purposes that he hopes will make the next four years a record of prosperity and constructive achievement . It is possible to outline some of the plans and purposes of this new administration . Some , the new President told in his inaugural address . More of them are known to those who have followed his works and speeches through the eight years he was Secretary of Commerce . It can be written in large letters that the call for law enforcement , particularly as concerns the eighteenth amendment , is not the mere collection of high sounding phrases , to which the country has been accustomed . on the part of a good many public officials Mr. Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be put back of the effort . The states will be called upon for cooperation . The commission of inquiry which is proposed will be named soon . The plans for revision and strengthening of the administration of justice are in the formative stage . There is to be a real test of prohibition enforcement and oy that means a test of the country 's prohibition sentiment . Mr. Hoover considers this the foremost social problem of his administration . However , the fact that he gave it the first place in his inaugural address does not mean that he is to submerge economic and business problems. - Opposition to Government Ownership Mr. Hoover again has made plain his resistance to all species of government ownership and operation , which interfere with private initiative and enterprise . Once more he has stated his favorite theory of government cooperation with business and the duty of the government to encourage and foster selfgovernment of business . His discussion was gaiter , t , but the inferences in the light of past actions are plain . The new President is , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stands against the organized effort to force the government into the electrical power business on a wholesale scale . By government aid to business , he means aid through economic and statistical research that will throw light on business p.oblems rather than practical action , which too otitis a source of unsettlement and restraint even when it starts out to be helpful . Under this head there will be made public soon after inauguration the results of a wide study of the economic structure to which the government contributed at the suggestion of Mr. Hoover while he was Secretary of Commerce . Encouragement to the railroads in their efforts toward consolidation is another matter which Mr. Hoover probably has in mind when he talks of government cooperation . Into the same category would come government assistance to the oil industry in its attempts to meet the problem of over-production . This is a matter with which Mr. Hoover has had direct connection . Regulation of Utilities He refers to federal regulation of utilities in cases where the states lack power . This was interpreted here as applying not only sorailroads , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is not thought , however , that Mr. Hoover has any idea of creating in Washington another huge bureau such as the Interstate Commerce Commission for this purpose . The proposed transfer of prohibition enforcement from the Treasury to the Department of Justice is significant as the first step in a thorough reorganization of federal machinery . Mr. Hoover wants to wipe out useless and antiquated bureaus . He wants to do away with duplications of authority and he desires a surer placement of governmental responsibility . to do away with bureaus which are responsible to no administrative odiciais . In a little more than a month the new President intends to call a special session of Congress to deal with farm relief and certain aspects of the tariff . The farm relief plan which he favors will be one under which the government lends money and cooperation to voluntary organizations for the purpose of achieving orderly marketing of farm products and controlling production to a point which will be in harmony with probable consumptive requirements . There will be a farm board which will have at its disrosal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stabilization corporatio : . s composed of the representatives of farm organizations and cooperatives . The purpose of these corporations will be the dealing with and the prevention of farm surpluses which depress prices . On the tariff . Mr. Hoovee stands against any general revision . However , limited revision is to be in the interest of manufacturers as well as the farmers . The textile industry probably will be one of the principal beneficiaries . It is plain that in his foreign relations Mr. Hoover is looking to South and Central America , although in no sense turning his back on Europe . His appointment of Henry L. Stimson to the State Department , as well as his inaugural speech , told this . Mr. Hoover frankly has believed that our economic interests lie to the south . The Hoover Cabinet Now that Mr. Hoover 's Cabinet has been named , it is plain that he is either willingly or unwillingly accommodating himself to the practical exigencies of his position . Whether Mr. Hoover ever expected he could appoint a Cabinet of trained business men and experts without regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his supporters who believed he would . Mr. Hoover has not done this . His appointments plainly show that he has been ruled in part by politics and geography just as other presidents have . This is not derogation of the Hoover Cabinet . It is a Cabinet better than the average but it might well have been named by a President wnose roots were much deeper ... in ' politics than are Mr. Hoover 's . There may be those who are disappointed that Mr. Hoover has seen fit to accommodate himself to traditions of the office . On many observers here the effect is exactly opposite , for they see in Mr. Hoover 's ability so to accommodate himself signs that he will be able to work along with Congress , without which his achriinietration would be severely crippled .                     