@@687642

txt HE inviting title of this book gives promise that is well fulfilled in the book itself . For the life whose story it chronicles was filled with a series of attempts to aid some small portion of the world to better conditions of living and higher and finer aspirations , attempts , which involved personal sacrifices , - personal daring and the brave taking of many chances , but were always entered upon with enthusiasm , high hopes and splendid ideals . The best known and the most successful of Professor H. L. Sabsovich 's enterprises was the Woodbine Colony , in New Jersey , for Jewish farmers . It had always been , Mrs. Sabsovich says , one of her husband 's dearest dreams to aid in a mnvement for inducing Jews to leave towns and trading and take up agriculture , thus returning to the kind of life with which most of the race was occupied in its biblical days .. And therefore he lost not a moment in resigning his position in an agricultural college in Colorado when the management was offered to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be established in Southern New Jersey by the American Committee of the Baron de Hirsch Fund . Mrs. Sabsovich tells in interesting style the inspiring story of the development of the colony from its be- ' ginnings in 1892 , when her husband led a dozen men into what was , for them , practically a wilderness . The three thousand acres that had been acquired were nearly all covered with timber and underbrush , and the only buildings were a railroad station , one house and one shanty . Among the first of the improvements was a schoolhouse , and to the care and development of the educational advantages provided for the children of the colonists Professor Sabsovich devoted constant attention . He was an enthusiast , too , his biographer tells us. in Americanization measures for both young and old . The young men had training in scientific agriculture , and Mrs. Sabsovich explains at some length how her husband endeavored to make the ex-tailors , ex-peddlers , ex-sewing machine operators whom he had brought to the land understand why it is good to be a farmer and satisfying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ft genuine feeling for farm life . Out of this grew the Baron de Hirsch Agricultural School , which became in a few years a thriving institution . For thirteen years Professor Sabsovich remained with the Woodbine Colony , and all the time it grew and flourished . His biographer says that there his found " the fulfillment of his life . " It was well on its feet , with a promising future before it , When he came to New York City to become the general agent of the Baron de Hirsch Fund , remaining In that position until his death in 1915 . In addition to Mrs. Sabsovich 's sitory of her husband 's life and character , there are articles by a number of his friends and associates , each bearing witness to his qualities , achievements and influence in some special phase . In these and in his wife 's , account there Is revealed a fine and lovable character , in whom high ideals , warm brotherly love for all mankind , the outglving heart and the tnthusiastic temperament combined with practical efficiency and ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well indeed . writing her interesting story simply and franldy , with dignity and good taste , and diversifying her narrative with many illuminating anecdotes.                     