@@685249

txt Support for the Socialist measure of a tax on capital le forthconling from members of three other parties in the Chamber , . Renard , President of thO Radical and RadicalSocialist group , Gounoulhou , of the Republican and Socialist group , and Noblemaire , Left Republican , though the suggestion of the last named is rather for an enforced loan at a very low interest than for a real tax on capital . The Finance ? Committee of the Chamber is deliberating on all three proposals but in view of the Finance Minister 's opposition Is expected to reject them . That they are made , however , by . members of the Government majority is a sign of the growing view that the Finance Minister 's facile optimism is not warranted by facts . Critics point out that although he has reduced expenditures and augmented income . he hae only been able to make the budget balance by the expedient of utilizing the last loan , not to mention the hielusion of the proceeds of sales of Government war stocks which can not properlY be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the opinpn that a tax of , say , 10 per cent on capital would more than repay itself even to individual taxpayers by increasing fully 30 per cent. ? some say 50  --  the value of their holdings in French money in the world financial markets , where the franc is now worth less than a third of its normal rate . Tempting as the pLoposal may be in theory its practical aplication is quite another story . A few days ago your correspondent asked four of the leading and most experienced French journalists their opinion on the subject . Without hesitation they all replied that the idea sounded fine and would probably effect the rehabilitation of the franc if it could be carried out but that it was quite impossible in practice . " You do not know our French peasantt , " they said . " Never could they be brought to see the point or understand anything but that 10 per cent of their money was being taken from them . Why , to this day a very large proportion of the peasants will not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest . They prefer to keep it idle at home where they know it is safe . " Do not forget that the peasant class includes more than 60 per cent . of the total population . Even if you did jam a capital tax through Parliament you would . never be able to collect ft . " Another suggestion for improving French finances comes from the Excelsior , that efforts be made to stimulate imports from the French colonies insteall of from foreign countries . The Excelsior gives a table showing that almost without exception the chief products of the colonies , gold , cotton , copper , wood , coffee , maize , arachide oil , cocoa , rice , India rubber , hides and palm oil , have hitherto been exported in the proportion of about one to France and fifteen to other countries , from whom France has been forced to buy . This is not only ruinous as'regards exchange but involves the needless payment of a profit to an intermediary . The Excelsior adds that with proper encouragement the colonies could increase the production of commodities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's total needs . Obviously the freight shortage is an obstacle at present , as the French have not enough ships to conduct such a trade themselves and foreign vessels follow their own routes . This , doubtless , is the chief reason of the striking deviation of French colonial products away from the mother country . According to authoritative British estimates , however , the world 's shipping supply already exceeds the pre-war figure by 4,000,000 tons and a sharp slump in the freight market is predicted , so that it is reasonable to expect that transport for colonial products to France will be available in the near future ,                     