@@693636

txt The Times Square station of the Queensboro subway , long awaited , was opened yesterday and trains of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company are now running between Times Square and Queens . The first train . carrying the official party , left Long Island City at P. M. and stopped at the Fifth Ave . nue station to pick up Mayor Walker , who left a meeting of the Committee of the Whole of the Board of Estimate at City Hall to attend the ceremonies . On the invitation of Frank Hedley , President of the Inteehorough Company , and A. L. Merritt , Superintendent of its subway division , Mayor Walker relieved Charles B. Kestler , the regular motorman , at the controller handle . The train started off smoothly and then stopped with a jerk . The Mayor had taken his hand off the " dead man 's buttor ; , " a device on the controller handle for bringing the train to a quick stop when the pressure of the motorman 's hand on the button is released . tinder the guidance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again released the pressure of his hand on the button and the train stopped . After trying for the third time , with the same result , ' the Mayor gave way to the regular motorman. who ran the five-car train , laden with officials and representatives of civic associations , into the new station . Service ' Starts at Once . Regular train service was begun immediately after the arrival of the special train . ' Rush hour congestion on the Forty-second Street shuttle between Times Square and Grand Central Station was reduced 50 per cent. , according to J. , station inspector in charge of the Interborough west , side subway division , and about 55,000 passengers-20.000 eastbound and 15,000 west bound  --  used the new station between u o'clock and 7 o'clock In the evening . Six platform men kept the crowds moving . No difficulty in transferring passengers between the new station and the old Times Square Interborough subway station were reported . Further relief in the shuttle rush hour congestion and at Grand , Central is expected when all the passengers bound to and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening of the station the official party was entertained at a buffet luncheon at the Care Boulevard . Broadway and Forty-first Street , by the Powers-Kennedy Contracting Company , builders of the Queensboro subway extension from Grand Central . Mayor Promises Speed . Mayor Walker , who was the principal speaker , declared that the only solution of the transit problem in New York City was in using shovels , and salt ' he intended to see to it that.I he city continued to build subways as rapidly as possible . " This is a very Important occasion for-the City of New York , " the Mayor said . " 1 . am happy to be here and happy that this extension , so necessary to the people of Queens and Manhattan , is completed . " My idea is that the best way to get transit is to get it with shovels ' and not with talk . It is a fine thing to see so many people tatting an Interest in this development . It is my purpose to get more subways for the people of the city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of the extension , said it should have been completed ' before this . " The first year we operated in Queens we carried 5,000,000 passengers , " ne said . " Last year we carried 55,000,000 . Why have the people waited all this time and endured the congestion at Grand Central ? You have lived long enough to see this line extended . There will be no difficulty ii ? operating to Times Square . " Mr. Medley then made a plea for an . increased fare. , " The Interborough is the most liberal . company in the world , " ' he continued . " The - Interborough is now carrying 3,900,000 passengers a day , and it is carrying them for less than cost . It carries you further for less cost than any other railroad in the world . " I expect this will continue until the people Of the city encourage the rapid transit lines by giving them more revenue , . and , any city 43 better- off , when it has proper transportation service . This city never , can have proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , render . " Tells Building Problems . Augustus J-Powers , head of the contracting firm , told of the difficulties of constructing the extension . " When we turned into Forty-first Street at Sixth Avenue , " he said , after telling of earlier construction difficulties , " we found disintegrated rock . It compelled a novel method of construction . We built a seven-foot key roof of cement before we put in the sidewalls. and this in the face of the fact that some of the heaviest buildings in New York abutted on both sides of the street . " Our company 's policy was to finish the other difficulties before we began the major operation of construction under Times Square station . This was criticized ; by the end justified the means ; because it enabled us to train our crews so they could do this extremely dangerous work with safety to the public . While doing this work at this point , we could look up and see the Interborough Rapid Transit trains passing overhead ; also , we could look up from our excavation at Broadway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 40,000,000 souls were passing daily overhead while we worked , we never once flagged a train , nor held up traffic . " We cooperated with the civic societies of New York , the Forty-second Street Property Owners and Merchants ' Association , the Broadway Association and the Eighth Avenue Association , and have always responded to their slightest requests and suggestions . The streets along which we worked were never ? cluttered ? up with debris , nor blocked with traffic . " Other speakers were Commissioner of Public Works Michael J ? Shugrue of Queens , A. L. Nicholson of the Forty-second Street Property Owners and Merchants ' Association , who urged the extension of the Queensboro subway to New Jersey . and L. C. L. Smith , Vice President of the Queensboro Chamber of Commerce .                     