@@694925

txt Unies ; Great . Britain is prepared to sign an agreement limiting cruiser tonnage on a basis acceptable to the American government there is virtually no chance that Washington Officials will agree to ' discuss reductions in battleship tonnages and arma. - meat prior to the scheduled 1931 con. ference of the Washington treaty powers . The British suggestion , made Baturday at Geneva , that the Washington treaty powers reduce the tonnages of all battleships built in the future to something under 30,000 tons , extend the life of existing battleships from twenty to twenty-six years , and reduce the size of guns on capital ships from the present limit of 16 inches to 13% inches arouses no enthusiasm in state department or naval circles . Why the Big Hurry ? Some congressmen look with favor upon the proposal , but in view of the 1931 conference there is little demand for an earlier parley . Inasmuch as the United States will not begin bat ? tleship replacement until 1931 , state department officiaLs see no reason for discussing the matter beforehand . Should the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cruisers and other auxiliary ships along the lines outlined last summer by the American delegation at the Geneva . conference , administration officials might be willing to attend an earlier conference . In view of the wide divergence between America and England on cruisers at Geneva , there is little likelihood of an early agreement limiting cruisers and other auxiliary ships . Naval officials view the English pro . posals as an attempt to insure continuance of British superiority in capital ships . British hatttleships were superior to American capital ships at the time the Washington agreement was signed . Tho completion last year of the Rodney and Nelson , the latest British capital ships , put the British fleet far ahead of the United States fleet in actual effectiveness . Better than U. S. Ships . The Rodney and Nelson are 35,000 ton ships , heavier than any American capital ships . They carry nine 16-inch guns , as compared with eight 16-inch since the war , they have thick deck protecUon to guard against long range high angle lire and aircraft bombs . Navy officials point out that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital ships and to reduce tonnage would mean a postponement of the date when the United States could build ships equal in gun power , armor , and general effectiveness to the British battleships . As the Rodney and Nelson would be In commission for twenty-sic years British superiority in capital ships would be guaranteed for that period . At both the state and navy departments it was assorted , however , that when the subject of battleship reduction Is taken up at Washington this government will insist upon an arrangement giving the United States parity with Great Britain .                     