@@688770

txt Representative CHARLES LANDON KNIGHT of Akron , a millionaire and an old Progressive . was an unsuccessful candidate for Governor of Ohio in the Republican primaries last August . Miles of billboards and advertisements recommended him and his platform and " the flaming arrow " ? that was . his symbol  --  to voters who turned out to be unworthy of him . He opposed the Cleveland and Cincinnati bosses , whom he called " gold boss twins . " He demanded the abolition of the Buckeye collection of boarCs and ' commissions . He smote the AntiSaloon League . He jeered at maternity legislation . lie went so far as to declare that the Federal Administration was n't telling the truth when it said that it was reducing the cost of government materially . Mr. VINCHOT and Mr. nEVERIDGE were showing him the road to victory . After his defeat he assailed Mr. DAt- ( ii-lEnTi- , who could n't " keep his nose out of Ohio politics " : said he could n't stultify himself by " support " ing measures like the Tariff and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abstain from " the so-called deliberations in the House . " anti resign as soon as the interests of his district permitted . He took his defeat hard . but highly resolved to keep on fighting the bosses . fighting for economy and " constitutional principles . " In December he ' announced that he was going to call a meeting of Republicans to hear Senator BORAH on " the ne " cessity of rededicating the Repub " lican Party to the service of the " people . " The meeting was n't going to be in aid of a third-party movement , but to help the Republican Party of Ohio " to get back to first principles " ? whatever they are . Wednesday the belated meeting came off . Mr. lisloi-r ? , wants to be Governor . Doubtless r . BORAH is willing to be President if he can ever find a party that he agrees with . The Republican Party , he is convinced , is in a had way ; but " political con " ditions are distressingly unsatis , - " factory to both political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a fact . The people are sound at heart and eager for a bold and determined program . " But the leaders wo n't give it to them . Senator BORAH would n't discuss a third-party movement ; but " such a movement is not impossible , not even improbable , " though the old parties can put an end to it " by " courageously meeting and dealing " with the problems at hand in thor " ough fashion . " " Let us give to the " country a thorough and fearless " program , " be said . If he offered any , it was this : If I am not greatly in error . there is a demand in this country for a political party which will put behind us the vengeance , the passions and the intolerance of the great war . and build for the future under the inspiring dawn of a new day ; a party which believes in the Constitution or the United States : a party which knows that it is safer to build up-communities at home than bureaus at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great Republic is wide , enough in area and broad enough in principle to do justice and give protection to all tongues , all races , all religions found within its confines , and that all it demands in return is acknowledged allegiance . to the Government , loyalty to American institutions and obedience to law ; a party brave enough to denounce and bold enough to disown as enemies of our common peace all who woula kindle anew the baleful fires of racial and religious intolerance . An anti-Ku Klux party is about al that seems to materialize out of this ; but both parties will doubtless denounce intolerance as vigorously at Mr. BORAH does . The progressive : and radicals are highly dissatisfies with the Constitution of the Unites States and are feverishly trying to amend it . The persons most desirous of " social justice " and " social Welfare " are always proposing new bureaus and new activities of the Government . The passion against the League of Nations is one of the passions of the great war which Mr. BORAH has shared . It Is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the " rededication " of the Republican Party or the dedication of a new one . On the whole , the Akron meeting seems to have been a good show for Mr. KNIGHT . Coming so soon after Mr. DAUGHERTY 'S announcement , it seems to give notice to the Administration that he and his friends have to ... be appeased or they will make trouble ; but Mr. BORAH 'S instinct for playing a lone hand makes him rather an unsatisfactory dedicator or rededicator of any other party than himself .                     