@@689280

txt A wholesome frankness underlies the courteous warning of the Argentine . Dr. ZEBALLOS , that the United States is more unpopular than ever in South America as a result of the PanAmerican conference held in Chile last Spring . His analysis of the reasons which make the United States distrusted deserves wide attention . The principal charge is that of insincerity. i The United States have repeatedly I professed friendship for the South i American republics , and denied havIing ulterior motives of aggrandizement in the Western Hemisphere . Yet the United States today dominate or control Haiti , Santo Domingo , Panama and Nicaragua , and have repeatedly used pressure upon the Central American States . Their relations with Mexico . especially during the years of " watchful waiting , " varied by millitary intervention , have tended to alienate South American confidence . Further to increase our unpopularity , there have been errors of tact . Some of our official representatives in the countries to the south of us have lacked the qualities to make them welcome among the people of the Governments to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stances under which American naval representatives were sent to help Itrain the Brazilian forces led the I Ienemies of Brazil to feel that the I United States hoped to encourage war rather than peace in South America , 11 Add to this the failure of the program proposed by the United States at the Santiago conference and the antagonism there aroused against the United States , and it is clear that the South Americans have something to show for their view of us . Dr. ZEBALLOS speaks for South America , it is true , but be speaks also as an Argentine , with certain prejudices in Pan-American politics . These include a profound distrust of Brazil , a dislike of Chile and a feeling of jealousy mixed with resentment toward the United States . His criticism of the American naval mission to Brazil doubtless would not have been made had the mission been sent instead to Argentina . So , also , it ignores the fact that for a century the relations between Brazil and the United States have been more consistently friendly than with any of the other American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has fairly presented the point of view of a great many South Americans . Such plain speaking is as valuable as it Is rare in discussing international relations . Its basic good-will is manifested in the practical suggestions which Dr. ** makes for creating a sounder friendship between the peoples of the two continents . Aside from such measures as withdrawing American troops , he proposes that mere shall be no more interference with the internal life of sister republics . Ile also advocates closer I cultural relations between the continents by such methods as exchange of professors and students , better news service , exhibitions of art and other similar forms of intellectual intercourse . To this is ? added a plea for a more careful selection of the official personnel sent to Latin countries . He might have gone a step further and pointed out the importance of exercising greater care even in the selection of business representatives . ? ,                     