@@690426

txt Sled Zerdecheno , who calls himself the Emir of Kurdistan , is under arrest here on-the technical ground of " likely to become a public charge " while officials of the Immigration Service are making an investigation to determine whether he obtained entrance into the United States on a forged passport-. - Zerdecheno caused a sensation in Washington three yeah ' ago when he came here as the major domo of " the Princess Fatima of Egypt " and with the " princess " was received by President Harding . On his present visit to America he arrived in New York on the Homeric July 9 and passed the immigration officials by showing a passport , issued by a Turkish Consul in France to " H. Ft H. the Emir of Kurdistan . " He was ousted from the St. Regis and other ' New York hotels , and then disappeared while the immigration authorities were searching for Win . Zerdecheno came to Washington on Wednesday . Yesterday he visited- the State Department , where he failed to impress officials with his story that he was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his country . Then he Went to the Egyptian Legation , asserting that he was an Egyptian subject . The police and the immigration authorities got word of him there and he was arrested . The warrant on which Zerdecheno was arrested was issued in December , 1922 . It is charged that he came across the Canadian border into the United.States without authority and was likely to become a public charze . Zerdecheno refused to talk to reporters as he lay on a cot , in a cell in the police station . He intimated to the police that he would commit suicide and that this would involve the- United States in another world war . Zerdecheno said that he had sent word to his wife in New York that he wanted $1.000 to obtain his release . Mrs. Zerdecheno vfas said to have been Kathryn Spigli of Kentucky . Has Been in London and Ptris Jails . The self-styled Prince Sled lerdecheno Mohammed Said . Emir of Kurdistan , has had a somewhat checkered career in the last two years for a man who says he is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 17 was chosen to rule over Egypt about the year 3000 B. C. After having duped ' many prominent people here in 1922 he was ejected from the Hotel Pennsylvania for non-payment of his bill . With him at-that time was " Her Royal Highness the Princess " who prior to her marriage was Kitty Spigli of Kentucky . In December , 1922 , he sailed for Europe in the second class of the White Star Liner Olympic . Shortly . after his arrival in Paris he was sentenced to jail for three months for de , frauding hotel proprietors . On the expiration of his sentence he was ordered I to be deported . On April 13 , 1923 he Was sentenced to six months ' imprisonment in the second division in London for fraud , and was ordered deported on the expiration of his sentence . Nothing further was heard of him until his arrival in New York on the Homeric of the White Star Line on July 10 . On the Strength of what appeared to be a diplomatic passport , - im-  migration and customs examinations were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told other passengers he was coming to the United States on official business in behalf of the exiled Caliph of Turkey . He was refused admittance at several prominent New York hotels after Turkish officials here had announced that he had recently been deported from Turkey and Greece . Following the publication of these facts he wrote letters to the editors of New York newspapers ; complaining that " a series of unfair and libellous statements concerning me have appeared and resulted In a good deal of humiliation and comment from my friends , acquaintances and the American public , and have also resulted in a financial loss to mo . " He then threatened to tako steps for 07 , . - proper redress of Lkeze =WO &;                     