@@693598

txt A gale sweeping up the eastern seaboard last night caused heavy damage among shipping , disrupted the sailing schedules of coastwise lines , and sent scores of smaller craft scurrying to shelter . The air was filled with S 0 8 messages when ship after ship sent out the seaman 's call for help as heavy winds and high seas swept their vessels toward destruction or crippled them and left them helpless . In all , eight ships are known to be in danger . Two ships went ashore during the height of the storm , one of which later was floated ; three others were disabled and sent calls for immediate assistance , and two government light ships were swept out to sea , their crews in great danger . Barges Break Away . Two coal barges , each with ? five men aboard , brbko away from their tug and are adrift in ' the high seas off the Virginia capes . The Firmore , a 7,000 ton American steamer , operated by the Oregon Steamship corporation , sent out a call for help , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent immediately . The ' Maracaibo of the Atlantic and Caribbean Steam Navigation company was in distress in the vicinity of the Virginia capes , and the Sulanierco of the Submarine Moat corporation of Newark , N. J. , reported that she was hove to off the capes . Passenger Liner in Danger . The coastwise passenger liner City of St. Louis , bound from Savannah to New York with twenty-five to thirty passengers and a Crew , of about fifty , at 2 o'cleek'this morning was reported dangerously near the Diamond shoals , off Cape Hatteras ? ? and-drifting ? . onto the shoals with her steam steering gear disabled . Some hours earlier she had been reported in distress with deckhands manning the hand steering gear , while the engine room crew was working at top speed to recondition the steam gear . A wireless report at- that time said she was proceeding under " jury rig . " Tugs and coast guard boats are seeking the endangered light ships , the Charles and the Winter Quarter . The British freighter King David , which had sent out an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of breaking up , was floated late tonight and proceeding to Hampton Roads . Send Out Warnings . Storm'warnIngs were sent out along the Atlantic coast early this evening . The weather bureau reported that the gale would be directly in the path of the principal European steamship lines by tomorrow morning . The storm swept inland in Virginia and North Carolina and resulted in the heaviest snowfall known in those states in March . Traffic was at a standstill at many points , and twentysix inches of snow was reported ' at High Point , N. C.                     