@@691970

txt servation , even for those who have not been in England , just as certain old portraits are known to be striking likenesses by those who never saw the originals , reads a half severe , half humorous lecture to Britons who criticize the United States as a country where people , as well as machines , are subjected to strict standardization . He does not deny that the charge is true against us , but he says that Englishmen should be the last to make it , to such absurd lengths have they gone themselves in the suppression of indivivality and the condemnation of departure from " type . " It is somewhat perilous to dispute Mr. AUMONIER 'S authority in dealing with the peculiarities of his own people , and yet his dictum is surprisingly , almost startlingly , out of harmony with what had seemed to be a matter of common knowledge . He may ' be , and probably is , quite right about the leveling efficacy of such schools as Eton and Harrow , but they deal with only a small fraction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eccentric seems permitted to go much further than here . The English memoirs and books of anecdote and reminiscence abound in stories about queer conduct of people whom nobody there seemed to think in need of sequestration . And surely the English are not half so much fretted as we are by heretical talk , in. either the domains of politics or religion , while , according to report , peculiarity of dress excites far less notice in the streets of London than in those of New York . existence of a twilight zone between sanity and insanity an excuse for expressing as settled and authoritative judgments what are little more than  --  opinions or guesses . It once was said that no King ever was so wicked as to lack a priest to forgive his sins , or so cowardly as to lack a poet/ to sing his heroism . So no killer ever slew with circumstances so atrocious that his counsel , if he had money with which to hire experts , could not get one or several to support the plea of mental irresponsibility . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested the reform that many others have suggested  --  that all experts be hired , and paid by the court . That , however , would put what is held to be an unconstitutional restriction on the conduct of a defense , and probably it would be , STACY Atni6OHLER , Says England whose novels vouch Is as Bad for the accuracy of . America his powers of obas TOPICS c ? " - rim TIMES . Too much was made in some of the articles eyoked by the untimely death of A. C. BEDFORD of the fact that he began his business career as clerk in a dry goods store ? at the ribbon counter , some of the accounts say . The truth is that the preparation for his later success in business began long before . It began with his parents and a boyhood home where the circumstances were what is called " comfortable , " and where the mother was a scholarly and intellectual woman , well qualified to supervise his studies . After college , hereFhe took further courses in . England , Germany and Switzerland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education . These were " advantages " far outweighing any personal " influence " that might have been exerted for another , less well-equipped , young man to secure business advancement . He went ahead , steadily and far , not because he " started at the bottom , " as do thousands and thousands of American boys , but because he had good natural abilities to ' start with , because they had been well trained , and because he had chi3 , racter and energy and determination . What the United , States did for him was to give him opportunity to use his powers in a congenial field . Therein , Probably , the United States is much like most other countries , and the chief " lesson " of Mr. BEDFORD 'S life is that he proved , as have many others , that the way is open to ability as much now as ever . In yesterday 's instalment of Mr. MausHALL 's " Recollections " there was a particularly interesting passage in which he summed up his experiences and conclusions as a country lawyer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts . Like everybody else who has given the subject real attention , Mr. MARSHALL felt that the present system of using experts hired by defense and prosecution , and hired because it is known that each will earn his pay by giving the sort of testimony wanted , is utterly wrong . It only confuses jurors while they listen , and then in most cases they reject the testimony of all the experts and rely on their own unassisted judgments . It brings science into disrespect , out of court as well as in it , when the representatives of science , real or pretended , get up and contradict each other in regard to matters on which , as scientists , they either ought to agree or confess the lack of certainty . They do neither , and it is the medical experts In cases involving the issue of insanity that make the most displeasing spectacle of themselves . They are not all charlatans by any means , but far too - often they make-the Commissioner ExHe 's Right RIGHT is preaching and Yet what probably is a . Wronghopeless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody should be taken , beginning when they are 12 years old , and filed for reference at some central station , say Washington . Yet everything . he says about the real and important benefits that would be de ' rived from carrying out this plan is beyond reasonable question . Such a record often would be of value to many others than the police , and it would cause no harm or inconvenience to anybody who had not entered upon 11 a career of crime or who did not medi1 tate doing so . The trouble is , however , that fingerprinting has bean so long and so thoroughly associated with the discovery and identification of criminals that subjection to the harmless process is held disgraceful  --  something to be resented and resisted . Even the courts sustain this ? absurdity by deciding every now and then that fingerprinting shall follow conviction , not precede it , and that suspicion , no matter how strong , does not justify it , Perhaps in time the horror of having these indubitable proofs of identity stored away somewhere as " public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for seeing them , will pass away . The nearest approach to them now is handwriting and signatures , and they bother nobody , except when they are forged on checks and wills . It is said that fingerprints , too , can be forged , and in fact the thing has been done as a scientific demonstration , but that does not diminish at all the excellence , in theory , of the Commissioner 's suggestion . The only trouble with it is that it leaves out of account the peculiarities of human nature  --  its prejudices and illusions.                     