@@696261

txt Ambassador Morrow , who has returned to his home in Englewood , N. J. , is the centre of attention in all Mexican circles interested in his widely spread activities regarding this republic and especially those affecting its relations with Washington . Prominent Mexicans are voicing their views upon what the diplomat will tell President Hoover and the State Department of Mexican conditions as they are today after the suppression Of the Escobar revolt and what policy he will advise in view of the abnormal conditions which have arisen in consequence of that military uprising . First and foremost , it is believed that Mr. Morrow will show sympathy toward Mexico in the struggle she will have to make to recover her lost financial and economic ground , which will cost eventually anywhere from $30,000,000 to ' $50,000,000 . ? As Ambassador , Mr. , Morrow has always been in close touch with 01-. nance Minister Luis Montes cfe.Oca . Officially , it could not Iiii:Stat  --  kthitt. any duty on the part of the American Ambassador accredited to Mexico includes that of counsel on financial matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments is unquestioned . It is an open secret that his confidence in Mexico 's present financial administration is great , and he is further known to agree with the members of the international committee ' of bankers on Mexico that her present budgetary procedure , coupled with strict honesty of purpose on the part of the Ministry of Finance . augurs morl ? for the future of this republic than anything on record for a number of years . Expected to Tell President . Mr. Morrow probably will tell Washington that , it is believed . He also , according to these sources , will tell the " State Department more and give it to understand that if his task of assisting in " straightening out " Mexico is to be completed , tolerance will have to be shown regarding the renewal of payments due and over due on international obligations Much more than was assigned in this year 's Mexican budget for foreign payments must be used to conserve Mexico 's internal financial house and the bankers have shown their appreciation of this by their action in consenting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking a new agreement . That will give Mexico a breathing space to let her work out how she is going to face the unexpected liabilities caused by General Escobar and his associates . It is an all-important point in the Mexican situation .. Regarding the protection of American citizens resident in Mexico , Mr. Morrow probably will have little to report , ? for their personal safety has been the recent cause of only a few representations to the Portes Gil Government . Regarding American ? property ? in Mexico , the case may be somewhat different , for it is reliably learned that the United States Embassy here has been long and largely ' occupied with the question , of land expropriations . Re : - cently expropriations have been On a decreasing . scale but the , old cases are reported to be difficult of settlement . Lack of money for compensation in cash is and always has been the greatest difficulty , but another point of importance has been the divergence of opinion held by . the owners of , the . lands expropriated and the Mexican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which affects to a material extent the amounts payable and the method of payment . Peaceful Election Expected . Regarding the political situation of Mexico and the approaching Presidential and other elections , it is thought that Mr. Morro-.7 holds the view that they will be conducted peacefully . Indeed , in all quarters here the opinion is that one major rebellious movement in the current year will prove enough for Mexico and that Senor Portes Gil 's successor  --  probably he will be a civilian ? will be placed in power without further bloodshed . Observers of the situation here are more optimistic than when the last rebellion broke out . It collapsed in such a manner as is likely to discourage other ambitious men from similar enterprises . Official figures regarding trade between the United States and Mexico so far have not shown any intense depression while exchange has been comparatively firm , dollar quotations having varied little . Money continues to hold up with the result that merchants are showing a tendency to lay out more capital instead of , as during the time of the revolt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not thought that Mr. Morrow would have gone north on a journey that will take at least six weeks of his time unless he had reported to Washington that the Mexican situation could be left . MORROW ARRIVES HOME . Ambassador Is Met in Newark by Wife and Daughter . Dwight W. Morrow , United States Ambassador to Mexico , arrived at his Englewood ( N. J. ) home yesterday afternoon . When he reached the border on his way up he said the marriage of his daughter Anne to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh would take place " while he was in the North , " and it was added that he expected to return to his post in July , but yesterday he had nothing to say . Mr. Morrow left his private car at Newark , ' where the train known on the Pennsylvania Railroad as " The Spirit of St. Louis , " deposited him shortly after half past one o'clock . With him were Edward B. Lowry , second secretary at the embassy in Mexico City , and his private secretary , Arthur Springer . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their youngest daughter , Constance . They journeyed to the Morrow home in Englewood by automobile , a second car bringing Messrs . Lowry and Springer , and the baggage . The Ambassador posed for photographs at the station , but refused all information about the purpose of his visit . He would not answer a question as to whether former President Calles of Mexico was to be Colonel Lindbergh 's best man . He declined to name the date of the ceremony . It took about an hour for the Morrow party to drive to Englewood , where the cars of newspaper men were barred at the entrance gates . Presently , however , other cars began to arrive , and it became clear that Colonel Lindbergh was being introduced to about 150 of the Morrows ' friends at a tea party . The flier himself , with his mother , Mrs. Evangeline Lindbergh , drove up shortly after 4 o'clock , and there was a lively influx - of other motors about the same time . Guests came and went all during the afternoon . Mr. Morrow left Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the regular train from the capital to the border at Laredo , where it went on to St. Louis over the Missouri Pacific . The train bearing the Ambassador had the most elaborate guard of any passenger train that has left Mexico City since the recent uprising . There was a scout train ahead of the express . bearing 180 soldiers in . whose date has not yet ? been announced . His sister , Miss Alice Morrow , came back from Europe for it , arriving in New York . on Saturday on board the liner America . The Ambassador has been at his post in Mexico City since the night of Feb. 3 , when he reached there after an extended visit in this country Mrs. Morrow , with her daughters Anne and Elizabeth , preceded him north on April 25 . More recently Mrs. Morrow , Miss Anne and - Miss Constance Morrow , with Colonel Lind- , bergh , paid a visit of a few days to their Summer home , at North Haven , I Me. , going and returning in an airplane flown by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Off Supply Throughout Capital . Special Cable to THE NEW YORE TIMES . MEXICO CITY , May ** a re- , sult . of a . machinery breakdown at ' I the Condesa pumping station . Mexico City has been without water for ' forty-eight hours . The water famine has prevailed throughout the city with the exception of a few places which have private wells since yesterday morning at 10 o'clock . The shortage has worked considerable hardship upon the 1,000,000 inhabitants of the Mexican capital , especially the residents of the poorer districts . Men , women and children were seen in all sections today carrying buckets , jugs and other containers with water from wells several blocks , to their homes . the little metal high-sided " blockhouse " cars which have become a characteristic of Mexican railroad travel recently . On the express itself there were 100 more soldiers , grouped in two " block-house " cars behind the private car and in a day coach- just ahead . In command of the detachment of troops was Gen.eral Miguel Acosta , one of the Federal Generals in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vera Cruz sector of the battlefront : ? Mr. Morrow was accompanied by Messrs . Springer and Lowry and by Harold Walker , vice president of the Pan-American Petroleum Company , and Hal Mangum , owner of a big Coahuila ranch . Mr. Walker left t'ne Morrow party in Harrisburg . Pa. , yesterday morning and went on to Washington . At Laredo and San Antonio extraordinary precautions were taken to safeguard . Mr. Morrow , detectives guarding the train . Mr. Morrow 's arrival practically completev'the family group which has assembled to attend the wedding ,                     