@@688397

txt Overwhelmed by the dazzling social Position of the " other man , " Paul Butler , vice president and general manager of the Butler Brothers Paper company , Mrs. Alice Zane Stratford deseked her husband of two weeks to share Butler 's luxurious ' north shore " bachelor " apartment. , adhording to a bill for ' divorce filed in Circuit court yesterday by Gifford . Stratford . artist , of 1116 Davis street , Evanston . Won with Gifts , Charge . Butler , bachelor and clubman. by plying the young bride with- gifts of expensive . clothing and . jewelry , is alleged in the bill to have wrecked a school day romance which culminated when Stretford and the girl eloped to Waukegan on Sunday , Jan. 15 , 1922. and were married . Mrs. Stratford , herself an artist and formerly a resident at the Three Arts , club , according to the bill filed by Attorney Joseph F. Elward lived with Butler in his apartments from Feb. 15 until March 1 . Subsequently she is alleged to have spent many nights with Butler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " at a number of weekend parties . Immediately after his marriage , according to Attorney Eiward , Stratford discovered that his inodest income could not be offered in competition with the " large means " of Butler , who showered " gifts of shoes , hodery , lingerie , dresses , hats , ? fur chokers , fur capes , a pearl bracelet , and a string of pearls " on the bride . In addlton , the bill declares , Butler presented Mrs. Stratford with a cash gift of $S00 . Bride " Drops from Sight . " Stratford alleges that since the denounement which followed his dicov , ( ry of Butler 's association with Mrs. Stratford the wealthy paper merchant has caused her to " drop from sight , " and his attempts to effect a reconciliation have been fruitless. luded y , , derday at a meeting in the office of Commissioner of Public Works Francis , for the Medinah temple meeting of the Lundin-Thompson forces Tuesday night at which the followers of the mayor plan a gigantic demonstration to start the mayor on the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spealtei% of the evening will be , County Judge Frank S. Righeimer , recently ' defeated for reelection under the mayor 's banner , who will speak on the constitution : Dr. John Dill Robert . son , who will endeavor to explain the school board scandal to the satisfaction of the faithful , and Mayor Thompson . HEALER ' LOSES RETRIAL PLEA ; JAIL 3 MONTHS Albert J. Moore , head of the Life institute , and his aid , Gabriel S. Adams , who were recently convicted of operating a confidence game , werg denied a new trial by Judge Marcus Kavanagh yesterday . Moore 's sentence is three months in jail and he was fined $100 . Adams must serve one month anti pay $1 fine . They were found guilty of defrauding Mrs. Hattie Cartwright of Oregon , Ill. , wife of a justice of the state Supreme court , of 82,000 through promises of marvelous cures by faith healing .                     