@@696205

txt It is not so much in its broad presentation of the present stock market problem that the address delivered recently by F. H H Simmons . president of the New York Stock Exchange , at Chicago . is so significant . It is as the expression of mature opinion in authoritative quarters on a subject engaging the earnest attention of bankers and others for some time , that it is noteworthy . It is also an able rejoinder to those would-be reformers who see nothing but gambling and wickedness in the stock market . For over a year the security market and brokers ' loans have been under the Federal Reserve Board 's ban . During this period the Stock Exchange and the leading elements in Wall Street have stood by , willing to give the Reserve Board full opportunity to rectify whatever there was unsound in the situation . Eut for some time the weakness of the Federal Reserve program of trying to break prices and check speculation . has been apparent , and Mr. Simmons now tells why , in v. ell tempered but nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that there are certain forces in the present financial and business structure going into the making of a stock market wholly different in scope from anything seen before Wall Street is not only the genesis of the great industrial undertakings which make . in turn , the small business of the country , but it is the Mecca for enormous capital savings of corporations and others . The Reserve Board can control the banks , but it can not control this flow of private capital to the most liquid and , as experience has shown , the safest market in the world . As long as confidence reigns , this capital must have an outlet . Drive it from the security market and it will go into real estate , goods , etc. , raising prices and inflating inventories . In substance , Mr. Simmons shows that our unprecedented prosperity of recent years has had the security market for its bare , and to destroy or impair that base now would undoubtedly mean disaster . Mr. Simmons puts forward a logical remedy ? but not by destroying anything . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ securities in our financial structure . by making them eligible for advances . The only reason why stocks and bonds are expressly barred from this privilege is because . when the Federal Reserve Act was drawn up . Wall Street and everything pertaining thereto was anathema to the political regime in power at Washington at the time . Rut why high grade American securities should not be proper instruments for obtaining Federal Reserve credit is hard to see . It is certain that such securities are better than some of the commercial paper that got into some of our western Federal Reserve banks a few years ago .                     