@@696831

txt There was less activity in Wall Street Saturday than in the preceding two week-ends . Brokers have been clearing up their affairs rapidly . and while full staffs of employes were on hand the pressure was not as great as it had been on previous similar occasions . Members of the various firms were at their desks , but there were smiles where there had been frowns in the past . Naturally , the recovery of the recent sessions was encouraging . It resulted in strengthening margined accounts and , as many customers of leading commission houses took advantage of the higher prices to reduce their long commitments , debit balances were cut down materially . There have been a number of constructive developments recently . Nevertheless , the general sentiment around the Street still is cautious . It is felt that there will be liquidation from time to time , and that eventually the market will get into a position where trading is much below recent sessions , with price fluctuations comparatively narrow . Few observers are recommending buying on FL large scale . They believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get leading stocks at reasonable levels on several occasions before the end of the year . ' Where purchases are being made , the commission houses generally are urging cash payment for stocks . Credit It can not he denied that the credit structure now is better than it has been at any time during the current year This has been reflected by the Icy:kering of the Federal Reserve Bank 's rediscount rate . the ease in call and time money and the trend in bankers ' acceptances With more normal market conditions , this credit ease would have found reflection in stock prices . As it is. the buying power of the rank and file in Wall Street has been reduced so materially that the favorable influences are not attracting the attention they would have earlier in the year . Eventually , the availability of funds for market and commercial purposes must have its ? ffect . This will come when courage has re-to the investor and stocks are no longer n heavy supply . The President 's Conference The proposed conference of leading industrial and banking interests with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is felt that much can be clone hi ' President Hoover and his cabinet toward checking any substantial decrease in business activity . There is no doubt that the conferences and what may follow will he awaited with great interest in the financial district . The Pools Some of the g ? oups which had been operating in carious stocks before the crash came about four weeks ago are not likely to resume activities for a long time . Members of these pools , like all others , were compelled to liquidate at a time when there were no nearby bids in their favorite Issues . With the pool support withdrawn , the stocks under group domination were found to have a thin market This accounted for some of the substantial declines recorded at times in the medium priced issues . Construction ork If it is true , as has been said so often in the past , that construction work had been held up all over the country because of the inability to finance such activities at reasonable rates , due to the great demand for money in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity in this direction . Federal , state , county and municipal construction could be started on a large scale , and this would do much to keep tip industrial acityities in many lines . It would not he surprising it something along such lines were at tempted to the next two months . Trade Encouragement can be taken from the weekly reports on trade conditions which indicated that general commercial trade continued to show stability . Apparently business was strongly fortified when the stock market break came . and thus far there has been no disturbance of the orderly situation in trade . This is gratifying in view of the speculative stress experienced . Support Support orders have been put in for many leading stocks . It is true , of course , that such buying demand has been fixed at prices which are materially below those of the close last Friday . Nevertheless , the fact that important interests are willing to take on their issues at certain levels is significant in view of the many periods when there appeared to be little demand for stocks . Rails Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rails and equipment by the railroads of the country . Wall Street interprets this as reflecting the confidence of the managements in the outlook for 1930 . It is argued in some quarters that if officials of the carriers did not expect good traffic they would be less active in placing such orders . Many railroads have taken larger tonnages of rails than ever before and the contracts for equipment also have exceeded the most optimistic estimates for the individual roads made by the builders of cars and locomotives in the past few months . A number of commission houses are inclined to keep customers in the rails when they come into the market for outright purchases . While there may be reductions in industrial activities here and there , it is argued that the aggregate of all traffic should be good , and this favors the railroads . U. S. Steel The buying order for more than 200.000 shares of U. S. Steel common at 150 is credited to be for important interests , banking and industrial . It is the present plant to leave this order in the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is possible that Steel common will encounter support above the 150 level . American Locomotive Present prospects are that 1930 will be favorable year for American Locomotive . After a number of lean periods the company experienced a good demand in the current year . For a time a few months ago it was feared the spurt of buying by the railroads had ended , but in the past month or six weeks there has been evidence of a new demand which will keep the company busy and result in favorable earnings next year . Sears-Roebuck Sears-Roebuck did not break as soon as Montgomery Ward in the recent decline , but when the stock met necessitous liquidation it dropped sharply . During the reaction there were reports that scale support was coming into the stock for the account of important interests in the company . As this buying was through houses with prominent Chicago connections , &any; believe there was foundation for the rumors ? Standard of New Jersey The buying order for 1,000,000 shares of Standard Oil of New Jersey at 50 was a strong bullish factor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this issue was a logical leader in the oil group and many who became optimistic on these shares early last month purchased the stock . Evidence that important interests in the company were willing to take such a large block gave confidence to some holders who were getting ready to throw over their long line and caused a cancellation of many selling orders on the books of specialists . Public Service Directors of Public Service meet tomorrow and there is a possibility of an increase in the current $2.60 a share annual dividend rate . In most quarters $3 a share is mentioned as the new rate . The company is expected to show earnings this year of approximately $4.50 a share , which would compare with $3.28 in 1928 and $2.24 in 1927 . It is argued that this steady increase in revenue would justify a larger regular dividend .                     