@@689844

txt At Albany , as at Washington , tax reduction is made a partisan matter . Governor SMITH proposes a 25 per cent . cut in the State personal income taxes for 19 ' 23 . Not having offered it themselves , the Republicans ca n't accept it without additions of their own . DP does n't help the up-State farmers , they say . For some occult and withheld reason , it benefits only " wealth . " The farmer is taxed more than anybody else . He can be relieved only bylowering the taxes on real estate . These bear heaviest on the farmers . No , the city Democrats insist , rural real property is notoriously undervalued . Since political , not scientific . tax revision is in question , it is unnecessary now to consider the views of a life-long student and admitted expert like Professor SELTOMA of Columbia . The argument that the farmer has no interest in the reduction of income taxes is , on a smaller scale , the same which is made to farmers in the West and South in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reasoning  --  or rather wholesale assertion  --  comes from an Alabama country journal , The Wiregrass Farmer , which is sure that the Mellon plan would n't reduce the taxes of " the average man of Henry County by a penny . " Singular and thriceblessed average man ! He pays no Federal taxes , buys , borrows , hires nothing from anybody who does pay those taxes , either at first hand or as the immediate , secondary , tertiary substitute and victim that does pay them directly . The Montgomery Advertiser demolishes the Wiregrass theory so happily that we ca n't add anything to its words : Does the ar : . rage man in HenryCounty buy no fertilizer , no flour , no sugar , no clothing , no faun animals , no automobiles , no paint for his house , no lumber , no brick , no cement . no tools , no wagons , no buggies , no school books , no hospital accommodation , no medical attention for himself and family , and no to-bacco ? If he buys none of these things , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then the Mellon plan could be of no benefit to him . If he buys any or all of these things and if he pays any income tax , then Mr. INIELLUN 'S proposal to cut the cost of the United States Government to the American people by $320,000,000 should be of material interest to him . The average man should write it in his heart that everybody pays Federal taxes , If he does n't fill out an income tax blank himself , none the less his Pocketbook is tapped every day to pay somebody else 's income tax .                     