@@686208

txt Japan 's conduct in the war had the justification . f national interest and possibly of national necesity . She ' United her part to her own interests , v.-hich was also justifiable . Her citizens were exposed to as few losses as possible , both military and civil . Her troops were kept out of great operations and consequently did not suffer much , Her snip-Ping was kept out of danger zones and did not suffer much . Japan was considerate first of her own people , advanced their interests and protected them , and that Is the duty of a government . The profit Japan took out of the war was retained because other nations did the fighting and defeated central Europe . The United States was one of the fighting nations . Japan 's well trained army was not used when the allies were in desperate need of men , but the American raw army was . If other nations had not fought Germany and her allies and defeated them , Japan could not have kept , any of the territory she acquired , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German army , released to attend to , Asiatic matters , could have made Japan give up everything which had been taken , and could , if necessary , have reduced Japan to insular insignificance . Japan 's conduct was justified by national policy and it is not to be condemned , but Japan did not enter peace councils with any equities , When the Pacific islands of Germany , which screen American possessions , were up for disposal , Japan had not earned a right to them which disposed of American interests . American interests properly were first . Japan had taken the islands , but the United States and not Japan was a part of the force which determined that they should be no ' longer German , Because the United States did not have at the peace ? inference representatives thinking of the United ' ates , and because Japan had there representatives thinking of nothing else than Japan , the islands went to . Japan . Mt . Wilson obtained only some vague oral agreement that American cable rights , involving control of the Island of Yap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it and Japan has paid none . Japan not only has obtained control for military purposes of islands which have strategic value against the United States but control for commercial purposes which permits interference and even stoppage of American commercial dealings with the east . It may be too late to ' remedy the military situation , and we know that unless that is corrected our commercial rights are assured only in peace times , but even that assurance is valuable . American determination might even now correct : some of the injustices which were permitted to take effect against the United States . We can still assert our cable and commercial rights , which were virtually tossed away without any consideration for consequences . If the United States submits , Japan will take everything in the Pacific and build a wall of exclusion around Asiatic trade . The United States does not need to bluster to assert its rights and protect its citizens . Its rights are too well defined to he Involved in fine questions of controversy . It is not our present business to inquire why Japan is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or physical guardian of Siberia . It is our business to inquire how Japan Is behaving to American citizens there . If reports of injustice and imposition from there are true , the United States can demand from Japan the treatment for Americans which Japan demands of ? the United : , tate9 for Japanese . So long as the United States applies generall : , the doctrine which Mr. Wilson ; has applied so injuriously to Americans in Mexico there will be no consideration given American citizenship anywhere in the world .                     