@@692339

txt No progress was made toward a settlement of the anthracite coal strike today by the mine union leaders and operators , who resumed joint sessions at the Bellevue Stratford Hotel . , The conference adjourned until tomorrow . The meeting was called by Chairman Alvan Markle on the request of President John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers , made last Friday , when Mr. Lewis was under the impression that Major W. W. Inglis , for the operators , favored the plan of E. J. Lynett , publisher of The Scranton Times , as the basis for a resumption of negotiations . Mr. Lewis accepted the plan as such a basis , but it was rejected subsequently by Major Inglis . Today the formal rejection of Major Inglis and his original reply , interpreted by Mr. Lewis as a qualified acceptance , were read into the record as well as the acceptance of Mr. Lewis . It is rumored that Chairman Markle is considering the submission of a modification of his plan , accepted by the operators at the Union League Club and rejected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreeable to the miners , or another plan is proposed which meets with their favor , the conference will follow the fate of the previous joint conferences and break up on the question of arbitration . The miners made it plain today that they would not give in to the demand for arbitration . The owners were equally insistent on arbitration as being the only plan to insure a supply of coal to the public when wage contracts were being negotiated . Operators Keep Out Newspaper Men . The subject which developed most discussion , however , was not the Lynett plan , but the question of publicity . The miners offered the following motion : " Resolved . That the representatives of the press be admitted to attend the session of the Negotiations Committee. ? The operators immediately proposed the following amendment : " Resolved , That a complete stenographic copy be made of the proceedings , turned over to our respective publicity men with instructions to prepare a summary for submission to the press , with the understanding that no business of importance transacted at this conference shall be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous fight for the opening of the doors to the press on the ground that the public had a right to know what was going on in the meeting room without tthe intervention of publicity men or communiques devoid of news . The operators countered with the declaration that while the idea was interesting enough it was obvious that no real business could be transacted by such a method . Secretary James A. Gorman interjected the assertion that a complete stenographic record of the proceedings could not be available before the morning following the day of the conference . The amendment was put first and voted down by the miners . The operators voted against the suggestion that the press representatives be admitted . It was agreed that Secretary Gorman should issue a joint statement at the end of each session . The publicity representatives were excluded from the conference . Lewis Brings Up the Lynett Plan . Mr. Lewis then moved that the plan of Mr. Lynett be accepted in principle as a basis for conducting negotiations . This plan provides for an immediate resumption of work at the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side would have the right to ask for a conference to change wages at the end of two years , and , if no agreement were reached , the old contract would continue for three years . The operators objected to the Lynett plan because it provided for no method of breaking a deadlock if the conferees failed to agree at the end of two years . They called it " another Jacksonville agreement , " which would freeze present wages for five years . The miners sought to show that Major Inglis had accepted the Lynett plan in principle for two days last week and had issued a denial.directly the acceptance of Mr. Lewis was made public . Inglis Letter Put Into Record . The letter of Major Inglis to Mr. Lynett , written last Wednesday , was read into the record by Mr. Lewis to prove his point . On the disputed point , the method of procedure if no agreement is reached at the end of two years , Major Inglis 's letter said : " As to Paragraph Four , it would appear that after two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by either party ; the wages would be fixed for the last three years of a five-year period , although it wouid be in this later period that conditions zre most in doubt . The provision that the miners are to remain at work whether or not agreement is reached is one for which we have all along contended and which has been opposed by Mr. Lewis on all occasions . " We appreciate and welcome your interest in bringing about a settlement . We are already converted to the necessity for some such plan as you suggest with provision against deadlocks , and this can be done without sacrificing any of the miners ' rights or interests . The need seems to be to convince Mr. Lewis of this I act . " Acceptance and Rejection Notes . Mr. Lewis read his own acceptance into the record and Major Inglis spread on the minutes his rejection of the Lynett plan , given out Friday . Both documents were published at that time . Mr. Lewis 's letter hails the suggestion of the Scranton publisher as constructive " and worthy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter that one of the evils of the anthracite industry was the lack of confidence and goodwill between operators and miners , Mr. Lewis declared he had in mind certain suggestions to make ' to the operators for establishing a better relationship . In his telegram of last Friday rejecting the Lynett plan , Major Inglis pointed out that it contained no provisions for breaking a deadlock after two years and said that in an editorial the publisher had admitted his plan eliminated arbitration altogether . When the question of arbitration came up , the conference Immediately fell into a stalemate , the operators favoring arbitration and the miners opposing it as vigorously as at the recent conference in the Union League Club in New York . A motion to accept the Lynett plan was blocked by the operators , and the deadlock , which has resulted in the breaking off tof two series of conferences , was reached for the third time . That was how the situation stood when an adjournment was taken at 6:30 o'clock tonight , the conferences agreeing to meet tomorrow from 1:30 to 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             