@@689522

txt Death came suddenly today to Charles Proteus Steinmetz , the " wizard " of electricity . while he was alone in his sickroom , which he was counting on leaving soon , so far had his recovery progressed . The scientist slept most soundly last night of any night since the breakdown which sent him to bed following his recent trip to the Pacific Coast . He asked his nurse to have his breakfast served to him in bed , and she left the room to have the meal prepared . William Hayden , one of his adopted grandsons , entered the room a short time after o'clock with the breakfast and found the scientist dead . The physicians gave out the following statement ; , " Dr. Steinmetz died suddenly a few , minutes after 8 o'clock this morning of acute dilation of the heart , following a chronic myocarditis of many Years ' standing . which is a weakening of the heart muscles . " Last night Dr. Steinmetz 's improvement had been so marked that he left his bed and chatted for a short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the family , J. L. Hay-. den , is his adopted son . After returning to bed , he read a book , " The Physics of Air , " and marked several passages which he wanted Mr. Hayden to read with him . He was bright and cheerful and remarked that he would soon be out again and back to work . He fell asleep about 10 o'clock , and for the first time since he had been ill slept through till 5 o'clock this morning . The body will lie in state on Sunday afternoon from 4 until 8 o'clock at the Steinmetz home , 108 Wendell Avenue . On Monday afternoon the funeral service will be held at 2 o'clock . While Dr. Steinmetz was reported to have received one of the greatest salaries ever paid to an electrical expert , his friends say he left a , very modest fortune , probably not more than $25,000 . In fact It was said that he was not on the payroll of the General Electric Company , but that the company paid all of his living expenses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The trip which Dr. Steinmetz had made to the West started Sept. 1 , and proved much more strenuous than either he or members of his adopted family had planned . As a result he was forced to bed soon after his return , on Oct. 13 . At the time his physicians an- , nounced that a rest was advisable , although it was emphasized that his condition was not serious . Came to America When 24 . Charles Proteus Steinmetz was born in Breslau , Germany , on April 9 , 1865 . His father was in the Government railway service and was able to give him a good education . He studied in the universities at Breslau and Berlin , and the Polytechnic in Zurich , Switzerland , specializing in mathematics , electrical engineering and chemistry . In addition , he was deeply interested in politics and economics and became an active Socialist at a time when the German Government was taking drastic steps to stamp out socialism . This led to conflicts with the authorities , which prevented him from taking a. university degree . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Socialist papers , Steinmetz was regarded as a dangerous youth , and plans were made to prosecute him . Warned of this move in advance , he escaped to Austria and then to Switzerland , where he continued his studies , supporting himself by writing articles on political and scientific subjects . He intended to return to Breslau and become a professor in the university after the storm blew over , but he happened to meet an American student at Zurich who induced him to come to the United States , In 1889 , at the age of 24 , Steinmetz arrived here with his American friend in the steerage of a French liner . Penniless and unable to speak more than P few words , of English , the youthful genius was under the additional handicap of an illness which left him with a badly swollen face . The immigration authorities at Ellis Island refused to let him enter the country and sent him to the detention pen . Finally , however , he was allowed to enter as the result of the appeals of his American travel- , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day . Steinmetz had letters to electricians in New York but was unable to find employment until he met Rudolph Eickemeyer , an inventor , manufacturer and Pioneer in the field of electrical research in America . Eickemeyer gave him a job at $2 a day in the drafting room of the Osterheld and Eickemeyer - factory at Yonkers . In a remarkably short time Steinmetz had made a name for himself . Besides working on inventions for electric motors and generators and electric street . cars , Steinmetz attracted attention by articles he contributed to scientific papers here and in Germany , especially on the theory a alternating currents . He was put in charge of a research laboratory and began to specialize on magnetic testing , Mr. Steinmetz eventually became the chief consulting engineer and head of the Consulting Engineering Department , which he organized , for the General Electric Company . He was probably the outstanding example in America of the close relationship between modern science ' axfd modern industry . His work did not consist merely of applying the results of scientific inventions to business . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and applied science , devoting himself to research and inventions which , with his far-seeing eye . he counted on to result in ultimate benefit to industry and through it to society as a whole , as well a9 dealing with problems of immediate importance to the company which employed him . He was head of a magnificently equipped laboratory at Schenectady and the results of his work there were of such a nature that they even astounded his only rival as an electrical wizard in America  --  Thomas A. Edison , who recently paid a wisit to the General Electric Company plant . An example of his devotion to pure science was his invention of a lightning generator , which gained wide publicity last year . He was compared to a modern Jove sitting on his throne in the laboratory at Schenectady , when it was learned that he had succeeded in producing and controlling an " indoor thunderstorm , " hurling a bolt of artificial lightning with the energy of 1,000,000 horsepower , and getting the shattering effect of real lightning . He did this in the hope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was greatly interested in efforts to produce " cold light , " which would be much more efficient and less costly than the present electric light . Another method for the conservation of coal in which Mr. Steinmetz was particularly interested was in the extension of water power . He once said that there was enough undeveloped water power in New York State to cut down the consumption of coal by two-thirds . Believed Steam Locomotive Doomed . The electrical wizard frequently said that the steam locomotive was doomed anyway because of the advances in electricity . He predicted that the railroads would do away with " archaic steam locomotives " and adopt electrification as soon as they could finance- it , and that this change would mean the saving of two-thirds of the present consumption of coal for railway transportation . " Electricity 13 doing for the distribution of energy what the railroads have done for the distribution of materials , " he said , Steinmetz was also interested in the electric motor as a means for transportation . Within a year of his death he perfected a design for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steinmetz Corporation to put it on the market . It was to run 200 miles without having its batteries recharged , to attain a , speed of fifteen to forty miles an hour , to weigh only 2,000 pounds , and to sell for $1,000 or less . The interests of Steinmetz transcended the purely scientific . The facility with 1 which he wrote scientific articles that made complex subjects plain to the lay ' reader was an example of his broad I viewpoint . This led him to regard science as only one phase of human activity , and made him something of a philosopher . as ? well as a. scientist . For example , he often spoke on the relation of science and religion , denying that they are necessarily incompatible . He declared that science had not disproved the beliefs on which religion is founded , and that the question was " still open . " His interpretation of Einstein 's theory of relativity was regarded as one of the most lucid articles written about that much-discussed scientist . Steinmetz also took an active interest in questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became more moderate in his , Socialistic views . Less than a year ago he declared that while capitalism was gradually being abandoned , few people in this country believed in Socialism , and that the ideal economic system was the monistic plan , unifying capital and labor completely by letting both participate in the profits through dividends , and in the management through representation on tha boards of directors . Offered Lenin His Technical Skill . After the war he believed that this country should do something to help in the reconstruction of Soviet Russia . and he wrote to Lenin , early in 1922 , offering his help iii the technical phase of the industrial reconstruction of the country , Lenin declined his offer on the ground that it would be hard to make use of his services unless relations were re-established between the United States and Russia . Later in the year the scientist accepted a position on the advisory committee of the Kuzbas colony in Siberia . Steinmetz was a naturalized American citizen and was ' interested in Politics in Schenectady . George R. Lunn , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Board of Education in 1912. and he held that position through succeeding administrations until his death . He was President of the Common Council from 1916 to his death . Last year he ran for State Engineer on the Socialist and FarmerLabor tickets . Though defeated he received 200,000 votes , running 25,000 votes ahead of his ticket . Steinmetz was the author of the - lowing books ? " Theory and Calculation of Alternating-Current Phenomena , " - Theoretical Elements of Electrical Engineering , " " Theory and Calculation of Transient Electrical Phenomena and Oscillations . " " General Lectures on Electrical Engineering . " " Radiation . Light and Illumination . " " Engineering Mathematics , " " Electric Discharges , Waves and Impulses , " " America and the New Epoch , " " Theory and Calculation of Electric Circuits , " " Theory and Calculation of Electrical Apparatus , " He also contributed many articles in magazines . not only on his experiments in electrical engineering , but . on pure mathematics . He was regarded as one of the leading mathematicians in the country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute of Electrical Engineers , an honorary member of the National Electric Light association and a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science . He was also a member of the American Mathematical Society , the . Quaternion Society , the Society of Mechanical Engineers , the Electrochemical 1 Society , the Illuminating Engineering Society , the Physical Society , and other scientific bodies .                     