@@694400

txt The new Polish loan , to be offered today , is in line with policies of financial reconstruction of great importance to America , according to Owen D. Young chairmen of General Electric Co . " The importance ' of having Europe on a gold basis and of the stabilization of European currencies is only beginning to be generally recognized in the United States , " said Mr. Young . We have a large exportable surplus of agrieultural products and a surplus , not so large but of growing importance , of manufactured articles f r Which we are seeking markets abroad . The difficulty of esti lishing reliable and permanent markets for our goods in countries where currencies are inflated , or widely fluctuating , has been vitally demonstrated to many sections of our people during the past ten years . " In view of these considerations the Polish stabilization loan is an important one , and it is a happy circumstance that Charles S. Dewey has resigned as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury to act as adviser to Poland , a director of the Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of the agreement " America , as a comparative newcomer in the field of international finance , may take justifiable pride in the constructive and public-spirited work which has been done by such men as H. Parker Gilbert in Germany , by Jeremiah Smith in Hungary and by Roland W. Boyden , Thos . Nelson Perkins and Walter P. Cooke as members of the Reparations Commission . " The program of stabilization adopted by the Republic of Poland has had the benefit of long and careful study . Under the supervision of the American adviser the loan would seem to provide adequate funds for carrying out a sound and well-coordinated financial policy . The plan provides that capital of the Bank of Poland will be increased , that the zloty will be established on a gold basis and that currency will be issued only by the Bank of Poland on adequate gold reserves . This plan in conjunction with the present balanced budgetary policy should give increased strength in the trade activities of ' the nation , both domestic and foreign . " This plan , carefully worked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of assistance to Europe which could not be accomplished without American help , because of our predominant position as a reservoir of gold and of credit We may take no little satisfaction in rendering this help . But , beyond that , it must be evident to all who study the matter that no people benefit more from the success of these plans of stabilization than do the farmers , the manufacturers and the merchants of our own country , and indirectly our people as a whole . "                     