@@690340

txt According to The Conscription ? villager , the little of Labor periodical which for . Money of its readers has made and Katonah famous , there is both novelty and importance in the fact that one plank in the Cleveland platform declares that if this country goes to war again there will be conscription not only of young men to fight , but of all the national resources , including labor and money . This impresses The Villager not because the Republicans committed themselves to this thorough-going policy , but because the announced determination expresses , it thinks , what everybody , in the course of the World War , came to realize more or less clearly would be right , and probably necessary if there should be another . And it can not be denied that , especially since the return to what passes for peace , there have been not only many assertions , but as many confessions , that undue burdens and risks were imposed on the men who went to the front , and that unjust advantages were enjoyed by those who remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican platform certainly would obviate this sort of injustice , but The Villager points out that it would have another effect  --  it would make every man and woman , and most children , , in the country , actual and active Participants in the war , and do away entirely with noncombatants and all the immunities always claimed for and usually accorded to that class in wars of the sort called civilized : As The Villager says , Then We All a conscription law Shall that not only permitBe Soldiers . ted everybody to do his or her " bit , " but exercised over everybody exactly the same compulsion and discipline as those to which soldiers are subjected , would abolish the distinction between combatants and noncombatants , between military and civilian , and between places that legally can be bombarded and those Which can be attacked only by savages ? by " Huns , " as we used to call those who did it . And how are we going to like that ? What " labor " would say if made to work at all its trades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its insistence on getting every cent it could for its services in the war industries and all related activities . How " capital " would feel  --  and everybody with a. deposit in the savings bank is a capitalist  --  if ordered to give all or even a part of it to the Government , with no promise of repayment , as easily can be imagined . To be besought to buy Liberty bonds was an entirely different matter , for we could do that or not as we chose , and could get a warm , Proud sense of sacrifice for our country while we only were making a particularly sound investment of spare cash . When everybody and everything have been conscripted , the " enemy " will not have to be at all careful where he aims his cannon ; every town and village will be " military , " and every shop and factory will have the character of munition works , and between soldiers and the rest of us there will be only the distinction of the uniform , which will mean little or nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early dispatches Are about the deplorable ' , . Stormsaccident on Mount ' Not Everest used the word " monsoon " as if it were the name of a storm  --  like " gale , " " blizzard , " " cyclone " or " tornado . " As a matter j pf fact , the monsoon is nothing of the I sort , but merely the seasonal wind in that part of the world , corresponding to the trade winds in this part ; and while it often , especially at its beginning , is marked by severe storms , no inhabitant of the East thinks of calling such a storm " a monsoon . " What the senders of the dispatches meant was that the annual moisturebearing wind had started to blow unusually early in the season . The precipitation , at such a lofty elevation , naturally took the form of a heavy snowfall . India and all the neighboring countries await the monsoon not with apprehension , bitgt with eager longing , for it ends the long droughts , and a favorable monsoon assures good crops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result is a famine , sometimes costing millions of lives . Without the monsoon the greater part of India would be uninhabitable . The climbers of Mount Everest expected to accomplish their task before the - weather broke , " as they knew it would before long . but luck failed them . Magistrate Masan , His Silence by his too prolonged Was silence in . the ASSY Unfortunate . Rc'exwaLLE11 ease ' invited , and indeed made inevitable , the reproof which Chief Magistrate at last reluctantly gave him . Just why the head of the ' Traffic Court refused to explain action on his part that plainly needed explanation is a good deal of a mystery , but presumably it was due to a mistaken Idea of judicial dignity  --  to a feeling that It would be humiliating to defend the exercise of a permitted discretion in punishing or suspending sentence on a violator of the speed laws . But as Chief Magistrate put It in his letter , the question - involved was not legal but ethical . There had been a seeming discrimination between the rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the two , and that , as the Chief Magistrate also wrote , even though only in semblance , tended to reduce public confidence in a court upon the efficacy and perfect justice of which , the interests , and the very lives , of the public largely are dependent . That Magistrate MARSH 'S record while presiding in this important court has been such a good one only makes the more regrettable the course he followed , for it gave the look of indefensibility to what , very likely , was easily defensible if only he had been willing to speak .                     