@@695430

txt The New York Edison ' Company will put into service on Monday an electric distributing station that will be operated without a human being within its walls , it was announced yesterday . The new station , which is at 238th Street and Spuyten Duyvil Road , will ultimately be able to supply power sufficient to light the homes of about 300,000 families . me - ronot-  plant , one or the largest distributing stations in the world , will be controlled from another station three miles away . The distant operator will not only be able to manipulate the mechanism of the manless station , but will be informed at all times of its condition . Except for a visit made once a week to Inspect the apparatus , the station will be empty at all times . A complete burglar alarm system on the windows and doors will protect the building electrically . If the new station were not operated automatically it would require the presence of from twelve to eighteen men working in three shifts of four or six men each . A small force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generators or dynamos to be attended but merely recording instruments to be watched , switches to be thrown and constant communications with the generating station to be maintained . It is believed to be the only station of its kind to be operated automatically in the world . Operated by Dots and Dashes . The operator three miles away can open or close any switch . placing in service the various transformers and circuits , simply by pressing keys which send over wires electric impulses of the dot and dash system used in telegraphy . He will receive automatic signals from the station which will inform him whether the equipment is functioning properly . The control system was devised by engineers of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company and adapted for the New York Edison Company by the Edison company 's engineers . The first supervisory control system of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company was put in successful operation in 1921 in the company 's laboratory . The new station Is housed in a onestory brick structure 125 by 85 feet . Current at 13,200 volts will be received from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redistributed at 2.300 volts over the feeders which supply the street mains . The layman would find a visit to the new station a somewhat uncanny experience . He would see machines starting and stopping , switch-breakers going on and off , all without the presence of a human being , as though some invisible person were moving soundlessly about to operate the apparatus . Lights Inform the Operator . But the invisible agency is a man of flesh and blood three miles distant . He will control the station through impulses sent over telephone wires leased from the New York Telephone Company . The pressure of a key , once only , automatically flashes over the wire a telegraphic code composed of twenty-five dots and dashes . If anything prevents the switches from functioning immediately , the impulses continue to go over the wire until the service is performed . Each ? key has its . own code message in dots and dashes , and each code mes- sage controls a particular piece of apparatus or kind of service . The flash of a signal light tells the operator when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will ascertain whether the various feeders are alive and functioning properly . Another key will cause meters to record for the operator the load carried by the feeders and also their voltage . If any of the transformer banks should overheat , a lamp will flash and a bell will ring , thereby immediately attracting the operator 's attention .                     