@@694636

txt Amteur tennis players who are tempted to augment their incomes by writing for publication , broadcasting talks , or even loaning their names for purposes . of publication , will at once lose their amateur status in the Lawn Tennis association , according to ruling of the the net body at a meeting here . Although the consensus of opinion favored the strictest interpretation of the principle of " sport for sport 's sake , " there was some doubt as exactly what constituted a violation of this precept . In the end , it was unanimously decided to distcountenance the practice of tennis stars writing up accounts of tournaments for the press . As for " ghost writers , " or those who merely sign their names to articles written by others , the association expressed its extreme disapproval and expressed sympathy for the journalists who , they fear , suffer an invasion of their professional domain as the result of such tactics . Questions of reducing the prevailing high prices of tennis hallo as well as admission charge for postponed tournaments also were considered informally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the association , expressed the opinion that British lawn tennis prospects for the coming year , when it is hoped to regain international prestige , are extremely bright . HUNTER TOPS RANKING New York , Dec. 25 . ? ? Frank Hunter , Davis cup player and partner of Big Bill Tilden , tops the 1927 ranking list of the eastern Lawn Tennis association , comprising the New York state and metropolitan district The list , made public today , shows that Hunter and Dr. George King traded places . King was at the crest of the heap for 1926 and Hunter third , but the order Is reversed for this year as a result of Hunter 's sensational come . back . John Van Ryn , Princeton star who was No. 13 a year ago , leaps to second place for 1927 . Others in the " first ten " . of the sectional group are Herbert L. Bowman , Jerome Lang , Prank Shields , Julius Seligson , Clifford Marsh Jr. , Elmer J. Griffin . and Gregory Mangin . Mrs. Mona B. Mallory remains the No. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has held for the last dozen years in the district 's competition . Miss Eleanor Goss is No. 2 and the others in the " first ten " are as follows : Mrs. E. H. Rouser , Miss Alice Francis , Mrs. L. S. Hester , Mrs. B. P. Stenz ; Mrs , H. P. Falk , Mrs. J. S. Taylor , Miss Edith Moore , and Miss G , Dwyer .                     