@@691787

txt The attitude of President Coolidge as explained today by one of his associates is that the coal operators and miners should recognize their responsibility to the public , settle the dispute over wages and avert a strike . Unless a strike occurs the Administration will not act , it was declared officially . The mining of coal , in the opinion of President Coolidge , approaches a public utility in many respects . At least the furnishing of an adequate hard coal supply is a public necessity and in that respect the dispute between the workers and operators ' . is much : differ ' ent than the relations they have to the public in many other concerns . khe Administration contends ; it was pointed out today , following Senator Pepper 's departure , that neither the ' operators nor the miners have taken 1 the public into consideration . Instead , it is said , they have proceeded as if 1 whatever they did was of no interest to the public . Their attitude , President Coolidge and Senator Pepper believe , has totally disregarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that it is not the province of the Federal Government to settle disputes between employers and employes . Wage adjustment and other industrial disputes must be worked out by the parties at issue . But when these differences bring about a condition of Public calamity then the Government will step in and use its power on the side of the public . ' Will Act in Case of a Strike . While it haa been thought that the Federal Government would intervene in some way to bring about an agreement ' and keep the mines operating , this Bourse will not be followed . Nothing will be done by the Administration , it was declared , until a strike ' occurred . President Coolidge believes there is enough coal in storage to carry the public six weeks or more . Therefore , if a strike is declared on Sept. 1 , which Federal obsetvers at Atlantic City now report most probable , the Federal Government will become active immediately en the hope that a plan of arbitration will be accepted by both sides and bring an end to the . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power to compel operation of the mines . All that it can do now is to offer its good offices through Department of Labor mediators . This it has done , but apparently without any effect . After a strike is declared , President Coolidge feels that he can come Intl ' the controversy as representing the public . Then , it is understood , he will offer an arbitration plan which in effect will ? propose that mining be resumed and both sides shall abide by the decision of the arbitrators . That is the only practicable plan the GovernmenVhas to protect the public from a lack of coal during the - Winter months . The Administration has no well-worked-gut arbitration program . President Coolidge is willing to present any arbitration method which will be acceptable to both sides on one condition  --  that mining shall be resumed and the decision of the arbitrators shall be binding . He is relying upon the prestige of his office to make effective some such plan . ' Nothing of a drastic - nature is under consideration by President Coolidge . He is determined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arbitration through an impartial board , either appointed by himself , upon agreement of both sides , or three commissioners . two of , whom shall be selected by ' the disputants and one by the Government to represent the public , appeals to him now as the American way to end a probable strike and protect the interest of all sides . Secretary Hoover may smile here this ' week to go over the situation with the President . Senator Pepper , who is a candidate for re-election next year , does not want to become involved In the coal strike in any way . He regards the position of the Administration as fair and one orrenng Vie best Chance of success . Senator Pepper , it was said is indifferent to what Governor Pinehot may do in the coat strrice , believing that nothing that he may do will further his candidacy for the Senate .                     