@@695630

txt The Tribune will pay . ft ) Tor each child . Igh saying printed . The - ( gory told must never have been printed to any magazine or paper . it Is not possible to acknowl. edge or return tutavanahle contributions Write on one aide of the paper , Address bright sayings to Aunty Bee , The Trite . tine . Chicago . Little HoWa.rd was looking forward to election day , as he knew there would bo no school . One day when he was riding with his sister he put this question to her : " La Verne , when is that ' empty ' day ? " " What empty ' clay ? " said La Verne . " You know , that ' empty ' day when we , have n't got any . school , " . Howard answered brightly . W. G. Tommy was extremely restless the other afternoon , bat on account of his cold he could not play outside in the storm . Finally he said to his mother , " Gee , I 'm just bursting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unleash the Dogs of War BY DORIS BLAKE . According to the latest census bu ? reau figures , fifteen couples out of every hundred are given divorces . It has been estimated by the United States Children 's bureau . in a study of domestic relations courts , . that at least one out of every five marriages in the United States is in a state of such jeopardy that one or the other is bound to get IL The recent temporary resignation on the , part of two large religious bodieswho found that no workable solution could be arrived at after three years of earnest effort and study proves the problem almost a superhuman one . " Reading daily reports ' or divorces and the reasons given for them , one wonders why marriage , of all human relationships , can provoke the most ridiculous , the most ingenuous , the most cruel and the most intolerant ways of torment . In what other relationship , for ex ? ample , would you find one tormenting another by blowing cigar smoke in the face , and the other getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dishtowel , and screeching like an owl ? Yet these were the charges in an action brought , by an Atlantic City wife and husband . in Pennsylvania somewhere a wife got a divorce on testimony that the one she took for better'n worse expected her to live on food samples left at their store by salesmen ! Domineering dispositions loom largely in the domestic casualties , but outside of marriage a dominating disposition would have to be kept in leash . You could n't order a friend nor a business associate to think as you wanted him to think .                     