@@686914

txt THE TIMES ANNIVERSARY . An Appreciative Letter From Governor Nathan S. Miller . To the Editor of The New York Times : I take the first opportunity which a busy Summer allows me to offer my congratulations to you and to THE Timms on a quarter century association that has yieided so much of honor to newspaper and proprietor and so much of advantage to the wide public which they serve . Having in mind the capable and vigorous control of a Raymond and a Jones , it is no slight praise to say that THE TIMES in the last twenty-five years has attained a growth and an influence which invite comparison with the achievements of a n earlier period in its seventy years of life . The ideal which THE TIMES has held before it under your direction . has been to treat public policies in a liberal manner , giving to the critical spirit on the editorial page only its just measure in their discussion , and to present the news of the day fully and fairly , but with a proper regard for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courage which the pursuit of such aims demands is simply shown in the case of THE TIMES by the abundant popular public favor which this great daily enjoys . I can but attest the large intelligent spirit and the unstinted energy which have animated your work for the city , State and nation ; and to hope that THE NEW YORK TIMES will continue to prosper and to illustrate the best qualities of American journalism . NATHAN L. MILLER , State of New York , Executive Chamber . Albany Aug. 30 , 1921. ? 1 A Librarian 's Tribute . To the Editor of The NEVI York , ' limes : The copy of the history of THE . New Yoax TIMES presented by you to . the library of the American University has been received . I thank you most - heartily and sincerely for this valuable Volume . I shall put it in die university library after our bookmark with . till inscription " Presented by THE . Nisw YoaxTtatt:s " has been placed on the inside cover . Personally . I can hardly find words to express the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a newspaper man it impressed me with the supreme importance of a great daily newspaper when conducted on a high intellectual and moral plane . As I - read those superb facsimile pages from 1851 to June 19 , 1920 , my emotions were so stirred that , I lived over again the events contemporary with myself , and it required little imagination to identify myself with those which preceded me . The work is not only a history of a great newspaper , but of a great period ; and a reading of this volume is no small lessson in patriotism . Mr. Davis has done an excellent work . I shall have to get.a copy for my private library , as it will mean many pleasant hours of reading for me . FRANK W. COLLIER . Director of Research , - The American University . . Washington , D. C. , Aug. 23 , 1921 : ? Lord Bryce Advocates the League . To the Editor of The New York Times : Many ' who have sympathetically followed Lord Brycet 's just criticisms on many features of the Versailles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the League of Nations to his audience at Williamstown . One editor , an opponent of the treaty and the League , has ' been prematurely congratulating himself that Lord Bryce went him one better about the treaty . It is well for us all to read his final words . If those who flattered themselves that Lord Bryce would repudiate the greatest achievement in history in the direction of world organization and making war more difficult vaell read these words , it will be evident that , however reserved he may . have thought it wise to be in this country in view of some of President Harding 's statements about the League , he has no faith in anything but the League . He says : " Those for whom I venture to speak * ? ? believe that some form of permanent joint action is urgently needed . " He has laid strong emphasis on the need of America 's sharing , in this joint action . He says specifically , regarding League of Nations : " The plan for combined action recently created will , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately succeed , and we mean to persevere in supporting it as the only plan yet launched with a Prospect of success . " What a satisfaction it would ' be if Lord Bryce , an uncompromising advocate of disarmament , could tie placed upon the British delegation to Washington . He is a virile and unique figure , knowing us as ( lees no other Englishman . and revered , as no other Englishman , - by. all Areleeleare , LUCIA AMES MEAD . Bostan ; : Aus , Akrig2-4. , , ? . Vacuum Airship Inventor . To the Editor of The New York Times : In your editorial columns this morning you refer to an alleged " invention " of two Italian engineers of an airship based on the vacuum principle . it is rather strange that an Italian should claim to be the inventor when the basic idea with a full general description was covered by Italian ' patents taken out over thirty years ago by the late Dr. Arthur 4 Bausset. a Frenchman by birth , but a naturalized American citizen . t The general engineering verdict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the final words of a report issued years ago by a prominent American enginay : Mathematically , you are right ; practically , you must build . " UnfortunateL ly it was beyond his means to build , - and the capitalists he could get in - touch with lacked vision . His plans and ' mathematical data , however , remain in safe keeping and may yet be of use to the world . It still does not seem right that what ever credit may attach to the invention , should go to " inventors " who merely appropriate the results of many years ' work of another , instead of to the- real inventor , Dr. Arthur de Bausset . Greenwich , Conn. , Aug .. 29 , 1921.                     