@@692482

txt MARCO POLOis one of a re= spectable collection of names upon which can be based an argument for penal institutions as nurseries of literature . If in the year 1211SI the Genoese Navy had not defeated the Venetian fleet at Comore , end if among the seven thousand prisoners there taken one of the gentlemen-commanders bad not been Marcus Paulus . and if the said Marcus had not been confined for nearly a year in a Genoese cell in the company of a Grub Street writer of the time named Rusticiano of Pisa . and if for the purpose of whiling away the tedium of imprisonment Marcus had not dictated to Rusticiano the story of seventeen years of travel and sojourn in furthest Asia . the world would have obviously lost one of its great books . If a certain Spanish gentleman had not been imprisoned at Seville in connection with irregularities in his Treasury accounts . legend assumes that " Don Quixote " would not have been conceived and written In part . If a certain English Nonconformist preacher had not been clapped into Bedford Jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labors , but he possibly would not have found the time to do " The Pilgrim 's Progrems " It is good that now and then the active spirits to whom the practice of living is more than the practice of authorship should be granted an enforced vacation from society for the purpose of crystallizing their experiences and reactions and writing them down . Millions of American schoolboys are acquainted with the name of the Man who is so largely responsible for American history as one of the . prescribed subjects in the curriculum . Marco Polo 's book was one of Christopher Columbus 's bedtide companions . Commercial opportunities in the Cathay and Cipango of the Venetian traveler were as powerful a motive at Palos in August , 1492. as the desire to bring heathen lands within the fold of the Church . The American schoolboys who know Marco Polo directly are probably not . many . They now have him avaiiethe in Manuel Komroffs somewhat eclectic edition ( Boni &; Liveright ) . Mars-den 's translation of IKON has been retouched on the basis of Colonel Henry Yule 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hook Jacket tells us. of modern explorations and researches in Polo 's footsteps . To the specielist , one imagines . this treatment is not altogether an advantage . He would prefer to have his Polo unrevised and unampiffled . The text dnes not always make it clear where the original narrative bas been altered or improved upon . No such considerations hold for the general public . ? ? ? NrVITESITIER the American schoolboy will find the story quite as entrancing as he has been led to believe by the Polo legend is a different matter . The book is fascinating , but not altogether in the sense of being a chronicle teeming with glories and marvels . The residence of Kublai Khan , eight miles square . is there , and so are the golden-roofed temples of Japan and the lands where the pepper grows . But they are imbedded in a narraneje that is in the main sober enough to qualify for gazetteer purposes . It is said that Marco Polo 's hook , written in the year 1299 , did not really impress itself on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The reason would seem to be that the medieval world had many more exciting tales at hand in its romances , histories , and " science . " A civilisation whose accepted zoology included unicorns and dragons and whose sociology included sorcery and witchcraft as part of the daily life would find Marco Polo 's sensationalism fairly mild . Where the Venetian traveler has occasion ' to deal with the ghosts that inhabit the deserts of Iran and Gobi he is content to slate the current belief on the subject without committing himself . His marvels are really not of the supernatural . It was his arithmetic that aroused wonder and skepticism . He is said to have earned the name of Marco of the Millions by the darning statistics he brought back from Cathay . The city of Hang-Chow contained 1,600,000 families . From the province of which the city was the capital Kublai Khan drew annual revenue to the amount of nearly 25,000,00a ducats To the Venetians . this seemed a little thick . They were quite ready to believe that the deserts of Cathay were inhabited by evil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they doubted whether there were so many people or so much money in the world . se ' pERHAPS the safest explanation would be that at certain points in Polo 's narrative the state , - tics got themselves unduly inflated under the hand of the manuscript copyists . The man himself is so good an observer and so many of his statements have been confirmed by modern exploration and research after  --  six hundred years that it is difficult to think of him as consciously romancing . Some of his assertions have been substantiated from the Chinese annals themselves . The interesting fact is that the man whose name is associated with marvels and glamour is at bottom a historian the very modern type . He was a merchant , and to him the economic factor was apparently the big factor in social organisation even six hundred and fifty years ago in Asia Palaces and dynasties and wars and treaties are not neglected but his chief interest seems to have been in what we regard now as the basic factors of human society  --  the geo- graphical environment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present writer is unaware who is the patron saint , If there is one . of the modern scientific history . But an excellent claim could be made out for the man who could observe as modernly as Polo did , for instance , in Persia : Kirman is a kingdom on the eastern confines of Persia . which was formerly governed by its own monarchs . in hereditary succession ; hut , since the Tartars have brought it under their dominion , they appoint governors to it at pleasure . in the mountains of this country are found the precious stones that we call turquoises . There are also veins of steel and of antimony in large quantities . They manufacture here in great perfection all the articles necessary for warlike equipment , such as saddles , bridles , spurs , swords , bows , quivers , and every kind of arms in use amongst the people . The women and young persons work with the needle , in embroideries of silk and gold , in a variety of colors and patterns , representing birds and beasts , with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coverlets and cushions of the sleeping places of the rich : and the work is executed with so much taste and skill as to be an object of admiration . Of course it is the merchant 's eye that falls so quickly on the industry and the trade of a strange country . But if a Venetian merchant was not qualified to make a beginning of economic history , who would he ? At any rate , more typical of Marco Polo 's story as a whole than the giorias of Kublai Khan is his account of Kobiam , beyond the Iranian desert : Kohiam Is a large town , the inhabitants of which observe the law of Mahomet . They have plenty of iron and other metals . Here they make mirrors of highly polished steel , of a large size and very handsome . Much antimony or zinc is found in the country , and they procure tutty which makes an excellent collyrium ( eye-salve ) by the following process : They take the crude ore from the vein that is known to yield such as is fit for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Over the flames they place an iron grating formed of small bars set close together . The smoke or vapour ascending from the ore in hardening attaches itself to the bars , and as it cools becomes hard . This Is the tutty : whilst the gross and heavy part which does not ascend. but remains in a cinder in the furnace . becomes the spodium . ? LILL through Cathay the Venetian carries this observing eye " I ? for what we may call the technology of a strange civilization . In his wanderings through what is today the Eighteen Provinces , as inspector or ambassador for the Great Khan , and for three years as his governor in one of the coast towns . he encounters many strange impute tions . Of them his first remark Is that they are idolators and use the paper currency of Peking . Like some more recent historians who are concerned with the economics of a people above everything else , Marco Polo occasionally overlooks some fairly big non-economic subjects . His present editor wonders why Marco Polo should never have mentioned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had several times crossed and recrossed it . Neither does he mention tea . Neither does he men- ? tion what the schoolboy and schoolgirl would first expect in a story of Cathay , and that is foot-binding . Strangest of all , perhaps , is the fact that he comes so near to mentioning the art of printing without actually mentioning it . For it appears that the black paper money which circulated throughout the Great Khan 's dominions , having been duly subscribed and attested by the officials of the Treasury , received its final ' Sanction when the head official , " having dipped into vermilion the royal seal committed to his custody , stamps with it the piece of paper , so that the form of the seal tinged with the vermilion remains impressed upon it . " Polo is here describing the block-printed paper money of Cathay , but apparently he is unaware that paper was being stamped in the country with other impresses than the royal seal and for other purposes than creating a medium or exchange . He overlooked the little invention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to render possible the numerous editions of the voyages of Marco Polo . ? . ? FOR a man , then , whose name has been traditionally associated with the exploitation of the marvels and the mystery of the jeweled East , it must be confessed that the great Venetian tells , on the whole , a sober story . His adventures were ultraromantie but his interests were prosaic : one may almost say statistical . On the whole I should be inclined to believe that the American college professor will find a stronger appeal in the hook than the American schoolboy . Of glamor there is comparatively little . Even the glories of Kuhlai Khans palace are legs described than enumerated . The statistician appears in the very exact dimensions ' of the concentric series of walls that housed the Mongol Emperor and his myriad attendants at Kamhalu. the ten thousand suits of raiment that Kublai Khan distributed to his courtiers , ann the organization of Kublal 's army by precise tens , hundreds , thousands and ten thousands . This economic historian 's feelings are most deeply stirred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to describe with factories and workers and markets and merchants . His deepest enthusiasm Is roused by the excellently paved streets in Hang-Chow. built with a slight curve toward the edges so as to permit the rain water to run off into the ditches , by the admirably organized system of fire prevention by the prosperity of a town whose daily consumption of pepper amounted to forty-three loads of 243 pounds each : and from this single item of pepper " some notion may be formed of the whole quantity of provisions  --  meat , wine , groceries and the like  --  required for the consumption of the inhabitants of Kinsal . " There is little here of the magic of Kublai Khan 's stately pleasure dome at Xanadu . But then the modern explorers and investigators would have a much harder time tracing the measureless caverns of the river Alph than they have experienced in confirming Marco Polo 's matter-offact itineraries . In his favor , of course , so far as Kuhlai 's country Is concerned , is the fact that a cycle in Cathay means very little indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years as Governor is today probably very much as he left it 650 years ago , with the exception of a few more foreign white devils in its streets . Good enough as a story , Marco Polo 's book recommends Itself most easily as furnishing a still useful background for the day 's news of ChangTso-lin , Wu Pei-fu and the tariff conference at Peking .                     