@@687800

txt Too frequently in the past few years since we have had the income tax , sale of municipal and state bonds has been made with tax exemption as the leading sales argument . This feature is of course valuable to those of large incomes and demand for such bonds has tended toward bringing into the market securities of municipal divisions at relatively- high prices , their tax-exemption clouding the more important ' matter of the security behind the issue . Security of both state and municipal issues is dependent primarily upon the taxing power and it is , generally speaking , because of this basic power that municipal and state issues command such high prices in the market . It is therefore necessary for 14te investor , in estimating valves , to determine whether this taxing power is limited by law either in a state , or municipal division . Limitation of amount of indebtedness front the investor 's point of view is all right , but limitation by law of the taxes which may be levied to pay that indebtedness is a fundamental weakness in security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security for a particular loan . The real estate within the confines of a state or municipality is the only property whose value can be predetermined with any degree of stability . This statement does not intend to convey that bonds secured by special taxes are not properly secured if besides such special levies there is the additional provision of the state or municipal law of no limitation of taxing power for payment of debts rightfully incurred . In some Ohio municipalities where taxation was limited the courts ruled payment of debt and its service came prior to payment of city 's or county 's general expenses which practically offset the evil of limitation . The next most important consideration is the extent and character of a municipality 's property and industry . This makes bonds of larger cities with diversified industry more valuable than those dependent upori one industry . Outside of security factors , relative supply of bonds usually determines price differences . This is noted in New York state where New York city bonds which have been in large supply sell to yield around ** r in contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3.9 ( M'r and 45- basis . Since the stormy days of municipal financing after the Civil War there have been few defaults of either principal or interest on state and municipal bonds . It is far this reason that their value remains so stable .                     