@@694610

txt Rules governing the eligibility of cadets for membership on athletic teams of the United State ' Military academy will undergo no changes , Itlaj . Gen. Edwin 13 . Willi11154 , peri II tendent at the academy , announced today in approving recommendations of the West Point advisory council . In a statement , accompanying the decision . Maj. Gen. ' Winans explained the necessity for all Students at the academy competing in athletics as a basis of parity , analyzed the eligibility standard already In effect , and Pointed out that while " contests with the Naval academy traditionally form the most important incidents in West Point athletic schedules , the main purpose is development of sports throughout the army . " The statement appeared as a possible answer to reports of dissatisfaction that had arisen among naval authorities over the army eligibilly rules which allow stars of college teams to continue their athletic careers at West Point until graduation after passing the first year as plebes . No New Agreement . A four year agreement between the two service schools has three years to run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navy standards that allow a total of only three years of varsity competition either In college or at Annapolis . After pointing/out the benefits derived from academy trained officers capable of developing sports through . out the army Gen. Winans said eligibility rules were laid down in colleges primarily " to offset the tendency toward migratory athletics and perenMal students . " " Roth the dif7iculty of securing an appointment and the strenuousness of the West Point curriculum , " he said , " operate to preclude the entrance of any young . man whose sole object Is athletics . " Navy liar More Students . Gen. Winans explained that thi : authorized enrollment at Annapolis is LO per cent greater than at West Point , in recognizing the contention that the difference In age limits at the schools probably brings to the military academy a larger number of students with athletic experience . Entrance-to Annapolis is restricted to youths between the ages of 16 and 20 , to West Point between 17 and f2 . NAVY ' THREATENS BREAK . I Annapolis , Md. , Dec. 14 . ? Special- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the military academy regarding its . stand on the eligibility rules governing future Wet , service contests , - Itear Admiral Louis Al . superintendent of the naval academy . declined to make any statement on the subject tonight . Assuming , hoe , Tever , the correctness of the unofficial information , it is believed the officials of the two service schools are hopelessly ' apart and that unless there is interference by highe officials of the service athleticrelations , inclUding the annual football game , are at an end .. In view of the definite attitude taken by the naval academy and announced early last summer . it appears plain that no further games can be played unless a compromise is reached . Insist on Three Year Rule . Sentiment in the navy appears to be practically unanimous for the three year rule if the games with the military academy are to continue , and it is belleVed the present head of tare naval academy will act accordingly . It is pointed out here that the military academy is now the only important college which permits the transfer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course . The cliMa-v of the situation was reached , according to navy people , this year when every member of West Point 's back field had played previously at a different college , and two other . college players were lit the line . A point that naval authorities desire to make clear concerns the agreement existing with West Point which provides for three more games . This agreement was tentative , - the middies say , and was subject to an agreement on the eligibility of players , point raised by the navy representatives when the agreement was made .                     