@@694206

txt The first step looking toward the formation of an Illinois state organization similar to the National Board of Prohibition . Temperance and Morals , which has its national headquarters in ' Washington . D. C. , is expected to be taken by the Central Swedish conference of the Methodist Episcopal church , which opens Its sessions In the Auburn Park church . 78th and Loomis streets , next Wednesday evening . Resolutions requesting such action for the announced purpose of " rescuing Illinois from its moral . akrugh of despond " , were adopted last July at the Des Plaines camp meeting . The resolutions called for the appointment of a committee of thirty-two . Five each ' are to be appointed from the central Illinois , southern Mind " and Rock River conferences , the last named including Chicago . Three membore each were to be chosen by the - Central Swedish , the Norwegian-Dan. lab , the Chicago-Northwest German , and Lexington conferences , all of which which have churches in Chicago , although extending their borders into other statce . The Norwegian-Danish conference will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago-Northweet German conference will meet In Charles City , Ia . If conferences take favorable action - invitations to join in the organisation will be extended to state bodies of other churches , Baptists , Congregationalists , and Presbyterians . The Rev. Fred D. Stone . Irving Park church , chairman of the public policy committee of the Chicago Methodist ministers ' organization . the Rev. J. E. DeLong , Libertyville , and the Rev. A , F. Clark , Downers Grove , were the ? signers of the original resolution . Dr. A. M. Pennewell , Wheaton , president of the Chicago Methodist ministers ' ? meeting , advocated the adoption of the " ' report Dr. John Thompson . Chicago temple , a member of the state committee on legislation , said such action was in bin mind when be obtained appointment of the standing committee , on state legislation several years ago , The Rev. Mr. DeLong , chairman of ' the Rock river conference on state legislation . and one of the sponsors of the resolution at the Dee Plaines camp meeting , said yesterday he intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferenee this week . Bishop Edwin H. Hughes , who presides at the Swedish conference , is president of the Illinois A ett-neman league , and his brother4n-law . Maj. P. B. Ebberta , wao at one time state superintendent of the league . Friday evening at the Auburn Park church Dr. George Mecklenburg , representing ? the national board a temperance , Prohibition , and morals , Washington , D. C. , will address the Swedish conferorkce , and it is expected will give ad- ' 9 vice concerning the plans at the 1111- " nets state organization . Chicago Winner of Paris Prize Returns to America Harry Kurt Meg , former student at , Armour institute , who is the drat Chicagoan ever to win the Paris prize of the Society of Beaux Arta Architects , the most tmportnnt architectural award in France , has completed his studies abroad and is returning to America to make his home in Chicago , relatives said yesterday .                     