@@693486

txt Plans for razing twenty blocks of city slums and replacing them with model tenements at a cost of $25,000 , - 000 were described last night by Darwin R. James , Chairman of the State Housing Board , at a private dinner given at the Hotel Roosevelt by the City Housing Corporation , of which Alexander M. Bing is President . Mr. James said mortgage money was available for two-thirds of the cost of rebuilding the twenty blocks to which he referred . Ex-Justice Morgan J. O'Brien , Chairman of the City Committee on Plan and Survey , discussed the housing situation and city planning and the effect of city planning on the city as a whole . Mr. James estimated It would cost " anywhere from $1,500,000 to $5,000,000 to rebuild a tenement block , according to the location and consequent cost of land . " He explained , however , that not all of that money was needed to begin work . " What we need is just one-third of the cost , invested in limited dividend company stock , " he continued . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the cheapest block . A two-million dollar investment would be enough to start work on one of the high-cost blocks , but at least twenty of these operations should get under way very soon to make a real beginning . " The law requires that one-third of the cost of each housing undertaking must be raised by the issuance of stock of the corporation and twothirds by first mortgage , with interest at 5 per cent . Plan Not an Idle Dream . Mr. James asserted that the State Housing Board 's plan to rebuild whole blocks of old rookeries with model tenements , sanitary , sunny and heated , through limited dividend companies , was " not the idle dream of a visionary , " but a project which had the endorsement of " practical builders and conservative financial experts . " The State Housing Board had looked carefully into the cost of land . cost of building , cost of maintenance and cost of capital for structures in congested areas , he declared . " And out of all our investigations and study , " he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slums at this time is through the limited dividend corporations . " The limited dividend corporations is not a new , untried theory of the State Housing Board but a thoroughly demonstrated method of building low rent model housing . Who has made any contribution to housing betterment for the low wage earner during the past thirty years ? No one except a few lone enterprises , all of them based on the limited profit plan , notably the City and Suburban Homes Company , John D. Rockefeller Jr. , the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the City Housing Corporation . " The City and Suburban Homes Company has built and is now operating more than 3,000 model apartments ; rentals for these quarters always have been lower than the average . The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 's fifty-four low-rent buildings in Queens house 2,125 families , and in the last two and one-half years the City Housing Corporation has been eminently successful in building a model suburban community , which already mem- bers 650 families . In each instance these operations have been entirely successful finanaially . " Money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there already was enough money in sight to begin the rebuilding of one block and that the City Housing Corporation would begin operations as soon as tax exemption had been granted by the city . He advocated tax exemption by the city for new tenement buildings and appealed to " public-spirited men and women of New York City to come forward and invest their money in Um ' ited dividend companies which are be ' ing organized to operate under the State law and demonstrate that sound business methods , not charity or paternalism , will build houses and do away with the slums . " " Down on the lower east side of this city Just a few short blocks sepa ' rate the offices of some of the wealthI jest men in the world from what has been called the worst slum in the world , " he added . " I would like to suggest to our downtown financiers ani ' captains of industry that they take a little walk north some day next week and visit their neighbors . They wo n't need to go to Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plan is here , and it does not require one cent of charity . " Others present at the dinner included George Gordon Battle , President of the Parks and Playgrounds Association of New York City ; Kenneth Chorley of the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Foundation and Mrs. Chorley , Richard F. Childs , William Sloane Coffin , R. Fulton Cutting , Chairman of the City and Suburban Homes Company ; Mrs. George S. Draper , Frank Lord . Louis H. Pink and Aaron Rabinowitz , both members of the State Housing Board ; Carl S. Stern , counsel to the State Housing Board ; Robert E. Simon and Clarence P. Stein.                     