@@688430

txt Agreement between allied premiers at this week 's London conference does not appear quite hopeless in the light of assertions by important English and French officials to representative of Dow , Jones &; Co . Secrecy veiling Poincare 's program may in fact be due to his having a fairly flexible outline to work with London . It may prove to be a modified form of reputed plan made in August , when Balfour 's note wrecked the final conference with Lloyd George . He may ask England to forego reparations to the advantage of France and to cancel the French debt , for which Germany is to be given a moratorium for cash payments but not for payments in kind . Germany would then be required to stabilize the mark and suffer imposition of some sort of new guarantee . Contrary to the general impression it is probable that the British will reverse the stand taken in Balfour 's note and would not regard the price for cancellation of the French debt too high for a workable solution , though up to the present they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which leaves Germany free from supervision . The crux of the French hopes in the negotiations would seem to lie in relieving the treasury by some considerable program of reparations in kind up to say 1,000,000,4100 gold maiku yearly , or even more . Some opposition to this is sure to develop from British treasury . The real peril in the negotiations appears to be nature of guarantees to be demanded of Germany . British treasury is definitely opposed to collection of taxes in any part of Germany by the Allied Civil Service-and also to further occupation . Poincare , however . has committed himself so deeply to his " productive guarantees " that it is hard to see how he could survive politically unless the settlement is accompanied by some act of aggression . it might still be possible for him to accept the measure , which is only aggressive pro forma , but which is really not damaging to Germany economically . It appea-s possible that an Allied agreemtnt , if reached . may co71,1 : -. t in a compromise along this line and with the British granting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Office in favor of making large sacr.ficcs. to France and the Treasury for more careful scrutiny of all measures which France proposes . A leading American banker . thoroughly conversant . in French affairs , predicts that France must modify ber reconstro , tier . program in any case and she can not soc ? d 30,000.000.000 francs in the devastated regions during th , next two year . This amount would have brought the rebuilding to approximete completion . He did not belic ? e that French home credit could be counted on as heretofore and declared that balancing of budget would be imperative as soon as the French people realized that no cash v:11 be ctiming from Germany in the next few years .                     