@@688855

txt An attempt to wreck the White Sox baseball park grandstand failed last night when the explosive , mysteriously thrown at- the main entrance , burst in the air , shattering the windows and scattering debris over the sidewalks . Squads from the detective bureau swiftly pursued a number of clews growing out of the war on baseball gamblers , as well as suggestions that the bombing may have followed the unsuccessful picketing of the Cubs ' park by labor agents . Many Roused by Blast . The noise of the explosion was heard by police at the Stanton avenue station , more than a mile away , and by Patrolmen on their beats at Wentworth avenue and 3Gth street and Shields ave . nue and 35th street . Pollee hurried to the scene from all three of these Places , but failed to find a reason for the violence of the detonation and the shat. tered glass . Thomas Healey , a former policeman , now . a watchman at the ball park , was in the offices Just above the main entrance when the explosion occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he ran downstairs , revolver in hand , but could discover no trace of the bomb throwers . With the arrival of Lieut . John Egan and his " squad from the detective bureau , consisting of Sergts . Fred Tapscott , Mike , and Jim McCarthy , u search of the stands and playing field was started , but failed to reveal where the bomb had struck . Tells of Speeding Auto . informed by a pedestrian who was walking down Shields avenue that ho had been passed by a speeding touring car , carrying a number of men ; at 34th street , a block from the park , Lieut . Eagan developed the conclusion that the bomb had been thrown from the machine and exploded in the air . Windows in the offices were stmt ? tered by the explosion and a " hot dog " stand on the sidewalk near the entrance was demolished . Even the new coat of paint given the walls in preparation for the opening game this week was peeled off in huge strips and scattered over the the sidewalk . Blames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Sox club , told police that the park had recently been ' Painted by Landis award painters , and that he attributed the attempt to wreck the park to union workmen . A raid was made on the Cubs ' park last week , in which everal thousand dollars ' worth of plumbing fixtures installed by nonunion workers was wrecked and workers have picketed the north side grounds since the opening game bear-Mg signs carrying the legend , " Unfair to Organized Labor , Sox and Cubs Parks . "                     