@@685717

txt Vacation days for more than 400,000 Chicago school children ended last night . At 9 o'clock this morning they will be back in the 287 grammar and 24 high schools . The new attendance will show an increase of approximate . ly 18,000 . The Increase in pupils is attributed by Supt. Mortensen to the influx of homeeeekers from various parts of the country , where many schools have been left without teachers and where Inexperienced ' teachers have been employed to take the places of those who have left for the cities , where higher salaries are paid . Many outlying districts of the city , Mr. Mortensen said , have doubled in population during the last year . Fears Teacher Shortage . A shorttge of teachers was predicted by . Mr. Mortensen before the end of the present year , due to the normal advancement of substitute teachers to the grade of regular ' teachers . He plans to overcome the shortage by putting third year normal school stu ? dents to work as substitutes . Robert C. Moore , secretary of the Illinois State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago schools committee yesterday , that 10 per cent of the rural districts downstate will be without teachers . Mr. Moore revealed figures to show that the doors of schools in many agricultural districts will remain closed this fall , dug ' to the lack of teachers . Salaries Raised Only in Cities . " Salary raises have been given to teachers only in the cities , " Mr. Moore said . " The result has been that teachers have rushed to the city from rural districts Just like the farm boys and girls do . Even the incompetent and unprepared youngsters which were used as instructors in country schools last year have left for the cities . " POLICE JANITOR NABS MAN ON CAR AS PICKPOCKET James Duffy of 4127 Wallace street , alias Earl Marlin , pickpocket , was arrested yesterday after he and a companion had stolen $25 from Otto H. Jeffers , 4624 Indiana avenue , on a State street car at Forty-third street . Duffy 's pal , a Negro , escaped . Duffy was captured by William Baaz , Janitor of the Wabash avenue police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . George S. Griffin , 6521 South Sangamon street , was stabbed during a fight with two men at Racine avenue and Eighteenth street . Both assailants escaped . Oscar Williams , 351 Kensington avenue . was shot and wounded after a quarrel with Charles Johnson , 121 East One Hundred and Sixteenth street . Both men are colored . Mrs. Nellie Malls , 1182 Milwaukee avenue , told the police she had been held up at Ashland avenue and Fry Street Sunday night and robbed of $44 . She said she recognized John Frunga as the man . Five men , believed to be members of a gang of thieves , were arrested in Hammond , Ind. , at the direction of Sergt. Patrick Hamilton and property valued at ' $5,000 recovered . Hobart Emmart , alias- " Jesse James , " is declared the leader of the gang . He is said to have confessed more than 100 burglaries . Fred Pleb ! , 7139 Lafayette avenue , and David Novak. 33 North Iialsted street , were arrested on charges of having acted as " fences " for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warning by Dr. Robertson Health Commissioner John Dill Robertson believes an influenza epidemic will recur in Chicago th:ti fall . In a warning issued : yesterday ho said : " How serious it will be I do not know . However . I am acting to deal with it effectively . The free school for nurses will open Sept. 15 . We will enroll 1,000 students . We now have 0,231 nurses graduated from the school who are ready to serve . Good nursing , s the mast powerful weapon to combat influenza . It accomplishes more than oil the medicine-in the world . " Statistics show influenza recurs at ntervals of thirty years and lasts four 4uccessive winters .                     