@@688315

txt District Attorney BANTON made a fine-spun defense , a sort of plea of confession and avoidance , of his neglect to press vigorously for indictments for election frauds , of which , in several forms , there has been plenty of evidence . He was afraid that " " indictments might be brought . He was unable to do anything because the State Attorney General does n't have the legal right to appear before the Grand Jury . He rehashed his tenuous explanations of the failure of the regular and additional Grand Jury to look into the evidence which Deputy Attorney General GILBERT was eager to present . Governor MILLER picks to pieces all this web . He reminds Mr. BANTON of the successful prosecution of crime in this county with the aid of the added assistance and court facilities which the Governor gave him . If the District Attorney had cared to prosecute these crimes against the suffrage he could have easily found a way , which the Governor points out to him , and a determined stand on his part would have frightened intending breakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the District Attorney of the Rronx have found none of the difficulty which troubles Mr. BANTON . In those counties the Grand Juries have acted and indictments for election frauds have been presented . Governor MILLER tells the man who can find the means to prosecute lesser offenders but pretends to be impotent against the greater exactly what his negligence means : . Your attitude has served to Indicate a complaisance which , unfortunately , has too often prevailed in this city toward the most serious crime that can possibly be committed , for the preservation of society itself depends upon the maintenance of the purity of the ballot , and yet you appear to think that other offenses should engage your attention , and that attitude is an indication to those who may be contemplating the commission of crime that they have little to fear from your office . The election law must be observed . Violators of it must be punished . The Governor does n't want to - supersede the District Attorney or to call an extraordinary term of the Supreme Court . He would rather leave these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no fears but that I will " exercise all the power that may be " necessary to prosecute any one , " high or low , guilty of complicity in " the most heinous crime of all  --  crime " against the people 's suffrage . " And however today 's election may result , there will be no amnesty given to those cciminals . Let it be clearly understood that there will be no relaxation after the election . If crimes against the ballot ? are committed , it will not be enough to send a few underlings to Sing Sing Prison , as has been done heretofore. but there will be a searching inquiry into all such crimes to convict not merely the underlings , but those higher up who are really , responsible . If necessary , I will see that adequate and competent machinery is set up so that the courts may deal effectively with those who commit crime . Public officers who either wink at , condone or assist in violation of the law will answer to me . Till Jan. 1 , and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been , a Governor who enforces the law without regard to persons or results . Too many people in this city regard election frauds as an innocent little pastime among friends . It is a new public service of Governor MILLER to put the fear of the law into the perpetrators and the fautors of these intolerable crimes .                     