@@696723

txt Stung by Senator Borah 'S taunt that the tariff bill could be ' passed by the Senate within ten days if those who assume to . be in charge of the measure will consent to have it conform to the purpose for which the special ' session was called by President Hoover . the Republican Old Guard turned on Mr. Borah and other insurgents today , accusing them of responsibility for delay in enactment of the bill . Through Chairman Smoot of the Senate Finance Committee , the Republican conservatives issued a statement declaring Mr. Borah to be " unfair " and his efforts " preposterous " in trying to shift the blame to Republican members of the committee . The statement came direct from Mr. Smoot , but- it was , understood that it had received the approval of the other regulars , - especially his colleagues on the committee . When Senator Borah saw the statement he issued a - reply , in which he said that- while Senator Smoot was " overworked .. : and ; irritable " the tariff . nevertheless ; a challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the special session . of Congress . The bill , he asserted , . was framed by .. the Finance. , ' Committee Republicans ' ' in defiance of the interests of the people cave a few special interests. ? Insurgent Forces Angered . . The principal effect of ? Mr. Smoot 's statement appeared tonight to have been to solidify- the ' insurgents in their demand that - the - industrial schedules- of the bill be cut down and the rates on farm products increased . The insurgent forces were greatly ' angered by Mr. Smoot 's declaration . They were determined , they said , not to he " railroaded " into rushing the bill along without sufficient debate . Earlier in the day , Republican and Democratic leaders met in an endeavor to reach an agreement to speed the bill . but . if they arrived at one , the Progressives tonight seemed unwilling to join in any such move . Senator Bora.h 's attitude in this regard was clearly shown by his words . Although he did not repeat his assertion of yesterday that Progressives would " rewrite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement : " This is not solely . a question of delay , but - also a question of justice . It is immaterial how long it takes to settle that kind of a question . so long as when it . is settled it is settled right . " The Smoot and Borah statements ? were issued several hours after the Republican and Democratic leaders had conferred on the progress of the bill . Senator Smoot , Senator Watson. : the majority floor leader ; Senator Robinson , the Democratic floor leader , and Senator Simmons , ranking Democrat of the Finance Committee , were closeted for some time . Later the two Democrats conferred apart . as did Senators Smoot and Watson . Opposed to Night Sessions .. Little concrete information came ' Out as to the conferences , although it appeared that the Republicans had urged night sessions , to which Senator Robinson and Senator Borah are much opposed at this time . Mr. Smoot said that while he did not expect the Democrats or Progressives to agree on a date to irote'on the bill , he did hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican House leaders is that ' the bill will be passed by the Senate and referred to a conference by Nov. 20 , . after which there will be an adjournment of the special session . It is estimated that the conferees will require about five weeks to end their work . Senator Brookhart added to the tangled ' situation in the Senate with a declaration that he would fight any attempts by the " industrial lobby " to persuade certain farm organizations . to stand fast for the present flexible provisions of the tariff . He also again said he would press the export debenture plan as an amendment to the agricultural schedules . Senator Smoot 's Statement . The statement of Senator Smoot. accusing Senator Borah and his colleagues read : The constant efforts of Mr. Borah. representing the opponents of the pending tariff bill . to place the responsibility for the slow progress of the bill on the majority members of the Finance Committee is nothing short of preposterous . During the six weeks the bill has been before the ' Senate , Republi can members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in debate . This the records will clearly demonstrate . Senator Borah is more than unfair when he attempts to transfer this responsibility to majority members of the Finance Committee . Senator Borah complains of the schedules being unfair to agriculture . He knows perfectly well that during the six weeks the bill has been before the Senate there has been not even five minutes- consumed on discussing rates . By far the longest part of the discussion thus far has been on the flexible provision . So far as the farmers . are concerned , the operation of the flexible provision has been in behalf of agriculture to a considerably larger extent than to any other group . Therefore I repeat , when Senator Borah attempts to blame the majority members of the . Finance Committee with the slow progress of the bill , the facts will not justify that conclusion . When the rates are reported , Republican members of the Finance Committee will be entirely prepared to defend any raise made both in industrial and agricultural schedules . The trouble is that Senator Borah and his colleagues will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator from Idaho criticizes so severely . Senator Borah 's Statement . Senator Borah 's rejoinder was as follows : Senator Smoot is overworked and perhaps feels irritable about the tariff , but this tariff bill , as it was brought out of the committee , was a challenge to the whole purpose foe which the special session was called and a disregard of the interests in the consumers of the country generally . No man in his calmer moments could have supposed that such a bill could pass without a prolonged fight . The committee could have framed , a bill that , could have gone through within a short time , but this bill was framed in defiance of the interests of the people , save a few special interests . Who will this bill help if it passes as framed ? Mostly those who are already enjoying unconscionable profits . Who pays these profits ? The people of the country . and it is now proposed to raise the tariff wall a little higher so that behind this wall they can increase their ? rofits . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the increased price they would have to pay for the things they buy , and the consumers of the country generally would contribute more and more to the already exorbitant profits . This is not , therefore , solely a question of delay , but also a question of justice . It is immaterial how long it takes to settle that kind of a question so long as when it is settled , it is settled right . Brookhart Has 100 Amendments . Senater Brookhart , in his address , said he would offer about 100 amendments to the agricultural schedules as farm organizations have requested him to do . To make the rates effective , he said , an export debenture amendment would be offered equal to at least one-half of the tariff rate , and on cotton to a specified sum . " This debenture will be issued to the Farm Board only and allotted by it to the stablizing corporations . " he continued , " and they will be directed to bid the price to the farmers up by the amount of the debenture , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world market itself ? everything the equalization fee might have done . " the equalization fee might have done . The Senate adopted an amendment by Senator Blaine of Wisconsin to extend the present prohibition against importation of convict-made articles to products made by " indentured or impressed as slave " labor . Senator Reed said that this proposal might be construed to apply to goods made by apprentices in Europe , sand that it would pertain to tea , coffee and rubber , but the conservatives permitted the amendment to pass without a roll-call . Milling-in-Bond Levy Beaten . The Senate defeated the millingin-bond proposal by Senator Walsh of Montana , by- which millers would pay a 42-cent import tax on Canadian high protein wheat now brought In free where the purpose is merely to make it into flour for export . The Senate some time ago rejected a plan of the Finance Committee by which the Buffalo millers could import Canadian wheat , mill it and ship it to Cuba under the preferential rates of duty granted to American products entering that island . The Walsh amendment was rejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Oklahoma announced tonight ? that as soon as the administrative sections of the bill are out of the way he Will Move to limit the rates to agricultural products .                     