@@693661

txt A little over a month ago Governor RICHARDS of South Carolina began to show great zeal in enforcing , to a limited and selected extent , the Sunday laws . He revived the principle of ancient statutes . The essence of these is prohibition of Sunday work for " profit or worldly entertainment . " Golf and the sale of gasoline were the main worldly entertainment and profit which the Governor sought to stop on five successive Sundays . The sale of drugs was permitted by law , but the druggists in a number of cities kept their shops closed . Tobacco and cigarettes were taboo . Sunday golfers were arrested and acquitted by juries . Injunctions against interference by State officers were obtained . The irritation of the golfers and automobilists was tempered with a certain amusement . Apparently the good work is to go on . The Legislature passed a measure permitting sports not " of a boisterous and commercial character " and authorizing the sale , except during church hours , of gasoline , ice , medical supplies and other " essential " commodities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desecrated by the sale of tobacco , soft drinks or ice cream . It might be argued that the last is " essential , " a necessity of American life . But the Governor has vetoed the bill , which , he says with impressive oratundity , " strikes a fatal " blow at one of the most sacred and " fundamental pillars upon which our " civilization rests , and , no matter what " the purpose be , modifies or amends " the Ten Commandments of GOD . " Does Sabbatarianism in South Carolina linger in so rigid a form ? Many clergymen in the State are said to have approved the Governor 's course . It must be assumed that none of these will use a horse or a Ford on Sunday . If he " exchanges " with the neighboring minister , he travels on Saturday and on Monday . Does he minister to the sick or the dying on Sunday . he must do it a-foot . Everybody 's Sunday dinner must be prepared the day before , lest the maid-servant do any work . Play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the annoyances , in some cases the privations and dangers , which the strict observance of Sunday laws would bring upon at least a considerable part of the community , one wonders why the Governor has picked out only a few kinds of violations . He has been praised for enforcing the laws . That is just what he has not done . Be has allowed the sale of newspapers , the running of railroad trains and street cars and taxicabs . South Carolina papers have pointed out his inconsistency . Perhaps he will correct it , if it be doubtful , as the Columbia dispatches say , that the two-thirds majority necessary to overri.Th hi , veto can be had in the Legislature , though the bill was passed by a large rnajorit , .. Some critics do n't hesitate to tell him that all this " Sabbath " tempest is intended to divert public attention from his faillire to enter upon the prograrc Of economy . tax reduction and so on which he promised . There must be a curious conservative seventeenth-century Sabbatarianism in rural South Carolina . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it Is an interesting survival ; but by no means so curious as the similar or stronger state of opinion in New Jersey . The South Carolina Legislature was at least able to pass a Sunday law taking away some old restrictions . The Legislature of New Jersey , where sporadic debauches of Sunday law enforcement are too common , has n't the courage to adapt the Sunday statutes to new conditions , or even to permit the people of municipalities to decide by referendum what Sunday recreation and amusements shall be allowed . From that legislative cowardice it can only be concluded that New Jersey is even more seventeenth-century than South Carolina .                     