@@691371

txt Under the influence , perhaps , of the fine Spring weather prevailing President Coolidge today made some timely observations on the things to which men 's minds turn at this time of year . The crowds at the White House , Easter week visitors , numbered 1,420 today , the largest noon-time reception line in White House history , except at New Year 's and Special occasions . To some of his callers not numbered among the excursionists the President gave his Intimate views about fishing , work and I recreation for youth , and expressed enjoyment over the heavy handshaking program he is undergoing during the Easter holidays . President Coolidge has taken an active part in advocating outdoor life . He can not conceive , however , that his advocacy of communing with nature should go so far as to favor stocking with bass the Potomac tidal basin a quarter of a mile back of the White House . Such a movement is now under way here by devotees of Izaak Walton . The President has always identified fishing more with the sport of children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely to such a conclusion , White House callers were told . When he was a boy , the President , narrated smilingly , he fished with a good deal of satisfaction . He still visualizes the brook that flows through the meadows below his ancestral home in Plymouth , Vt . When he was a boy he would go to that stream as often as he could after school to catch a few fish . In those days the brook loomed up in the President 's mind as a very large and Important stream . That was about the extent of his fishing experience , but tie has observed that nowadays many people get a good deal of satisfaction in going to Florida or into the north woods to fish . Stocking the tidal basin , under the shadow of the Washington Monument , and not far distant from the Lincoln Memorial , in the President 's view , would not minister much to the desires of people who like game fishing in the South . So about the only good that stocking the tidal basin*. would do would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it really would do that . the President thinks , it might be worth while , but before approving filling the basin with fish the President is inclined to consult all authorities , such ohs the Fish Commissioner . the Secretaries of Commerce and Agriculture , or some committee that has special interest in outdoor sports . Approves League for Children . Another related subject under discussion at the President 's office today was the activities of the Achievement Clubs , the officers of which met here yesterday and showed the President what was being accomplished among the youth of the land and told him they had decided to raise an endowment fund of $1,500,000 . The President believes that work for juniors is a good thing . He came in contact with it when he was young . The impression the President bas is that his father organized work for him mostly . Oi course this is not possible for parents who live in cities and are engaged in industry . Therefore for city boys and girls the Achievement Clubs are approved by the President . But Mr. Coolidge realizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys have pig clubs . The chicken and egg industry Is one that lends itself to Profitable and useful occupation by many young people back on the farms , according to his observation . President Coolidge well remembers that he sowed wheat when he was only six years old . His grandfather died when he was such a tot arid the future President had learned to plant wheat Under his instruction . Had the grandfather lived he might be sowing wheat still , in the grandson 's opinion . There was an old Judge in Northampton , Mass. , where the President prat tilted law , who once said that " all would be better off if we were engaged with a hoe and a potato . " That summarizes ' the President 's view that humanity should keep close to the soil . The Junior Achievement Clubs find no call for country activities , but are very adaptable to city life , the President thinks . *A suggestion conveyed to ? the President today that he should abandon handshaking and deliver a speech to hundreds of excursionists on the , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - prowal ? for he does not dislike shaking hands . It brings him into a personal contact that he can not get in any other way . Says Government Weeds Supervision . Government is like private business in that it runs to seed , the President thinks , unless It Is constantly supervised . He favors the departmental reorganization bill , long before Congress , and hopes that it will be enacted into law during the coming session . The President insists that without supervision and checking - the Government is inclined ti , run to'tteed'and therefore the pruning process : must be applied QomAntall : - ,                     