@@691293

txt We have out of doors and in our immediate environment a considerable exhibit of /nature , with its living things from insect to bird and from the wild flower to the towering tree . The harbingers which advertise this are already here . But the scope of this vernal charm is limited because of the artificial things which are essential to the spreading urban life . Except for museums and botanical and zoological gardens and flower shows and private conservatories the great mass of those who live in this vast city would know little of the phenomena of the changing seasons , not to speak of natural exhibits brought from afar . In the poem which EDMUND BURxE pronounced " the most beautiful lyric in the English language " the author addressed these lines to a bird that comes at this season to the British Isles : Oh , could I fly , I 'd fly with thee : We 'd make with joyful wing Our annual visit o'er the globe , Companions of the Spring . This is a desire that can not be fully satisfied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Museum of Natural History reminds us in his annual report this morning . " the whole world of nature " is brought to those who can not make an " annual visit o'er the globe " or explore for themselves if they but make the short journey to the halls of the museum on the west side of Central Park . Not only the birds are there that THEODORE ROOSEVELT enumerates as visitors at Saga.more Hill ; those that sing on other " awakening continents " become their " companions of the Spring " here in New York . Every form of life , so far known , shows itself in the procession , without beginning and without end , creeping , crawling , flying , walking through these corridors of time . No citizen can be deemed quite worthy of all the preparation that has been made for him on this earth through eons which only fossils and lower forms of life and vestigial organs in the higher forms remember if he does not visit at least once a year this sanctuary of all the past , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still on in hitherto unexplored lands and unnavigated seas . The ? explorations in Central Asia , which last year yielded the dinosaur eggs , are being extended in the hope that the " garden " where our tertiary ancestors dwelt and whence life spread over the globe may be found ; new islands in Polynesia are being searched ; the Sargasso Sea is being sounded for new information ; the amphioxus and other finds are being interviewed , and added portions of the equatorial belt are being explored . Moreover , as President OSBORN aptly suggests , the great abstract but very practical teachers of the earliest ages of man are being retained there to give instruction such as they gave to the eolithic boy and the cave boy . The museum is one of our great educational institutions and deserves not only to ' be visited but I also to be supported in its effort to keep the whole world of nature within reach of our increasing millions .                     