@@695846

txt REAPPORTIONMENT Mathematical Method in House Bill Held to Be Obsolete . In its anxiety to- satisfy one provision Of the Constitution , which requires a reapportionment of the Rouse of . Representatives every ten years , Congress is in danger of overlooking another provision of the Constitution which requires that the number of seats assigned to each State shall be proportional to the population . The so-called " method of - major fractions " embodied in the pending bill does not secure this proportionality . It is an obsolete method which has not received the endorsement Of any scientific bcidy . The official description of the method , as given in the Report of the House Committee on the Census , is a complicated arithmetical process , involving ' the division of the population ? of each State by ? a series of arbitrary numbers , 1% , 3 , &c.,; and giving no clue whatever to the fairness or unfairness of the result . The so-called " full quota " of a State , which is included in the process , bears no relation to the true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any sense the " standard size " . of a Congressional district . The mathematical fact Is that if this obsolete method is adopted , any State in - the Union , whether large or small , with the single exception of the one largest State , may find itself deprived of a seat to which it . is justly entitled ; moreover , under quite possible distribution of population , the unfair effects of the method might extend to over half of the forty-eight States . The only method which gives a fair and equitable apportionment ? that is , the only method which puts . every State as nearly as possible on a parity with every other State ? is known as the method of equal proportions , which first became available in 1921 . This method has received the- unanimous endorsement of every scientific ) body which has examined it , including the Advisory Committee of the Census . It does away with all the complexities of quotients and remainders which led to such unseemly scrambles for fractions at every reapportionment in the past . The new method is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and every other State . If the Congressional district in one State is , say , 10 per cent larger than the Congressional district in another State , then there is said to be a disparity of 10 per cent between the two States . The method of equal proportions guarantees that the ? unavoidable disparities remaining between two States can not be further reduced by any shift in the assignments to those States . Could any test be simpler or fairer than this ? Any attempt to obscure this common-sense idea behind a smokescreen of quotients and fractions and divisors entirely misrepresents the mathematical facts . In past decades , the question of mathematical method has always been regarded as important . President Washington vetoed the first apportionment bill on mathematical grounds . Daniel Webster persuaded the Senate in 1832 to reverse the choice of method made by the House  --  though both the methods then in dispute are now known to be unsound . In. the case of the present bill , however , the House committee gave no consideration to the scientific question of method in its report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last moment by a sort of fluke , due to misinformation . The opportunity falls to the Senate , therefore , without endangering the passage of the bill , to rectify this mathematical error by inserting the one simple and equitable method of computation which is unanimously approved by the highest scientific authorities . This is not a political question . The political question here involved and one which is full of dynamite concerns , of course , the- fixation of the size of the House at 435 members . Now that delicate political question appears to be settled , the remaining question of method is purely a matter of arithmetic . Who is there , in either the House or the Senate , who , if he knew his mathematical facts , would intentionally vote for an unfair method of computation ? ? EDWARD V. HUNTINGTON . Harvaicl University , Jan. 27 , 1929 . Clothing and Books Needed . To the Editor of The New York Times : A drive will begin on Monday , Feb. 4 , throughout the Episcopal Diocese of New York by the Episcopal City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for outfitting destitute men . women and children . Scores of stricken individuals are referred by this organization 's chaplains in sixty-three hospitals , prisons and . community centres to the relief department at the mission headquarters at Bieecker Street . We welcome all sorts of clothing , both used garments and . new ones discarded for some reason . At our Good-Will Stoops. 254 West 124th Street , old garments in need of repair are turned over to handicapped workers who a re able to earn their way mending and repairing these garments . Another need , greatly felt at this time , is for books of all kinds for our chaplains to distribute to children and adults in hospitals . Many . of the rectors in the churches are planning to receive clothing and book offerings from their church schools and guilds in the next few days . All contributions should be sent to the churches and mailed or delivered from there to mission headquarters . at 38 Illeeciter Street . Or a telephone call to Canal 6691 will bring the City Mission Society 's truck to churches ta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Westchester County . ERNEST SUNDERLAND . New York . Jan. 31. 1929 . The Trouble With the Theatre . To the Editor of The New York Times : What 's the matter with the theatre ? It 's Ilse heated . fetid air . The theatre is run . for the benefit of the janitor who wo n't cpen all exits between performances to clear the air . He is so sensitive about dust . WOULD-BE THEATREGOER . New ' York , Jan. 25. 1929.                     