@@689451

txt This season cotton producers in the Mississippi Valley suffered more severely from the cotton gatehillar than the boll. weevil . ? Thousands . of acres of cotton were denuded , leaving the fields looking . like an . expanse of underbrush after a fire had singed off the foliage . Farmers have reason to ask if , in the next season , they will be subject to another invasion of this pest in addition to the weevil . To answer this question it is necessary to learn something of what the insect is and its life history . It is not to be confounded with the . army worm , although that name is given to it indiscriniinately with that of the cotton leaf worm . Unlike the army worm , which feeds on anything green , this pest feeds only upon the cotton plant . After denuding a plant of its foliage and squares it attacks  --  the outer skin of full grown bolls and ruins them . The only resemblance to the army worm is that , like an army , it " marches on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last summer there was a limited amount of damage done by worms boring directly into the grown bolls to feed on the contents . These worms are always to be found in the cotton states , but they are no more like the cotton caterpillar than is the army worm . Their life history is entirely different . The cotton caterpillar or cotton leaf worm , which did such destructibn this autumn , is a native of ? Central America . The parent is a brown moth about one and onehalf inches long , capable of flying great distances . Always ? some specimens visit the southern United States . The female lays about five hundred eggs which , in ordinary weather , will hatch in a week . The worms in a few days - go into the chrysalis state and about a week later emerge as moths , ready to fly and multiply . They usually appear about the first of - September , but this . year came a month earlier in unusual ? numbers and , for these two reasons , in connection with the lateness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These . moths can not stand an ordinary winter in the United States ; therefore , there is almost no chance of any that are now here reappearing in the spring . A heavy infestation in this country is the result of en overproduction in Central America . and such an occurfence one year is usually repeated the second , the third season in succession . There is , therefore , sonic likelihood of another infestation next summer . This of course can ? not be forecast as a fact , but only stated as a possibility . If they should come again , there is still the hope that they would arrive later in the season . If the cotton crop makes even a normal growth before that time , there will be far less possibility . of a repetition of this year 's destruction .                     