@@695423

txt President Coolidge holds that the position of the Government of the United States with respect to the limitation of naval armaments is well known and will not be changed by the AngloFrench naval accord . This was learned at the White House today under circumstances which indicated that , ' if necessary , more definite expression of the Presidential viewpoint will be forthcoming at the proper time . While the President has received no new information on the subject of the two-power agreement , it was stated at the White House that he is disposed to look upon the accord as being one between themselves alone . Mr. Coolidge was represented as feeling that if France and Great Britain have been able to make a naval limitation agreement between themselves , the United States is , of course , very glad . But it was made plain that such an agreement did not affect the policy of the United States on naval limitation , which is well known and unchanged . Ever since the note of Sir Austen Chamberlain was received , giving a somewhat ambigious outline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly cruisers and submarines , it has been an open secret that the President was not only concerned but disturbed at the trend affairs had taken . In Conflict With Our Policy . The arrangement , as understood by American officials , would provide for a program before the Preparatory Commission of the League of Nations ' projected general armament limitation conference that would place restrictions on the larger cruisers and submarines of the type held essential for the American navy , while leaving the field wide open for the smaller vessels of those classes so much desired by Great Britain and France . This would run directly toward the rock upon which the tripartite naval conference at Geneva hit a year ago and would be highly unsatisfactory to the United States . That the President shared in the general feeling was indicated by his immediately making the question a strictly White House matter , while speculation developed widely as to whether he would speak plainly to the interested powers . Technically , the matter remains In the status of a reply on the part of the United States awaiting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its own weight , no reply would be necessary . On the other hand , should one be decided upon , the best opinion now is that it would state that , inasmuch as the Unit States does not know definitely what the understanding contemplates , a definite reply is impossible . Coolidge Silent on a Reply . The form any reply will take , however , rests entirely with President Coolidge , who has not divulged his views on that score as yet even to Secretary Kellogg , with whom , according to the Secretary of State , he has not discussed the mitten Informally it is admitted in responsible circles that the United States does not propose to permit itself to be placed in a false position before Europe of rejecting all naval armament limitation proposals just after it has negotiated the multilateral anti-war treaty . On the other hand , President Coolidge made clear in his speech this Summer at Wausau , Wis. , that in his opinion adequate national defense is perfectly consistent with that treaty . It is In the light of that requirement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ auxiliary ships was worked out during the tripartite conference at Geneva . The unmistakable evidence today was that this policy remains basic with the United States . The most authoritative definition of it was given by Hugh Gibson , chief of the American delegation to the Geneva conference , in his closing address before that conference broke up . That statement , as was well knowi. at the first , was approved by the White House and as such represented a Presidential r ' terance . Statement on Our Position . " When we are asked , " Mr. Gibson said , " to limit strictly the number of cruisers on which eight-inch guns may be mounted and eventually to abandon that gun altogether in favor of the six-inch gun we are com- pelled to consider the effect of such a limitation upon our situation is view of the fact that the ' British Government has at its disposal approximately 888,000 tons of fast mer. chant ships capable of being readily converted into cruisers and armed with many six-inch guns as contemplated by the Washington treaty . ' ' " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such ships . As was so ably brought out by Lord Jellicoe , converted merchant ships played a great part in the late war . " There is another matter which has given us cause for reflection . At the time of the adoption of the Washington treaty , the delegates of the British Empire looked upon . a total tonnage for surface auxiliary craft of 450,000 tons as an acceptable and reasonable figure , but now we are faced with a program calling for 647,000 tons of auxiliary surface craft , a tonnage far in excess of that contemplated at the time of the Washington conference . " The British contention has been their proposals make for ecenomy , while ours call for a large outlay . We can not admit the justice of such a claim . We have proposed a low limitation on total tonnage , which means a very large saving . Economy can only be realized by reduction of total tonnage . The fact is that . within the total tonnage limitation the larger the unit size of vessel the greater is the economy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both high total tonnage and small units are necessarily expensive . " I should like once more to stress that the American proposals would obviously permit of drastic economies and that a proposition largely to increase the tonnage of auxiliary craft beyond ? that which any country now possesses . would impose , we believe , an unnecessary burden . " May Evoke Storm in Britain . Special Cable to THE NEw Yonx Taws . LONDON , Sept. ** Japanese Government has communicated to the British Government its approval in principle of the Anglo-French naval proposals . The formal written answer , it was hinted in Tokio dispatches a few days ago , Is being delayed until the United States has forwarded its comment . Simultaneously , tonight 's cables from Washington contain the news that President Coolidge 's stand is that the United States is glad that France and Britain have been able to agree upon their problems of disarmament , but that does not mean that their agreement affects any one but themselves . This remark is interpreted to imply that Mr. Coolidge considers that Britain and France have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires it to be fully understood that in such a case the United States will adjust her plans of national defense independently . If this interpretation is correct the news will be received with dismay here . If the British Government ever intended to conclude a military and naval entente with France its hostile reception by  --  the British public and its irritating effect on American opinion have killed it , and all that remains is to give it a decent burial . Formal interment , however , had to be preceded by the production of the corpse  --  otherwise the text of the compromise  --  and that the two Governments ? have hitherto declined to do . Tonight 's news from Washington , however , will doubtless evoke another outburst of condemnation in. the newspapers and a louder demand for publication of the terms of the agreement . Perhaps in anticipation of this semi-official intimation was given tonight " that it is in accordance with regular procedure that the publication of the text should be delayed until the Governments to whom it has been communicated have had opportunity of studying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   