@@695471

txt Under the caption " Vote as Farmere , Not Partisans , " an extensive antiHoover advertising campaign was begun yesterday by the Smith independent organization 's committee , whose headquarters is In Chicago . This is the committee beaded by George N. Peek of Moline , Ill. , which last week tackled the task of ' welding together anti-Hoover movements In a dozen states . It began operations with full page displays in the Prairie Farmer , Wallace 's Farmer , and half a. dozen other agricultural publications . They were signed by " The . Smith Independent Agricultural Leagues , " the name that probably will be adopted by the federation of state organizations at a meeting of delegates to be called soon . What made the politicians consider the advertisements news was that they included extracts from Herbert Hoover 's own utterances that hitherto have not appeared in the campaign . Called Economic Campaign . " For you , farm men and women of America . " read an Introduction to the appea/ against Hoover , " this presidential campaign Is not political but economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property decrease 20 billions of dollars and your debts increase 10 billions . Four thousand of Tour banks have failed . Your bankruptcies have Increased tenfold . During this period the most influential maker of government policy toward agiicultnre has been Herbert Hoover as food administrator and as chief agricultural adviser of the last two ad. ministrations . " The most significant of the Hoover l Quotations , the politicians said , was one said , to be a cablegram ho sent from Europe In April , 1919 . This read : " Referring to the necessity of maintaining control of wheat In order to prevent higher prices before next harvest : Early In , the war trade board freed te exportation of pork products . The price rose rapidly . In the month of March alone we shall , kill about one million pounds of inspected and country slaughtered hogs and the Increased price will be fully i. % cents net . Action Despite Protests . " This action was taken against the protest of my entire staff and myself . " t : . ; CZ.Zt - .. etcat. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face of the world situaUwe prices in this commodity would advance materially beyond the present level . e I wish to repeat that unless some superior force intervenes , we intend to hold the price of wheat to the figures It has stood during the entire war under congressional guarantee . " Weatein Republican headquarters made public two statements bearing on the farm Issue . " Tariff Is the most vital issue In Colorado because it affects the principal Industries of the state , cattle . wool , sugar , and minerals , " read a Quotation from Clarence C. Hamlin , a Colorado Springs publisher . " Cole . ' redo Is definitely in the Republican column . " Senator John Thomas of Gooding , . Mello , predicted that the cattle men , sheep men and beet growers in his ! section would consider " closing up shop " if the principles of the Under . wood tariff were again put Into effect underea Democratic administration .                     