@@686337

txt In the headlines over the story about the Public Health institute in Sunday 's TRIBUNE it was ' stated " reporter finds It full of quack methods . " This was incorrect and in direct variance with the story , which read : " There was a report extant last week that the institution was a charlatan ,  --  a sort of quack ' institution . THE TmuuNie reporter found these rumors false , so far as his experience goes . " The headline should have said : " Reporter Finds it Free of Quack Methods . " RENEW EFFORTS TO AID WOUNDED AND SICK HEROES American Legion members others are renewing efforts to the hercular soldiers of the American expeditionary forces now cared for at the Oak Forest sanitarium and the 100 or more wounded anc0 sick soldiers at the General hospital at East Forty-third street and Drexel boulevard , remo v e to adequate goverment hospitals . The Public welfare committee-of the Union League club under t h e chairmanship of . Britton I. Budd , met Friday to consider the soldier hospital problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of War Weeks . Some Sure Spring Signs Mahe Sunday Appearance Spring is here . This was evidenced not only by the showing of copies of 0 . Khayyam in the windows of Michigan avenue book stores but by the hot weather tenor of the health department 's press agent yesterday . " Chicago now has ten public bathing beaches , " the statement explains . " and over 150 play grounds for the recreation of boys and girls ; also twenty summer outing camps within easy reach of the city , which have accommodation for boys and girls and women . " 14 ' 0 . MAN DIES OF POISONING . alias Hate Quirk , 30 years old , 4155 west Twenty-fourth place , died in hi ; , r house yesterday , supposedly of psomaine poisoning . She had dinner Saturday rig-ht with some friends in a restaurant . YOUTH OF 1921 GET " CLEAN BILL " FROM SPEAKER Not " Jazzy Minded , " Lecturer Holds . ' The young people of 1921 found an ardent champion last night at the Sunday Evening club . Allen D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington Times , and the Columbus , O. , News , and for the last fifteen years a student of the moral as well as physical development of cities , was the speaker . Clears Youth of Charges . Mr. Albert cleared the American youth of the charges of being " stupid , jazz minded , and indecent , " asserting young people of today have " an inconceivable capacity for innocence that transcends our understanding . " The so-called " good old days " were not any better than the present , Mr. Albert declared . He held the old fashioned discipline was a poor substitute for the present day motive by which young Ayes should be guided . ? Find Pleasure in Books . " The young people of today read Turgenev and Gorky , and better still they discuss their reading openly , " said the speaker . " The library shelves at home are not locked to them , nor.are the book shops closed to them . " ' TAKE WOMAN FOR CRUELTY TO HER STEPDAUGHTER Mrs. Frances Marguelli , 734 South Loomis street , was arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stepdaughter , Rose Marguelli , with a broomstick . Eugene Marchese , 1443 West Con-. congress street , a tailor and a member of the state constabulary , followed the girl home Saturday , after she had tried to sell him some stale vegetables , and entered the room as she was being beaten . Mrs. Marguelli fled . Two brothers of Rose  --  Tony , 3 years old , and Joe , 9 ? were taken temporarily to the home of Marchese , Park Fisher Stirs Police ; It 's a High School Stunt Police searched Jackson park last night for a boy reported to be fishing in a fountain . They did n't find him , but inquiry revealed he was being in ? Mated into a society of the Hyde Park High school and he had been ordered to " fish " in the fountain for four hours .                     