@@685504

txt Tammany would welcome the chance of voting for Secretary of State Bainbridge Colby , reported to be the second choice of the national Administration forces . in the event of the failure of William G. to obtain the nomination , leaders of that organization said today . After Mr. Colby 's speech the movement in his favor gained considerable impetus in the New York delegation , and It is believed that he will be assured of the . majority of New Ybrlee ninety votes it the ' Administration forces should swing to him as .. ap alternativc candidate for The increase in thd.talk far . Mr. : . ' delbY , as y et purely a second choice ' candidate , strengthened the determlnatiOn.of the New York State leaders to continue voting for Governor Alfred E. Smith until a break should come , and strengthened the combination against Mr. . As explained by two Tammany leauero of the greatest Pre:Amen 7:atoll:any would ouerotafy Colby to Mr. , both on personal grounds and because they believe the nomination of Mr. Colby would help their State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would defeat both . With 1. ? - ? elvc judgeships at stake in New York County and with Governor Smith practically certain to be renominated , Tammany would like to enter the campaign with some chance of victory . Tile leaders believe this might be possibk : in New York State with Mr. Colby the nominee . He is considered " right ? ' from the Tammany viewpoint on both prohibition and the Irish question , both a which are considered necessary qualifications for the head of the Democratic national ticket , ' if he is to do anything in New York this year , and if the State and New York City Democratic candidates are to have a chance of success . Drops Eight on Unit Rule . Charles Murphy and the other Tammany and up-State organization leaders reconsidered today their intention of making a fight for the unit rule before the convention . This eecision was reached just before the vote on the prohibition plank submitted by William J. Bryan , and as a result neither Murphy nor any other Tammany leader will ever again cast the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Convention . Mayor Lunn of Schenectady , leader of the " insurgent " members of the delegation , was notified by National vommitteeman Mack , Governor Smith and State Chairman Farley that , rather than disclose a break in the delegation by a fight on the convention floor , the organization would accept the rule , reported by the Rules Committee and accepted by the convention , as applying to New York , and would permit the delegates to vote as individuals instead of as a unit . Mr. Farley announced New York 's vote on the Bryan prohibition plank as for and 87 against . Those voting for the Bryan plank were Mayor Lunn , Manton M. Wyvell of Alleghany County and Mrs. Susannah Thompson of Steuben County . The abrogation of the unit rule will have some effect on the vote for candidates . At least fifteen of the New York delegates are now expected to vote for after two or three complimentary ballots for Smith . Mayor Lunn estimated a greater strength for in the delegation , and said the number voting for him probably would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York delegation in voting as a unit with Tammany for Governor Smith on both of the first two ballots had a bit of tragedy in it . During the afternoon , while the fight over the platform was in ProgreFlis , the Tammanyltes had informed Mayor Lunn of Schenectady that they would not insist upon theircontention that in spite of the action of the convention In breaking the unit rule procedure the delegation was still legally , bound by the unit rule . This ended the contest that had been waged in the delegation . In the platform battle its members split up according to their individual preference for or against the several minority planks that were submitted . When it came to the balloting all the men among . the New Yorkers and those who had preferences for other candidates voted with the Tammany crowd for Governor . Smith , who Is PopAttar with all factions . The tragedy lies in the fact that if the men had voted for on the first and second ballots they might have put Murphy in the position of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to change . from Smith . Murphy , it is said , would like the honor of throwing New York support to the winning candidate , but he would not relish being placed in the position where if hethought- stood a good chance of winning Tammany would seem to have merely followed its critics in the delegation , led by Mayor Lunn and Franklin D. Roosevelt , Into the camp . From the way New York voted tonight Murphy is still the leader of the Empire State delegation and could go 1 over to without injury to his pride or feelings . ?                     