@@693960

txt According to advises received here by the- Australian Commissioner ; ' Australia is about to effect a comprehensive adjustment of her financial debt structure . The new plan provides for the transfer of the public debts of the 6 states to the Commonwealth , with provision for service and sinking funds on present and future obligations . In addition , with a view to doing away with independent borrowing , both at home and abroad , by the individual states , which has been a source of criticism in the past , it is intended to concentrate the future loan operations of Australia in the hands of a duly organized body , which will be guided by money market conditions and with proper regard to the relative interests of the states and the Commonwealth . The new financial arrapgement is to be permanently established by amendment to the constitution . In the meantime , it is proposed to give immediate practical effect to the plan by a temporary agreement among the states and federal government . The scheme has been submitted for consideration and discussion at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a general outline of the plan : Taking over state debts on July 1 , 1929 . For 58 years commencing July 1 , 1927 , extinction of existing state debts is provide for by the sinking fund . Commonwealth will contribute annually ** towards interest charges on state debts , this being amount paid to states as surplus revenue for current year . States will pay Commonwealth balance of annual interest charges . On existing state debts there shall he a sinking fund of 7s fid'a per annum of which Commonwealth will contribute 2s 6d and states 5s Commonwealth contribution being estimated at ? 808,000 per annum . Where on existing debt there are obligations for sinking fund contributions exceeding is 6d , excess obligations will be met front general balances of sinking fund . On new loans raised for states after July 1 next there shall be a sinking fund of 10ioa- of which 5s shall be found by Commonwealth and 5s by state . Sinking funds will be under control of Australian National Debt Commission which will apply funds to purchase and cancellation of debt . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sinking fund period , pay to sinking fund 4 per annum . In this manner sinking fund moneys will be accumulated on 41-2o basis . thus providing for redemption of existing debt in 57 years and for redemption of new debt in 58 years from date of raising loans . Existing state sinking funds will be transferred to National Debt Commi , sion except where , conditinn , relating to funds now held by trustees preclude such transfer . Where lean moneys are expended on wasting assets provision may be made for redemption of debt within period of life of asset . Provisions relating to Australian Loan Council aim at preserving to states their sovereign posersof determining amount and purposes of borrowing . Council will consist of one representative of each government and subject to control of Loan Commonwealth will arrange all future borrowings including ; inversions . redemptions and consolidations . Loan Council will determine whether amount of loan programs of all parties is available in money market at reasonable rates and conditions . if decision on this question involi.es reduction of aggregate program . Loan Council shall if possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If Loan Council fails to arrive at unanimous decision regarding allocation of money to he borrowed this money shall be apportioned in accordance with formula to be agreed upon in conference . If unanimous decision on other questions not obtained by Lean Council question shall be determined by voting for which Purpose Commonwealth shall have three votes and each state one . Loans for defence approved by Commonwealth Parliament are excluded from scheme . As regards transferred properties Commonwealth would assume liability for principal and interest of state debts bearing interest at 5 ' ; ' , per annum amounting to agreed value of those properties , namely 4:11.036.000 . Suggested form of amendment of constitution provides that Commonwealth Parliament may for carrying out or giving effect to any agreement made or to be made between Commonwealth and states make laws with respect to public debts of states including taking over of such debts ' management , paying of interest and provision and management of sinking funds , consolidation renewal . conversion and redemption indemnification of Commonwealth by state and borrowing of money by state. ; or by Commonwealth for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to June 30 , 1929 , and provides for cooperative control of borrowing and management of loans by Loan Council together with contributions to interest and sinking fund which are prosposed in permanent scheme . Payments by Commonwealth on behalf of states in respect of interest charges , sinking fund and additional interest on transferred properties total ? 8,556,000 as compared with payment totaling ? 7,735,000 provided for states for next financial year under States Grants Act . Increase in Commonwealth payments to states is thus ? 823,000 apart from further contributions of 5saa to be made by Commonwealth to sinking fund on new loans raised for states after July 7 next . Under proposed scheme Commonwealth and state contributions to sinking funds on existing states debts would total ? 2,423,000 annually . Debts of states after alowance for adjustment of transferred properties and deduction of sinking funds are estimated at ? 046,000,000.                     