@@690521

txt Premier Herriot , returning from the London conference , got la large and enthusiastic reception this evening . The Opposition papers charge that it was organized and that it was to permit of its organization that M. Herriot remained over twenty-four hours in London . The Government press calls it a spontaneous ovation . M. Herriot arrived at the Gare St. Lazare , the largest Paris suburban station , at 0:10 o'clock , an hour when many thousands of commuters were on their - way home . The Premier was radiant with happiness and proclaimed the great success of the London meeting . To the journalists he said that the material successes of the conference were much less than the moral gains France had made . He had nothing but praise for Prime Minister . He predicted that in the new conferences to be held in Paris and at the League of Nations meeting in Geneva France would obtain great satisfaction . There is little room for doubt that the London agreement will be approved by the French Parliament in the debates which will begin Thursday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lieved that M. Herriot will get about a 70 per cent . ' vote in the Chamber and a slightly less favorable vote in the upper house . Debt Reduction Expected . Thip rote will be given , especially in the Senate , which is controlled by M. Herriot , in expectation of a reduction of France s foreign debt , which means her debt to England and the United States . As the matter now stands from a bookkeeping point of view France owes England and America more than she would get out of the successful operation of the Dawes plan . To be put in the position of being obliged to pay abroad all or more than she gets from Germany is something France would not like to accept . The United States having made its position more than clear there is no hope here for any conces ( dons by Washington this year , especially since it is a Presidential election year . But it is expected in Paris that England will make concessions , and considerable disappointment is voiced that M. Herriot has not been able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Boner Law that England would accept from allies and late foes on , the Continent what she owes America , which , bearing in mind that England gets 22 per cent . of the reparations . would mean a reduction of at least 60 per cent- in the French debt of $3,500 , - 000,000 to London . It is predicted that if France obtains no debt concession it is entirely possible that within the next year there will be a radical change of feeling about the Dawes plan . Papers Talk of No Payment . The Intransigeant tonight says frankly that considering what France has spent for reconstruction and considering that the Dawes plan offers her prospects of getting less than one-third of what the Reparation Commission estimated she was entitled to , France can never pay one cent of what she owes England and America . ' The Press says : " At London Shylock treated us only as debtor 's and kept before us the exact bill for the debts we contracted to defend his house and his wealth . Will he dare present that bill now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pacifist , made to the Anglo-Saxon business ideas ? " Despite . all that may be said in England and America about the difference between the French debt and the German debt , despite Mr. Hughes 's argument that what France owes has nothing to do with German capacity for payment , there exists in the mind of the average Frenchman the conception that in order to make international affairs run more smoothly France has made large financial concessions and he is Quite frank about the justice of similar concessions by those at whose behest and on whose advice France has reduced Mr claims . HI Invite is to Debt Parley . Although interallied debt discussions ' between the French . Italian and British experts will begin here in October the really important conversations will take Place a month or so later , and it is planned to send to Washington after the Presidential election another invitation to discuss Europe 's indebtedness to America . It is felt that since America thinks so much of the Dawes plan there should be at least a disposition to connect the French debt with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In any event the French hope for nothing less than an assurance of delay ! before any demand for payment is made , since , under the operation of the ; Dawes plan . France will receive- very little during the next four or fire Years . I and what little she will get she needs badly . It is understood that the ambitious plan for floating a great national loan ; to replace by long-term securities the outstanding 87,000,000,000-frane floating ' debt represented by three , ? six and twelve-month Treasury notes has not been planned for October but will be ; postponed until after the conversations on the interallied debts . The difficulty with this plan , which has the benevolent purpose of relieving the Treasury and the Bank of France from the danger of a run by the holders of these notes . who would seek cash in order to make other investments , lies In the relative weakness of the credit of the French Government These notes represent liquid assets and thus retain par value , but French renter paying v per cent . are far from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the reluctance of the holders to convert liquid assets into somewhat frozen assets , but also that without improvement in the credit of the French Government . such a high rate of interest would have to be paid to make the new bonds attractive tha .. t there would be a considerable addition to the French budget . Therefore it is deemed logical to await the day when the obligations of the French Government may appear smaller .                     