@@694210

txt Although without experience at Washington , except as a member of Congress , Governor LowDEN has long shown familiarity with the difficulties of Federal administration . His administrative reforms while Governor of Illinois would naturally give him an insight into kindred problems at the national capital . In an article in The American Political Science Review he puts his finger on the weakness of many departments on the administrative side . The Cabinet officer finds himself " . overwhelmed with a " vast amount of purely administra " tive work . " He has " no one to turn to but his bureau chiefs . " They are not always in accord , and there is no one to drive them in harness . Mr. LOWDEN believes in the appointment of permanent Under-Secretaries , on the English model , and thinks this might well be made the first step in governmental reorganization . The tendency has been of late to increase the number of assistant secretaries in order to relieve their chiefs of administrative detail . They are generally appointed from outside the service . When they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rather exalted future . They think they are going to be called upon to help harness the Colorado River , or to advise whether the United States join the League of Nations . It cramps their style to learn that their job is to recruit division chiefs and fill out efficiency ratings and plead with Congressmen for appropriations . Sometimes a man comes up from Within the bureaus who is fitted for this task , or an outside appointee turns up with a natural bent for it . But ordinarily the assistant secretary simply has to be a good sport and do the work as best he can . As government becomes more complex , Governor LowDEN points out , permanent officials become more necessary . Some of them always do survive a change of Administration . Not only are the thousands of lesser employes protected by the civil service , but the bureau chiefs have an increasing security of tenure . The merit system of appointment and promotion holds far more widely than is popularly supposed . Conditions vary with the different departments . The political tradition prevails in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce , it has little scope . Many bureau chiefs have been in the Government service twenty-five or thirty years . Those now in office probably average twenty years of service . However , the point that Governor LOWDEN makes is that even though the bureau chiefs are permanent their work must be co-ordinated . If a Cabinet officer undertakes this task , he can not meet the other duties imposed upon him . In reality the duties of under-secretaries and &sextant; secretaries are three-fold . They help to determine policy , they take over from their chief the burden of administration , and are in Varying degree responsible for the Jepartment 's public relations . The department chief himself generally handles relations with the press , but that is only part of the job . There are speeches to be made at public gatherings . Somebody in each department has to grind its axes with Congress . Under the present budgq Emedulg it Di a heinous offense for any bureau chief to go up " on the hill " and solicit appropriations . Yet there are bureau chiefs now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely due to their facility Ili this activity . Each department has its own problem and its own assignment of duties . It would be difficult to devise a hard and fast rule to determine how all the higher positions should be filled . Bureaucracy has its dangers , as Governor LOWDEN points out . General DAWES recently uttered a sharp warning lest the diplomatic service become too ingrown . It will always be necessary , in the State Department as in the other branches of the Government , to maintain a wise balance between career and renewal . Certainly at the point of administrative control much can be done to improve present conditions .                     