@@695376

txt The body of William L. D'Olier , 47 years old , President of the Sanitation Corporation of 420 Lexington Avenue , who was regarded by Special Assistant Attorney General Buckner as an important witness in the forthcoming Queens sewer graft prosecutions , was found in a lonely section of Maspeth , Queens , at 6:20 yesterday morning . There was a bullet wound in the right temple and his right hand held a loaded pistol . from which one of five bullets had been fired . Assistant District Attorney Thomas W. Thornton , who investigated Mr. D'Olier 's death declared last night that he was not satisfied that the man was a suicide . A conversation with Mr. D'Olier 's wife , who came to Long Island City from her home at 285 Corona Avenue , Pelham Heights , when informed of her husband 's death , indicated , Mr. Thornton said , that there was no reason why D'Olier should take his own life . Police Inspector John J. Gallagher said last night that D'Olier 's coat collar and one of the coat lapels were torn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shot was fired . The police said that if the death was not a suicide , robbery was not the motive since $87 in cash , a gold watch and a silver ring were not taken . Body Found Near Cemetery . D'Olier 's body was found outside the Mt . Zion Cemetery in Maspeth , in Betts Avenue near Borden Avenue , not far from one of the principal sewer pipe plants operated by the late John M. Phillips , reputed head of the Queens sewer ring . His feet extended upward on a short embankment between the roadway and the cemetery fence railing , and his head rested in the roadway . D'Olier , who was well known as a sanitation engineer , had been a witness on March 14 when Commissioner ICIarence E. Shearn was investigating the Queens sewer situation . The Sanitation Corporation installed the equipment in the $1,600,000 sewage disposal plant at Bergen Landing , Jamaica . under subcontract with the Awixa Corporation , whose officers were reputed to be on friendly terms with Mr. Phillips . The Awixa Cor- poration obtained the ' general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of whose executives , . Robert Welsh , appeared before Commission Shearn on the same day D'Olier was questioned . It was charged , in the course of the sewer . investigation , that the cost of the Jamaica plant exceeded the estimated cost by more than 100 per cent . Wife and Brother Questioned . Mr. Thornton said last night that every effort was being made to trace D'Olier 's movements since 2:45 o'clock yesterday afternoon when he left the Hotel Plaza , Manhattan , where he had held a long conference with Gilbert C. Waldrop , his attorney and business associate . Mr. Waldrop , Mrs. D'Olier and a brother , Henry D'Olier , were questioned late yesterday afternoon by Mr. Thornton in his office in Long Island City after the group had visited the Vogel undertaking parlors in Maspeth , where the body , was identified . " Mrs. D'Olier says that her . husband left his , home at 9 o'clock Saturday morning , saying that he had an appointment at the Hotel Plaza in New . York City , " Mr. Thornton said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept his family in comfortable circumstances anti was cheerful about the future . She told me. that D'Olier owned a revolver which he obtained in the South several years ago , . but she was unable to identify the weapon found in his hand as the one owned by him . She knew of no reason why he should commit suicide . " Mr. Waldrop told the Assistant District Attorney that he had conferred with D'Olier at the Plaza and that D'Olier left him at 2:45 Saturday afternoon without naming a destination . The two men were engaged in an enterprise in Kentucky , which , according to Mr. Waldrop , gave every promise of being successful . " I know of no reason why he should take his own life , " Mr. Waldrop declared . The same statement was made by the dead man 's brother . Autopsy Is Planned . An autopsy was planned last night to determine the . exact nature of the wound which caused Mr. D'Olier 's death . Mr. Thornton and Inspector Gallagher declared that they would make a searching investigation into D'Olier 's movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Atlantic City yesterday that ' Frank L. Harold , chief investigator for . Prosecutor Louis . Repetto of Atlantic County , was in New York Saturday in connection with the pending investigation into the death of Mr. Phillips . It was ' also learned that Herman T. Stichman , one of . Mr. Buckner 's assistants , was in Atlantic City yesterday . Mr. Stichman is In charge of that part of the ewer graft inquiry involving the construction of the sewage disposal plant for which the Sanitation Corporation provided the equipment . Mr. Harold could not be located . here last night and several of Mr. Stichman 's associates expressed the belief that he was merely spending , a week-end holiday at the New Jersey ? resort . Mr. D'Olier ? is survived by his widow , Lavina ; two children- .  --  and three brothels . ? He Was a cousin of Ralph D'Olier , former.National Commander ? of the American Legion . His body was found by Martin Grauerholtz of 1,710 Armond Place , Ridgewood , Queens , who notified the police . A card showing membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initials in the hatband and his name on a handkerchief , gave the ' clues to his identity , which was definitely established by Mrs. ? D'Olier . Members of Mr. Buckner 's staff who were informed last night of Mr. D'Olier 's death declined to say whether he was one of those for . whom subpoenas were issued last Saturday to appear before the.adjourned session of the Queens Extraordinary Grand Jury , opening Sept. 25 . They admitted , however , that he . was expected to be an important witness- in the trial of former Borough President Maurice E. Connolly and others now under- indictment on charges arising from the sewer graft investigation . The trial is scheduled to start Sept. 25 . Brother Doubtful of Suicide . Special to The New York Times . ? PHILADELPHIA , Sept. 2 . ? Francis W. D'Olier of Moorestown , brother of William L. D'Olier , found dead in New York today , refused . tonight to believe that he ? was a suicide . Mr. D'Olier said his relatives had discussed the death with the District Attorney and that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But as an engineer and active in municipal and State sewage disposal contracts he may have formed enemies and you ca n't tell what they will do to a man nowadays , " said Mr. D'Olier , who is Treasurer of Creth &; Sullivan , insurance agents , of this city . " I personally have never had any business dealings with my brother and he has been living in New York for about fifteen years . News of his death was sudden to all of us and there really is not anything to be said now . " The dead man 's former home was in Philadelphia , of which city he was a native . His former wife lives in the Chestnut Hill district .                     