@@696915

txt Gardiner H. Miller , president of the New York Cotton Exchange denied before the Senate Sub-Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that the activities of the cotton exchanges have been responsible for the low prices of cotton in recent months and asserted that the price level of cotton this fall has been a reflection of supply and demand conditions in the world cotton trade . It is true . Mr. Miller said . that the average price of American cotton in the last ten years has been above 21 cents a pound . but it is equally true that this is the controlling fact in the situation that present supply and demand conditions in the world cotton trade are not by any means equal to the average of the last ten years . Supply and demand conditions at the present time are so far from the 10-year average that no economist would expect cotton to command the 10-year average price . In the last ten years . he said , average domestic crop has been 12.707,095 bales . This year , according to the government , crop is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average annual production of foreign cotton has been approximately P.070. - 000 bales . This year prospects are that the total foreign crop will be approximately 7,200,000 hales . Price History of Cotton Mr. Miller pointed out that in the past ten years the price of cotton has been both above 40 cents and below 11 cents a pound and both the high and low points were a true reflection of the supply and demand conditions prevalent at the time . He also pointed out the effects of the war on cotton prices . Senator Ellison D. Smith ( D .. S. C. ) denied that Mr. Miller could justify the present cotton situation by the law of supply and demand Cotton has been higher , he said , when there have been large surpluses and less consumption For the past few months , he said ? the price of cotton has steadily declined , the market is " as dead as a carcass " and the exchange has been a " blackboard on which someone has written his idea of what the price should be " Senator Smith repeatedly asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and if there has been some agency that has deterred the average investor from ouying and selling " since every bullish tendency In recent months has been nipped in the bud " supply and Demand the Only Effeeth ? Influence Mr. Miller said that no single agency or agtregate of men could influence the market , exept the law of supply and demand , for any length of time . He attributed the present sit , iation to business depression and refusal of pinners to buy cotton at present as they have ot been able to sell their goods since Septemer . Senator Heflin ID. , Ala. ) declared that the Anderson-Clayton &; Co of which Mr. Miller is member , has exerted an over-shadowing inluence on the market . The Senator declared hat these large firms had driven the specuttors from the market . Mr. Miller admitted that speculators had been unable to make a go of speculating in otton as they have been able to in the stock narket tie declared , however , that the diminution in the number of buyers has not dereased the power of buying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency this year on the art of the spinners to buy their own cotton ? ather than to depend upon the forward ship  --  neat basis from large firms . In answer to Senator Smith who said cotton had not fluctuated more than three cents in the last nine months , Mr. Miller said there had been many influences towards the stabilization of cotton prices . Object " to New Contract Senator Smith objected to the cotton exchange 's new contract which permits the seller of cotton to deliver the product at any point he chooses without the buyer 's knowledge . This he said . acts as a deterrent on buying . Mr. Miller pointed out that the recession in general business and the rapidity with which the South harvested and marketed its crop , at a time when spinners of the world were unwilling to buy far beyond their current requirements , were important factors contributing to the decline in cotton this fall . In this situation , the cotton exchanges have endered a service of incalculable value to all branches of the cotton trade , since only through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the enormous amount of cotton represented by the difference between the quantity which the growers were selling and the spinners were willing to buy . Mr. Miller said that the statement in the resolution authorizing the investigation of the cotton exchanges relative to the world cotton crop of 1928 and the consumption during ! that year was incorrect . The resolution stated that the consumption was 2,000,000 bales over production , whereas , Mr. Miller said , the true figures , according to the Bureau of the Census , were only 171,000 bales over production .                     