@@692184

txt Civilian Government , abolished when the Alhucernas Ministry was overthrown by a military coup in September , 1923 , has been re'istored in Spain . Captain General Primo de Rivera , who was President of the Military Directorate , remains at the head of the Government as Premier . Tho return to oivilian rule , while expected , s'arne with dramatic suddenness . Rumors of all kinds became current with the President 's return . to Madrid from Morocco on Monday . As many asfourteen Cabinet slates were circulated , but Primo de Rivera at the time had nothing definite to say . After a visit to King Alfonso this afternoon General Primo de Rivera intimated that a new government would be formed " sooner or later . " As wijdnight approached and nothing came from the royal palace , the newspapermen waiting for the King 's announcement were electrified by the laconic statement from the lips of Primo de Rivera that a civilian government had been constituted which would take the oath of office tomorrow . The members of the new Cabinet are . for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , served in the Military Directorate as Under Secretaries of the various ministries , while others were drafted from the faculties of the University of Madrid and the University of Valladolid . The new Vice Premier and Minister a the Interior , General Martinez Anido , earned fame for his determined handling of the social unrest which was rampant in Barcelona just before the Directorate assumed power . He served as Under Secretary of the Interior . Professor Jose Maria ranguas y Messia , Foreign Minister , is a member of the Faculty of the University of Madrid , where he teaches international law . The new Minister of War is the Duke of Tetuan , head of the O'Donnell Clan . He is a descendant of Mall Garbh O'Donnell , and when his grandfather was male Dukcof Tetuan by the Spanish Government in recognition of his conquests in Morocco in the middle of the last century his name was General Count O'Donnell . The present Duke was a member of the Military Directorate . Eduardo Callejo y de la . Cuesta teaches law at the University of Valladolid . Eduardo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Primo de Rivera had announced earlier tonight that he had conferred with certain civilians relative to the transfer of the Military Directorate , of which he is President . His announcement then was as follows : " My meeting with the civilians was preparatory and had for its object preparations for the coming transfer of the power of the State . 1 have placed in the hands of icing Alfonso an interesting document in which I give the reasons for my action in the political situation , and , in a word , my point of view . Ills Majesty has promised to reply this very night before midnight . " After attending a dinner at the American embassy the General convoked a meeting of all the Generals comprising the Military Directorate to acquaint them with his action . The change was indicated by a few remarks made by the General as he left the Royal Palace after a conference with King Alfonso early today . Among other things . he said at that time ; " The public is expectant that something will occur . That is quite natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which time I will have tested the opinion of the country as to how it will receive the change I anticipate will occur sooner or later . " The date of the constitution of the civil government is not far Off ; the . change will tie completed by early June .. , All will become known in opportune time . " Took Power by Decree in 1923 . Spain has been governed by royal decrees since Sept. 15. 1923 . On that day . as a result of a coup de main by Lieut . Gen. Don Miguel Primo de Rivera y Orbaneja , Marques cle Estella , then Military Governor of Barcelona , King Alfonso XIII issued a decree appointing the Marques chief of the Government and President of a military directory charged with the administration of the State . Meanwhile , the de jure Government had been prevented from functioning , and on the advice of his Majesty had resigned . The next day Parliament was dissolved by a royal decree . The objects of the directory were announced in a manifesto issued by Primo to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of those profiteers who , on account of their own official positions or the positions of their friends , had been able to amaze immense fortunes and to exercise an influence in both the Government and Parliament which was detrimental to the best interests of the nation , and ending the war in Morocco , which had been costly in lives and treasure ever since the revolt of the Riffs in the Summer of 1921 . To these two objects there was added another , which was only developed in course of time : to centralize the national , administration of affairs at Madrid . After reforms had been introduced in both civil and military life , doing away with the old abuses , Primo , in person , reorganized the army in Morocco . a- .1 last Spring , with the aid of the French , attacking from their zone in the south , attempted to end the war there . Conditions are now such that military men believe that the war can be quickly ended in the Spring , as soon as the weather shall allow the rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three occasions  --  in January . 1924 : in September , 1924 , and in April , ** has announced the progress made by the directory and his determination to ask the King to replace the military regime by a civil one as soon as conditions warranted the step . The most formidable obstacle to the third object  --  centralization  --  has come from Catalonia , which has endeavored to preserve its social autonomous rights already secured and recognized and to add to them politically .                     