@@685949

txt General agreement among hankers and business men that the Republican victory will have a stimulating effect on business raises the question whether the booming business would not have a tendency to reduce the amount of foreign credit extended ; the contention being that , with business at full speed . all available funds would be needed for use at home , leaving nothing for the foreign loan market . Bankers , as a rule , do not support this view . In fact . they are pretty generally agreed that loans will be granted more freely now than ever . " The Republican party . " says a hanker. " has always ; been the party of progress ; the party that encourage. ; business activity . We have , at present , such enormous productive capacity that there is not any such thing as a booming business tvithout large exports . To have large exports , we must arrange in accommodate foreign buyers . To do that , we must not only extend commercial credits , but extend long time loans at a reasonable rate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not expect to be prosperous without a large foreign business . " The present administration has taken the stand that no further foreign loans will be made by the American Government . Whether that policy will he continued under the Republican administration , I can not say . Probably it will be . But I feel sure that , under Republican rule , means will be found to stimulate foreign trade , either through foreign trade banks or some other way . " The present administration should not he blamed for the slowing down in business in the last few months . This recession is world wide . It is not the result of satisfied demand . The trouble seems to be more in the nature of a general protest against high prices . which arc the result of a flood of paper money the world over . " Immediately after the armistice there was a dull period , followed icy feverish activity . Goods were urgentiy needed . This demand  --  that is. the demand that could not wait  --  seems to have been satisfied . But there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When buyers conclude that prices are serapinng bottom , they will be hack in the market . This condition . of course , is net peculiar to the United States . It applies with equal force to England , France . Germany . Japan . Argentina , Cuba . etc. "                     