@@688746

txt Politicians who are keeping sharp watch on the traction muddle drew attention yesterday to the possibility of a deadlock on transit legislation between Mayor Hylan and the Republican Assembly , with a chance of the present Transit Commission remaining in office through failure to pass any bill to oust it . The report that the Republican Assemblymen from New York City were considering a new bill giving the Beard of Estimate power over transit construction , but denying the "  - -  City the power of municipal operation , was accepted as true by both Democrats and Republicans . The Democrats , however , expressed the view that the Republican Assemblymen might not go through with such a program in view of the very large Democratic pluralities in New York City at the last two elections , v.-hich they attributed in large part to the transit situation . Assemblyman George N. Jesse , one of the four Republican Assemblymen from Manhattan , admitted that such a bill was in prospect . He said that be either would introduce a new bill or present amendments to the Walker-Donohue bill to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Transportation . Mr. Jesse said that details of the proposed transit legislation , in which all the six ? Republican Assemblymen from New York City are expected to join , had not been completed . and that until then he did not wish to discuss it Say Hyman Is Firm . Democrats informed of the proposed Republican program insisted that Mayor Hylan would never accept a transit bill which did not provide for municipal ownership , his pet project . The Mayor was said to have set his heart upon creating a municipal bus system and it was asserted that he would not approve a transit bill which did not give the city the right to operate buses . Doubt was expressed that the Mayor would accept a bill , even if it did permit municipal bus operation , which does not empower the city to operate the subways and all rapid transit lines The Mayor has declared repeatedly that the city during his administration would build no subways for operation by either the Interborough Rapid Transit Company or the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company . A bill such as that now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was said , destroy the essential features of the Mayor 's transit plan , which is to build up a municipally owned and operated rapid transit system . Under the law , a bill directly affecting New York City , such as the WalkerDouohue bill . or any bill that may be substituted for it , must come to the Mayor for approval or disapproval . The Legislature may pass the bill over the Mayor 's disapproval later , but conditions affecting the Walker-Donohue bill are such that any transit bill that may pass will go through so late in the session as to give no opportunity for passage over the Mayor 's veto . Pitfalls for All Bills . Democrats insisted that in the face of Mayor Hylan 's opposi.ion a Republican bill , such as the contemplated Jesse measure , failing to give the city the power of municipal operation would not pass the State Senate , where there is a Democratic majority of one . This is the first opportunity for a deadlock , as the Assembly is Republican by a majority of twelve , and would probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City Republican Assemblymen stood against it and favored a bill of their own . The Mayor 's probable veto would be the second hurdle for the proposed Jesse bill , and politicians of both parties admitted a possibility of failure of all transit legislation , with the Transit Commission remaining in office , even though a Republican bill to abolish it had been passed by the Republican Assembly and a Democratic bill to abolish it had been passed by the Democratic Senate . and even if a Republican bill to abolish it , which the Mayor would not accept , had been passed by both houses . No definite Republican program is expected to be made public until a special meeting of the New York County Republican Committee , which has been ' , called by its Chairman , Samuel S. Koenig , for April 3 . The County Corn- mittee has named a , Committee on Transit , of which Henry H. Curran , former Borough President of Manhattan and the most recent coalition candidate for Mayor , is Chairman . Mr. Curran said that the committee had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to present at the meeting . It is understood that members of the committee favor changes in the WalkerDonohue bill and they are expected to declare against municipal operation on the ground that the city is not in financial condition to undertake any such experiment . Friends of Mayor Hylan were said to be keeping close watch on developments in the transit - situation . From their viewpoint . the Republicans are seeking to keep the Transit Commission in office by an indirect method . The Republicans interested in the proposal to bar the city from municipal operation insist that the only motive back of such a bill is a regard for the best interests of the city . Some supporters of Mayor Hylan were said to believe that retention of the Transit Commission in office through a deadlock on legislation might not be a bad thing politically for , the Mayor , who might be able to continue transit as an issue in the next city campaign . Belief was expressed that the Mayor and the Board of Estimate would be able to block any attempt of the Transit Commission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be continued in office .                     