@@694389

txt Dr. Shirley W. Wynne , a personal friend of Police Commissioner Warren and the director of hospitals of the Health Department , was held up with three patients last tight ' in his office on the sixth floor of the building at 3 East Fifty-third Street . The hold-up was perpetrated by one of three youthswho had driven to the seven-story office building in anautomobile and forced the negro elevator attendant to carry them to the sixth floor after threatening him with pistols . One of the trio placed a handkerchief across his face as the others guarded the negro in the hallway . He entered Dr. Wynne 's office , ordered the physician and Edward Aaron of 158 West Forty-fourth Street and Mr. and Mrs. James Durante of 209 162nd Street , Flushing , the patients , to throw up their hands . Then the robber took $300 and a diamond ring , valued at $1,000 from Dr. Wynne ; $1,000 in bills from Mr. Durante , who is the owner and manager of the Parody night club In the midtown district ; two diamond rings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Mr. Aaron . Dr. Wynne later told the detectives that Mrs. Durante had outwitted the robbers by slipping to the floor in a pretended faint while the masked robber was at work , and concealing another valuable diamond ring in her mouth . Stuffing the loot in his pocket the robber backed into the corridor , warning the physician and his patients that if they attempted to follow him they would be shot . Meanwhile the other robbers had ordered the elevator boy to stand ready . When their confederate hurriedly joined them , they again pressed their pistols against the negro 's side and commanded him to descend at top speed . The - robber with the loot then ran to the automobile . ' His confederates remained behind until he entered - the car , then ordered the negro to take the empty car to the seventh floor . In the meantime Dr .. Wynne had telephoned to Commissioner Warren . Detectives were hurried to his office from the East Fifty-first Street Station . Dr. Wynne said he was examining Mr. Aaron when the robber entered . Mr. and Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elevator boy , said that when the two robbers ordered him to take the elevator to the top floor they warned him that if he came down to give an alarm before ten minutes had passed they would be waiting and would shoot . He said he came down to the main floor within five minutes after Dr. Wynne hat . told him of the hold-up , but the robbers had vanished . The four victims of the hold-up and the elevator attendant gave descriptions of the robbers to the detectives . They agreed that they were exceptionally well dressed , and the police were inclined to believe that the gunman who actually perpetrated the hold-up had concealed his features ? behind the handkerchief for fear he would be recognized by one of the victims .                     