@@693409

txt Vermont is still an early riser . She began to celebrate her one hundred and fiftieth anniversary on Jan. 5 . According to the books and Attorney General SARGENT , her sesquicentennial orator at Montpelier , a convention declared the then New Hampshire Grants an independent State on June 15 , 1777 ; but this was an adjourned meeting , presumably from Jan. 5 . New Connecticut , the name first adopted , was already pre-empted by a plantation on the Susquehanna . In June the Green Mountain title which we are all fond of was taken , at the suggestion of Dr. YOUNG of Philadelphia . The Constitution of the same year was modeled after that of Pennsylvania , even borrowing Dr. FitANicLiN 's single legislative chamber ; but it was original in prohibiting slavery and it showed the frontier democratic spirit , which most of New England was in no hurry to practice . It kicked away property qualifications and provided for manhood suffrage . New Yorkers should put a little twinge of contrition into their congratulations to Vermont . Without entering into the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even Massachusetts took a hand , it is enough to say that the wealthy landspeculators of this State were industrious in regranting Vermont lands , without respecting existing titles . On the other hand , it must be admitted that the Vermonters were liberal annexers , perhaps in just retaliation ; and ETHAN ALLEN and his family had enormous tracts and negotiated with the British , In self-defense or prudence . But who cares for those old quarrels ? To think of Vermont is to think of Ticonderoga and the Green Mountain Boys , Crown Point and Bennington . Mr. James Truslow Adams gives us a glimpse of some favorite char-. acters of our boyhood . In january , 1775 , a convention of towns west of the mountains paid a string of compliments to New York and ousted all its officials in the Grants : The officers of the Green Mountain Boys were ordered to . see that the soldiers were provided each with " a " good answerable , and Ball ' or Buck " Shot answerable , and a good Tom " ahawk " and be ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of generations ago Judge D. P. TEromPsoN 's " Green Mountain Boys " and " Rangers " were the guides of youth on Vermont Revolutionary history . We dare say there are worse ; and hope that in his boo , kay the tomahawk was not forgot , any more than its use has been by that one of a thousand salient Green Mountaineers , Colonel GEORGE ** One likes to think of the Vermonters , whatever new racial and cultural elements have enriched them , as a race , or a " nation , " a little apart , independent , hardheaded , sparing , cultivating " jedgment , " keeping much of the individualistic and democratic feeling of the frontier . A Senator like EDMUNDS Is glory enough for any State , without  --  the distinction that is Plymouth 's . A good State to " come from , " as Dr. JOHNSON said of Scotland , and a goOd State to stay in.                     