@@685091

txt In the volumes of biologic essays prepared by Sir WILLIAM OSLER 'S fellowphysicians to celebrate his seventieth birthday , which lamentably appear rather as a memorial , the new . British Ambassador presents certain reflections upon the'medical profession which are as stimulating and suggestive as they are courteously phrased . More than any other of the great professions , Sir AUCKLAND GEDDES says , physicians lac ! : " the spirit of citizenship , " the willingness " to bear their share of the burden of Government . " Their devotion to science and to the service of individual healing is paramount ; they do , not conceive of these things in their relation to the nation . " I have heard teachers in " medical schools say that their whole " duty to their students was to teach " them to prevent disease , to treat the " sick and to understand the method of " science . " Sir AUCKLAND denies this , though to do so " seems to me , in my " purely scientific moods , almost dis " creditable . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statesman is primarily obliged to grapple , are not recognized in any science to which the physician is trained . They are the forces of " mass emotion "  --  the largely blind , inarticulate and groping , yet supreme and indomitable , forces of ' the racial genius . Just at present these are forces with which the physician , if he could only recognize the fact , is peculiarly qualified to deal ? " an emotion of " human betterment , finding expression " in centres for child welfare , in schemes " for housing the working classes , in the " establishment of Ministries of Health , " of Reconstruction ' and Research , in the " growth of the Labor Party , in the " spread of Socialism , and , incongruous " though it may seem , in Bolshevism and " in the great ideal struggle to express " itself through the League of Nations . " In brief , " we are at this moment in the " power of a worldwide emotional storm , " the full effects of which are not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the betterment of the nations ' health and of the more purely human relationships . Meantime the medical profession , " with brilliant exceptions , " is composed of men who are " immature as citizens " - and whose citizenship , such as it is , " is as " divorced from their technical knowledge " as is the citizenship of the speculative " builder when he jerry-builds new " slums . " The world is " moving on to the greatest of its revolutions , " but the majority of physicians , " who might be its far-seeing leaders , " are " blind and babbling of industrial unrest . " Fortunately , Sir AUCKLAND sees a " palliation , " and indeed a bright hope of betterment , both for the world and for the medic ' ) profession . A new force has been released among the nations , the force of womanly instinct , and emotion . Whereas the male , " in virtue of a million years of war , is a fighter " ' for whom the day in which he lives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " morrow which he may never see , or the " fruits of Autumn which he may never " know , " nature has ordained that the instinct of motherhood teaches women " to see in the child the adult that is to " be ; already in the bud they understand " the promise of the fruit . " Thus while the male " is equipped to fight the invading bacillus for his patient 's life , " the female reacts as surely to " the slow " drawn torture of overwork and bad " housing . " " Just as , in the forgotten " days of the dawn , man alone could " never have taken the great step neces " sary " to pass from the life of the chase to the life of agriculture , " so now the " hope of safe sailing from the predatory " social organization of today to the or " dered society of our dreams depends " upon the mother mind with its yearn " ing for peace and brightness tomorrow , " the children 's day . " Fortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in him , " and so will be able to bend his instinct as fighter of the present disease toward co-operation in the woman 's striving toward a brighter human welfare and saner , gentler human relationships . Under the influence of womanly vision the physician may yet play a leading part in the service of the nation . We have heard much of Sir AucxLAND 'S stature of six-feet-two and of his herculean shoulders , of his possession of " one of the three or four best brains in Britain , " and of its lifelong training in the laboratory . In the ponderous " Contributions to Medical and Biological Research Dedicated to Sir William Osier , " he appears a being altogether human .                     