@@691204

txt Mayor Dever 's traction plan is one for the reconstruction of Chicago transportation . In Its fulY scope it means the coordinated operation of subways , surface lines , and the elevated . It can work in the couperatlon of the surface lines and subways. - It could work with subways and the closeted lines . The mayor believes that the best results will follow ' the consolidation of all the street car transportation under one management , to be developed under one plan . That is prob . 11 idy true . The substitution of Schwartz certificates for the yiesent securities does not in Itself make a change for the better . The transfer of title is not an improvement . A change in the management from private to part public , part private does not help ifs any . These are means to an end . If it were the end in itself It . would not be Worth anything . We are promised a. marketable security based en the earnings'of the properties . The legality of this plan must be passed on by the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but good legal and banking opinion upholds the validity of the scheme . If the court upholds it'tlie bankers it ay that then money can be obtained on the certificates . . The city Juts now no other way o getting money 1,4- the great improvements needed . Its reserve bonding power is small , not  --  wOrth considering for transportation purpose . ' Before adequate power ? , ould be ebtained from the legislature and the people ? there would be a bitter light , the outcome of which can not he foreseen . That would be sometIling far away in the future . With money obtained from the certificates Chicage could buying what It needs . The aIministra tiOn. " which pieentS the plan is bound up to the hilt in pledges to start work on subways , surface line extensions , - and elevated extensions . That will carry relief to all parts of the city , many of them now badly neglected . What the opposition to the plan says of It is true only of the street car service as it now exists . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's critics are talking of what we now have . They ray the surface lines are obsolescent and can not serve metropolitan transportation . They are good es surface lines and they do what surface lines - can do , but that is not adequate city transportation . Without this plan they will continuo to be inadequate . Under the plan they would be operated as the proper complement of a rapid transit system . Then they become adequate . All the subway and elevated building the city could do In the next . forty years will not take the - surface cars off all the streets . It will take them v. - off streets In which surface operation means con. estion and delay . . Within five or ten years subway building can make a great improvement for the car users and the city in general . Within such periods extensions of the present lines can give new advantages to districts which now suffer . A twenty or forty year program which was satisfied with municipal ownership of transportation the city has now would he a sad thing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In it , the misfortune of Its adoption would be about as great-as could happen Chicago : Mayor Dever 's plan begins with consolidation end a new management . It does not end there . It does not lock up any of the city 's financial resources . Except for the taxes now paid by the Companies , Which would not be paid under the new operation , the city 's financial resources are untouched . These taxes are a proper contribu ? tion of the city in general to the retirement of the present securities . The Dever plan gives the city a chance . No other Is in sight . If this plan fails there is not it glimmer of relief In prospect for years to come . We do not know how many years this will be or how the city twill get along during them . The opposition is stagnant politics .                     