@@686298

txt France joined with America . today in paying tribute to Washington , the observance closing with a banquet this evening at the AMerican Club , where the American Ambassador , Hugh C. Wallace ; Major General Henry T. Allen , commander of the American army of occupation , and Marshal Fayolle spoke . Marshal Foch was unable to attend on account of the London conference . Marshal Fayolle recalled his campaign in Picardy and Champagne , where Americans fought under him , told of his trip to the United . States and expressed his appreciation of the ties of friendship existing between France and America . ' General Allen in the course of his reremarks said : " Questions of world moment at issue a year ago when I was here last are still pending . Our indirect participation in their solution does not mean that they are not fundamentally Important to our commercial interests . More than two years have elapsed since the armistice , and we find the reparations terms to be demanded of the conquered , still being discussed and we are still technically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps , more embroiled than ever . The new map of Europe continues in discord bordering on warfare , and man 's combativeness develops in the far away Pacific Islands . In contrast to Washington 's time , all these matters concern us . " My sentiments respecting the withdrawal of the American forces , of which we hear so frequently , are not dissimilar to those of most patriotic Americans in not desiring to have our troops serve in Central Europe . But the question is so complicated and so many large interests are affected by It ? that action may be taken only after careful consideration . " It is , indeed , probable that at this time the moral phase of the question takes precedence over the political and military aspect . There can be no doubt that our wise and judicious Presidentelect , surrounded as he will be by capable counselors , will see that all the details of this Rhine holding , as well as our relations in general to Europe , shall be carefully studied . And gladly we will accept and be governed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington and Lincoln as the two greatest Americans , one an aristocrat and the other a self-educated toiler . " Washington was the first American , " Mr. Wallace said , " for he , freed the land Lincoln was to save . Washington became a democrat , believing it a higher state , and as he reared the nation , so it stands today . The great Republic of the west owes its existence to Washington , who created the Lincoln who preserved the Republic from destruction . In the history of the continent Columbus discovered , their names head all the rest . " Washington and Lincoln were alike in another respect than greatness , said Mr. Wallace ; " two more modest men never lived , ' despite their deeds which amazed the world . " During the morning Mr. Wallace placed a wreath on the statue of Washington and then another on the Arc de Triomphe , where lies the unknown soldier of France . Later he gave the customary luncheon to the diplomatic representatives of the Latin America. -1 countries . The day was observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts and the American Government offices were closed , while buildings flew the American flag . The celebration ended tonight with the dinner of the Amere. can Club at which prominent French and Americans were present .                     