@@692804

txt WASHINGTON , Zunis 13 . ? Exter , of the classified civil service to ? 1 positions in the executive branch of the Federal Government except those held by the elective officers , heads of departments and independent establisiunents and a small number of others , is a feature of the program adopted by the Better Government League , as announced tonight by Professor Ellery Stowell , its President . Another striking part of the league 's program favors the appointment of a qualified city manager for the District of Columbia with " full administrative responsibility and an adequate salary . " The District now is governed by three commissioners appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate . The establishment of a separate personnel agency with jurisdiction over civil service positions in the District and with broad powers in personnel matters is recommended by the league . Regarding the plan for a sweeping extension of the civil service , Professor Stowell said tonight that , while the percentage of positions constituting the classified service of the executive branch of the Federal Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unclassified service now was larger than the whole Federal service was in 1883 , when the present Civil Service law was enacted . " The classified service now includes about . 415,000 positions and the tinclassified service about 40,000 , " said , Professor Stowell . " Practically all these positions should be properly included in the classified service . The Better Government League will use its efforts and influence to this end . Positions to Be Exempted . " Some of the positrons which , in the opinion of the Better Government League , should remain in the unclassified service are positions held by elective officers , by heads of departments and independent establishments , by inmates confined in institutions and paid not to exceed $10 a month , ? by persons engaged in public work but employed by contractors , and by persons appointed or designated to make special inquiries , investigations or examinations when such appointment or designation is certified by the public personnel agency to be for work which can not or should not be performed by persons holding positions in the classified service . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civil service a considerable nuklber of the non-elective positions in the legislative branch of the Government , and of positions other than Judges , referees , masters in chancery and jurors in th Federal judicial branch . The program adopted by the Executive Committee of the Better Government League , as announced by Professor Stowell , contemplates for the Federal service : Extension of the classified service to include all positions in the executive branch of the Federal Government except those held by elective officers , by heads of departments and independent establishments and by a small number of others . Centralization of the responsibility for personnel adminis'aation in one administrative agency . Improvement in t lie methods of handling personnel matters , so that th , , best public and private practices will be observed . The development , adoption and proper administration of a duties classification , including every position in the classified service . For Scientific Compensation . The development , adoption and proper administration of a scientific compensation plan , based upon the duties classification and including every position in the classified service . Elimination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Government in the administration of personnel matters in the executive branch . Securing public access , tinder reasonable conditions and with proper restrictions , to the personnel records of the Civil Service Commission , the Personnel Classification Board and the various departments and independent establishments . With respect to the District of Columbia the league proposes : The adoption of the city manager plan of Government and the appointment of a qualified city manager . The establishment of a separate personnel agency with jurisdiction over positions in the classified service of the District of Columbia . The development , adoption and proper administration of scientific classification and compensation plans , including all positions in the classified service . The general proposals by the league are : The extension of the merit . system to the thirty-eight States and the counties , small cities , park districts and other subdivisions at present without a central personnel agency . The extension of the jurisdiction of State public personnel agencies , where any exist , over the services of such small cities , counties and other subdivisions as approve such extension by referendum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods of public personnel administration .                     