@@685334

txt Granting that profiteering is to an extent responeible for present high costs of necessities , investigation reveals that responsibility is shared by the combination of business management and labor which produces these necessities . High Prices admittedly are clue in part to a shortage of supply . Labor seems Justified in resenting an Effort to make it carry the entire responsibility f , t this t hortage . Management seems equally to blame . To increase output and thereby reduce prices without loss it- as much the function of management as of labor . There is no longer any doubt that the supply of necessary products is below the demand . But until recently there have been few fasts available to show that the situation can be corrected to a considerable extent by efficiency of managera ' at . In some cases recently made public it has been demonstrated that efficiency of manugeme-it has been able to bring output practically bac : , normal , in spite of a temporary slump which NV .. ui attributed to slackened effort on the part of workmen . The National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shocked Into activity by the discovery that its productive efficiency was down to about 68 per cent of pre-war figures . The president of the company studied the situation , conferred with aids and employes adopted new methods , and eliminated waste motion . The output now is reported climbing steadily toward normaL Seventy-five paper box factories in Chicago report normal production . Chicago foundrymen In several plants report as great an output per unit of labor as before the war . These Illustrations indicate that the trained mind of a factory chief cotSperating with the trained hand of an employe can in many cases solve the production problem . It is upon such efficient management that the success of America in world markets is based . Upon such efficiency a return to normal prices also can be made . The fact that labor and management in many cases have not cooperated Lv indicated by statistics compiled by the National Association of Woodwork Manufacturers . These figures , while showing an advance of 100 per cent in wages in four years , also show a decrease of 36 per cent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of approximately 200 per cent in labor cost per article . Such figures make it evident that wages can not keep pace with prices unless production returns to normal . Efficient management in the past has been proud of its record of profits based upon production . There is open to it now an opportunity to do a greater work in the taco of greater difficulties .                     