@@694036

txt It seems to be the intention of the Transit Commission to press forward its inquiry in the hope of having a detailed scheme of readjustment ready by early Fall . If it can work out a satisfactory plan , it is plainly to the interest of all concerned that it be formulated as early as possible . This is not alone for the sake of the relief which proper unification should ultimately afford , but for the aid of the voter on election day if he has such a plan before him . No candidates are running on their subway record this year . But there will be submitted to the electorate in November a proposed constitutional amendment permitting New York City to borrow $300,000 , - 000 outside its existing debt limit for purposes of subway construction . One of the strongest arguments advanced by the opposition , when the proposal was under debate at Albany last Winter , was that Mayor WALKER , who advocated it , was virtually asking the people to sign a blank check in his favor . He had no plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for relating them to the old lines . That objection would be met if the Transit Commission and the City Administration could agree during the Summer on a practicable plan of readjustment . It must be said that the project now taking shape holds embarrassments for the city 's logicians . The Mayor based his plea for more funds on the ground that the city had no other means of financing the new subways . Now comes Mr. UNTERMYER with the suggestion that the city , while pursuing its building program , shall somehow acquire another two or three hundred million dollars ' worth of existing subways . If it is so poor it can not build new subways , where is it going to find funds to acquire the old ? Possibly the commission hopes to be able to persuade the courts that with the economies which it expects to effect under its plan of readjustment most of the old routes could be operated at a profit , even on a five-cent fare . That would make it possible to lift part . of the investment out of the limitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very much from Missouri when it comes to exempting bond issues . It will require a pretty conclusive demonstration that the investment is in fact self-sustaining . The suggestion has been made that a " declaratory judgment " might expedite the proposed recapture of the B. M. T. lines . It is not yet certain that the commission will have to adopt so arbitrary and disruptive a method of unification . But it can do no harm to have the city 's rights legally and precisely determined . Mr. UNTERMYER is anxious to speed the determination in order that the city may be in a position to exercise those rights at the earliest moment . There has been a lot of talk about saving the accrued company preferentials , amounting , in the case of the B. M. T. , to some $16,000,000 , which , if the present contracts remain in force , must be recouped out of the earnings before the city shares in any profits . Naturally , the company will strive to protect its interest in that deficit , which is now being steadily reduced . Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier the city exercises its rights of recapture , the more it has to pay in cash . Under the contract any of the lines may be taken over after ten years at cost plus 15 per cent . That means that the city would have to pay a bonus of ten or fifteen million dollars if it took over the lines at that time : After the first year a sliding-scale arrangement operates to reduce the cost . So that early recapture has its penalties as well as benefits . But if the city finally does decide on this course , it is plainly desirable on broad grounds of public policy that it should effect the readjustment as promptly as may be .                     