@@685089

txt There may perhaps be no truth in the report which came from Switzerland last week , that a Bolshevist pamphlet , signed by LENIN , renewed the Russian claim to Constantinople . The forcing of MILUKOFF out of office in April , 1917 , because he held to this claim , was the first victory of the Bolshevist forces over the first Russian revolutionary Government , and it would be somewhat strange to see LENIN now taking up MILUKOFF 'S issue . But it is far from impossible . Constantinople was the excuse in getting rid of MILUKOFF ; the fundamental reason was that he was the strong man in a Government which LENIN intended to overthrow . Moreover , LENIN seems to be now not so much the leader of a world revolutionary crusade , whatever his ultimate intentions may be , as the ruler of Russia . and he may find it expedient for a time to pursue a Russian nationalist policy . Whatever LENIN thinks about it , antiBolshevist Russians in Washington have let it be known within the last week that they regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without Basking Russia . Mr. LLOYD GEORGE , in his speech defending the decision to leave the Turks in the city , said that the Russian revolution and the treaty of Brest-Litovsk had removed Russia from the question . Perhaps it did legally , but if a hundred and twenty-five million people with a tradition of expansion decide to concern themselves in the settlement of a question it takes more than legal technicalities to keep them out . The Russian reasons for wanting control of the Straits , if not full possession at least under a mandate , are set forth in a dispatch from Washington to THE TIMES of last Sunday . The cogency of one of them was made plain in the recent war ; Russian wheat from the great grain fields of the south finds its outlet through the Straits . During the war Western Europe thought principally of its own inconvenience at being deprived of this supply of food ; the Russians naturally think of it as the blockade of Russian ports . Internationalization and neutralization of the Straits would open up the outlet for Russian trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Straits were neutralized the fleet of any Mediterranean Power at war with Russia could close them . Furthermore , with no forts in the Dardanelles and Bosporus a Mediterranean fleet could conceivably pass the Straits and threaten the Russian Black Sea coast . Defense of that coast would consequently mean considerable expenditure for warships and fortifications . Whatever persons at a distance may think of them , these are strong arguments to a Russian . It is true that with the fall of the ROMANOFFS the old idea of the Russian Czar as successor to the Emperor of Constantinople has fallen , too , and the old imperialism which made the British so inveterately hostile to Russian influence at Constantinople has also fallen . It may revive in a new form at any moment ; but aside from these reactionary influences the Russians have some fairly reasonable arguments for wanting their share in the control of the Straits . Naturally , the rest of the world can not have Bolshevist Russia in control there , but statesmen whose ideas run further ahead than the current session of their national legislatures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years . Perhaps Mr. LLOYD GEORGE is thinking about it , as his indiscreet and somewhat premature exultation over the weakening of Russia , in his speech of Nov. 17 , would suggest . But if he is thinking about it he is thinking to little purpose , for the Supreme Council has adopted the very method most likely to bring the Russians to Constantinople . The Greeks have a good claim to the city on historic and racial grounds , yet it has been intimated that Greece was not altogether anxious to get it . If this be true , one may suspect as a reason that the Greeks feared that they might have to dispute possession at some future time with a Power overwhelmingly superior . If there were genuine internationalization of the Straits and the city , if the Turks were sent back into the interior and the whole territory put under an international administration in which Russia would some day have a share , most of the reasons which could lead liberal Russians to demand the Straits would be removed . And , as it happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But that settlement has been rejected . The Turks are to have no fleet , no forts on the Straits , no army near the city . But their Government remains in Constantinople . Already the Supreme Council has shown that it is unable to restrain the Turks from massacring Christians in ; the territories left to them . There is no. reason to suppose that it will be any more successful in the future . Russia has traditionally been the protector of the Christians in Turkey , and her wars against the Turk have shown the admixture of zeal to aid the oppressed and attention to her own interests which has characterized a good many crusades . A few years more and we shall see more massacres ; more ineffectual protests from Western Europe ; more promises from the Turkish Government , freely made and never kept ; and then Russia , once more powerful  --  whether under Bolsheviki , Social Revolutionaries , Cadets or Monarchists  --  proclaiming herself the champion of the persecuted Armenians and sending a fleet to take the city which is no longer protected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. LLOYD GEORGE has invited the Russians into Constantinople .                     