@@696106

txt Although the first half of April witnessed a continued heavy demand for steel products generally , some authorities are willing to admit that a reduction in buying in the comaig weeks would be a seasonal development . They point out that the peak can not be maintained for any great length of tune , particularly as many consumers have covered for their second quarter requirements and are not yet showing much interest in third quarter deliveries . However , steel plants have been compelled to continue operations at a high rate to meet the delivery requirements of their customers . On many products shipments are now further behind than they were a few weeks ago and the situation at present is certainly much more favorable than it was at this time last year when the demand was already petering out , and activities at many steel mills were showing definite signs of being reduced . Few interests in the industry expected March to reach the record figures for production and shipments which were attained . They consider this a reflection of the urgent buying and heavy consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread into April at the current high rate is , therefore , a normal development . Heavy Specifications A feature of the steel situation recently has been the heavy specifying by consumers against their contracts . In the face of the difficulties which many interests have encountered in meeting the shipping requirements of consumers . particularly on strips , sheets and bars , and to a smaller extent on other products , the continued tendency by users to specify actively has been a factor in keeping up operations . Higher prices on billets , slabs and sheet bars have become well established , which indicates conclusively the strength existing in semi-finished steel products . Complaints are still heard that some plants requiring outside purchases of semi-finished steel have not been able to get all they desired . Under the circumstances it is natural that those wanting the material have been willing to meet the price demands of the sellers . In finished products , bars are in good demand and consumers are specifying actively for deliveries . Buying of plates also has improved . particularly is connection with some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been reflecting the more seasonal weather and the greater structural activity which always comes with the spring . In sheets the specifications have been the heaviest in years and many mills are now running at 100 , , , . Railroad Buying Actin e At the moment the buying by the railroads is an outstanding feature . Some of the roads have placed orders for additional rails and others have been taking tonnages which they had under option since they placed their large contracts for rail requirements late last year . This has brought considerable business , in the aggregate , to the rail mills . The purchasing of track accessories has been proportionate with the tail orders . Equipment makers are actively taking steel to meet the needs for the freight-car orders which they have secured from the railroads . Thus far this year it is estimated that 46,000 cars have been purchased by the domestic roads . Steel requirements are naturally large for this equipment and the indications are for continued good buying from this source in the future . Steel interests are watching the automobile trade closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests thus far this year , but information as to the actual sales of automobiles to the public are lacking . The action of the stock market has probably curtailed the current demand , so that much depends upon the movements in securities in the future . Meanwhile the leading pleasure-car makers have been rushing their operations and shipping out cars to dealers . A decrease in the demand from these steel consumers is a logical development in the corning months .                     