@@691563

txt From the point of view of regional city planning , the question which the Long Island Park Commission has raised is ' most interesting . On one point all parties seem agreed . A countryside of beautiful estates is an asset to the city . ' It affords to leading citizens an accessible residence and to motorists a region of landscapes more beautiful and extended than park authorities could afford . Wheatley Hills has made Long Island socially attractive . The only cause of acrimony is whether it shall be invaded by a parkway . It lies athwart the egress from the Borough of Queens to the northern regions of the Island beyond . Existing and authorized highways within the city debouch upon a system in Nassau County the road surface of which is narrower in the ratio of five to ' seven . How is the tide of traffic to be taken up ? In behalf of the Wheatley Hills folk , Mr. CHARLES DOWNING LAY proposes a Middle Island H. ghway with spurs to points of interest on the South Shore ; and , except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and environs agrees with him . Most motorists , they say , want to go to the cool South Shore , generally for ocean bathing . For those who prefer the picturesque North Shore , there is the North Hempstead Turnpike . This plan leaves the Wheatley Hills as they are , invaded mainly by such traffic as flows into local roads . Surely , the residents say , they are sufficiently vexed already by trippers who scatter picnic litter and start destructive fires . To the Long Island Park Commission this provision seems unwise for the present and totally inadequate for the future . The Middle Island Highway , it is true , would open up Mannetto Hills  --  four Square miles of them  --  which are as high and potentially as beautiful as the Wheatley Hills ; but for the rest it would run through a flat suburban region into flat barrens of scrub oak . It would-be used only by those speeding to pleasanter spots . Instead , the commission proposes a parkway encirclipg the Island , affording the motorist the ocean coolness on the south and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lie inland of the shore villages and shore highways , upon land relatively inexpensive ; but numerous spurs would give access to local parks and beaches . Cross Island parkways would make smaller circuits possible , and there would be a single parkway from Ronkonkoma to Montauk . By this means passenger traffic from the city would be given adequate width of roadways without grade crossings , on which the leisurely would go in one lane and speeders in another , as in the Bronx River Parkway , and the major portion of the traffic would be kept out of local roads . Even ' where this " parkway bridge " passed over the Wheatley Hills , it should be less objectionable than the picnicking which now takes place there . No great lease of life can be predicted for such a district so near the city ? about twenty miles . Where fortunes are divided among heirs great estates are also divided , or sold for speculative development . For the present the parkway bridge is at worst a debatable alternative . Looking to the long future it is indispensable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not come too soon . On recent Sundays the traffic in places as distant as Babylon and Islip has been dense as on Fifth Avenue . The circular parkway is to be preferred if only because it affords double the width of road ..                     