@@692995

txt A new note challenging the regulations issued under the recently enacted Mexican pptroleum and alien land laws has been sent to the Mexican Government for delivery through Ambassador Sheffield . It is a long document taking up the issue where it was left off last Spring , when only the land law regulations had been issued and the petroleum law regulations were yet to be promulgated . The general position taken by the American Government in its communication is identical with the policy that has been observed throughout the long controversy in which it insisted that both the new laws  --  those dealing with American land and oil rights  --  failed by far to give full iwcognition to rights lawfully acquired prior to the adoption of the present Mexican Constitution , when Mexican law expressly provided that the owner of surface lands owned also the subsoil rights of petroleum . and permitted the legal acquisition also of land by aliens . In the correspondence of last Winter and early Spring , the diplomatic controversy reached the point where the hope was expressed and what appeared to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws were put into effect they would be found to be neither retractive confiscatory nor violative of American rights legally acquired in Mexico . American officials were quite hopeful on April 1 that the new laws would be so carried out as to protect American interests without giving either law a retroactive or confiscatory application and that while the laws on their face did not seem to American officials subject to interpretation as affording such protection the regulations issued . under that legislation would do so . American Hopes Not Fulfilled . There the matter rested pending issuance of the new petroleum regulations and study of the actual procedure under the alien land regulations . That procedure has not been in accord with this Government 's hopes in the matter of obtaining protection of valid American rights in Mexico and the whole issue is believed to be handled in direct and straightforward fashion in the new note delivered by Ambassador Sheffield . The text of the American note has not been made public and no agreement reached with the Calles Government for its release to the press . The State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it covers . In view of the reticence of officials , it was irimossible to ascertain whether tit , - note is limited in terms to a vigorous presentation of the American Government 's objections to certain of the regulations which are viewed as failing to give full recognition to rights lawfully acquired by Amer can citizens or whether it goes a st  --  p beyond the statement of this GovernmenCs views . It is considered significant that the note was timed for delivery almost on the eve of the departure of Ambassador Sheffield from the Mexican capital for the United States . The Ambassador has been granted leave of absence and will leave Mexico City for New York on Aug. 13 and will probably come via Vera Cruz and steamer . During the Ambassador 's absence the embassy will be in charge of a Charg ? d'Affaires , but whether the Ambassador will ever return is a matter of some speculation , despite the fact . that he will come on leaVe of absence , which would presuppose his return to his post . Delivery of the American note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this particular juncture , will probably not be pleasing to the Calles Government , and serves to lend additional importance to a sentence in the statement of July 30 , the day before the new religious regulations went into effect and the struggle between the Catholic Church and the Mexican Government entered its present crucial phase . Situation Foreseen by Coles . After charging that the Catholic clergy in Mexico " threw its challenge " to the Government of Mexico " precisely at the most difficult moment of my Administration , " President Calles in his July 30 statement asserted : " This challenge was made at a time when questions were arising of an international character , which were defining whether Mexico was a sovereign country or not . " While President Calles did not enter into details as to the inner meaning of this sentence . it is believed be had in mind the situation that was . developing as a result of Ambassador Sheffield 's objection to various of the oil and alien land regulations . Whenever the point was raised by the Calles Government that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always entered a denial . The position of the American Government , Secretary Kellogg several times emphasized , has been that the so-called land laws contain provisions plainly retroactive and confiscatory in their effect upon property rights of American citizens in Mexico under prior existing Mexican laws . It was insisted by Secretary Kellogg that this did not in any sense question Mexico 's sovereignty right to legislate on her own domestic concerns .                     