@@684830

txt POLITICS AND WELFARE . Opposition to Protective Laws for Women as a Republican Move . The leaders of the League for Equal Opportunities for Women are Republicans . Their dinner to honor Speaker Sweet is simply a manifestation that some Republican women are willing to stand by the policies of that party no matter how reactionary or inhuman such policies may bd : Several of the women who spoke at Saturday 's banquet were prominent in the campaign for the enfranchisement of women and they gave as some of the reasons why women should vote that working women needed the franchise to secure protective legislation , and the instances they cited as calling for immediate remedial legislation were the shortening of the working day and provision for a living Wage . The Republican Party fought the extension of suffrage to women to the last ditch in New York State , the districts of Barnes , Wadsworth , Sweet , and Brown rolling up immense majorities against the amendment , and even so benevolent a member of the party as former President Taft gave as his reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduce ' rnillenniutn legislation ' " and mentioned the Commonwealths of Washington , Oregon , California , and Colorado as States where women voted and " millennium legislation " existed . The welfare tegislauon existing- In those Western States is exactly the same as that covered by the women 's legislative program , yet none of the evils predicted by the . members of the League for Equal Opportunities for Women followed in its wake . rine antipathy of the league to the word " welfare if it applies to charity In lieu of living wages is commendable . If the word is used in its broader and more generally accepted meaning , for the common good , no odium is attached ' to it . The Ten Commandments are many times a hardship ' for the individual , but Moses had to legislate for the good of the greater number . And this applies to the small group of women conductors and night workers on the B. R. T. as compared with the hundreds of thousands of women the legislative program will benefit . Inasmuch as many of the B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly reminded by Amy Wrenn. a Republican lawyer , that the Democratic Party is solely responsible for their discharge from certain lines of work , while no mention is ever made of the fact that two Republicans , Caulfield and Lockwood , fathered the bill that eliminated the women conducttors , and allowed it to pass for the express purpose of securing effeftive publicity to be , used as an antidote against the more important measures affecting hundreds of thousands of women . The fear expressed by leaders of the League ! Or Equal Opportunities for Women that the success of the women 's legislative program spells farewell to their " good jobs " is as insincere as their policy is selfish , SARA . New York . Dec. 31 , 1919.                     