@@693843

txt A Europe of numerous independent states , each a unit , but with close interlocking trade relations and low tariffs , was the picture Edward Benes , Czech ? . Slovakian Minister of Foreign Affairs , gave Dow , Jones E. Co . Mr. Benes can speak with special authority on this subject as he has concluded a large number of commercial agreements for his country , was father of the little Entente , and is one of the outstanding figures of the League of Nations . Some have called Benes , as they did Venezelos , an eagle m a canary cage , A difference is that Benes has Leen able to carry his cage along with him . Benes is a small wiry man , all hands and eyes when talking . He is known for his inteinsit ? , his drive and his indefatigability . He fires words at his listener like the rattle of a machine-gun , his words punctuated by vigorous gestures . Mr. Bones received the interviewer in his office m Prague overlooking the river . not far from the room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ window , thus precipitating the Thirty Years War . ? Tariff questions are acute in Central Europe ow mg to partial paralysis in trade there through the multiplicity of frontiers and tariffs . Preferential tariffs bringing groups of states such as Czecho-Slovakia . Austria and Jugo-Slavia together have been considered . There also has been theoretical discussion of a United States of Europe . But until recent months the tendency in Central Europe has been mainly toward turner tariffs . American exporters are particularly concerned . In some lines such as motors there lias been evident tariff discrimination against American good .. Tariffs also are to be main subject for discussion at the International Economic Conference at Gene : a . Mr. Benes , asked whether his tariff policy is mined to build up a high protective tariff qr-tem with limited concessions , or whether hi- aim a removal of customs barriers , replied : " My aim in concluding commercial agreements is to -- ward progressive hovering of tariffs . True , pobtleal considerations had much to do with our past policy . Perhaps you would put business considerations before political . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Czechs arc stupid in not looking after their material interests first . But there arc other matters we have nearer at heart which mean more to us than trade . Why should we not put social and other political preoccupations before business ones if we chose ? reit It ettasea es puha el " Our policy is passing through four successive phases : 1 . The first couple of years after the ear were bus.i con-olidating our national independence . Nev. countries felt themselves , menaced from all sides . They put up tariff barriers as part of their national defenses . They had to protect new industries against powerful outsale competition . At the same time they pushed their exports . 2 . In the last couple of years it has become increasingly evident that , if all put up barriers against each other 's goods , trade would stop . This led to reciprocity agreements where one country agrees to take as much goods from one country as the other takes from it . We have concluded a number of such trade agreeleents , " But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound to favor one state more than the other . Bohemia , for example , formerly %%as the factory distrust of Austria-Hungary . Today , in return for our manufactured ware : , Austrian industry I. not le a position to supply us an equivalent amount of goods that we need . Therefore , the normal state between us should not be rigorous reciprocity , but for C.:echo-Sim akin to export two or three times as much goods to Austria as v. e import from there . On the same principle Caechu-Sloiakia should import larger amounts of foodstuffs from Hungary than our total exports there . " 2 . This difference is leading to mme elastic tariff agreements where states shape their tariff policies more in conformity with their natural markets .. 4 . There is a final stage to result in a general lowering of tariffs . It is a mistake to think this can be done by the stroke of a pen at a conference . It will only come step by step without defiance of political necessities . Something approaching free-trade will only conic after years of negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowering of customs barriers will not take the form of reiiial of a European customs union . ' 1 here is too much mutual distrust for that . If we were to enter into a close agreement - of that sort with Hungary our Slovakian farmers would fear a return of Hungarian seri itude . " A close customs union with Austria would hate oba  --  ous advantages for both of us . But many people in Bohemia would oppose it as threatening to shift their business center from Prague to ' Vienna again . " Mr. Benes might also haze mentioned the opposition that members of customs unions provoke from other powers . A couple of years ago Czecho-Slovakia and Jugo-Slavia planned a customs union to include Austria which would serve as a bridge between them . British and German opposition killed the scheme . The British oppose any special tariff agreements which exclude favored nation extension . The Germans were hostile mainly because such a treaty would close the door to a possible future Austro-German merger . " Europe will comprise , " Mr. Benes continued , " a grouping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Czecho-Slovakia . " Mr. Benes admitted that it was perhaps uneconomic to seek to maintain independent units among small Central European states , but came back to his first argument that some political aims transcend business ones . INDUSTRIES NEED PROTECTION " One obstacle to a general lowering of tariffs is the need some of our industries have of protection , " Mr. Bones concluded . " For example , we could not abruptly remove tariff security given our beet industry without killing it . Industries that could be converted for war purposes : ire of vital politica : concern to governments but an obstacle to any general tariff lowering . Mr. Benes admitted . Such are chemical and machine works . Asked whether he expects much in the any of tangible results from the Economic Conference at Geneva , Mr Bones replied that he is heartily in favor of the conference because it will put in concrete form a widespread desire for reduction of trade barriers . Also it will prove a useful place for an exchange of views . " Experts who made the tariffs will meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will pass resolutions condemning their own high tariffs . This assertion will have much value in shaping opinion generally , even though the experts go home , and fiercely defend their specitic tariffs in negotiations with other countries . " In conclusion , Mr. Bones expressed confidence in future improvement in European trade relations , but warned against belief in miracles at Geneva or elsewhere in Europe .                     