@@694907

txt Charging that certain associations engaged in sending out " propaganda " hostile to the naval building bill were " dominated , financed and inspired by domestic ana toreign interests , " representative Melvin J. Maas , Republican , of Minnesota , introduced a resolution in the House today proposing an investigation of the activities of all organizations protesting against military defense programs of the United States . In a House speech in support of his resolution Mr. Maas was interrupted by Representative French of Idaho , Chairman of the naval subcommittee . who insisted that any such inquiry should embrace also associations that attempt to influence Congress in favor of large expenditures for militray purposes . = , Tilson Calls Letters Negtigmie . Representative Tilson of Connecticut , Republican floor leader , attempted to head off the movement by suggesting to Mr. Maas that after he had been in Congress a little longer he would ignore the " stuff " that came to him through the mails and throw most of the letters he received into the waste basket . " These letters urging action by members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " declared Mr. Tilson . " They do not influence anybody . We should not dignify the propagandists in the present instance by investigating them . " Mr. Maas declared that members of Congress had been bombarded with letters against the naval building bill . He said he knew of one member who had received 2,500 such cornniunications . Fear of " Sinister Influences . " " The character of these letters and the circumstances surrounding this campaign are too significant to be ignored , " Mr. Maas said . " It is evident they are a result of a well-organized. well-financed and well-directed campaign . " The United States is not a militaristic nation . It is committed against any policy of a great standing army or navy . It is , however , committed to adequate national defense . I hold no brief for the present naval program . It should be judged on its merits . but must be given exactly that opportunity . " I hold that it is a long cry from the legitimate right to petition Congress and the commercialized propaganda machines that arrange protests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our national defense at so much per protest . " If these organizations are directed by true , loyal and patriotic citizens , they are entitled to the proper recognition by the American people , but if they are carelessly , deliberately or viciously misleading the American people in the interest of sinister foreirrn influences , they are traitors and should be driven out in the open , exposed and kicked out of the country . " Counter-Propaganda Charged . Mr. French said that while " we are receiving letters protesting against military programs , we are getting definite literature urging increases and boosting all kinds of measures for military defense . " " The source of that propaganda ought to be investigated by the same committee that undertakes to probe the so-called peace organizations , " he continued . " There is evidence that there is definite organization behind the propaganda for larger defense appropriations . " Representative Garner of Texas suggested that if the House concurred in the Caraway bill passed by the Senate , to require lobbyists to register , Congress could " get a line " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black of New York favored the Maas resolution . The Maas resolution provides for the creation of a committee of nine members to " conduct a thorough investigation of organizations , associations or leagues , of whatever nature , that have for their purpose protesting or organizing and leading protests against the military or naval defense programs of the United States . " Personnel , financing and interrelationships would be made the subject of inquiry .                     