@@694462

txt President Coolidge received today a memorial bearing the signatures of about 700 prominent churchmen in all parts of the United States expressing hearty support of the proposal of M. Briand , French Minister of Foreign Affairs , that France and the United States enter into a treaty to outlaw war between the two nations . The memorial was presented by a delegation of national Church leaders , headed by Bishop William F. of the Methodist Episcopal Church , Chairman of the Washington Committee of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America . The document also was presented to Secretary of State Kellogg . Text of the Memorial . The text of the memorial follows : To the President and Senate of the United States of America : We , the undersigned citizens of the United States , profoundly believe that our Government should cooperate to the fullest possible extent with the other nations of the world in taking effective steps toward the substitution of peaceful methods for those , of force in the settlement of disputes between nations . We therefore heartily welcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States shall make mutual engagements for " the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy . " We believe : 1 . That war should never again be resorted to by civilized nations as the means for settling disputes or enforcing claims . 2 . That war , save for self-defense against actual attack , should be outlawed and declared by the nations to be an international crime . 3 . That the renunciation of war by treaties and solemn engagements should be undertaken between all the principal nations , adequat'o provision being made for conciliation , mediation , arbitration and judicial settlement . 4 . That such engagements constitute an essential measure in creating the spirit of mutual confidence which must precede a general movement for disarmament . 5 . And that the settlement of every threatening dispute , whatever its nature , should be sought only by pacific means . We therefore request our President and Senate to respond promptly and favorably to the proposal of M. Briand , and we desire at the same time that it be made clear to other nations that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shnilar agreements with them . We respectfully submit this appeal and earnestly hope for early and favorable action . Bishop Calls Plan Practical . In a statement made public after the presentation Bishop said : " This memorial is one of many indications of a rising tide of interest throughout the churches in making war an outgrown thing of the past . Thoughtful leaders in all denominations see in M. Briand 's suggestion for , a treaty renouncing war between France and the United States something concrete on which to lay hold in grappling with the problem of war . His proposal brings the quest for world peace down from the clouds and roots it in practical realities of statesmanship . " Unless I wholly misunderstand the attitude of the churches , they are determined to use the Briand proposal as an occasion , not simply for urging a policy of no war with France on any score , but also for making it clear to all nations that the United States is ready for a general treaty sautlawing war . " The members of the delegations in addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia , Secretary , Board of Foreign Missions , Reformed Church in the United States . The Rev. Herbert E. Benton , Philadelphia , Chairman , Commission on Foreign Relations and Peace , the Universalist General Convention . The Rev. Alva J. C. Bond , Plainfield , N. J. , Chairman , Peace Committee , Seventh Day Baptist Church . The Rev. Charles E. Burton , New York City , Secretary , National Council of the Congregational Churches . The Rev. S. Parkes Cadman , Brooklyn , President , Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America . The Rev. William Chalmers Covert , Philadelphia , General Secretary , Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church in the United States . The Rev. Samuel A. Eliot , Boston , former President American Unitarian Asociation . The Rev. James H. Franklin , New York , Foreign Secretary , American Baptist Foreign Mission Society . The Rev. C. H. Grove , Harrisburg , Chairman of ePace Committee , Churches of Goa . The Rev. Sidney L. Gulick , New York , Secretary , Commission on International Justice and Good-Will , Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Kenworthy , Society of Friends , Washington , D. C. The Rev. W. A. Lambeth , Mount Vernon Methodist Episcopal Church South , Washington , D. C. The Rev. Walter McCarron , New York , Moderator , Reformed Presbyterian Church . The Rev. Charles S. , New York , General Secretary , Federal Council of the Churches a Christ in America . The Rev. R. H. Martin , Pittsburgh , Chairman , Committee on International Relationships , Reformed Presbyterian Church . Ray Newton , Philadelphia , Secretary . Peace Section , American Friends Service Committee . William E. Sweet , Denver , Vice Moderator , National Council of the Congregational Churches . The Rev. Alva W. Taylor , Indianapolis , Secretary , Board of Temperance and Social Welfare Church of Christ ( Disciples ) . George W. Wickersham , New York .                     