@@685068

txt TRADE WITH RUSSIA . Purpose Behind Some Reports of What Is Going On . To the Editor of The New York Times : Some day the full story of Bolshevist propaganda in this country will be written , and it will make a fascinating chapter in contemporary history . The master minds of Moscow are adepts in this field , and they display a versatility that is surprising , shifting with the greatest ease from appeals to the proletariat to assurances and invitations to capital . One of their multifarious activities lust now is directed to creating the impression that vast trade is awaiting Americans in Russia , and that England is surreptitiously stealing the cream of it because our State Department prevents our merchants from taking advantage of the golden opportunities . For some days an organization calling itself the American Commercial Association has been putting out much publicity for this purpose . Some- of its characteristic assertions are that there is much Russian gold already deposited In British banks for trade purthoses , and that British firms are already drawing against these deposits for goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to point out that this gold has nothing to do with the Soviet Government , and that the goods in question were those shipped to South Russia before the recent Bolshevist advance . They also refer to the extensive sales of Russian furs in London , but fail to note that these furs came from Siberia and were exported at the time when the Omsk Government was still in power . Cine of their statements reads as " An Associated Press dispatch from Reval , Esthonia , dated Feb. 9 , stated that exports of flax had already begun from Soviet Russia . " In this they failed to state that the export of flax in question consisted of but two small carloads , and that , instead of indicating the possibility of trace , it shows clearly how little is to be expected . An investigation of the so-called American Commercial Association shows that it was formed under the inspiration of the Soviet Bureau by L. C. A. K. Martens . How far its members were dupes and did not know the purposes for which they were being used it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public should be warned against being taken in by such a palpable Bolshevist ruse . American business men will welcome the resumption of trade with Russia , but they will insist that this shall take place only under conuitions that safeguard American . interests , and not for the promotion of Bolshevism or the continuance in power of the cynical tyrants at Moscow . JEROME LANDFIELD . New York , March 4 , 1920 . Votes for " Good Negroes . " To the Editor of The New York Times : In a recent issue I notice an article on the South by Charles A. Seldon . Allow me to call your attention to one discrepancy in it . After telling how Alabama now gives the vote to " intelligent , industrious , honest negroes " you say " such would probably be unthinkable in Mississlpol or South Carolina , the only States in which the blacks outnumber the whites . " Yes , the blacks outnumber the whites in this State ; in some parts there are from five to seven negroes for every white person . But even though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unthinkable " to let intelligent , industrious or honest negroes vote , since she has been allowing just that for forty-four years , quietly and peaceably . You know Booker T. Washington wrote in his " Story of the Negro " that the Southern white man is the best friend the honest negro has . This is how the white people of South Carolina came to grant negro suffrage . They suffered more from reconstruction than the people of any other State . They could not free themselves , so they appealed to the negroes to rescue them , promising the vote to all worthy ones . This took place in 3876 , and ever since then the promise has been kept and all good negroes can vote in both the primary and election . Mississippi also gives the vote to deserving negroes . She passed a law similar to ours at the same time and for the same reasons . D. E. NORRIS . Rock Hill , S. C. , March 1 , 1020 . Conditions in Italy . To the Editor of The New York Times : I read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marchese de Johannis , editor of L'Economista . There has been so much misinformation printed here about conditions and points of view in Italy , just as there is published in Italy the greatest amount of misinformation about the United States and the real conditions and points of view here , that it is refreshing to get the views of such an able , Independent economist as the Marchese do Johannis . FRANK L. SCHEFFEY . New York , March 1 , 1920.                     