@@685067

txt SOLDIERS ' BONUSES . Canada as an Example for Us -- Disabled Come First . In the last part of your editorial article on " Billions for Bonuses " you state in substance that there are a great number of us veterans who do not need and would not accept this bonus . Any one who makes a statement like this does not appreciate the sacrifice of at least a million of us in view of the tremendous rise in the cost of living . We left for war when a dollar had its intrinsic purchasing power , and were discharged with a shameful 860 bonus when the dollar depreciated to less than one-half Its original value . While some of our patriotic Americans were amassing war fortunes and others were doubling and trebling their former incomes as a direct result of the war , we veterans were saerifibing our all . We were n't putting away nice sums to meet an exigency like the present cost of living . In simple and gospel truth terms , we were discharged in the " race of life " with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men can run in this race of life , we will never catch up with the patriotic stay-behind and slacker because Uncle Sam handicapped us with a 80 pittance . The only way the great mass of Americans can display true patriotic gratitude to the ex-service man and give him a chance to run life 's race equally Is cheerfully to subscribe to the bonus bond . We veterans are not demanding something that the American people can not offer .. This may entail a burden , as you state in your article , but then were n't we ready to suffer greater hardship when we went to the battlefield ? One good Urn deserves another . The Canadian people showed their good turn by granting the Canadian ex-service man a liberal bonus . Surely the American people can live up to this golden maxim . . TACK B. GOLDSMITH . New York , Feb. 28 , 1920 . To the Editor of The New York Thacs : In your edition of Feb. 27 1 read of the intention of Congress to float a loan for the benefit of all ex-service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gratitude first by caring for those men who , as a result of service , are not , and doubtless never will be , able to look out for themselves ? Why not see one job to a successful conclusion instead of leaving it in the awful state of neglect and mismanagement in which it now is ? If put to a vote , I am sure that our entire civil population , as well as exservice men , would prefer to see that $2,000,000,000 , or any like amount , devoted 011ie necessary medical attention , vocational guidance and temporary , or if need be permanent , support of our wounded . Then let us consider the remainder of those more fortunate . All this in spite of the fact that I an ) the wife of an able-bodied ex-service man who would benefit to the extent of $900 by the passage of this bill . NATALIE R. LEW Y. New York , Feb. 28. 1920 . Australia Has Independence . To the Editor of The Ncio York Times : Dr. Albert Shaw , editor of The Review of Reviews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , according to the report in Sunday 's issue of THE TIMES , asked if he believed the British Government would 1 ) , ? , " willing finally to grant complete independence " to the British Dominions , lie replied : " British statesmen had frequently stated that Canada , South Africa , Australia and New Zealand could receive independence any time they demanded it . " Evidently the position in regard to Australia is not clearly understood , as Australia has independence of political action under her Constitution , which was framed by Australian statesmen , approved by the Ailstrallan people and passed by the British Parliament and assented to by the King as far back as . 1900 . Under her Constitution Australia controls her - naval and military forces , her cuirens tariff , ' her currency and coinage , taxation , naturalization , immigration and all her internal affairs . She does not pay any tax or tribute to Great Britain . As an example of the independence of action Australia enjoys undeP her Constitution may be quoted her navigation and immigration acts . MARK SHELDON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1020 . Rejected Cabinet Secretaries . To the Editor of The Seto York Times : In reference to the statement which appeared in THE/ N EW YORK TIMES of Feb. 26 that never in our history , so far as could be learned , has the Senate rejected a nominee of the President for a Cabinet position . permit me to quote the following from the " Encyclopedia Britannica ( Eleventh edition , Page 857 of Vol . XII . ) : " In August , 1868 , President Johnson suspended Secretary Stanton and appointed Grant Secretary of War ad interim until the pleasure of the Senate should he ascertained . Grant accepted the appointment under protest and held it until the following January , when the Senate refused to confrom the " Encyclopedia Britannic &; " ( ElevStanton resumed his office . " E. M. AGNEW . New York , March 1 , 1920.                     