@@686814

txt When information is wanted by ropii ? stamped . addressed envelope should accompany the request . Ylesee do not send Parcels to The Tribune , but write tor the address of the applicant and send direct . This department appears every day in The Daily Tribune . " An association of young people , all ? having some form of handicap , were promised the use of a camp suitable ? - to ? their needs for the latter part of . August . The money to cover the ex ? pense of each participant in the outing had been collected , when the association was notified that the camp would not be available . Owing to the lateness in the season it is difficult to find another suitable place , and most of , , , Vipse concerned are likely to be deprived of their vacation altogether . ' ? If a suitable sit could be secured , camp equipment could probably be borrowed or rented , and the outing need not bo abandoned . Is there among or readers a country-place owner who would give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or some organization , having a camp , that would extend the ? courtesy of its use for two or three weeks from the middle of August ? The members of this association are mostly self supporting and the association would undertake to pay all expenses , leave the grounds as they found them , and conduct the camp in an orderly manner . " A place near a lake would be desirable , as many of the young people swim'and row ; but shallow water neat the shore would be necessary . The association takes a chaperon and a cook , and will hire the labor necessary to keep the grounds in good:brder . It is ready to show financial responsibility to carry out the arrangerhents indicated . This is a case requiring prompt action . " I am presenting this matter to you , Friend in Need , because of my confidence in your sympathy and experience in your efficiency . I have never known any agency that accomplished so much ' good in so simple and effective a manner . The best of it is that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pride or hurt the sensibilities of the most sensitive , while those with love to do good in secret have their . opportunity too . Long life to you , and continued success to your beautiful work . I hopo with ' all my heart that this npepal made by H. H. in behalf of the handicapped young people , will meet thecattention of someone who can solve the problem of their outing for them                     