@@685942

txt A woman , Miss ALICE M. ROBERTSON , no longer on the sunny side of 60 , has overturned a Democratic plurality of 3,916 in the Second Oklahoma Congress District and relegated to private life the veteran W. W. HASTINGS . Miss ROBERTSON was a political novice , and had been well known until a few months ago as President of the Anti-Suffrage Association of Oklahoma . There is nothing stranger in the Republican landslide than the successful venture of this redoubtable woman , who had been told that the Second District was a Democratic Gibraltar ; and that she would waste her time in campaigning against an old favorite . From her " cafeteria " in Muskogee , where no uniformed soldier or sailor had to pay for a meal during the war , she will be translated to the chamber of the House of Representatives at the capital , to make laws for her country at an age when most women are knitting in a cozy corner and watching the world go by . But Miss ROBERTSON is made of sterner stuff . She was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race for homesteads known as the opening of Oklahoma to entry . Her childhood was spent on the frontier , and her character was formed by its rough life , hazards and hardships . For her there was a second school of experience when the homesteaders overran Oklahoma , and a Commonwealth of traders , soil tillers and adventurers was quickly formed . It is not easy to imagine a woman serving food to all corners , making a precarious living by it , in Paterson , N. J. , or Dahlonega , Ga. , and advertising herself in the local papers into Congress ; but that is what Miss ROBERTSON did in Muskogee . She combined business with politics . The citizens of Muskogee were urged to try her cooking at the " cafeteria , " and at the same time they were asked to send her to Washington to legislate for them . She is said to have argued her cause well in these novel appeals to appetite and self-interest . Miss ROBERTSON was elected because Oklahoma is different ; it is still a homespun democracy , where personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women who behave themselves are equal in that new Commonwealth , exclusive of the negroes , for Southern influence is dominant and draws the color line in Oklahoma . Yet ( it may be doubted whether persons of Southern origin are in the majority . The local historian of that prairie community has to be tactful , to hold the halanoe true . Thus one reads of the State-builders : The world has never produced an assemblage of braver , stronger , cleaner specimens of manhood and womanhood than those liberty-loving , patriotic , determined men and women who walked from the decks of the Mayflower at Plymouth . Rock three hundred years ago and those brilliant Cavaliers . who landed at Jamestown in 1G07 . They formed a foundation for citizenship which has spread westward steadily and conquered both foe and nature . * * ? Thousands of the descendants of those hardy pioneers were to be found astride striped-legged ponies dashing across the sun-kissed prairies of Oklahoma on that memorable day , April 22 , 1S89 .. A large majority of them maybe found , multiplied and advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the State . There is a larger percentage of people residing within the boundaries of Okla : home , today , in proportion to population , eligible to membership in that society known as the Daughters of the " American Revolution than in any other State . The tonic air of Oklahoma may account for this proud boast . As a matter of fact , the community is cosmopolitan as few States are , and it . probably contains more men and women of Indian blood than any other State . The day given above , April 22 , 1889 , marlcs the greatest , the most picturesque scramble ? pushing , jostling , hard riding , crowding , trampling down of the slow .. and the awkward  --  in a mad rush for land that the world ever saw . Si ; weeks earlier President CLEVELAND had signed the bill opening Oklahoma and " No Man 's Land " to entry by homesteaders . President HARRISON , who soon succeeded him , named " 12 o'clock high noon " as the time when the race might begin . Cavalrymen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their carbines : The crashing report ( f the guns was drowned in the mighty shout of the waiting thousands as they crossed the line . On they went in breathless haste . The solid front shown at the moment of the start was soon broken , and the forces of the invading boomers seemed rather the wild rout of a defeated foe than the advance of an invading one . So Oklahoma began , and hardly had the homesteaders snatched their lots , filed claims and made some kind of a shelter for themselves than the Organic act establishing and providing for a Territorial Government became a law ( May 2 , 1890 ) and the ambition for Statehood sprang up . Seventeen years later Oklahoma Territory and the Indian Territory were admitted as the State of Oklahoma . At the first election , Sept. 17 , 1907 , a Democrat was chosen to be Governor and two Democrats were sent to the United States Senate . The Republican landslide of Nov. 2 , 1920 , must have stunned the old Oklahomans , the galloping Tiomesteaders and the half-bloods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spanned by a chronicler : " Yesterday a seat of improvised tents " and habitations , today colossal marts " and palatial homes . " Asks this same authority : " From peonage to peerage , why not proud ? " Always the exuberance diffused by the free air of the " sun-kissed " prairies ! Wholly Indian was the land when ALICE M. ROBERTSON arrived as a small girl . Few pioneers there are who match her in years on that rugged frontier , in experience with the ways of the red man and the supplanting white . Her father taught the Gospel to the nation 's wards , and for many years she faced her pupils in Indian schools . Postmistress at Muskogee for a time , and then the " cafeteria , " a varied and full life of toil and endeavor , a growing up with the frontier to Territory and State . On Tuesday last the democracy so unconventional elected this Institution to Congress .                     