@@696304

txt With hardly a moment 's breathing space after landlag In England Friday , Gen. Charles G. Dawes , new American ambassador to the Court of St. James 's , will rush off to Scotland for a conference with Prime Minister Ramsay , where some of the weightiest problems of his ambassadorship are slated for discussion . lie also will call on King George at Windsor . An exchange of wireless messages between the Labor premier and the liner Olympic , on which Ambassador Dawes sailed from New York on Friday , had arranged for a visit to Lossie. mouth , Scotland , Mr. 's old home town , where he arrived today 0 spend his vacation . A game of golf is the pretense of the meeting with Mr. , but weightier matters than golf are going to absorb the attention of the representatives of the two great English speaking nations . Dawes Refuses Interviews . In response to a wirelessed request from a London newspaper today for a statement Gen. Dawes sent the following message from the Olympic : " I appreciate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My official Instructions on all subjects ; but upon reflection you will appreciate the wisdom of my declination to be interviewed upon them . " The prime minister Intends to stay at Losaiemooth ten days . Ho received an enthusiastic welcome from the local residents when he arrived with his daughter , Ishbel . He was greeted with bonfires on the surroundine hills and the sand dunes . British Leader Looks to America , A good deal of Mr. 's Iloilo .. in the opening weeks of his rdone may hinge upon this important meeting with Ambassador Dawes . One question which will arise is that of recognition of Russia . On this Mr. so far has not committed himself . The new prime minister 's policy is likely to look definitely toward the United States . Mr , believes that the future of Great Britain and the future of world peace depend upon ? e cooperation of Great Britain send America , and he is likely to consult the American views on many points . ' , lay Invite mocuonala to U. S. Ambassador Dawes is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America to hold a threecornered conference with President Hoover , with Prime Minister Mackenzie King of Canada as the other party , to consider details of cooperation between the English speaking races . After Ambassador Dawes has finished his conference with Mr. , he will rush right back to London , where he will be the guest of honor at a dinner given by the Pilgrims ' club  --  the Anglo-American good will association . All In all , it looks as if the new American envoy will be busy . Ex  --  cop Oats Appointment , Nothing is more symptomatic of the change which has come over British politics and society than the appoint merits to court offices made by the new Labor government . The appointees are Jack Hayes , Labor member from Liver pool , as vice chamberlain of the royal household , and Ben Smith as treas. urer of the royal household . Mr. Hayes Is a former policeman who was dropped from the force a few years ago for taking part in the London pollee strike and Mr. Smith is a former taxi driver . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the king 's official expenditures , and his office in Buckingham palace brings him into almost daily contact with : the sovereign . Mr. Hayes , who becomes one of the great officers of state , official bearer of messages from the king to parna. meat , On such occasions he wears magnificent court dress with knee patlts and a coat covered with gold braid He wears a sword . Must Walk Backwards . When the former policeman enters the , house of commons to deliver a royal message , be will proceed up the floor , bowing every few steps to the speaker , and read his message at the table . He will then make his exit , wanting backwards and continuing to bow every few steps as be does so . Ex-Policeman Hayes must also at ? tend the king and queen at all state functions dressed up in all his doe , dada                     