@@687824

txt President Harding faces the first big test of his leadership of the Republican Party . It will come in the Senate on Tuesday , When the anti-Administration forces . headed by Senator La Follette , will seek to override the program on the Bonus bill dictated by , the President in recent conferences with Senate leaders . His supremacy in the party will also be at stake in the course to be pursued by the House on the Ship Subsidy bill . In both instances rebellious Republicans , most of whom are of the progressive or radical camp , propose to determine whether Congress shall ' have its way on legislation or follow the program acceptable to the President . Since the party leaders have wavered and failed in an effective legislative course the President has reluctantly come to the fore in an attempt to guide the party safely through a critical Congressional period . Three important bills , far-reaching in their effect upon the prosperity of the country and the prestige of the party , are on the legislative docket . These are the Tariff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tariff bill as a strictly party measure . The Bonus bill is held to be non-partisan . The Subsidy bill , while a partisan proposal . is , in the opinion of the President , the only Administration measure proposed to Congress the enactment of which will fulfil his and the party 's pledge as to an American merchant marine policy . President Determined to Proceed . The assumption of power in legislative fields has not been sought by the President . The party leaders called him and having been placed in command the President , according to his advisers , ? intends to proceed with the task . Thus far the party leaders have accepted his guidance without question . The other day the Senate chiefs , headed by Senator Lodge , agreed to pass the tariff bill , which has been before Congress nearly seventeen months , before disposing of the bonus bill : The House leaders consented a week ago to pass the subsidy bill before adjournment . Now some of the Republicans in both houses do not want to go along with the President 's program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress will finally follow the President because they find in reports coming to them that the President is stronger with the people than Congress is . The people are criticising Congress for delays and are considered to be in sympathy with the President 's effort to bring about prompt legislative action upon the three bills so that industry and business will be adapted to new tariff schedules and other conditions . As to the bonus fight the impression is that the Democrats will aid the conservative Republicans in defeating La Follette 's move to displace the tariff bill for the bonus . The attitude of the Democrats is that the quicker the tariff bill becomes a law , the sooner political advantages will accrue to the Democratic Party . The leaders argue that such a tariff will increase the cost of living , injure foreign trade and bring about bad business conditions , generally . Therefore if it becomes effective in August the effect will be felt before November and the Republican Party will suffer losses in the election . Gillet May Lead Subsidy Fight . In the subsidy fight the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly . Some of the important Republicans are opposed to a subsidy and are counseling postponement of its consideration in the House until the Senate passes the tariff bill . Such a course would greatly militate against the passage of a subsidy law at this session . Since Representative Mondell , the floor leader of the House , and Representative Campbell , Chairman of the Rules Committee , are both anti-subsidy men , the President may find it expedient to call upon Speaker Gillett to direct the Administration 's program in the House . But such a slap will not be administered to the recognized leaders in the House unless is deemed necessary . If need be , the President . it is said , will show khat he has the elements of a . leader " of the type " of Roosevelt . His easy-going , kindly relations with Congress have been displaced by determination , perhaps  --  such a determination as comes to kindly men whose patience is exhausted . The conferences today on the Mayflower with Chairman Lasker of the Shipping Board and Speaker Gillett are said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr .. Lasker will appear before the Pennsylvania and New Jersey delegations on Tuesday , after which the delegations are expected to declare for the subsidy . When members of the House learn fully how aroused the President is over the delay on the , subsidy the promised struggle between the House and the President may disappear . The President does not intend to surrender to the House leaders who advise delay on tize Subsidy bill .                     