@@695577

txt Letter to the Editor From The Times Readers on Topics in the News OUR FOREIGN POLICY DESERVES MORE OF VOTERS ' ATTENTION Present Campaign Discussions Centre in Domestic Issues to the Exclusion of This Important Matter To the Editor of The New York Time Most , if not all , of the diccussion during the present political campaign has been directed to domestic issues . The subject of our foreign policy has had very little attention , and yet it Is a matter of prime importance in the minds of many people . The term " foreign policy , " in itself , denotes the relationship between our own country and other countries . In formulating this foreign policy we should act as a unified nation . Our internal political controversy should end at our water 's edge . The voice of our nation should be one clear , distinct voice , and not a confusion of many voices speaking different minds . Our Constitution provides that all treaties should be ratified by a twothirds vote of the Senate . This is a constitutional recognition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of our public opinion , and that in our foreign relations we must rise above the petty bickerings of party politics . My statement , therefore , is addressed not to Democrats . nor to Republicans , hut to American citizens . An Interwoven Issue . This issue , if the subject of our foreign policy can be called an issue , is one which cuts across all other issues . When we talk about the tariff we have in mind the importation of goods from foreign lands . The subject of immigration deals with the foreign peoples . The question of water power , particularly as it concerns the St. Lawrence River , bears a direct relationship with our immediate neighbor . The issue of farm relief , which has primarily to do - with the exportable surplus of our crops , is , therefore , intimately related to our foreign commerce . Mr. Hoover himself has said that our prosperity is due , in large part . to our commerce with other nations . Even prohibition is not wholly free from our relationship with foreign countries , for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an agreement with foreign powers in relation to liquor used on foreign ships entering our ports . The briefest mention will suffice to recall to mind the height reached by our country " durinn the war under the leadership of Woodrow Wilson , a height in moral leadership such as history had never recorded . Woodrow Wilson conceived and brought about the establishment of an organization which should bring the entire world into a closer relationship , and create a machinery for the peaceful settlement of disputes which would inevitably arise by virtue of the complexity of our civilization . But in the midst of that noble enterprise he soon met with opposition in his own country , an opposition based solely upon political hatred and partisan prejudice . A war which was ' supposedly fought to end war became but the beginning of ten years Which constitute the saddest page in the history of our international life . A few narrowminded individuals were allowed to make a party issue out of what had theretofore-been above partisan politics , and that fact has changed the history of our foreign policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had joined in an insistence upon a rational policy looking toward the establishment of a peaceful world . But in the campaign of 1920 the subject of our foreign relations was injected into a political fight , with the usual consequences  --  misstatement , misrepresentation and misconception . Instead of the League of Nations , an accomplished fact , - we heard of the Harding " Association of Nations . " Thirty-one eminent Republicans , including Mr. Hoover and Mr. Hughes , joined in a manifesto stating that the only hope for international cooperation lay in the election of Harding and the enthronement of the Republican Party . But as soon as Harding was elected the idea of an " Association of Nations " was soon forgotten , and quite rightly so , for it was merely a catch-phrase and intended only as such . And even to this day the Republican Party has done practically nothing to fulfill the obligation which we assumed and professed throughout the war . Outside the World Court . However , with the help of certain distinguished Americans , there was established the Permanent Court of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the settlement of justiciable disputes . The establishment of such a court was essentially an American idea , which had the - warm support of every American President since Cleveland . And yet , in spite of its non-partisan character , America today is not a member . And why ? Because President Coolidge and the leaders of the Republican Party were either unwilling or unable to assume a strong leadership , which would have resolved the technical difficulty in relation to one of the Senate reservations to the protocol of the Court and so have allowed this country to enjoy membership therein . The Senate had voted to join the World Court with five reservations . ' The first four were suggested , and deemed sufficient , by Secretary of State Hughes . A fifth reservation was added , the effect of which was a request that the United States be given a preferential position which no other member of the Court has been given . The members of the World Court held a special conference in Geneva to consider the United States Senate reservations . They accepted the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but as to the fifth they suggested further conference in order , to ascertain the meaning and effect of the fifth reservation . But Mr. Coolidge , in pursuance of the Republican " take-it-or-leave-it " policy , declined even to discuss the fifth reservation or to resubmit it to the Senate . Thus the Republican Administration deprived this country , for the time being , of an opportunity to take a great forward step in the noble enterprise of the judicial settlement of international disputes . In 1922 the Washington Conference met to consider the naval questions of the five major naval powers . Certain agreements were arrived at with respect to battleships . No agreement was reached with respect to those Implements of warfare which will be most important in the future , namely , cruisers , submarines and aircraft , and even the restricted agreements which were arrived at have not to this day been ratified by some of the signatories , mainly because there was no internationally organized machinery to follow up the work done at the conference . At the present moment there is a grave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely disregarded . Instead of a reduction in armaments . President Coolidge has in the past year recommended a stupendous naval program , which exeeds any in the history of this country . He has advocated a program of construction involving a billion dollars and covering a period of five years . But , immediately upon his announcement of this program , there was an uproar throughout the country protesting against such a fatal policy . Within four days President Coolidge was forced , by the pressure of a united public opinion , to change his plan . He , therefore , announced a reduction of his proposed authorized expenditure to three-quarters of a billion dollars . His proposals then went to the House of Representatives , which immediately cut the expenditure down to one-quarter of a billion dollars . The measure then went to the Senate , which has recently manifested its disgust by refusing to take any action whatever at this time . But the most appalling and discouraging feature of President Coolidge 's action in this regard is that he should have espoused such a program at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty for tha outlawry of war . ' rely , in the minds of the rest of the nations of the world , the naval program , which President Coolidge has urged , will cast some doubt upon the good faith in which this county has entered into the Briand-Kellogg treaty . Machinery Is Set Up . To my mind the greatest question that confronts the world today is the question of the limitation and reduction of armaments , and it is this question for which the League of Nations is today striving to seek some solution . Without some rational approach to this problem the outlawry of war remains but a pious hope . The solution of this question will require the long-continued cooperation of every nation . This paoblem , therefore , necessitates the conference of all nations , a machinery for organizing such conference , and , what perhaps is most important , a machinery for the administration of whatever plan may be arrived at . Such a machinery exists in Geneva today , an organization composed of all the nations of the world with the exception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue in this campaign is not as to our adherence to any particular organization . but rather whether our general foreign policy , as an American foreign policy , shall be aloofness and non-participation , or helpfulness and cooperation . We are immediately presented with a contrast in the experience of the two candidates . Secretary Hoover has spent a large portion of his life in foreign lands , engaged in work which brought him into contact with the peoples of various countries . He then returned to this country , and from his public utterances and his seemingly loyal support of President Wilson he gave the impression of being a man of broad outlook , and a firm believer in the necessity for the cooperation of our nation with the rest of the world in an effort to achieve and maintain peace . But from the day that he entered President Harding 's Cabinet he has given no indication that his broad experience had given him a lasting vision or the courage in his public life to live up to his ideals . And in the course of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still cherish the hope that this country will live up to its traditional policy in the conduct of our foreign relations . And in this connection I read with ! litter disappointment the speech of Mr. Houghton accepting the nomination for United States Senator . Mr. Houghton , who has served for some years in foreign capitals , returns to this country proclaiming the futile doctrine of American isolation . Here are two men who by virtue of their experience should now be in the vanguard of that great army which is fighting for truth , fairness and justice toward all the nations of the earth . And yet both of them still adhere to the partisan prejudice that was engendered in the months following the armistice , and passively , if not actively , oppose any effective cooperation on the part of our nation with the rest of the world . A Contrasting Personality . Contrast these personalities with that of Governor Smith . True , he has never been in a foreign land . But the fact remains , and is apparent to every American citizen that has read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as big as man'end , and that his social and humanitarian outlook knows not the limits of race , color or creed . He has , with unparalleled succees , presided over the destinies of eleven millions of people , comprising every nationality under the sun . Moreover , he has had the courage to state publicly , without evasion or reservation , his unswerving devotion and his assurance of unending effort in the fulfillment of America 's duty to assist in every way in the establishment of a peaceful international order . Lastly , the independent voter should consider the probable personnel to whom will be entrusted by the next President the conduct of our foreign relations . This , of course , is still a matter of conjecture and we must judge the probabilities . Mr. Hoover is Undoubtedly tied hand and foot to an organization that has shown itself unwilling or unable to participate in the cooperative movement ? that is making such rapid progress throughout the world today . His trusted adviser , Senator Borah , Who undoubtedly would have a large , if not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations , Is , perhaps more than any other living man , responsible for the fact that today America stands apart from the rest of the world and refuses to let its voice be heard in the councils wherein the vital interests of this country , as well as of other countries , are at stake . Mr. Hoover 's other intimate advisers , Senator Moses and Dr. Work , give even less prospect of an enlightened and intelligent direction of our foreign affairs . On the other hand , Governor Smith , throughout his four Administrations as the Governor of the most populous State in the Union , has chosen as his intimate advisers only men of the highest character , of proved ability and of well-earned confidence . This record he can be trusted to continue in the selection of his immediate advisers and collaborators in the administration of the affairs of our nation . In ? this regard should be mentioned such men as John W. Davis and Owen D. Young , both of whom have given ample evidence of their international mind and social outlook . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave to this country a moral position that no other country has ever yet attained . And a Democratic Administration under the leadership of Governor Smith now offers to this nation and to the world at large the realization of a new order in our international society , based Upon the fundamental principles of justice and fairness to all mankind . DAVID E. HUDSON . New York , Oct. 29 , 1928 . LOOKING FORWARD Will Next National Campaign Be Conducted by Talking Pictures ? To the Editor of The New York Times : Radio broadcasting is a new feature of political campaigning . This year it has been widely used and enthusiastic newspaper accounts have made great claims for it . Will these claims be realized ? Will the radio revolutionize political campaigning ? The subject is of sufficient popular interest and practical importance to deserve careful study and even research . Pending such study there are a few fundamental facts that give cause for thought . These facts are known to every scientific sociologist , but are not so generally recognized by others . Many former radio fans have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed . This is shown by the virtual disappearance from the market of the inexpensive radio receiving set . Apart from the element of novelty and " mass contagion , " the radio is somehow thin and unsatisfactory as a steady diet . Psychologically the reason for this is near at hand . The radio is after all only an unsatisfactory substitute for personal contact . The richness of enjoyment that one experiences in a political gathering is due quite as much to the facial expression , gestures and bodily movements of the speaker , as to the sound of his voice . Moreover , there are the countless reinforcing stimuli from the surrounding crowd . Cries , remarks , boos , grimaces , gestures , the mass movement and actual physical contact with others heighten suggestibility and increase the emotional effect . The radio transmits nothing but sound and that only in one direction . It relies wholly on auditory stimuli , when much of the fullness of life comes from visual , tactile and olfactory stimuli in combination . Limit of Effectiveness . In the present campaign the radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience is able to catch the notes of applause , the boos , the heckling and the varied multitude of inarticulate sounds that emanate from a great crowd . Practical radio men who would have the candidates deliver their most important speeches from a quiet studio reckon without their psychology . Such a procedure would be a grave practical error for very good theoretical reasons . I wish these radio men were right , because this would mean a higher level of intellectual interest in sheer issues and logic than I think any people possess . Television will no doubt greatly add to the effectiveness of radio campaigning in 1932 and thereafter , especially if the speech is delivered to hearers in audience . Political leaders of the next election will do well to provide television and vitaphone broadcasting or reproduction , as the case may be , but always to large groups of people in public halls . Such a setting will so nearly reproduce the original as to secure much the same effect as that experienced by actually being present in the audience which directly hears and sees the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oct. 31 , 1928 . GOING DEMOCRATIC Old-Line Republican Gives Reasons for Changing His Vote . To the Editor of The New York Times : I have been an old-line conservative Republican ever since I cast my first Presidential vote for Blame in 1881 ; I have been a Republican officeholder , and I am a very orthodox Protestant . In view of this record , of my love for my country and of my interest in its continued prosperity , it is obvious I must have what seems to me are weighty and compelling reasons to induce me now to vote the Democratic ticket . I am voting for Smith because : First  --  I think he is an abler man , knows more about the facts and practice and theory of government and will give us a better and , in my judgment , a safer and more prosperous administration than Hoover . I have great respect for Mr. Hoover 's character and ability and for what he so successfully did for this country and humanity during the war . It is to be remembered , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unhampered powers , backed by the almost complete and unified approval of all parties and by unlimited public and private resources . " In the last seven and a half years , while Mr. Hoover has transformed himself from an independent figure into a partisan , Governor Smith has transformed himself from a Tammany politician into an independently minded national figure . ' Best Equipped , Best Qualified . Second  --  I regard Smith the best equipped and the best qualified Presidential nominee in the science and theory of the business of government , the administration of government and the workings of legislative bodies of any Presidential nominee , with possibly one or two exceptions , we have had within my recollection , which goes back nearly to Grant 's second term . There are two special points in this connection that might be mentioned . The first is his remarkable and creditable record as a member of the Constitutional Convention of 1915 , when he was barely 42 years old . The second point is the charge so often made of his lack of experience in national and international affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more experience ? A member of the Legislature for many years , floor leader of the Assembly and finally Speaker , a conspicuous member and leader of a constitutional convention , and four terms Governor of the greatest State in the Union with most , if not all the time , a political majority against him , and notwithstanding this , many constructive measures to his credit . Third  --  I heartily approve of Smith 's stand on prohibition , and heartily disapprove of Hoover 's . The violations of our Constitution and of its Bill of Rights is of the most vital importance to our country and its citizens . I , and I think I am in company with a large number , if not a substantial majority of the lawyers of the country , regard the Eighteenth Amendment a vital blow struck at States ' rights and our constitutional system of government ; and the Volstead act and its amendments , and the actions done under it , as vital blows at the Bill of Rights . Rebuke to the G. G. P. Fourth  --  Though as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am casting my vote , single and unimportant as it is , also as a rebuke to my old par . The short Harding Administration was a disgrace . Coolidge , for whom I have a great respect , was flouted by his own party , and many of his best measures were not passed at all , and many measures which he opposed were passed over his veto . The Western bloc has destroyed , or at any rate greatly impaired , the cohesion of the party . We have had corrupt rings from Philadelphia to Indiana , to say nothing of elsewhere . We have had several unfortunate Senatorial election scandals . We have been besmirched by oil , both in Washington and in the Republican National Committee . With one or two bright exceptions , our foreign policy and our relations to foreign countries has , in my opinion , been little short of disgraceful . I lay none of the above , except part of the foreign policy , to Coolidge , but on the Republican Party at large . I think it needs house-cleaning and chastening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job . Fifth  --  The final and most important factor , however , in reaching my rather serious conclusion , was the inauguration of the so-called " whispering campaign , " of which I personally , and my friends , nothsvithstanding the no doubt perfectly honest disclaimer of Hoover and his campaign managers , are still receiving abundant evidence . This campaign is coupled with veiled personal abuse of Governor Smith and open abuse of his religion . In my long experience I know no man In public life who is freer from any ground of personal attack , on his personal and political honesty , the purity of his personal and family life and his outspoken frankness and non-pussyfooting on all questions political or otherwise , than Governor Smith . In my opinion a vote against such methods In a Presidential campaign and a vote against bigotry and intolerance , whether religious or otherwise , hut I especially religioue , is more important and more for the good of my country than a vote for a RepubImicaayn , bhenwever good he or the party I shall . of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Katonah , N. Y. , Oct. 31. 1928 . OUR CARILLONS To the Editor of The New York Times ! Referring generally to one or two letters recently published in THE Tuna regarding carillon music , and Particularly to a let er published Oct. 28 , it may interest your readers to know that in twenty-two towns and cities of the United States there now exist fine modern carillons . Albany has 60 attuned chromatic bells ; Andover , Mass. , a carillon of 37 bells ; Bloomfield Hills , Cranbrook estate , Mich. , 59 bells : Chicago , 43 bells ; Cohasset , Mass. , 51 bells ; Gloucester , Mass. , 31 bells ; Indianapolis , 62 bells ; Mercersburg , Pa. , 43 bells ( to be increased to 49 ) ; Morristown , N. J. , 35 bells ( to be increased to 37 ) ; Mountain Lake , near Lake Wales , Fla. , 61. bells ; New York , 72 bells ; Norwood , Mass. , 50 bells ; Philadelphia , 61 bells ; Princeton , N. J. , 35 bells ; Providence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mass. , 61 bells . And in a score of other municipalities carillons are soon to give voice to civic aspiration . Also , as the gift of American engineers , Louvain , Belgium , has a carillon of 48 bells , and Jerusalem has a carillon , given by a citizen of the United States . The total number of bells in these American carillons is 1,092 , and for them , their mechanism and associated singing towers , have been expended over three millioo dollars , all within the last few years . AU of the examples I have mentioned of what is now a world-wide art are the product of English craftsmen , though all have been purchased by leading American business men after most careful investigation and proof of their superior musical value . Whatever bellfounders in the United States have been able to accomplish in the making of the comparatively small chime , they seem , unfortunately , not as yet to have attained the skill required to construct the majestic assembly of bells known as the carillon  --  a musical instrument with the beauty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World , Americans , North , South , East and West , are daily becoming more familiar . WILLIAM GORHAM RICE . Albany , N. Y. , Oct. 30 , 1928 . TROLLEY PIONEERS Mr. Sprague Sheds Further Light on Early Electric Transit . To the Editor of The New York Times : The letter of Mrs. Phelan , daughter of the late Charles J. Van Depoele , in THE TIMES of Oct. 21 , was the natural outburst of the daughter of an indefatigable pioneer , moved by a feeling of resentment lest his work should be ignored and forgotten . My statement of Sept. 23 was not intended as a detailed history of development , but having for its object the disposal of a legend unjust to every pioneer in the electrical railway field . In many papers , as for example before the Franklin Institute in 1921 , I have stressed the parts played by many inventors , among them Van Depoele , Daft , Adams , Nesmith , Hopkinson , Henry , Short , Reckenzaun , Benadey and Knight , in the formative period preceding the Richmond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the conditions in 1887 ? Including every experimental track , there had been about nine installa-. tions in Europe and ten in the United States , with an aggregate of sixty miles of track and less than 100 motors , characterized by the utmost diversity of equipment . Under such conditions commercial success on a large scale , involving radical departures in practice , was essential to focus the attention of capital and transportation officials . Opportunity came with the Richmond contract , undertaken with unheard-of guarantees . It called for the installation in ninety days , for the sum of $110,000 , payable " if satisfactory , " of a complete equipment on a road on which the rails were not even laid , and under operating requirements never before met , with nearly as many motors as all tither electric roads totaled . For a year its fate hung in the balance , but with success came an extraordinary activity , the most marked up to that time in the industrial field . Judged by ordinary commercial standards it was a mad venture into a field described by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burdens were heavy and the toil unceasing , when history had to be made by strenuous effort in the face of difficulties , " and by Professor Jackson as a " pool of difficulties from which only unceasing fertility of invention and tireless industry could extricate " one , but which " awoke the world of transportation to an acknowledgment that the electric railway , though an infant , had a future . " What the difficulties met and how Overcome are matters of record unnecessary to repeat , nor at this late date the details of equipment which established the pioneer character of this road . What perhaps is really the important thing is not so much what was the particular effort of individual inventors , or whether Van Depoele or Sprague shall be given the ephemeral title of " Father of the Trolley , " as both have been called , or " Father of the Electric Railway , " as Sprague has often been designated . Rather , what - were the circumstances and what the moving force which suddenly raised electric traction from the experimental and chaotic state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin exhibit in 1879 , into a virile and dominating tratuiportation. agent . To that there is but one answer  --  Richmond and the men back of that enterprise , as proclaimed by a hundred authorities . FRANK J. SPRAGUE . New York , Oct. 30 , 1128.                     