@@692749

txt A modest newcomer in the apocalyptie literature of the day is Sigmund Mendeisohn ? s " Saturated Civilization " ( Macmillan ) . In bulk , in range . In dire implications it does not court contp.rison with Keyserling and Spengler on the fate of the Western world , or with Houston Stewart Chamberlain on that part of the Western world which suffers from the misfortune of not being Teutonic . And yet . despite the lack of an imposing apparatus of scholarship . despite the fact that it is very simply written and very easily understood . this little volume of lea , : than 2n0 pages has advantages over its supertireadnought competitors . Protald ? one should cal " because or rather than " despite . " The author makes a single point . n a still . small voice , without an obbligato of thunder and lightning . The promise of great horizons is there , but it is for ourselves to unfold them . We are not invited to frame new philosophies of history , but to ponder on a single problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the modern world . Contemporary obsequies , inquests or diagnoses dealing with Western civilization have their origin in the World War . It is true that Oswald Spengler foresaw and wrote down the collapse of the Occident before the outbreak of hostilities in 1914 . Keyserline turned to the East before the war . But both mere imply or directly say that the war provided only the fulfillment of their vision . The forces behind the world tragedy were more or less thinly at play beneath the surface of things and easily enough discernible to the sensitive mind . Minds of smaller penetration needed the great calamity to rouse them to the truth . Since the war there has been no lack of speculation on the approaching end of the world as we of the West know it . Common to all such prophecies , not excluding the present volume , is the acceptance of the rhythmic law of birth , decay and death . Everything in nature is born , waxes strong and passes away . Civilizations have repeatedly Illustrated the operation of the inexorable law ; . Flinders Petrie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ancient " Egypt . Vhat reason is there for assuming that the modern world with prove immune to a biological process ? .. ? THERE Is no reason , arguing from the general rule . The rhythm of life and death is a fact . The only difference of opinion Is with regard to the wave length . Are we at any moment at the crest of the wave , In the trough , on the ascending slope , on the descending slope ? Mr. Chesterton is inclined to believe that Western civilization began to decline in the thirteenth century . Spengler believes the descent began with the French Revolution . Bertrand Russell would say that the decline began with the World War : or at least would there date the breakdown . The author of " Saturated Civilization " modestly gives no dates either in the past or for the future ; and one reason would be that he Is not convinced that civilization is done for . There are uncomfortable possibilities . there is a discernible menace , but he is not at all sure that the peril @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pronouncing a doom . Present-day apocalyptic literature is preoccupied with machinery . Spengler would hold that the decline of our civilization began when the machine came in and " civilization " supplanted " culture . " In England and this country the more popular statement is that man today Is in danger of tieing crushed by the machines which he has invented , using ? ' machines " in the very broadest sense to describe the extraordinary complications of our industrial civilization . But Mr. MendeLeohn is not afraid of the machine . He believes that in the matter of mechanical invention we are already near the saturation point . He believes that the vast multiplication of human wants and satisfactions which machinery has fostered Is likewise nearing an end . People are growing tired of turning luxuries into necessities , with resultant boredom and unrest . They are tired of many inventions . What chiefly concerns our author is just the opposite problem . The world is in danger of losing one machine , one tool which it can not spare ; and that is the earliest of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an instrument and has become a living . breathing , exacting organ of human society : Labor 's elevation is not a movement in which rise and fall alter , nate in rhythmic order within fixed limits ; nor is it a passing manifestation arising largely from theWorld War , and which is eventually to be followed by a downward movement to the former low labor level . The rise of labor since the last quarter of the nineteenth century forms a slow evolutionary process of gradual stages of progress , and is now as firmly embedded in the modern social order as was labor 's degradation in the old social order It derives ita force from widespread public enlightenment , from a higher sense of social justice , and above all from the awakened force within labor itself . ? ? The uplift of labor will stand out as the most important event in the history of modern European civilization , the force of which is manifest in the tremendous changes it has already effected in the political and economic institutions of the world . ee ? E rise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor supply . The length of the working day has been cut down . Social legislation has taken women and children under its protection . Labor 's enhanced social status sends the children of the workers into the higher schools and the white collar occupations . The shorter working day , according to our author , has not brought the higher productivity that was claimed for it . There is every reason for believing that the world has become " saturated " with social reform . with upllftment . We can scarcely go beyond universal manhood and womanhood suffrage and give the vote to the children . Humanitarianism bas overlooked no one in its ministrations  --  the poor , the downtrodden , the unfortunate . the handicapped in every Pirm . Let irhe noted that Mr. Mendelsohn does not say it is time to call a halt .. The passage I have cited shows how warm is his sympathy with the rise of the masses of the world 's workers to full partnership in the human family . But he is compelled to speak out as an objective observer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Already he discerns powerful reactionary forces In play . Other people are saying that it is time to cry halt to labor . We are apparently sated with social progress . " Only those achievements will permanently survive that conform with the tendencies and fit the conditions of coming generations . " And with the problem thus posed Mr. Mendelsohn leaves us . It is a real problem . not because the facts about labor are always as the author describes them , but because a great many people do believe them to be facts and believe with sufficient ardor and resentment to preach crusades and Policies . Labor arrogance , labor inefficiency , labor 's demand for an increased share of the social product without a corresponding contribution to that product , these are sufficiently familiar topics of the day . And if we accept the alleged premises there is no evading the issue . If hundreds of millions of workers continue to demand more and render less there can be but one of two answers , repression or economic chaos and collapse . The eight-hour day , the seven-hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means a vast suction of new wants . If the eight or seven hour day fails to produce the new supplies to meet the new demands  --  well , it Is obvious . ? . ? E get down , then , to a question of fact . Is it true that labor is steadily being " depleted " in productivity as in numbers ? Our author has no doubts on the subject . " Evident as is the elevation of labor . so are Impaired productivity and the high cost of production which accom pany it . " It is a pity that the author has felt this to be so evident that he has not troubled to supply the evidence . Efficiency among the British miners is said to have decreased In recent times as measured by individual output . Elsewhere similar cases may be found . But for labor as a whole no such generalization is possible . For labor in the United States the generalization is untrue . Productivity in this country , whether due to labor or machinery has increased within a generation by something like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details . There is a simple test . How has it been with the wealth of the world since the " humanization " of labor was initiated some time in the later half of the nineteenth century ? The multiplication of wealth , roughly speaking . has gone on in geometrical ratio while the rise of labor has been an arithmetical progression . There is one common trait in nearly alt of our discontents with or alarms about modern civilization . From a Western civilization threatened with catastrophe or already devoid of values the eye turns fondly to the immemorial East . Spengler thinks of the collapse of the Occident and invites our attention to India and China . In those countries Keyserling seeks the answer to his doubts . In the trough of discouragement a few years ago English and American writers wondered whether the sun of civilization , going down upon our Western world in a murk of flame and blood , was not destined to reappear In China and India . Now this is all very well , provided You do not speak of the rhythm of civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems odd to be looking for rhythm in the East where there is no rhythm . You may hold that China 's or India 's civilization is infinitely superior to our own . But you can not in the same breath invoke the laws of biologic movement to pronounce a doom on the West and invite our consideration for an East which has been standing still for several thousand years . Either there is no Chinese and Indian civilization or else there can be civilizations without rhythm and we of the West are safe . ? e ? SOME such hankering after les- , sons from the East manifests itself in the present volume : Past and present examples lend support to the theory that only debased and impotent labor can be used as an effective instrument of intensive material progress . ? ? ? Under humane labor conditions the wonderful monuments of Egypt , Greece or Rome would not have been reared , nor would the remarkable industrial development of the nineteenth century have distinguished modern civilization . The answer is , of course , that modern humane labor could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress . Modern humane labor could easily build the Pyramids ; or the Roman aqueducts and has done It . Modern humane labor , in the space of five years , piled up more cubic yards of masonry In the Assuan Dam than are contained in all three of the Pyramids . The railroads of the world , built under modern labor conditions , probably represent more " output " than in all of the monuments of Egypt through thousands of years . To make the assertion safe we might throw in the Panama Canal . And if modern labor , in reference to the testimony just cited , means largely modern machinery , the second of our author 's premises remains to be justified ? is the world saturate , ' with machinery , is the age of mechanical invention drawing to a close ? That is a bold thing to say , not in face of the gas engine , radio and the airplane , but in face of Einstein and the new physics , and what Professor Dewey has called the New Intellectual Climate . As the steam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . what tools may not come out of the formulas of the relativists and the quantumists ? Spengler and Keyser-ling may be right in saying that not all the machines in the world are worth a single outburst of the human spirit . But in material values there would seem to be no reason for being downhearted . With Mr. Mendelsobn 's ultimate implications then we are less concerned than with the human problem he has posed . The humanization of labor is , indeed , a tremendous fact . The rise of a great percentage of mankind from the status of a tool to the rdle of a person is indeed beset with problems and perplexities . In emphasizing the problem this little volume has great value . The name of the PeOple 's Institute Publishing Company has been changed to W. W. Norton re . Co .. the directors being W. W. Norton . Parker McCollester , H. P. Wilson , R. E. Hedges- and Andrew D. Sharpe . The firm announces a new series of scientific books to be known as " The New Science Series , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the aim of The New ScleVee Series to help modern men and women know more about themselves and their world , and to feel that they understand something of ' what it is all about . ' " The first titles in the series will be announced shortly . Mr. Norton will continue to act as publisher of The People 's Institute 's " Lectures-InPrint. "                     