@@696598

txt President Irigoyen has prepared a mer. sage to be presented to Congress soon projecting a law authorizing a ten-year program of construction 1p ? the National Government of a vast system of highways throughout the republic costing 10,000,000 pesos ( about $4,200,000 ) annually . The roads will be of macadamized surface on concrete foundation . There will be two principal arteries , one connecting Buenos Aires with Bahia Blanca and the other Buenos Aires with Cordoba , running through Rosario . The program includes numerous branch roads from these two highways to important cities . The Buenos AireS-Bahia Blancia road will have a branch to Mar del Plata , the republic 's popular bathing resort . Details of the project are being jealously guarded until it is sent to Congress , but it is reliably learned . ' that the work will probably be let : on contract to the best bidders and ? . it is also probable that the construetion will be financed by collecting tolls fro'rn those using the roads . This project has been one of President Irigoyen 's pet ideas since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever since his inauguration , believing that nothing ? can contribute so 's expansion and its internal commerce have been handicapped by the high freight rates of foreign-owned railways . The construction of this system of roads would be likely to make Argentina the world 's largest buyer or American automobiles and trucks , for which she already is the second market . Although Argentina 's pressing need of a system of highways has long been recognized , there are several conditions peculiar to the republic which have made it impossible to build them . , The outstanding difficulty has been the question of who should stand the cost of their construction . The provinces maintain that the National Government should build them and the National Government has argued that the public which will benefit from them should contribute at least a part of the cost . The ownership of vast tracts of land by absentee landlords makes unfeasible a local property tax against the land the roads pass , as in the United States , for many landlords would have to pay the entire cost of many miles of roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been under consideration for some time and it now seems likely that it . will be used c.s a solution of the difficulty . The construction of the proposed system of national highways will serve as a skeleton on which the provinces can and will build local systems best fitting to their requirements . The Province of Buenos Aires is just launching a road program to cost 13,000,000 pesos ( about $5,460. - 000 ) , while Cordoba , Santa Fe and other provinces are preparing programs to link up with the national highway system . American road-builders and manufacturers of road-making machinery are expected to obtain a good share of the construction work , since conditions are almost identical with the western part of the United States . Several American financial organizations have recently been offering to finance road construction and some of these offers have received serious consideration , so that it is not impossible Americans may participate in financing the proposed construction .                     