@@689952

txt Men and women of all political parties will surely feel a certain preliminary and indignant resentment at the action of the Senate committee in making public two private telegrams from the President of the United States . They appear to be absolutely irrelevant to the inquiry in band . Their only - possible pertinency would lie in an attempt to break down the previous testimony of the President 's private secretary , Mr. Si-Eur . But all this could have been taken care of in the discretion of the members of the Senate committee . They have exercised that discretion in other cases . When the telegrams and letters that passed between Senator AVALsrr and Mr. DOIIENY were first laid before the committee , it was decided that they were irrelevant to the matter under investigation and were kept off the record . Later they were forced out by gossip about them . It certainly would seem that the Senate committee might have been as careful to protect the President from malicious rumor as it had shown itself to be with a Senator . The committee amid have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House showing exactly the nature of the two telegrams to Mr. , and establishing the fact that tbey had nothing whatever to do with the oil scandals . It is humiliating to think that we have come to the point where every idle tale and gratuitous suspicion about the President of the United States must be given resounding publicity . However , there is now no help for it . The net of the Senate committee has been flung far and wide and everything caught in it must be Pawed over by the public . Fortunately , no one will be so foolish as to accuse Mr. COOLIDGE of any complicity in the effort of Mr. MCLEAN and ex-Secretary FALL to deceive the Senate committee and to befool the public . The President 's immediate and frank explanation of the telegrams is such as to lay every doubt . Until his exposure came , Mr. had been known as a prominent citizen of Washington , who had had the strongest kind of personal , social and political endorsement from President HARDING . He was entitled to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter of selecting a Commissioner for the District of Columbia . And if the President of the United States is to be brought into question for every routine telegram he sends acknowledging congratulations on a speech or a public statement , Who could escape ? The thing is petty beyond words . The drag-net method of investigation is objectionable for other reasons than the personal injustice it often does . It tends to confuse the public mind . People forget what the inquiry is all about . So many by-paths and blind alleys are run into that the main trail is lost . The very investigators Themselves are thrown off the track . So long as they think that every fresh batch of evidence , no matter how irrelevant or immaterial , must be bruited abroad , they are in danger of losing sight of the goal which they set out to reach . It is true that Senators declare that they are merely " laying the foundations " for an orderly and pertinent taking of testimony later , but in the meantime they get their own min ' ds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in peril of losing the power to think straight . We can but hope that there will Goon be an end to all these diversions from the main points at issue . There are trained lawyers on the Senate committee . The fact that they are also politicians ought not to be permitted Indefinitely to get the better of their z'c ' legal instinct . They know what it is                     