@@694936

txt New railroad consolidation bill , as ' re-written by the House Interstate Commerce Committee . embodies many changes from Use present laws and incorporates views of railroads , Interstate Commerce Commission and other suggestions made to the committee during its extensive hearings As suggested by the commissfon , inc new Farrier. bill repeals the requirements of the present law direct-1 ing it to draw up a plan for ultimate group , ag of the railroads into a limited number of systems . Under the present law the commission is directed to arrange the railway map of the United States into a limited number of systems and any corporate merger or consolidation except in harmony with this general plan is prevented . Present laws peirnit acquisition of control through stock purchases . leases or otherwise , falling short of actual consolidation . With the commission holding to the view that it is impracticable to formulate a general plan . there have not been and can not be , under present laas. any actual consolidations . Various proposals that have been presented to the commission and referred to as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but proposals for acquisition of control . etc . New bill grants the commission power to authorize consolidations when the particular proposal is found to he in the public interest . Definite guides for determining what is in the " public interest " are laid down These emphasize the necessity of maintaining carrier competition , of preserving service of necessary weak or short lines , and the securing ultimately of well balanced systems competing with each other on a reasonable parity . Definite Plan Wanted The committee , in writing this particular provision , followed the commission 's suggestions made during the beatings. that Congress should indicate definitely its ideas as to the governing Lon.siderations to be taken into account . No element of compulsion is introduced except that the commission is directed to consider the necessity of including necessary weak lines in any consolidation proposal . Furthermore , the commission would be permitted to attach certain conditions in this connection which must be accepted before approval is given the plan . On the other hand . provision is made whereby the strong lines will be protected against unreasonable demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " existing routes and channels of trade shall he maintained . " This is not to be taken as sanctioning they an be eliminated wholly but is intended to permit adjustment to meet changes warranted by traffic developments and demands . An important feature of the new bill is that no corporation is provided for directly or indirectly except under state charter . There will be no Federal incorporation . Unification Must Follow Bill 's Proti  --  dons The new Parker bill provides that there - can be no unifications under State or Federal laws eNcept according to its terms . This is termed a - grant of power " which will overcome conflicting state lains. but will not amount to Federal incorporation . ' Under another provision the railroads will be given full power to carry into effect any reorganization steps necessary to carry out the orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission . regardless of conflicting state laws and antitrust laws . All security issues are made subject to approval of the commission . No securities can be issued based on intangible values created by the mere fact of the resulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created by virtue of the consolidation .. This provision of earlier bills expressly prohibited Issuance of securities in excess of the aggregate value of the properties involved . The new bill eliminated this when it was pointed out be the railroads that it would virtually nullify consolidations through their postponement pending ascertainment of valuations by the commission . Rights of minority or dissenting stockholders are recognized and careful provision is made for their protectionThe right to vote ou a merger or consolidation plan approved by the commission is given to ece7y security bolder whether a bond or a stockholder who under his contract nas toting privileges . Earlier drafts of the bill denied *toting privileges to bondholders. even though they Caere entitled to the right under their contracts . and gave it to stockholders who did not have ' toting privileges . Distsenting Stockholders ' Rights All dissenting stockholders of an absorbed corporation and certain dissenting stockholders of the absorbing corporation arc given rights to have them : stock condemned To secure this right they must ** an zuch under definite requirements as to registration . etc . Once the status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right of tondemuatsto follows . and attaches even when stock is in the hands ' it a subsequent holder . It stockholder does not qualify under the requirements Ica a dissenting stockholder. he has no right to have his stock condemned . and must either go along with the majority or take what be can get . Upon passage of the proposed consolidation legislation . no applications can be tiled for stock control under the provisions of the present law . Commission may transfer applications already riled. and require proceedings under the new law . If not so transferred , further proceedings must be in harmony with the new law . Any et idence put in unoer the present law would he admissible and available in the proceedings under the new law . Prospects of the latest consolidation bill being enacted at this session of Congress are very poor despite President Coolidge 's optimism in this regard . According to present indications at the Capitol . furthest possible advance may be the passage of the bill by the House . Senate Interstate Commerce Committee activity will be renewed upon reintroduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , which will follow as a matter of form this week since zea.ding of the bill has been completed . Sub-committee of the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee . including Senators F'ess of Ohio . Sackett of Kentucky and Smith of South Carolina . will then draw up a new bill and report it back to the full committee .                     