@@686016

txt A llitie more then one year ago THE TRIEHHE published the editorial reprinted as Editorial of the Day In the adjoining column . That editorial was the result of an editorial conference inspired by the graye crime conditions exfeting In this city and continuing , not to say progressing , without adequate check or apparent likelihood of diminishment . They were conditions which THE TRIBUNE repeatedly exposed In its news columns and frequently analyzed and protested against in our editorials . They were conditions which imperiled the safety of our people , effected seriously the city 's prosperity , and compromised Chicago 's good name . This seemed to THE TRIVNE the chief problem before our government and our community , calling for all our civic Intelligence and spirit to solve , and THE THIDENE. although it had been giving so much attention to it hitherto , determined to enter upon a renewed campaign to devote all its facilities and all its influence to arousing the community to the great evil which afflicted us all . The editorial republished below expressed at length what we believed was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing needful , name . ly , aroused citizenship , organized and united to put down crime . Since that utterance , we believe we can flatter ourselves that an advance has been made , for which ' Tire Trainmen can honestly claim , and in quarters whose opinion we most value is accorded , considerable credit.4 The well considered and persistent work of the Crime Commission maintained by the Association of Commerce  --  to which we referred in the editorial below  --  has proceeded with Increased effect because of the aid given in our news and editorial columns . To speak in the concrete , we may call attention to the very sinleter and significant case of Bertha laviebeck  --  the young white girl who was abused by the Negro policeman . DorseeeChambliss ? which was prevented by THE TaIDENE 'S alertness from being a ghastly failure of justice . In spite of the influences at work to conceal and protect this crime , the haw was successfully invoked and the culprit is now undergoing punishment . The effect of such a victory for justice is out of proportion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the previous year Judge Crowe , head of the Criminal court , had called attention to congestion of the criminal docket and extra judges had helped to relieve this evil. , In the last . year this 1Mprovement has been bettered . Important in the campaign has been Tun Trutttse 's disclosure of the rank evil of straw bonds and nonenforcement of forfeiture . As a result of this exposure we may expect corrective legislation , which will close What is now an open door for the escape of the guilty , the immunity of their well paid accomplices , the release of essential witnesses , and the consequent defeat of justice . Of late , churches and church organizations and influential associations of business men , under pres.eure of recent flagrant acts of violence , have been aroused to taco up the fight for law enforcement ; and finally , under a drum fire of effective publicity , which ' has revealed a vivid picture of police demoralization , a ' change has been forced in the office of superintendent of police . The new chief has been sheaving admirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a campaign tv ewe-p up criminals has produced some striking reeulta . So fur , so good . But It is far from being enough . Tau TRIBUNE prides Itself , we believe with reaeon , on its part in bringing about the new , morale , but no one w7eo appreciates how powerful and perVaallra are the forces at work producing our crime conditions will he satisfied with what has been accomplished or with conditions as they are . The ref-ent raids are spectacular , and they have a threefc1-1 result , grently to be desired . They put  --  a little fear of the Inw into . regions where the law has been little feared . They stimulate , the moralearf the law enforcing agencies . Last , but not least , they help to arouse ' and enlighten public opinion , without which we shall soon lame Into helplessness , But raids are not enough . Neither is the removal of r. chief of police , who was not appointed with tha idea of efficient and vigorous law enforcement . Neither is the demotien of some poJice officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other members of the force . This may result in some hetterrorrnte and perhaps some changes not for the better . But at best it is not fundamental . - In short , it is still true that the drastic ' changes needed in our machinery of public protection and law enforcement must come through deeply aroused pubic morale , and this can be insured only by organixed effort of all the agencies of decent living and civic reform and business and community betterment , throughro. ? ? ? i  --  r ? city . THE TRIBUNE Will continue to do its part in this campalen . The Crime Commission will go steadily forward The most eocrgetic members of the bench ar d of the council and of the law enforcing branches of our various governments will work with a will . But they must be joined by the churches , and by all the civic ate  --  ciations , which together may concentrate : melt pressure upon the centers of government and Law , agencies that the influences of organized vice and crime and their allies in politics and office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , l ' " if the people are to crush this ugly con ? hInati.in It must be ; by aomblnatIon . " We must meet organization and system with organization and system . THE TRIDENE has done its part . will continue to 10 its part . It will wage war upon crime without ceasing , whether it Is supported or not . But if the community is to escape from its Present deplorable situation , if organized crime is to be defeated , the people or this city , rising in their might . must decree that crime shall go .                     