@@691941

txt President Coolidge expects the Air Board , which be has just appointed , to study the best means of developing and applying aircraft in the national defense , to conclude its work in time to enable hint to submit recommendations on the subject at the coming session of Congress . The members of the board have been 11 asked to meet him at the White House I next Thursday morning , when he will indicate more clearly what he has in mind . The President is anxious for the board to begin its work as quickly as , possible , in the hope that it may complete its study within the next ten weeks and report the latter part of November . Such air policy as the President . after consideration of the board 's report . feels Warranted in advocating will then be presented to CongregS . The inquiry to be conducted by  --  the - President 's appointees will be separate and distinct from the court-martialing or such other action as may be taken in the case of Colonel William Mitchell , former Assistant Chief of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outgrowth of his San ilbtbnki ' staterent in which he criticized the conduct of those in charge of military and naval Ilia policy . Board to Deal With Policy Only . Lcting Secretary of War Davis and other high officials of that department today emphasized the view that there is no connection between the proceedings of the Air Board which President Coolidge had appointed and any court-mar : tial or other action that may be had in connection with Colonel Mitchell 's San Antonio statement . The departmental view is that there is no relation between the two matters ? one relating to army discipline , the other to a proper air policy . Colonel Mitchell will have every opportunity to appear before the Air Board , it was stated at the War Department today , officials of that branch of the Government interposing no obstacle to his examination by the President 's investigators . Acting Secretary Davis , who first proposed the kind of investigation the President has asked the Air Board to make , will welcome a thorough siring of the allegations made by Colonel Mitchell against the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relate to only a part of the broad ground which the President cx- I pects the Air Board to cover . Major John L. Hines , Chief of Staff Of the Army , today received from Major Gen- Ernest Hinds , commanding the I Eighth Corps Area , at San Antonio . a report transmitting the formal answer of Colonel Mitchell accepting responsibility for his San Antonio statement . The papers forwarded by General Hinds were started on their path through routine channels in the department . It is tinderstood they wilt be referred to the Inspector General 's office for consideration and then to the . Judge Advocate General before being submitted with such recommendations as those officials feel warranted in making , to Acting Secretary Davis . - Wilbur in Accord With Davis . The complete cooperation of the navy in the inquiry to be made by the Coolidge Air Board was assured late this afternoon when Secretary Wilbur healed what to some seemed to be a breach of opinion between himself and Acting Secretary of War Davis relative to the necessity for an investigation . " When I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Wilbur , " I had particularly in mind an investigation of charges that the Navy Department and its officers were engaged In presenting false and perjured testimony to Congress and were deliberately sending men to their death in order to discredit aviation . Charges affecting the competence , the honesty and the patriotism of the officers and men in the naval department of the Government should be specific as to the individual charged with such misconduct or incompetency , with specifications as to the incompetent or treasonable act sufficient to justify a court of inquiry to be followed by a courtmartial , and in the event of a conviction of treason with the sentence of death , and in the event of a conviction of incompetency or perjury with imprisonment and dismissal . " In the absence of specific charges of Misconduct the innocence , the integrity and patriotism of men who are sworn to support the Constitution of the United States should be taken for granted . " I am not now opposed and never have been opposed to an investigation such as I joined with the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Welcomes Advice . Navy Department has always been willing and is now willing to se- cure the benefit and advice and intelligent criticism of any committee or any investigating board and the department Is desirous of having the expert Judgment of competent men after investigation of the problems involved in aviation to confirm , supplement or modify the policy of the Navy Department . " We will help in every possible way the commission appointed by the President and will furnish them all information at our disposal , including secret and confidential information of a militacy nature if the President ' authorizes the disclosuree of such confidential information to such commission and under such restrictions at may be deemed necessary for the protection of the nation . " It should be borne in mind that much of the information in the department tharg , e0 with The defense of the country concerning the latest developments in militatt'matters must tie deemed secret and confidential . Other nations may or may not have made similar advances . " So far as the question of misconduct of officers in the Navy Department is concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court-martial when sub- ' . stantial evidence of any misconduct is Presented . Borah Misunderstood , HO Said . Senator William E. Borah , who re turned to Washington today , said he had not been quite correctly understood in the comments he made in the West In connection with the demand of Colonel Mitchell for a separate and amalgamated Federal Air Service . Mr. Borah said that he had not endorsed Colonel Mitchell 's proposal . His statement , he added , was that , while he did not know whether or not he was in favor of a unified air service , he was inclined to think that Colonel Mitchell was right , but he had also remarked that he was so opposed to the organization of any more departments of the Government that , he would have to be convinced that what Colonel Mitchell proposed was necessary . The Senator declared that lie thought the Air Board chosen by President Coolidge to study and advise as to the best means of developing and applying aircraft in national defense WWI a " very good board . "   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         