@@687343

txt That a trade union , albeit one of the less conservative in type , should have ' won a court injunction against employers has naturally led to gratification among citizens at large who are desirous of industrial . peace and of having the resources of orderly processes of law employed to that end . That avenue has all along been open to either party to industrial controversy . It is time that organized labor as well as organized capital should turn thither , whenever it has a just and genuine case to bring . The garment workers in New York evidently had just such a case , involving a plain breach of contract by the other side . That there were some exasperating temptations to such impatient disregard of the contract has not served to exculpate the employers . They are enjoined. from further violation of the agreement , and they are left exposed to damages . It is once again proved that the law is " no respecter of persons . " But the outcome is nevertheless apt to be embarrassing rather than consoling to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel for the garment workers , in fact , while elated by their victory , are re ported as doubtful of the ultimate strategy of method . There is certainly a discomfiture involved in that victory for many union protagonists who are abundantly on record concerning courts in general and injunctions in particular . That - victory comes at a time when , amid the flood of bills just introduced in this state , was included the usual position for a constitutional amendment to ban injunctions in labor disputes . . Not lOng ago the constitutional convention in the state rejected that proposition . Earlier the Massachusetts Supreme Court had declared unconstitutional a law Passed to that effect . - Perhaps it was such action that led to that court being called in the last annual convention of the American Federation of . Labor , " one of the most reactionary bodies in the United States so far as labor controversies are concerned . " The anti-injunction record is long and persistent . State legislatures have been steadily besieged to pass statutes frOwning on injunction but smiling on picketing . The Arizona legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making picketing illegal only if actual violence were employed . The federal Supreme Court lately demolished it . The Federation attitude toward injunctions is explicit enough . At the last annual convention a resolution was passed urging " campaigns against the ever-growing abuse ? of injunctions in labor disputes " . A leaflet giving Federathin " declarations " includeg ? " unrelenting protest agaimt the issuance and abuse of injunction process in labor disputes " . Another Federation pamphlet includes , among its epigrams , the folldwing : " In case of the injunction in labor disputes , contempt of court is respect for law . " And so on . The attitude has been one of complete opposition to the injunction ; the implication that wherever it issues , there is abuse . Yet the injunction is merely the equity application of the law to the facts in a given case , when the court is satisfied on the showing of fact that illegal damage is threatened or being wrought . That this may interfere with pet tactics of unions is no argmnent . Now have conic the garment workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     