@@696672

txt tsilllam Rtskus and Alex Mealebich. larceny , sentenced to 1 to 10 years each in Pon I i 3.1 reformatory : Florian Sigtnunte. burglary , sentenced to 1 . year to life in the penitentiary by Judge Harry B. Miller . Aloyslus Rosieke , robbery . sentenced to 1 year to life In Pontiac reformatory by Judge G. Fred Rush . ; Emil Denemark was the victim of bombers or the fourth time in less than three years when a blast shattered his automobile agency at 3860 Ogden avenue shortly before midnight last night . Windows were shattered , three automobiles damaged , and residents of the neighborhood aroused by the explosion in the alley behind the combined agency and garage . Norman Novak , 4 years old , 2119 South Springfield avenue , was slightly hurt in his bed when a plate , dislodged from a shelf by the explosion a half a block away , fell and struck his head . William Dailey , colored , porter in the Denemark garage , said he was cleaning up when the bomb exploded . He had heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he saw no one , he said . Denemark went to the scene , but would not comment on the bombing . Blasts Arouse Authorities . The Denemark bombing and another bombing came last night as concerted action against bombers was being planned by the state 's attorney , police , and the Chicago crime- commission . Two bombings Tuesday night had aroused the authorities to action . The other bombing last night was in the rear of a bakery at 3433 North Halsted street owned by C. W. Cramer . Small damage was done . Cramer could offer no explanation . Deputy Commissioner Stege said yesterday he expects to get at the truth of the bombing of a , twelve apartment building at 1262 Winona avenue Tuesday night . - Bootleggers , who had been reported by a resident of the Winona avenue apartment building , are believed to have been responsible for that bomb . Difficulties with owners of other nearby theaters were blamed by the owner of the Academy theater , near the corner of Halsted and Madison street , for the explosion there Tuesday night . Motives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombing cases the approximate motive for the bombing is known , or at least suspected . It was pointed out , however , that though a Mussolini might take drastic action against all officials of an organization suspected of instigating a crime such as bombing , police and prosecutors are powerless unless they can get evidence that will be convincing to members of a fedi jury . " We believe that where any person is threatened , and a bomb is exploded at that person 's home or place of business after the threat , that a conspiracy Case at least may be proved again:it the threatener , ' Stege said .                     