@@688928

txt In spite of the criticisms and objections noticed in the previous article , some of which are undoubtedly formidable , it would be a grave mistake to suppose that the tendency in America is toward more complete isolation from world affairs . am convinced that the opposite is the fact . The truth is that Isolation , whether desirable or undesirable , is quite impracticable , and that is recognized by almost every serious person in the United States . One argument which convinces many of them is that in fact the World War happened , and America was drawn into it with the acquiescence of the immense majority of her people . If that occurred in 1917 , there is no reason why it should riot occur again . Then , again . international controversies affecting American interests are of constant occurrence . The Chester concessions are one of many instances of the same kind . Not ' cam ago America felt that her interest had been cavalierly treated by the now defunct Anglo-Persian agreement . Again , she is extremely sensitive about oil Concessions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lucrative of American industries . On the humanitarian side she . was deeply moved by the euffepings of the Armenian people , and , though she was not prepared to take military action , she would have been very glad to exert dip ' lomatic influence on their behalf . Her missionary and educational enterprises ' In the Middle East are , as every one knows , very remarkable and make a great appeAl to certain sections of the American people . Apart from particular questions , Americans are more and mord recognizing the importance to them economically of peace in Europe . This is particularly true with regard to the agricultural and cotton interests , which are in a condition of depression widely attributed to the loss of their external markets . It is quite true that America 's foreign trade is a very small fraction of her whole commercial and industrial activity , but it affects prices quite out of proportion to its actual extent . All over the Middle West it is now accepted that the price of wheat depends upon the price of the exportable surplus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nearly Exterminated . These considerations have really exterminated . or almost exterminated , the full-blooded isolationists . Even the so I called " irreconcilables " admit  --  indeed , some of them strongly eesert  --  that America must have a foreign policy and must I play her part in international affairs . Very . many go further than this and are beginning to doubt gravely whether an attitude of Olympian observation , coupled with the offer of advice and occasional interference in the affairs of other nations , is really a very good way in which to exert American in ' fluence in foreign affairs . They feel that it leads or may lead to the greatest amount of international friction with the least advantage to international peace of any course that they can adopt . Doubters of this kind are tending more and morn toward some form of organized international co-operation . This tendency is greatly accentuated by the recognition on the part of impor- tent sections of opinion of America 's Iduty to humanity in the matter of Peace . Churches and religious bodies are moving strongly in this direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are organized associations of women , such as the League of Women Voters . Indeed , women who contributed very largely to the defeat of the League in 1920 because of the fear that it would lead to international complications for America are for the same reason strongly inclined to any action which would effectively maintain peace . It is certainly no exaggeration to say that love of Peace , both in abstract and as an object of national policy , is at least as strong in America as it is in any country in the world . When it comes to the question of how this is to be done . American opinion is in some ways more advanced than it is in Europe . Americans have no belief that you can promote peace by force , and any suggestion of a return to the old system of group alliances , balance of power and competitive armaments is altogether repellent to their mode of thought . It is , indeed , obvious that those who are most opposed to entangling alliances and therefore most doubtful about the possibility of entanglements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are most bitterly opposed to anything ? ri ? the . nature of a military alliance with a group of powers for the purpose ? of keeping the peace . The ordinary reply . therefore , that opPonents of tild lief:wee in ' Europe make to the demand for an alternative policy , viz. , a retuftf td the ' Systdrn of alliances , is never made in America . .. . No Alternatives Offered Here . On ( he other hand , while most Americans admitted that - isolation was impossible , that international peace was an American interest and that it ought . therefore , to be an important part of American policy to secure it . I heard of no proposal for an effective alternative to the League solution . Certain . tentative suggestions are being made in the direction of international co-operation . In the first place , there is the ' proposal of President Harding to enter , " as it is called , the Permanent Court of International Justice . All that he actually proposes is that America should formally take part in the choosing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its expenses , thougn no doubt this action would increm , the pr .. tstiv ? of the court . The controversy aroused by this proposal was almost unintelligible to a European observer . It was difficult to imagine how any one could conceive that America would become thereby entangled in European affairs , or that . it could affect the American world position in any but the most infinitesimal way . Argument in its favor is set forth with very great completeness in a speech delivered by Mr. Hughes on April 27 . The only answer to such contentions was that the court was connected with the Leagrc and that , therefore , to enter the court would be a step toward the League . It certainly appears to an outsider an astonishing argument , that because an institution otherwise desirable is connected with the League America must have nothing whatever to do with it . The use of suoh arguments certainly appears to show the vehemence of political passions which were aroused by the campaign of 1920 . It is symptomatic of this state of mind that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scheme in showing that the court is really part of the League , and an equal amount of ingenuity by its supporters in showing that it really has nothing whatever to do with the League . I personally should have thought that both contentions were wrong , and both irrelevant . I say that the court is generally admitted to be a good thing in itself but that is not universally true . Does n't ' Understand Borah . Senator Borah , for instance , holds that the- Permanent Court of International Justice is useless because its statute does not provide that all adherents to it sban accept compulsorily its jurisdiction . I am not quite sure of what the Senator really . means by this objection . noes he mean that she United States should not take part in any court unless all other countries who take part in it agree , top compulsory jurisdiction ? If so , the court would have to exclude some of the most powerful nations in the world , or else his court would have to wait for very many years until he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device adopted by the statute of the court is the right one . Let all those nations who are ready for compulsory jurisdiction of the court accept it , and let an opportunity be given - to others , whenever they like , of accepting it also . Thus , as the court grad-1 ually grows in authority ? as it is already growing  --  all nations will probably find it convenient to accept compulsory jurisdiction of the court and Senator Borah 's object will gradually be achieved . The question he has to ask himself is whether a court without complete compulsory jurisdiction is not better than no court at all . His other objection is that there i:4 no code of law for the court to administer . That , again , is in the ' nature of a counsel of perfection . No doubt , intern'ational law is a very incomplete system at present . It is , however , growing , and nothing has more greatly increased it than the signing of the covenant . The court can administer such law as exists and can , besides , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best of its lights . Procedure of that kind will build up more or less rapidly a body of international common law which will make complete codification ultimately predicable . In the speech already alluded - to , Mr. Hughes points out that the court can only deal with " justiciable " questions . That is true , and must be true . There are very many international questions which can not be settled by purely legal considerations . So strongly , apparently , did Mr. Hoover feel this that when he spoke ' on the subject he described entry into the court as " a first step . " President Harding , who was the next member of the Administration to speak on the subject , was apparently alarmed at the outspokenness of his Secretary for Commerce , and went out of his way to declare that he regarded the question of the League as definitely settled and that , therefore , acceptance of the court was not a first step to anything . Mr. Hughes , who spoke after President Harding , carefully refrained from Making any observation on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry into the court as a first step. ? I Neither did ? he follow the President in his repudiation of the League , The truth is , that except for any importance that may be given to it by its opponents , entry into the court is a very small matter internationally . It does not , of course , involve entry into the League , nor does it make such entry either nearer or more remote . It has , in fact , nothing to do with it . Nor can the court , by any possibility , be converted into an instrument for settling all international disputes or appeasing international hatred and suspicion . which is at the bottom of all our difficulties . At present the court is a useful measure which willfacilitate settlement of relatively minor international disputes , but it can . at ? present , do no more than kNat. 1                     