@@690234

txt Floating islands , one of which conks ' tad of seven acres and followed his ship like a pet whale , were seen off Borneo by Captain Jonas Pendelbury of the Dollar Line steamship President Adams , which docked yesterday at Pier 15 , Staten Island , after her round-theWorld cruise . The floating islands temporarily upset the calculations of the circumnavigators. trho were led to suppose that they were approaching- land when their charts Showed there was no land . It was Captain Pendelbury 's first experience with floating islands , save in the form of dessert , and he has been a seafarer for thirty-six years . But . floating islands are not the rarest things in the world , according to members of the staff of the American Geographical Society , who explained yesterday that they have been sighted as far as fifty miles out from the mainlands from which they became detached . Captain Pendelbury encountered the biggest of the floating islands first . He said its palm trees were higher than the wireless masts of his ship and in their tops were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skipper said he saw great masses of flowering vegetation and a large number of cobras. deadly reptiles . The ship at that time was negotiating the Palawan Pacqage. which the Captain described as a " cut " in the Pacific between Borneo and the Malay Peninsula . " It was our good fortune that we started through the passage in the day time , " said Captain Pendelbury , who impressed ship news reporters with the importance of getting his first name , Jonas , and not Jonah " I was on the bridge when I heard the call , ' Land right ahead , sir : : " I at first though our charts must be imperfect , as they sometimes are in those remote seas , because they showed no land at that point . I changed the course of the ship and slowed down . But the land kept getting closer and closer . It was then I observed that the island was floating . It came within forty feet of the President Adams and followed her for a considerable distance . " We proceeded cautiously throug , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before night we sighted eight or ten more floating islands , but none so large as the first one . We also passed a series of water-spouts , but they were not large enough to do any damage . " In Hongkong I was informed that the floating islands form in the estuaries of rivers and frequently are washed far out to sea by Spring floods . Finally they break up . " Members of the staff Of the American Geographical Society explained that floating islands originate in the mouths or deltas of tidal rivers . Small inlets cut new channels and carve out the islands . The islands usually are an enormous tangle of tropical vegetation and roots which penetrate the soil to a great depth They are as tightly woven as a grass rug , and in times of flood and unusual tidal disturbances they are torn loose and washed out to sea- Floating islands have been traced by geographers to the Famarinda. and Nahakan Rivers on the east coast of Borneo . and they are also known to form in Barita the river on the south coast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Amazon and Orinoco Rivers in South America . The President Adams sailed from Pier 4 . Hoboken , on Feb. 7 . She was the first passenger ship of the American merchant marine to sail from New York and circumnavigate the globe . She touched at twenty ports of call and passed through- two - canals ; the Panama , and Suez . T. W. Moore of New York and H. A. Hensley made the round-the-world trip . Another passenger arriving on the ship was J. F. Ballard , collector of rugs , who has made many important gifts to American museums and who was reported to hide brought this time some rare specimens for the Metropolitan Museum of Art . , Captain Pendelbury will have just a. week to spend with his farrilly. at 120 Ninety-sixth Street . Brooklyn , before he sails on the second trip around the world .                     