@@689882

txt Snow storms and cold spells have had only passing influence on the anthracite trade . Large producing companies are distributing stove and chestnut without difficulty , but these are the only sizes really in demand . Dealers ' yards are stocked and consumers ' cellars are well supplied . With independent operators below the company circular on egg and pea , which are hard to move , and barely 25 to 75 cents above , the circular on stove and chestnut , a competitive basis more nearly exists . Though present market conditions are not favorable to such a policy it is regarded as possible , as a result of the segregation from the railroads of the Reading and Lehigh Valley coal companies , that they may eventually establish their prices for domestic sizes of anthracite snore in line with those of the independent operators , which in normal periods represent a differential above the company circular . The so-called railroad owned coal companies have traditionally pitched their circular at a level over which the independent operators changed premiums when ' they could be obtained , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be freer in pursuing their price policy . So far as a spring discount is concerned this year it is believed this matter will be governed principally by market and competitive considerations . WAGE CONFERENCE Bituminous coal trade is centering its attention on developments at the Jacksonville wage conference . den ? eral opinion inclines to the belief that operators will balk at a four-year agreement . This would mean a tyingup to a high wage scale for a long period . Guesses in various quarters are that a compromise on two or possibly . three years is the likely outcome . Important Pennsylvania operating interests are averse to having trouble over signing of a wage scale April 1 , having found such a course costly in the past few years . They may prefer to renew the present scale , probably as usual following the action that may be taken by the central competitive field , even though there be , as at present , a wage differential of 74 cents to $1 a ton above the wages being paid in the non-union mines by New River operators . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from them , and can sell a certain amount of coal to such customers in their own state and at interior cities in the east irrespective of a wage differential . TONNAGR CONTRACT . Lehigh Valley Railroad is reported to have about closed for most of its fuel requirements . New Haven is understood to have paid about $1.85 for its fuel ( high volatile ) requirements and $2.65 to $2.76 for low volatile , for its power houses . Some of the large public utility companies are said to have contracted for their tonnage . These include New York Edison , which obtained an attractive figure on smokeless coal , and Interborough Rapid Transit .                     