@@689211

txt Calvin Coolidge received the news of his death of President Harding and of his own elevation to the Presidency at ten minutes before 1 o'clock this morning , Daylight Saving Time . Mr. Coolidge received the first news of President Harding 's death from telegrams signed by George C. Christian , the late President 's secretary , and from THE NEW Yon TIMES , whose telegram reached him at the same moment . These telegrams were brought to the Coolidge home at Plymouth Notch by W. A. Perkins of Bridgewater , who owns the telephone line running from Bridgewater to , Plymouth . About five minutes later the newspaperkinen- arrived in Ludlow . The following telegram was sent to Mrs. Harding : Plymouth , Vt. , Aug. 3 , 1923 . Mrs. Warren G. Harding , San Francisco , Cal . We offer you our deepest sympathy . May God bless you and keep you . CALVIN COOLIDGE . GRACE COOLIDGE . The following telegrafas anncuncing the death of President Harding were received : Palace Hotel , San Francisco , Mr. Calvin Coolidge , Plymouth , Vt. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversing with members of his family at ? 7:30 P. M. His physicians report that death was apparently due to some brain embolism , probably an apoplexy . GEORGE B. CHRISTIAN JR. , Secretary . New York City . President Coolidge , Plymouth , Vt. : Regret to advise you President Harding died suddenly at 11:35 New York time tonight . We will appreciate any statement you care to have us publish . NEW YORK TIMES . New President Roused From Bed . The President and Mrs. Coolidge had retired about an hour before these messages were received . Ten minutes after the arrival of the news-j paper men , President and Mrs. Coolidge came down stairs into the sitting room of the Coolidge home . Mr. Coolidge was dressed in a black sack suit and wore a black necktie . Mrs. Coolidge wore a black and whitel gown , white shoes and stockings . Mr. Coolidge was very pale , but showed no emotion other than a deep regret for his predecessor 's death . He seated himself at a table , while Mrs. Coolidge brought a lamp and read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistant secretary , Irwin Geisser , and dictated to him his statement and the telegram to Mrs. Harding . The sound of the arrival of automobiles aroused most of the residents of Plymouth Notch , and a dozen or fifteen of them gathered on the veranda of the Coolidge house . Mrs. Coolidge expressed concern for Mrs. Harding . " She bears up wonderfully well under difficulties . She will need all her courage now , " Mrs. Coolidge said . Solemn . Scene at Coolidge Home . President Coolidge directed that a room be prepared for the use of the ( newspaper men , many of whom were expected to arrive on trains reaching here later in the morning . John C. Coolidge , the President 's father , had appeared downstairs before his son . The aged man , obviously deeply grieved at the news , went out on the veranda and chatted in low , solemn tones with the neighbors who came hurrying from their houses . The scene both on the veranda and in the living room of the Coolidge place was a curiously impressive one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of anything that happened . It was plain that both Mrs. Coolidge and the President 's father ( , wanted to offer the President their blessing in view of the onerous task that had devolved upon him , but al . of them ' seemed to feel that the dominant note was grief for the man who had passed away and for the sorrowing ones - he had left behind . So the atmosphere was funereal to the end and not a single word was spoken to Mr. Coolidge  --  at least in the hearing of the correspondents ? regarding the great honor and dignity that had suddenly come upon him . President 's Son in Training Camp . The eldest of President and Mrs. Coolidge 's two boys , John , had left cn Wednesday for the military training camp at Camp Devens . He will not learn until today that his father is President of the United States . , It is probable that the young man ! willwill finish his military course just same , his father being an ardent advocate of that spirit of , prepared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger son , Calvin Jr. , 16 years old , was not awakened when the rest of the house was aroused by the startling news that Presi , dent Harding was dead . I He did not awake while others were dressing and while automobiles were speeding up the main street and stopping before the house , and so it was decided to let him sleep on , and not to tell him until this morning that he is to live lat the White House . Calvin Coolidge learned that he was President of the United States lin an ample white , two-story frame house , nestling among a few neigh , rbor dwellings of similar architecture in this hamlet at the Southern end of the Green Mountains . Possibly no other President of the United States  --  certainly not within recent years  --  had received such an honor in such simple surroundings . News Came as a Shock . The news of President Harding 's death came as a complete surprise to both Mr. and Mrs. Coolidge . Not only the newspaper reports , but the private advices received by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Harding was improving and practically out of danger . At noon , when visited by a group of newspaper correspondents , Mr. Coolidge expressed surprise that they still were assigned to " cover " him . Even then Mr. Coolidge faced ' a dwindling company , for more than half of those who had been sent scurrying to Plymouth when it first appeared that Mr. Harding 's illness was grave , had been recalled by their various newspapers , whose editors believed that the crisis had farmer 's line telephone , over which , distant communications can not be ' sent . D. P. Rossiter , former editor of local weekly , assumed the task of , routing out of bed the one operator ' n the local telegraph office and the manager of the telephone company , in order that the correspondents should have wire service upon their return to Ludlow , communication from Plymouth being hopeless . Plymouth is ten miles from the Coolidge place at Plymouth Notch . ten miles of hilly and badly lighted roads . By the time the correspondents had gathered in front of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barely long enough for them to swing aboard and with a loud honk of its horn sped away into the blackness while Ludlow people , sensing that something unusual was afoot , came hurrying out of their homes to learn what it was all about . Coolidge Deliberates on Statement . It took thirty minutes to get to the Coolidge place . Then there was a ten-minute wait while the President and his wife dressed and came lawn stai rs . Mr. Coo:idge , always a deliberate man of few words , was evidently impressed with the nature of the oc casion and had virtually nothing ti say aside from the formal statement he dictated to his assistant secretary . In preparing that statement he took a great deal of time , weighing every word and , ' seemingly , trying to say just a little of what must have been in his heart at that hour . It took about thirty minutes to conclude the interview with the President , to say hurried good-nights and to scramble back into the automobile and dash headlong back to Ludlow . So in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time the first flash of President Harding 's death spread over the country until the correspondents were back in Ludlow relaying from there President Coolidge 's first words to the nation , spoken at Plymouth . Goes to Washington Today . No plans were made immediately following the news that Mr. Coolidge had become President . It is probable that early this morning arrangements will be concluded and that the President and Mrs. Coolidge will set out for Washington before noon . There is a train leaving Ludlow at 10:25 A. M. standard time and connects with a New York , New Haven &; Hartford train for New ( York at Bellows Falls , Vt . There was nothing said tonight of a special train , but it may be that one will be arranged for later in the day . Another way in which Mr. Coolidge could reach New York would be to drive to Rutland and take a Rutland Railroad train there . At any rate the President must pas : - through New York on his way to the capital . Mr. Coolidge has his car here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will use that . There is no railroad at Plymouth . Mr. Coolidge said as the interview was concluding that he had not decided just when or how he would Leave . Mr. and Mrs. Coolidge , little anticipating what the night held for them , spent an active day yesterday . After busying themselves about the home in the early morning hours they rested on the veranda , where the newspaper men found them on their 11 o'clock visit . Then they had luncheon and in the afternoon they motored to the Woodstock Inn , about thirty miles from Plymouth , where they dined . They returned early in , the evening and retired at a good hour . In the last conversation he held with a visitor , just before he went to bed , Mr. Coolidge again expressed confidence that President Harding was well on his way to recovery and that there was no further cause for anxiety on his account . No one who has seen President Coolidge , both in the trying days hen the thought was in every one 's mind that Mr. Harding 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few moments soon after midnight when for the first time he ' faced strangers as President of the United States , could help being impressed with his poise and dignity . His grief at Mr. Harding 's passing was obviously genuine , his own task of striking a nice balance between sorrow at the loss of a Chief and a friend , and of pledging the country his best services , was a difficult one . Those who watched him passed . Jokingly ' Mr. Coolidge terminated ' the conference , which had come to be a daily event , with a good-bye , saying that he did not expect to see , his visitors again , as President ! repr ( Harding was so nearly well that they all would be on the way back Ito their offices by nightfall . esentatives of THE NEW YORK It was only a few hours later that TIMES , The New York American , The Boston Post , The Associated Press and Th  --  e United Press were ) back in Mr. Coolidge 's father 's house , ( receiving his first formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had reached the Coolidge home after a wild ride . News of Mr. Harding 's death reached the Okema Tavern at Ludlow by telephone from a Boston newspaper within a few minutes after word had been flashed from San Francisco . Advance arrange- ! ments had been made at Ludlow for a fast automobile , in the event that just such an emergency should make it imperative for the newspaper correspondents to reach Mr. Coolidge in a hurry . The Coolidge home , it should be mentioned , has only a                     