@@686604

txt At the end of the debate which began at 3 o'clock this afternoon and finished at 11 o'clock tonight , and after five days of discussion of foreign policy , the Chamber of Deputies tonight voted confidence in Premier Briand by a majority of 240 . The vote Was 403 to 163 . The success of Briand in getting approval of a policy of moderation toward Germany is a serious setback for the French Nationalists , who , While in a majority in the Chamber . had to recognize that public opinion was more back of 13riand than it was back of them . And so the fire-eaters are in the shade for the present . They will stay in the shade if Germany fulfills the trust Briand has put in her . If Germany does not , the Nationalists ' strength will revive to depose Briand and turn its destructive tendencies toward Germany . Premier Briand has obtained a fair show for Germany . Now it is for Germany to do her duty . M. Briand 's behavior in the debate resembled very much that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slippery diplomat about him this time . From the outset he made or clear that his program was one policy sand that of the militarists. - was another . They were separate and distinct . The Chamber must choose . This afternoon after he had learned that a large number of Deputies planned to abstain from voting he told them there must be no standing- on the fence , that it was their duty to the country to vote one Way on the other . The result of this appeal was shown by the fact that practically every member of the Chamber voted when the poll was taken tonight . Now that he has got his friends in line , M. Briand is too experienced a parliamentarian to let them slip easily , but he has sacrificed the support of a large number of men who were Millerand 's supporters on the Nationalist program . Majority Swings Toward Left . . In a way which two months ago Seemed scarcely possible , the Premier haS swung the majority toward the Liberal Left . But he will need to tread carefully among National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? reduced majority slip even further from him . The debate this evening was a long succession of explanations by members of groups as to the reasons why they Would vote for or against the Government . It I led to many fiery outbursts and oratorical duels . Two separate Questions of reparations and Upper Silesia became hopelessly ' entangled long before and only hitched themselves together when one Deputy after another accused the Government of having yielded bag and baggage to England on the first question and of being therefore obviously incapable of holding ground on the second . In all there were twelve separate motions expressing conditions on which the Chamber would accord confidence to the Government , and from the twelve Premier Briand selected that of the Nationalist Leader Arago as the only one Which in all points conformed to the policy of the Government . Mho first part of the motion laid down that the ultimatum of London and figlures of the Reparation Commission represented the minimum of guarantees indispensable to French security and recovery and expressed confidence in the Government to carry out immediately the-ultimatum terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed confidence in the Government to assure , with regard to Upper Silesia , the strict and loyal execution of the terms of the treaty both in spirit and letter . The two parts were voted separately with approximately the same majority of 240 . Looks to America to Lead . PARIS , May 26 ( Associated Press ) . ? fa the discussion on the Government 's foreign policy in the Chamber of Deputies today Premier Briand reiterated his confidence that the German Government would carry out its obligations . lie declared again ? that France 's policy Was one of moderation and justice . " France today , " added M. Briand , P " has the strength and force . It behooves her to use moderation unless the security of France le ? hreatened . Otherwise France will not make use of that force . " There is something beyond Continental opinion . We look to America fo show us the way . " A determined attack was made on the London : ultimatum by M. Lefevre. former Minister of Finance , who declared that the only effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to refer the whole question to a committee . The Premier was visibly tired , and re- plied by raisins the question of confidence , which the Chamber voted . The projected meeting of Prime MinIster'Lloyd George of Great Britain and , Premier Briand of France in Boulogne will develop into a full meeting of the Supreme Council , It now is ( expected in French official circles . Reparations will be discussed , as well as the Upper Silesian question , which may necessitate the presence of a representative of Belgium , although there is no official confirmation that Belgium will be invited to send one . June 3 or 4 is regarded as the most likely dates of the meeting . The question of final settlement of the Asia Minor situation is also likely to come up . The Turkish Nationalist counter-propositions to the FrancoTurkish accore are said in official circles to be entirely unsatisfactory to the French Government . The Nationalists ask for Smyrna and some Arab territory , and the propositions amount to a general revision or the Treaty of Sevres . Which is impossible without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                