@@694574

txt Dean KIMBALL of Cornell told the American Society of Mechanical Engineers that the remarkable increase in American production brings into sight , for the first time in the history of the world , the abolition of poverty . The forecast can not be dismissed by calling upon the speaker for a definition of " poverty . " To argue that the word needs redefinition. is to admit that the problem is being solved . The poor , who will be with us for many years to come , will be poor by comparison with a rising standard of living . But it will not be that static , hopeless condition which history has understood by poverty . Not only in the United States , and not only among optimistic supporters of the present economic system , is the steady upliftment of the masses admitted . The old Marxian theory of the rich growing richer and the poor poorer has gone into the discard . The Socialist argument today stresses not " misery " but justice . It is confessed that the masses are better off than they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still better off than they used to be ; the masses are not getting their " just " share of the social product . That is a different question . The increased well-being of the American people in the twentieth century hardly needs arguing . Yet seldom has there been such a succinct picture of progress as that presented by E. DANA DURAND , Chief of the Division of Statistical Research in the Department of Commerce . Between 1899 and 1925 the yield of American effort in agriculture , mining , manufactures and transportation has risen 140 per cent. ; that is to say , it is nearly two and a half times what it was at the beginning of the century . Population in the same period has increased 55 per cent. , so that the increase in per capita output has been also 55 per cent . That has been accompanied by a probable reduction of the working day in all industry of 15 per cent. , and by the transference of possibly 3,000.000 persons from industry to commerce , chiefly in the marketing and subsidiary callings connected with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standard of living is portrayed in another chapter of the Hoover report comparing 1919 with 1926 : In that period per capita life insurance has nearly doubled , savings deposits have gone up 50 per cent. , building and loan association assets 150 per cent. , membership in such associations has more than doubled , sugar consumption is up 40 per cent. , meat up 13 per cent. , washing machines for domestic use 50 per cent. , bathtubs sold 150 per cent. , telephones 35 per cent. , rural roads surfaced nearly 66 per cent. , consumers of electricity nearly 75 per cent . Since 1890 the relative increase in elementary and secondary school attendance has increased 90 per cent . Nearly twice as many children go to school in proportion to the population . In 1890 the high-school children were 51,4 per cent . of all children of high-school age . In 1926 they I were 35 per cent . College and professional school attendance was 11/0 per cent . in 1890 and 9 per cent . in 11926 . In the older state of mind it might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolerably well off are better off , but that no indications are supplied for the conquest of poverty . Yet when one , third of the high-school children of a nation go to high school we have something more than a small " capitalistic ! : class . Such a. volume of uplift is impossible to conceive without its lifting , along the 16 ; iirei masses of the national life . And this is confirmed by what we know of the progress that has been made in the general rise of wages , and in the . successful , though by no means completed , war upon the vicissitudes of unemployment , sickness and other historic factors in the poverty of the poor .                     