@@688702

txt Major Gen. ENOCH H. CROWDER , U. S. A. , retired , on Monday presented his credentials to President ZAYAS as Ambassador to the Republic of Cuba . There is no other Ambassador at Havana . All nations except the United States are represented by Ministers or diplomatic agents . Our Government has therefore done Cuba , a great honor in sending an Ambassador to Havana . Cuba is preparing to reciprocate by making her representative at Washington an Ambassador . " Only States enjoying royal honors are entitled , " says OPPENHEIM , " to send and receive Ambassadors . " What are States enjoying " royal honors " ? He explains : " Empires , " kingdoms , grand duchies and the " great republics , such as France , " the United States of America , " Switzerland , the South American " republics and others . " He adds , and it is significant in the case of Cuba : " Full-sovereign States always " precede those under suzerainty or " protectorate . " By virtue of the Platt amendment Cuba is really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the diplomatic representative of the United States at Havana is now an Ambassador . In grouping the South American republics as States enjoying " royal honors " OPPENHEIM is not discriminating . The United States sends Ambassadors only to Argentina , Brazil , Chile and Peru . Venezuela , Bolivia , Colombia , Ecuador , Paraguay and Uruguay are not of ambassadorial rank .. Well might President ZAYAS congratulate Cuba upon the distinction paid her when he received the American Ambassador . That of all Americans Major Gen. Caownsa is best qualified to be the diplomatic liaison officer between Washington and Havana is not to be disputed . Representing the United States , he was Secretary of State and Justice in the Government of intervention , 1906-8 , and framed a code for the republic . In 1919 he was sent to Cuba on a special mission as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary , and drew up an election law , ostensibly to assure a peaceful Presidential campaign and a fair count , in 1920 . The provisions for supervision of the returns by the courts averted complications . In January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative of President HAstrana to assist in the financial rehabilitation of Cuba . and to solve administration problems . Thus the republic is under great obligations to General Caownss as a counselor , guide and friend . As Ambassador he will be in intimate personal association with President ZAYAS . Given general instructions by the State Department , Ambassador CROW DER will have authority to settle many questions in his discretion without recourse to Washington . For many years General Crow DER had been the source of army law as Judge Advocate General . Ail the precedents he held in a retentive mind . " CP.OWDER is the most exact man I have ever seen , " said an observer of his work . The draft law of the war period was a monument to his knowledge and methodical , foresighted industry . It was ready to the last mark of punctuation as the hour struck . When the Draft bill was signed by the President , General CROWDER , losing not a moment , ordered his assistant , Major HtiGH S. JOHNSON , to send the draft copy to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replied JOHNSON , who had taken time by the forelock . " Forward it to the registration boards at once , " said the General . " It is already in the hands of the boards , sir , " said JOHNSON . There were ' no stitches dropped in the Judge Advocate General 's office . CROWDER is the incarnation of preparedness , a precisian but patient with human shortcomings ? therefore a natural diplomat . Cuba is fortunate to have General CP.OW DER as an adviser ; and as a retired army officer who will revert to the grade of Major General with the pay attached to it when he has finished his work in Cuba he is to be felicitated.                     