@@687586

txt B. F. Giffin , editor and owner of the Lee County ( III . ) Times , saya , there was an error In TUFF : Trunusn 's republication last Monday of an editorial from his paper . He writes that the last paragraph of the editorial read : " We might far better travel a while longer on our present roads than to travel over hard roads at the cost of all self-respect and with our nostrils protected from the stench which will be in the air if the Thompson-Lundln ? Small program wins . " DEATH THREATS SENT TO SCANLAN AND LABOR JURY ( Pictures on back page . ) The receipt of two death threats , one by Chief Justice Scanlan , the other by a member of the new grand jury , marked the second day of investigation by the panel which will look into alleged mistrials of recent labor cases . " This thing has got to stop , " declared the judge . " I do n't mind It , because I 'm an old campaigner and am used to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and family worried . Furthermore , I 'm not going to have these members of the grand jury and their families worried . They are laymen and have probably never received a threat before in their lives . " The letter to Judge Scanlan is the tenth he has received in the last month . Three witnesses were taken before the grand jury by Assistant State 's Attorney William P. . John J. Bollman of Blue island , III. , a juror in the O'Donnell trial , and his wife were asked whethey they had received visits from any would-be bribers during the trial . They said no such attempts had been made . WEST SIDE FIRE IS LAID TO OIL SOAKED RAGS State Fire Marshal Gamber announced yesterday that he is convinced that the recent disasterous west side fire was the result of spontaneous combustion of oily rags stored in the rooms of the Chicago Lamp &; Fissure company , 117 West Jackson boulevard . lie announced his conclusion after testimony that combustibles  --  benzine , gasoline and turpentine  --  were stored in the offices in amounts greater than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ordered Walter Rogers , colored porter and employe of the concern , locked up on a charge of perjury . Rogers contradicted statements made to the committee by W. D. Wagner , engineer , and Edward Leadenkamp , fireman of the Austin building . Wagner and Landenkamp testified Rogers brought two basket truck loads of rags to the Austin building engine room on the night before the fire . The rags , they said , were so soaked with benzine. and varnish that they " splashed " when Rogers dumped them on the floor .                     