@@693096

txt Weakness in the stock market may have been due to timid souls hearing rumors that the Sage of Wellesley was about to launch another thundering broadside . Alas , for himself , it is ofily too true . Of course , Mr. Babson is not gambling but only advertising .. Yet he declares : " The chances are nineto one that we will see lower stock market prices in 1927 than we saw in 1926 . If there ever was a time when people should take profits , it is today . " How helpful  --  the whole world is to be fold to sell itself in  --  or out ' Who is to buy all the stocks front Mr. Babson 's followers ? Presumably the non-Babson subscribers , or those who do not get the tips to sell quickly enough or continue the foolish practice of investments . WHO ' WILL PaY ? The gamblers will sell quickly , of course , and investors will buy slowly . It remains to be seen whether the buyers or the sellers will pay Mr. Babson for his advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " There is no question but that the market will again show a decline of SO points . It may take two or three years to bring this about , or it may occur in a year . For the entire average of the market to decline 80 points , it is evident that some stocks must go off 100 or 200 points . I emphasize this statement for moral reasons as well as business . " Mr. Babson 's business reasons are obvious . His moral reasons call for another preacher to preach to the preacher , or the spiritual tipster to tip off the stock market tipster . XLIICAL sgHVlCg Mr. Babson says : " Those who wish to reader real service today can do so by storing up cash pending the next panic rather than by buying securities at the present time . The latter is Caere gambling and gamblers ultimately wind up with disaster . " What a pity . But why should Mr. Babson try to save these stock market gamblers from their inevitable disaster by making all investors gamblers  --  selling their securities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growing number of stock market tipsters . He counters upon them in one fell swoop . They predict from day to day and can reverse themselves at will . But Mr. Babson , according to advance information to the press , was only to make three somersaults in one afternoon . He to denounced stock market gamblers but invites investors to be double gamblers  --  gamblers in gold and gamblers in securities . He denounced gambling but advises that " real service " is to be rendered by " storing up cash pending the next panic . " He denounced gamblers but endeavors to save the bears who have been losing their stake shorting General Motors and sound railroad shares .                     