@@688127

txt It developed tonight that the conferees on the Tariff bill restored the dyo embargo . eliminated from the measure by the House and Senate , and thereby furnished an Issue which will cause a bitter dispute and prevent prompt action on the report unless the farm bloc accepts the embargo . Even should the powerful bloc which controlled the action of the conferees adopt the dye section in order to prevent a fight on the high agricultural rates , indications are that five or six Republican Senators will decline to support the report . These include Senators Moses , Borah , La Follette , Lenroot and Norris . Senators Kellogg and Nelson . who threatened to repudiate the report unless shingles were retained on the free list . have been saved to the party . The conferees , it was learned today , held shingles on the free list , Representative Fordney , Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee , finally receding . A fight in the Senate and House is promised over the dye embargo because of the overwhelming vote against it when the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after a series of log-rolling and reported deals between different interests , restored the embargo . by eliminating the section in the Senate bill which authorized its repeal . This action of itself is regarded as questionable under the conference rules , and attacks will be made not only on the embargo itself but on the integrity of the agreement .. The emergency tariff erected a die embargo and permitted dyes not manufactured in this country to enter under a license . This . was to run until the permanent tariff became effective . The permanent tariff was expected to impose rates sufficiently high toprotect American dye interests . without an embargo . The conference report , however , provides that the embargo shall continue one year after the permanent tariff goes into effect , and may be continued another year by Presidential proclamation . The textile interests are especially opposed to the embargo provisions , and they have requested Senators La Follette and Moses to direct the fight against the conference report - I1 this particular . Despite the fight in prospect over the dye embargo Republican leaders do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they believe . the sugar interests and the farm interests have combined to uphold the embargo in return for support for the high rates on sugar , wool and farm products . The fight that will be made , it is believed , will serve only to Inform the country of the pernicious features of the bill and may bring to the fore the log-rolling system always employed in the formation of a tariff bill . Some authorities say this bill was formed solely along logrolling lines and has little scientific basis of levying duties to justify it . Even with the contest Scheduled on the embargo , the leaders are confident that the enactment of a tariff law will not be delayed more than two weeks and that by the week of Sept. 23 Congress will have adjourned . The adjournment , with final action on the Tariff , Bonus and Coal Regulation bills . the leaders believe , will have ' a good political effect . - The political-industrial situation is improving in the opinion of some Republican leaders , who see in the negotiations in progress . on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protective tariff , six or seven weeks before the November eledions , factors tending to restore confidence in the Reptiblidari Party . All signs , the leaders say , point to a satisfactory condition in the industrial world long before the November election at which the voters will decide whether Republican trusteethip has been satisfactory . Their optimism is based on ' the belief that there will be such a wonderful era of prosperity ' following crop movements and industrial- activities , throttled " for weeks by the strikes , as to make the electors forget thefailures of Republican control in Congress tiand the ineffectiveness of Administraon policies applied to the rail and- coal strikes . As sgainst the expected period of seasonal prosperity , which may , be enjoyed by a snittll Part pf the people , the cold , calculating party leaders are none too sanguine about the country entering upon a normal deflated basis which ultimately would mean lessened living costs and relief from war-time price levels still prevailing . They can not see , with the steel industry increasing wages , the miners receiving the same high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deflate the labor costs , how there can be an adjustment economically . In fact , the pessimistic members of the party are fearful lest the next House shall be controlled by radicals in combination with those opposed to Republican policies which will plunge the party and the country into a worse condition than that now prevailing . The deflation necessary to adjustment in industry and affecting the enUri : body politic , they say , can not come as the result of the compromise coal settlement and the expected agreements on the part of some railroads to break the strike by continuing the old wage scale . Coal prices may be higher this year than during any period in the war . This , it was argued , necessarily will hold up the prices of manufactured articles . The railroads will be unable to reduce freight rates , and therefore another element working to continued high living costs is seen . Industrial readjustment that had been expected to be a fact now has gone a glimmering , It Is pointed out , and in the face of the continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food and genet it living costs . there appears to be little prospect of reduction in the householders ' expenses or in taxation . Prosperity In the weeks preceding the November election may be apparent , it is held , for the effect of increased tariff duties and high prices resulting front coal conditions may not then be felt so seriously . Some of the Republican leaders believe that the readjustment caused by higher tariff rates vein not be a , ' factor so early as the elections .. The new tariff law , with rates generally higher than the Payne-Aldrich law , it is believed , will be in operation at least six weeks before the election . The Success of the Republican Party , most of the leaders say , depends entirely upon restored prosperity in the industrial centres which have suffered during the long rail and coal strikes . There has been some unemployment in the several States due to these strikes and the purchasing power of the masses has been lessened . If the expected Fall business boom comes in the great industrial States and , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party in power , it is declared , . may not be so great as expected by the Democratic leaders . Generally speaking , the Republican losses are expected to be greatest in the Middle States . Pennsylvania , New York , Ohio , Illinois , Connecticut , Massachusetts , Indiana , New Jersey , aiDelawate . Maryland and West Virginia are regarded as certain to show great reductions in the Republican representation in the next House , while New ersey , Maryland , Delaware and Con  --  ecticut are generally . conceded to be favorable to the election of Democratic Senators . New York 's Senatorial contest is in the doubtful column , with much dependent upon the outcome . of the factional fight in the Democratic Party in that State . All the States west of the Mississippi are reported to be as strong for the Republican Party as in 1020 . The farm bloc has succeeded in obtaining every legislative advantage for the farmer , and the duties given to the farm products in the Tariff bill are said to have cemented the farm , a  --  ote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Republican ticket in this section of the country does not work for party solidarity . It is Pointed out that all primaries held there thus far have named radicals for Congress : The latest manifestation of this sentiment was in Wisconsin , where Senator La Follette , an avowed enemy of the Harding Administration , won the greatest victory in his career . Hence , even if the Republican Party should control the next House , present indications are that this control would be in name only . The next Congress will see a strengthening of the bloc system , with the labor and farm groups stronger than at present and ' holding the balance of power . In other words , the radicals , masquerading under the name of Republicans , are not regarded as of that Ian . They are expected to help organize the House , but after that to work in the group to achieve their ends and prevent the Republican leaders from carrying out conservative policies for which the party stands . When the election is held all the issues and all the mistakes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been in operation and the coal legislation working to keep down coal prices . Furthermore , the President will have acted upon , the BOnus bill . " Even with so many issues against us we , will win , " said a Senate leader , who admitted all the discouragements . " . And why ? " he was asked . " Because tie people still believe that the Democrats are worse than us , " was that is the plain and lAsnadn , swafetr. after all , blunt view of the coming elections held by many Republicans .                     