@@688011

txt The jury trying Fred Mader , retiring president of the Building Trades council ; Daniel J. McCarthy , junior business agent of the plumbers ' union , and John Miller , on a , charge of murder in connection with the death of Police Lieut . Terrence Lyons. , must remain out until it reaches some sort of agreement . This apepared to be the attitude of Judge Thomas Taylor Jr . when , at midnight last night , the jurors had been out nearly twenty-six hours . Early In the evening the jtwors , weary from their deliberations ! since 10:30 p. rn . Friday , asked that they be permitted to return to their hotel . When this request was taken to Judge Taylor he denied it and instructed the bailiffs to supply only sandwiches and coffee in the way of food . Reports on Balloting . Varying yeports of the balloting circulated through the building , many of which had the jurymen acquitting Mader and McCarthy , but deadlocked on the punishment to be given Miller . One of these reports , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an the first ballot , and that Mader was acquitted on the fourth ballot . This same rumor also was that the jury stood four for giving Miller the extreme penalty , six standing for a term of fourteen years , and two holding out for acquittal . to Two May Co Free . It is assumed by some that , regardless of the decision on Miller , granting that the foregoing report Is ' accurate , Mader and McCarthy will be given their liberty . A glimpse through a window into the jury room late last night revealed a somewbat shopworn group of men . Three i.or four were asleep In their chairs , as many . more were sagging over a table , while two still had enough energy to pace up and . down the floor . All , however , seemed to be thoroughly tired . Doubt Over Foreman . The foreman is sold to be J. M. Simpson , 170 . North Lorel avenue , one of the two elderly men on the jury . He is the man objected to by the defense because It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry O'Callaghan , plumbing contractor , whose home was bombed . Since the jury retired Mrs. Mader has been one of the pathetic figures of the group waiting for an agreement . ' All Friday night and into the early hours of Saturday she remained in the courtroom with her 18 year old son , pale and silent . ' When she seemed to be near a collapse she was prevailed upon to go to a hotel .                     