@@695161

txt " Every musician , every real music lover even , Is agreed , hoWever , on one point : They are a ' second best ' Second best to - what ? To concerts and opera going ; first , because there seems . to be something in the sense of sight that reinforces the sense of bearing , quite apart from any question of the degree of perfection as regards the reproducing of sounds that may be attained in the future . This , however , might conceivably be denied by some people . Aniatees Discouraged . " What will command universal as sent is that they are ' second best ' to the practice of music by theolialvidual himself . Thus if it is true , as one authoritative speaker said to the B. M. S. , that the gramophone and the wireless are killing the music making the individual , to that extent thdy are wholly bad . I am not quite sure that It is true , but it is certainly ' possible . When one can hear at any time the . best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wireless , it is reasonable to expect that many people may be ' discouraged from indulging their own poor efforts . " Nevertheless , they are wrong , hopelessly , utterly , ' eternally wrong . Ntithing can take the place of the Practice of music by the , individual himself . That is not to say that he need feel obliged to inflict his efforts on other ... people . On the contrary . But for , himself , for his musical salvation , no , outside factor can take the place ' of his own music making , not the best gramophone record , not the best wireless set , nor even the best concert . as * Music in Action . " These things are invaluable , In their diffetent ways , as purveyors of sheer delight , as maintainers of a high standard of accomplishment . They can , however , never give that insight into the nature of the art , that wholesome , stable Outlook , comparatively impervious to the gusts and caprices of fashion , which are the attributes of true musicianship . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him Who is merely content to listen . He catches a glimpse , at any rate , of what may be called music in action . " Show me , for instance , a regular player of piano duets , and I will show you a good musician , whose opinion on . music I would rather take than that Of most highly eclectic , widelytraveled dilettanti , of many experienced or merely slick theorists , who themselves do nothing . Music is , primarily , meant to be performed , not listened to . One of the basic troubles of our age is that we listen so much and perform so little . of making music oneself . Without being unduly personal ; I would emphasize this point by my own experience. % I suppose I hear all the best and too many of the second and third best concerts . re : 1 get more musical pleasure out of the couple of months when I must remain perforce content with my own horrid noises on the piano , or the painful making of a feW indifferent compositions , than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wigmore , and Aeolian hall combined . A pathological ease , of course , because the music critic , sun ' felted with other people 's music , is a pathological creature . " Nevertheless , . in Music as in psychology the pathological case is invaluable as showing the true nature of a problem ; it presents , in an exaggerated form , what happens , less obviously , in an average instancet Listening to music , in its proper place and In due measure , is an exquisite delight , but , making music is a veritable necessity to the true musician . It may best be described as being to him as the earth to Anteus  --  if there are enough people left familiar with Greek mythology to remember what that was . "                     