@@695031

txt Buying orders accumulated over the week-end and caused substantial advances at the opening yesterday . The higher levels attracted considerable profit taking but these offerings met continued public demand which become insistent at moderate reactions . indicating that outsiders still are wining to purchase stocks when recessions occur . Because of the fact that Mondays recently have been bringing increased selling and slightly lower levels some of the traders put out stocks in the early dealings with the view of repurchasing later in the day . When the market failed to react to the extent that had been expected , this element turned to covering , this aided in taking care of the profit taking . Call money was somewhat firmer during the afternoon This was predicted in reports from the floor of the Exchange before midday , so that the advance in the rate to 51-e. se had little influence . Some authorities stated that the flurry was only temporary . Sentiment around the Street is growing more optimistic The fact that stocks are in demand on all recessions has encouraged those who have been working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocate a policy of caution and discrimination because they contend that the market is not likley to move as a unit and stocks with favorable conditions surrounding them are those which probably will assume leader-chip during the upturns . Trading Commission houses were buyers on balance . These firms had large orders at the opening and while some profit taking developed later it was not sufficient to off- ; set the initial demand . On recessions many important firms were buyers . Professional operators and floor traders sold stocks , at the start , but covered during mid-afternoon when the market showed good resistance to outside liquidation . This element sold on balance . Liquidation Liquidation develops on sharp advances with the selling coming from interests who are known to have a , ong position in many stocks . Because the market has continued to move forward despite this selling , due to the heavy public buying on moderate recessions , many of those who have taken advantage of upturns in the past to reduce their long commitments have bought his lc stocks on setback . This has given resistance which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Precedent Up to a few months ago many market students were inclined to expect the market to follow precedents which had been established in the past , Now , however , these observers are admitting that the market is under the influence of absolutely new conditions . Investors are satisfied with a small return on their principal and are basing purchases on established earnings , prospects of the future and assurance of a sound management . Rediscount Rate There is a growing belief in the financial district that even if the New York Federal Reserve Bank raises its rediscount rate in the near future its influence will be merely sentimental and temporary . In this connection IL is pointed out that money continues relatively cheap when compared with bull markets of turner years . Warnings Warnings have continued to come from banking quarters to act slowly on speculative operations , but they have been disregarded in most instances by the rank and file . The enthusiasm among outsiders has been unusually high and those who have been advising selling have not been very popular recently . However , the conservatives still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neglected in recent sessions , because the activity and strength of the ii-clustrials has been attracting buyers . Nevertheless , interested well informed on railroad matters appear confident of the future and continue to pick up leading rail stocks quietly on moderate recessions . Southern Pacific Southern Pacific is viewed by many as one of the prime investments in the rails with good possibilities of increasing the principal involved in purchases . Road has large interests in Mexico and the improved situation in that country has not yet been reflected in the price of the stock , according to recent buyers . Calumet S. Arasona Another high grade ore discovery has been made by Calumet &; Arizona , ore having been uncovered in the vicinity of the junction shaft with ore running at tre'e or better in copper . There is a good tonnage and the ore body is extending encouragingly . This new discovery ! is about one-half mile from the Campbell shaft where the ' discovery of a good ore body was made some time ago . Cerro De Piesco Cerro de Pasco is one of ' the favorite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs of the company as a result of the rich gold and silver content in its ore bodies . Company has large ore reserves and its financial condition is sound . Statements made in some trade circles are that unusually good progress has been made in the production of lead and zinc concentrates which was started in commercial quatities only last year . Mexican Seaboard Considerable mystery has surrounded the strength in Mexican Seaboard in recent weeks when the stock has been carried forward rapidly from its low of the year . It now is reported in well informed quarters that the advance has been due to accumulation of stock by important interests and that the result of this buying will be several prominent additions to the board of directors in the near future who will represent purchasers of the stock . Atlantic Refining Atlantic Refining has digested some of its recent advance . There has been selling ny outsiders who followed the strength of the stock , but those who were among the original buyers have not disposed of their stock . Several conservative houses which are optimistic on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on minor recessions . Briggs Buying has been resumed in Briggs Body . The stock has been growing popular with outsiders and several commission houses report public demand has been increasing . In addition important interests who purchased at lower levels have not been tempted to take profits . Optimism in these quarters is based on new orders which presumably assure substantial earnings in the next few months . Murray Body Statements are heard in the financial district that net earnings of Murray Body in April were at the annual rate of about $16 a share on the stock , with the first four months of the year showing $2.66 a share earned . Company is supplying the bulk of the body requirements of some of the more successful smaller motor car makers and has been getting nicreased orders this year . Simmons Those who have been most active in Simmons say their buying is based on new scientific developments which should expand revenues in the future . Costs of manufacturing mattresses have been lowered materially by the invention of new machinery and the results are highly gratifying . A new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all colors and styles out of Bakelite . This also is expected to be a big factor in future earnings , if the process proves as successful as expected .                     