@@690817

txt It has been the policy of the Republicans in the Legislature to oppose and obstruct GOVERNOR Smrra , if not as much as possible , at least as much as was considered safe . They will control both branches of the next Legislature . Will they continue their resistance to the Governor to the extent of delaying further the steps toward improvements in the State Government that are of Republican origin , nonpolitical , non-partisan , for the permanent benefit of the people of the State ? There are three cardinal provisions of the program for the reorganization of the State Government , designed by , such Republicans as Mr. WICKER .. SHAM , Mr. STIMSON , Mr. Root . To the first , the consolidation of the 187 ' dispersed and uncoordinated departments of the State Government into twenty-one major departments , the Republicans of the Legislature consented . They have refused to consent to the submission to the people of the correlated constitutional changes authorizing the Executive Budget and the four-year term for Governor . - One- third of Republican rdforms , each reinforcing the others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Governor . They wo n't give the people a chance to accept or reject these amendments . The arguments for them and against them have been gone over again and again . They may almost be said to be " familiar to every schoolboy . " Is it for the advantage of the Republican Party of New York to continue this unreasonable opposition ? That is about the only consideration capable of penetrating the mind of the machine . Weariness of excessive taxation is one of the strongest popular characteristics today . While the Executive Budget would still permit legislators to authorize other than indispensable expenditures , it would make visible to every eye . the responsibility . The Legislature , like the Governor , would be held to strict accountability . Will it pay the Republicans in the Legislature of 1925 to seem to dodge that accountability , to indulge in their old amusement of bugger-mugger , hasty and partisan finance , meanwhile dangling again before the public that sham Executive Budget wherewith ' Mr. MtEHOLD beguiled the innocence of the contemporary Colonel ROOSEVELT ? To the four-year term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it is that the fouryear Governor is not to be chosen in a year of city or national elections . The re-election of Governor Stirs has just shown that the voters of Nevi York are able to discriminate between Washington and Albany . The State Constitution wisely separates city elections so that partisanship may enter as little as possible into the choice of municipal officers . For the same reason the election of State officers should be separated from national elections . Even where the two coincide , as has been shdIrn in a number of States this year , the people . I are sometimes wise enough to distinguish between State and national affairs and to choose a Governor on his merits and State issues ; but the separation should be ordained in the Constitution . Twenty-two States have the long term . In New York , itself almost a nation , whose business is so vast , complicated and ever growing , the long term is peculiarly necessary . Victory begets reaction . If the New York Republicans are wise , they will put their best foot forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good of their party they will cease to block old Republican policies for the good of the State .                     