@@689587

txt President Coolidge today outlined to Senator Lodge the salient features of his first message to Congress . They were made known to Mr. Lodge at a luncheon conference at the White House . which lasted more than two hours . The conference convinced the Republican Senate leader that the President was unflinchingly opposed to the bonus and favorable to tax reduction along the lines recommended by Secretary Mellon and previously by him before having been made public . It can be announced with authority tonight that the Republican leaders in Congress will get behind the President 's taxation program with the full purpose of making this the outstanding appeal to the public for support in the 1924 campaign . This will tend to make the leading issue the reduction of taxation , especially the lifting of the burden from the less rich and decreases in taxes that are hampering production and new business ventures . The President is determined . it became known tonight , to stake his chances of a successful administration and one which would appeal to the Voters in the primaries next year upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a statesman-like view on this subject , unhampered by political considerations . His attitude is represented as insistent on doing the thing most necessary for the welfare of the people . . ? Even the difficulties that appear to the ooliticans in his party , including opposition by ex-service men , are not accepted by him as conclusive . He has told callers that revision can not fail and that any bill on the subject which comes from Congress must be beneficial , since members of Congress from all the States will be subject to the same pressure for tax relief . Congress Opposition Fading . Since the President , in his quiet but forcible way , has communicated his views to the party leaders in the Senate there is believed to be nothing for those who oppose taking up the tax question to do but to follow his lead . Opposition , one leader said , has been made untenable . President Coolidge. it appears , has convinced the party leaders in Congress that it would be fatal to make even a feeble attempt to dodge the taxation issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted , even though a majority of Congress should be bold enough to force through such a measure . It would be vetoed by the President and definite reports now show that It could not be passed over his veto . The path of the Republican leaders is becoming clear  --  reduction of taxes to the level recommended by Secretary Mellon and perhaps a proposal of a bonus of some sort through an issue of bonds . The latter is the suggestion of some Republican leaders who view the situation entirely from a political angle . The bond issue would not be acceptable to the ex-service men and there would be no real chance . it is believed , of getting through a bonus bill of any other kind after revision had been started , for such a program would predude additional appropriations except those necessary for the Government 's operation . Demand for Relief Grows . In the next few days , certainly before Congress convenes , the legislative . taxation program will be agreed to by the Republican leaders after consultation and further conferences have been had with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Congressional leaders do not intend to divide with the President on his taxation program . The chief reason for this is that the Leaders arc finding that their analysis of the public mind was wrong . They were sure in the early days following the publication of Secretary Mellon 's proposals that the reaction in favor of the bonus would exceed the demand for reduction . Now they have revised their views . Their mails are flooded with letters and telegrams calling for relief . The letters requesting bonuses are fewer and come for the most part from men active as officers in the American Legion . Now that the Republican leaders are satisfied as to the President 's position and also feel that tax revision is more popular than bonus payments , they intend to make combinations to prevent , if possible , the passage of a tax revision bill which would not satisfy the conservatives of both parties . To that end they have already started negotiations With Democratic Senators in the hope of pinning enough of them to offset radical desertions and control the terms of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative move , for without support from conservative Democrats hlion would be impracticable . Senators Glass , Underwood , Simmons and Shields are counted upon as likely to aid the conservative Republicans , but their support would perhaps mean that the bill would not contain all of the suggestions made by Secretary Mellon . Radicals Rave Counter-Plan . The radical Republican group in the Senate numbers seven and will present a counter-proposition to the Mellon program . For instanbe , it would demand the retention of the present high stirtaxes , if not their increase ; increase of the inheritance tax and restoration of the excess profits tax . Probably it would be necessary to win about Len Democrats to the Republican program , as ether Republicans of a " progressive " stamp might not be willing to follow the Administration 's plans . Even should the Republican Senate leaders fail to get enough Democratic support to pass the Administration Tax bill no doubt is felt that the revision question will be opened up early in the next Congress and that it will be the chief legislative subject before the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . as given to the country by Secretary Mellon. is now so overwhelming as to prevent the leaders from stiflins* the demand for relief in order to provide for bonus payments . As soon as the committees are organized . it is said tonight . the Ways and Means Committee will begin hearings on the taxation bill . There will be conferences with the Senate leaders in advance of these hearings . and an effort will be made to write a bill which can be passed with the support of the conservatives in both parties . Madden Drops His Own Plan . Representative Martin B. Madden , Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee , tonight messed his support of the Mellon r. plan . " The Mellon plan looks pretty good to me. " he said . " and I am sure that something can be and should be done in the way of reducing taxes at this session . I had a plan of my ( me. het have decided to withhold it . as too nein/ plans would complicate the situation . While I approve the Mellon plan in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out in committee . " I would start the reductions at the bottom and work up as far as possible ' . in keeping with what the requirements of the Government would permit us to take off . Of course it can be clone . differ with Secretary Mellon in that I would favor the retention of the amusement and so-called luxury taxes . and I think these could be retained ' without complaints from the people and certainly to the benefit of the Government . - The theatre tax I call a luxury tax.1 which I think we ought to maintain whether a bonus is passed or not . In the event of the enactment of bonus legislation the maintenance of this tax would yield $70,000.000 a year , and if this did not cover bonus demands additional luxury taxes could be levied which would apply to those who contributed least to the war and made the most out of it . "                     