@@691664

txt The Modernists won on two big issues before the Northern Baptist Convention hero today , first defeating , by a vote of 012 to 364 , the Fundamentalists who sought to unseat the delegates of the Park Avenue Church of New York , and then , by a vote of 742 to 574 , eliminating the statement of creed from the Hinson . resolution which provided for the recall of Modernist missionaries from the foreign field . Though the amended resolution was passed by an overwhelming vote , the doctrinal requirements set up according to Fundamentalist standards the missionaries were out of it . The resolution , which was introduced by the Rev. W. B. Hinson of Portland , Ore. , following the report of a commission that investigated charges of modernism among-missionaries , had been a point of conflict since yesterday . The vote on the frankly Modernist Park Avenue Church , which has within its membership the families of John D. Rockefeller and John D. Rockefeller Jr. , was taken on an appeal from the ruling of the Chairman , former Governor Carl Milliken of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates ? was out of order ' because the Church had met all of its essessmnets and fulfilled its duties to the denomination 's missions and schools . The Fundamentalist ' , who in the course of the debate sharply assailed the orthodoxy Of the Park Avenue Church , afterward served notice that later . in the session they will renew their attempt to-have MIS church read out of the denomination , on account of its agreement - with the Rev. Harry Emerson Fosdick , pastor-elect ; to abandon the historic rites of baptism when a. candidate for membership objects to immersion . Will Now Seek Change In By-Laws . The seating of all accredited delegates came after a morning of vigorous debate in Which Modernist and Fundamentalist leaders strove to sway the convention . Following a motion to adopt the committee 's recommendation and seat all the delegates , Dr. Joshua Gravett of Denver presented an amendment barring the Park Avenue delegates . President Milligen ruled the amendment out oforder . Ari hour 's debate was followed by the vote to sustain the chair . Another hour 's debate was followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , D. C. , to adopt the report of the enrollment , , Committee In full . Following the adoption of the report , the Fundamentalist leaders served notice that an amendment to the by-laws will be presented at the next convention in 1025 to prevent a recurrence of today 's controversy . It will take two years , however , to make such action effective . Presenting the report of the Enrollment Committee . Corwin S. Shank , Seattle . Chairman , said the committee had received a. number of written pro ' tests against the seating of Dr. and Mrs. Cornelius Woelfkin and Dr. and Mrs. B. ? C. Carder , delegates from Park Avenue Baptist Church of New York . The protests , said Mr. Shank . were based on a circular issued by Park Avenue Church declaring for certain changes in the church policy and annotncing a call to the pastorate of the Rev. Dr , Harry Fosdick , a liberal , as Pastor . Holds fitibtua of Church Unaffected . The pasterate-of Dr. Fosdick does not begin until October , 1826 , and up to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue Church has not been affected . " Park Avenue Church , " he added , " now has the same pastor It has had for many years and Is operating under the same rules as before . Park Avenue Church is a member of the New York Baptist Convention and has complied with the requirements for membership in the Northern Baptist Convention . " The contention was thrown into one of the most momentous conflicts in the history of the denomination when Administration leaders , executing a flank movement ; attacked the Hinson resolution . VMS resolution , put forward Wednesday by the Fundamentalists , proposed to define the Baptist creed as held by the conservatives of the church Including direct creation , virgin birth , bodily resurrection . second coming and necessity of baptism . Dr. Robert W. Meigs of Illinois , taking the platform at the beginning of the afternoon session , offered an amendment to the Hinson resolution which would eliminate all these statements of ' creed . Ho-proposed striking out all of the resolution after r the third paragraldl , leaving the simple statement that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adding a direction to the Mission Board to reorganize the mission service as " necessary for the denominational interest and to best advance the Kingdom of God . "                     