@@693584

txt Expert engineering testimony before the Su preme court referee , Charles E. Hughes , in th , Illinois water diversion hearing shows in detai the impairment of the lakes to the gulf waterwat with various reductions of water withdrawal iron Lake Michigan through the Chicago river am sanitary canal . Diversion restricted to 1,000 cubic feet a secant would reduce depths , require more locks , increase construction cost , increase maintenance cost , in crease carrying costs and decrease the value o the waterway to the American territory which is intended to serve . Opposition to an adequate water diversion is offered by Canadian water power and navigatior interests and by American lake states such as Ohio , Wisconsin , Michigan , Minnesota , and New York . The responsibility of the Chicago diversior for the difficulties caused by low lake levels is e completely exploded fiction . The small effect which It has is insignificant when considered with the major causes and is en . tirely removable by engineering . The American states opposed to the Chicago diversion are op ? posed to the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senseless but it is prejudicial to the American Interests in regions in which these states are . The valley states have been for the St. Lawrence waterway , but they can not surrender their economic rights in such a contest . Recently a Canadian of imagination said that it would soon be found advisable and practical for Canada to annex some American territory . The facts seem to indicate that the annexation already has taken place and that Ohio , New York , Wisconsin , etc. , are entitled to representation at Ottawa . WASHINGTON BOULEVARD IS BEST . The west side needs a boulevard to the loop . The west side has been reluctant to spend money on improvements , but sentiment is now so strong that there is reason to hope that something will soon be accomplished . At present the principal obstacle Is the selection of a street for improvement . Washington boulevard , we believe , has obvious advantages of location which entitle it to most serious consideration . It has other advantages as well . First of them is the fact that Washington boulevard can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time and money than would be required to broaden any other street under consideration . From Garfield park westward the widening can be accomplished by taking advantage of the broad lawns and sidewalks on either side of the street . The trees can be saved by transplanting them . East of the park much can be accomplished by remodeling the houses to do away with the old fashioned front steps , which take up room and arc of no rnal service . The remodeling of old houses for the same purpose made Fifth avenue in New York . Relatively few buildings between Garfield park and Union park need be torn down to make way for the improvement . East of Ashland avenue , and particularly between Halsted street and the river , many buildings will have to be wrecked to part , but nearly all of them are old and run down . Some of them are the meanest of shacks and their removal will be a distinct gain . In this regard Washington boulevard is far more suitable for Improvement than Jackson or any other street under discussion , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loop . From the river eastward the street could be left as it is , because Wacker drive provides a direct connection with Michigan boulevard . Editorial of the Day AVORTH THE rnicE . Ogle County Reporter ( Oregon , Ill . ) The result of Len Small 's foray against the Supreme court of this state , as evidenced in the indorsement of Justice Stone registered in the Peoria preliminary convention last Wednesday , affords grounds for hope that the disintegration in political morale in this state obtaining since Len Small grabbed the reins of power has finally passed its crisis . It is high time . Small 's perpetrations , however impossible to reconcile with any standard of personal scruple , have been , in a final analysis , merely the manifestation of a spirit of lawless usurpation on the part of an indiviti.aal . Society maintains courts and retention Institutions as a bulwark protection against individualistic tendencies of comparable character . No one conversant with Len Small 's typical method and attitude toward opportunity assuring personal advantage Is surprised because of the direction or the latitude that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early essay at flouting the law  --  as witness his flight front the sheriff of Sangamon county when that official was seeRtrg to serve Small with a warrant issued following the finding of a criminal indictment against Small . Len Small 's attained sphere of temerity has been a matter of progression . He was far from manifesting a spirit of hostility toward Supreme court justices a few years ago . Quite contrary . His attitude toward Supreme court domain was that of the suppliant if not the servile sycophant . The condition that has tended to inflate Len Small 's eleventh hour type of courage to a point where he dares to take hostile issue with the Supreme court of this state is the thing that ought to arrest the attention of people of Illinois . It has inspired a feeling of contempt for the people of Illinois in the public mind of the nation outside this state . Len Small 's temerity , which has led ' him . after virtually achieving control of the state legislature , through methods of coercion , seduction and direct and indirect manipulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its source the knowledge that a potential body of the people of this state had by a majority vote reCecting ' Mtn as governor accorded him Immunity from the exercise against him of law , moral , political , or con.stItutional .                     