@@696833

txt Consistent weakness in stock prices has been the underlying factor is bond market irregularity . While it appears selling of bonds to pro- , tect speculative accounts has been largely ; passed . considerable liquidation of fixed interest securities to take advantage of falling equity prices has been a factor in recent sessions . Furthermore . numerous investors who realize the likelihood of higher bond prices over the next several months have remained hesitant over making commitments under recent conditions . Such liquidation in stocks as has been in evidence lately produces marked unsettlement in other security and commodity markets . Reduction of the rediscount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to 4% from as well as a further 8710,000,000 reduction in brokers ' loans reported on Thursday are both factors auguring a resumption of interest in bonds . Federal Reserve policy is definitely toward easy money conditions which in itself is an influence for lower bond yields . Withdrawal of both banking and non-banking funds from the-collateral loan market is a development of potential importance from a bond market standpoint as a substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . Total reduction of brokers ' loans to date from the peak is 82,462,000,000 . Considerable buying of bonds has been con , ducted by banks during the past two weeks . result of abrupt reduction in security loans . Up to the beginning of 1928 the banks had been ! large buyers of bonds and had accumulated extensive bond accounts . In a report of the Comp ; troller of the Currency it was shown that average percentages of investments to capital re : sources of Federal Reserve member banks for the period 1924-1928 were as follows : central reserve city banks . While the peak of bank investments was reached in 1928. high money rates with opportunity for more profitable employment of investment funds led to heavy liquidation which lasted well into the current year . It has been estimated that principal reporting member banks of the Federal Reserve System have reduced their security portfolios during the past year by more than 81.000.000.000 , giving effect to increased investment holdings reported by principal member banks in recent weeks amounting to about 8190,000.000 . As of November 6. principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up $88.000,000 for the week which followed an increase of 8101,000 ; 000 for the preceding week . That all banks will materially incrcasa their bond portfolios over the next several months seems a reasonable expectation . However . any important reversion to the bond market is not likely to result in complete disinterest in equity securities . Undoubtedly numerous investors of intelligence will desire to maintain a certain portion of investment - portfolio in representative equities . Recent experiences have corrected speculative excesses and operations in common stocks henceforth should in ? ol%e more conservative practices . Outright purchasing doubtless will be greatly increased . It is widespread opinion at present among informed people that outstanding opportunities are offered to acquire highest grade American equities , and this to a considerable extent will influence formation of investment policies . Conspicuous among , recent discussions of bond market prospects is a letter published by Moody 's Investors Service which deals primarily with outlook for money rates , which , of course , are a prime factor in movement of bond prices . Believing a period of easy money in prospect Moody 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and measurably higher prices over the next several months . The letter sketches the significant trend away from bonds in the past two years and points out that the enormous public interest in stocks is not likely to be a temporary affair . Rather than devote as much attention to speculation as in the past year , however , many investors will turn to the bond market for partial employment of capital funds . Letter comments on the strong technical position of the current bond market and the small prospects , for disturbance of this situation in the near future Lower money rates in the United States may be expected before long to encourage foreign financing here , and they will also stimulate commerce and industry in foreign countries , by returning to them funds which have been attracted here by high rates , according to Dr. Paul M. Atkins , economist of Ames , Emerich &; Co . " The tendency of the sale of foreign securities in the United States is to promote exports of goods and services . " says Dr. Atkins , who expects favorable developments In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               