@@692484

txt Since there are at present ' in active circulation several . hundred perfectly good diagnoses of what is wrong with the theatre , one more contribution to the symposium tan do no harm . The latest menace , then , would consist in a growing habit on the part of serious playwrights to invite the audience . to'do their thinking for them . Once upon a time , when a young man was beset with the longing to master the pattern of an enigmatic universe , he did one Of a number of things . ' He sat at the feet of wise men . He searched in books . ' He plunged into- life . He retired to a monastery  --  r ? to the woods or to a desert island and tried to think it all out . Sometimes he found the answer . More often he did not . In the latter case he either gave It up , married a nice girl and went into the automobile business , or , if he were a Russian or a Viennese , he sent a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and charges people $3.30 apiece to tell him what it is ail about . Not infrequently , more than one visit to the theatre is necessary before the citizen is in a position to provide the bewildered ' playwright with a satisfactory answer . Several ' thousand playgoers at $6.60 apiece constitute " the - most expensive system of individual education ever devised . Miss Bartholdi . Among the few available oases and cities of refuge where harassed t minorities may seek escape from the pursuit of unscrupulous majorities , the two most prominent are the British Empire and the Interstate Commerce Commission . For some time the British public has been m the habit of making ironic remarks about the lady with the torch in New York Harbor . The reference is to personal liberty in these United States . One London publication has just observed , presumably having in mind law enforcement and the celebrated cases of the Cabinet Secretaries and the Countesses , that the Statue of Liberty needs an alarm clock much more than a wrist watch , as has been proposed from a more or less interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a short and snappy retort , but several minutes of cogitation fail to educe it . One is compelled to acquiesce in Britain 's traditional boast that she treats her minorities better than we do . Mergers and Submergers . Inasmuch , however , as a general exodus of American minorities to the less thickly populated regions of the British Empire would seem to be attended by considerable practical difficulties , the mind turns rather to the Interstate Commerce Commission . That interesting organism , in the process of taking the shine out of the Nickel Plate , has laid down a rule of justice and right conduct which may yet be developed into a complete system for the protection of the comparatively few against the comparatively many . The commission admitted that the proposed rail merger would promote the public interest , but it set its face against the treatment accorded by the Van Sweringen majoritarians to the Chesapeake 8.7 , Ohio minoritariane . Operating economy , Ibwer rates and lower commodity prices are all very well , but they do not justify the 51 per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 45 per cent . Thus the I. C. C. By the same reasoning the . public interest in the way of heightened labor efficiency , bulging savings bank deposits , prosperous and happy homes , and such other profits as have followed upon the Eighteenth Amendment , , should not avail against the inherent right of the minority to retain its original holdings in the Constitution of the United States . If only there were a way of getting the prohibition problem before the Interstate Commerce Commission instead of the United States Supreme Court : The Week . March came into Wall Street like a bear , and at the moment of writing is still trying to decide what zoological form it shall choose for its exit . . . . At Geneva/ the question is Whether Germany , Spain and Poland shall enter the League of Nations - in a bunch or shall proceed according to the stagger plan . . . . Mr. Hughes recommends a reduction in the number of governmental departments in New York State from more than one hundred to 13 . . . ? When that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what a really good Governor like Al Smith can do with a really good State Government . . . - Signor D'Annunzio is now the owner of a battleship and of the top of an Alpine mountain , and it is merely a question of bringing the two into intimate contact- . . . The price of a ticket to " Big Three " football games for next Autumn has been raised from three dollars to five . . . . Whether the additional revenue will be devoted to raising professors ' salaries remains to be determined . . . . To those caught on the wrong side of the market , It is a comfort to learn from various sources that the collapse in prices has no significance whatsoever . . . . Illinois voters in the approaching Senatorial contest will at last have an opportunity to pronounce their choice between light wines and beer and the World Court . Compulsory Trifles . Benjamin Crandall of Buffalo , who is credited with being the inventor of the hobby-horse , died early this week at the age of 104 . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the habit of ' going to bed at 9 , but One would like to believe that the real secret was in his own invention . Among the most familiar prescriptions for attaining length of years ' . is the cultivation of a hobby . The idea is that the surest preventive against the wear and tear of a s civilization furiously bent on achievement and progress is to concentrate on something that is not perceptibly useful and that does not get you anywhere in particular . This requirement is obviously met to ' perfection by the champing wooden steed of the merry-goround , though it did make some concession to utility and Success by offering modest prizes in the form of brass rings . ? In only one respect does the Crandall invention call for ireprovement after a test of nearly three-quarters of a century . And that is some clamp or spring or automatic lever or similar device that shall keep the hobby-horse from developing into a crusader 's steed , the hobby from developing into a dogma or a moral issue or an answer to the riddle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to turn a ' personal liking into a universal value . We set up a hobby for individual solace and end up by imposing it on the entire citizenry for their own welfare . If stamp collecting or lightweight underwear in Winter does me good , it should do everybody else good ; 4tml if everybody else fails to see it , there should be a law compelling them to . The passion for hayPig everybody ride the same wooden horse around the same circle and snatching at ' the same brass ring is perhaps a little stronger in the community presided over by Mr. Coolidge than in any other country ,                     