@@688524

txt Anticipating French occupation of the Ruhr region . German industrial and manufacturing interests ten , days ago began placing orders for English coal , and the coming week will see a still further Increase in the purchases of foreign fuel . Evidence of this was supplied in the late unofficial trading in foreign money Saturday . when the dollar toucl  --  ecl 10,900 marks . Boerse circles are predicting a further rise Monday . The present orders for English coal are viewed as emergency purchases , as there still is a pronounced feeling in Industrial circles that the Ruhr situation will result In some arrangement by which the normal output will be definitely safeguarded . There seems to be a strong belief that the French will hardly risk the labor trouble which would inevitably result from a closing down of the mines . " In another day or so the French will probably take an hour off to figure out just whether the present game is worth the candle , " said one of the leading German Industrialists today . " As French industry is seriously in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the unobstructed operation of the Ruhr plants . " The leader said that he was voicing the sentiment prevalent among the German chiefs of industry , who apparently still hope that the French . either wilt evacuate the Ruhr or permit the Germans to remain in full control . French Try to Win Workers . The French are making desperate efforts to win over the mine workers in the Ruhr , Says a special dispatch to Vorwarts , Use Socialist organ . It reports that array secret agents and officers in civilian attire are approaching the workers with - promises of improved living conditions and various emoluments . The same conciliatory ? attitude , however , is not being shown to the operators and mine owners , the correspondent oil Vorwa , rts says . He interprets the opposing methods as an indication of French embarrassment , due ' Vt. realization of the vastly different economic and technical conditions confronting them in the Ruhr from those with which they had to deal in the Sarre Basin and Upper Silesia . Labor ' leaders in Berlin are more concerned over the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the million or more tons of coal per month which heretofore have been supplied her on the reparations account without any monetary equivalent . It is roughly estimated that it Will require 100,000.000 French francs to pay for the Previous monthly quota , and unless France agrees to the plan of cash payments discussed at Saturday 's meeting with the operators and , mine owners the latter declare that there is no alternative left them but-to shut down all their Plants , as they are not in a position to meet their payrolls . This chase of the situation is fraught with serious consequences , In the opinion of the Berlin labor leaders . While not professing to be informed on the plans which the French propose to put into immediate operation in connection with their ocntrol of the mines , inclustrbal circles in Berlin believe that the initial meeting on Saturday between the German owners and operators and the French " Committee of Engineers " emphasized the latter 's utter helplessness in the face of the firm stand taken ; by the Germans and the realizatibn by ' the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . The disappearance of the coal syndicate from Essen has measurably increased the difficulties of the French authorities , in that they will now be forced to negotiate ' ' with . individual owners and operators . Mining experts here say it would require the , services of at least 500 first-class French ' Wining experts to man all the operating , shafts In the Ruhr sector and that these would have to work In double shifts in order to keep operations going . If the French desist from " wilful inter f er ence , " it is said , the owners believe they will be able to keep aid the , miners busy , although this presupposes , that the French also would abstain froml intervening in the distribution plans organized by the present German Oporat-1 ing Commission , which aims to replace the syndicate . France 's chief concern for the . noment , in the opinion of German labor leader:1 , is to placate apprehensions among thi Ruhr mine workers , upon whose good will she is largely dependent for success . Another issur which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for wage ' increases , now being carried on In Berlin . 1 ? If France is determined to set up an administrative organization of her own , similar to the German Coal Commission , lit will require at least three months be , fore it is in smooth working order , according to expert local opinion . Meanwhile , she must still reckon with labor difficulties which , if they set in , threat , ' en serious ramifications in many direc1 tions . This latter situation apparently constitutes a greater source of apprehension to the Cuno Government than to the , French , despite the saying now current ' in the Ruhr that " the pick Is mightier than the ba ' ? onet . " German biographies of " King Coal " call attention to the fact that the Ruhr output in 1850 was 1,500,000 tons , while in 1913 it was 115,000,000 , tons . in spite of the vast output , Germany today is forced to go abroad for English coal to keep her industries in motion , as France is in cntrol of the Ruhr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mailed fist on the Ruhr coal fields because she requires German coke to drive her steel , industry to a point where she can defy England and the United States is expressed by the Boerzen Zeitung today . The only other alternative , says the newspaper , suggests that the advance into the Ruhr minglt be considered a Continental affront by the romance nations to Anglo-Saxon maritime dominion . 1 " Hoping that political stupidity can not forever remain victorious , ' the newspaper adds , " we are naively waiting for a cold water douche from London and the United States which shall definitely cool off the Gallic fever , but instead of this one cold stream after another is being turned on us. so that it is about time we woke up . " Germany is forced to wage war with France on paper because her sword has been delivered up to her enemies . Just now she is forced to wage war for coal . . the bread of industry , ' and inasmuch as Premier PoincarS opines that her in ' clustry is the only thing left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marches into the Ruhr . " Referring to the recovery- of the French franc , the Beerzen Zeitung asks : " Does the world at large now comprehend what a mighty factor this militaristic France has come to be by the grace of Woodrow Wilson and others ? "                     