@@693037

txt The American Library Association is completing a half century of existence . It has been within these fifty years , and largely through those who constitute the membership of the association , that there has been developed the conception of the library as a dynamic force in a community , stimulating intellectual activity in the literate . guiding , the eager of mind in their never-tiring search for new information , helping the stupid and the brilliant alike . And mainly through the individual and collective effort of this association the funds have come from.public and private sources to es'tablish and maintain libraries of this sort . They have also devoted themselves to teaching others . The profession , for it has come to be one , has trained its own recruits . A great fund has at last been given , and in recognition of the opportunity for public service of the modern . librarian , by the Carnegie Corporation , which once gave library buildings , but now devotes its library assistance to the librarians . One of the great library schools is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and another here in New York City in connection with Columbia University , For the latter the school successfully maintained for forty years at Albany by the University of the State of New York and that of like standards maintained by the New York Library for the last fifteen years will furnish a splendid foundation . In a more direct and specific recognition of the A. L. A. , a fund of a million dollars is to be given outright to it to help it In its service , especially to small libraries , and still another million for another specific function . The A. L. A. has made one of America 's greatest contributions to the world . Dr. JOSEPH CoLtaNs said recently , in an address before the New York Library Association , that the only two educational institutions able to rid themselves of the curse of standardization and intolerance are the newspapers and the libraries . The story is best told in this message of Dr. MELVILLE DEWEY , addressed to the members of the " A L A. " but published so that all who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F PoimE , Nestor of librarians , said , " We hay had a wonderful library conference . I attended the first conference held in N Y century ago . In another 25 years we shud hold a 3d meeting . " Rushing in where angels fend to tread , I insisted that the work before us was so vast and urjent that annual meetings wer necessary and agreed to call a meeting every year if 5 or more wud come . One year we had only about 30 , but step by step A Li A has grown to world-wide recognition for the work it has done for popular education . I used to tel ANDREW CARNEGIE that he cud accomplish 10 to 100 fold more by endowing A L A , whose influence reaches 10 , - 000 centers , than by giving the same money for a beautiful granit building in a single place . A L A would stimulate interest till local money wud provide the building . The greatly needed inspirational work cud be done only by a national body thoroly organized and with central ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guidance . The most optimistic of 1876 did not dare vision whawe hav today and a few of us wer very good seers . ? ? ? Our semi-centennial wil attract attention thruout the cuntry and some 1000s of people who hay money to be given for the public good wil hay lojd in their minds the thot that A L A offers perhaps the biggest dividend on their investment . It is hoped that the " some thousands ** " who find themselves in this financial state will have this purpose lodged ( loid ) in their minds . ti                     