@@690604

txt Amherst College knew " Cal " Coolidge , " Doc " Stone and " Babe " Snell . The world knows them now as President Coolidge , Attorney General Stone and Bertram G. Snell , chairman of the House committee on rules . When the question of an appointment of a new attorney general was under consideration at the White House , Chairman Snell of one of the most important committees in the House felt it his duty to go to the President and recommend the appointment of Harlan Fiske Stone , whose capacities were well known to him and the President . Twice " Mr. President " ( never " Cal " at the White House ) was addressed personally by interview , and twice Mr. President remained silent . Then Mr. Snell made up his mind that he would talk straight from the shoulder . He made a third call upon the President , and this time he laid down the law . He may have even broke through the ice so far as to say , " Cal , you know Doc , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to his friends , that he pounded the table and spoke with force . He admits. , furthermore , that " Mr. President " remained silent . What was Congressman Snell 's astonishment , after his third interview , to find that the papers next day announced the appointment of Mr. Stone as attorney general ! Could it be possible that the President had acted so quickly after the strenuous advice he had given him ? Then Mr. Snell became a little suspicious that he might have talked all to no purpose . So he dropped a line to his friend Stone and asked him if he would be good enough to tell him how long ago he had accepted the appointment , and the response showed that while Chairman Snell had been pounding the table and emphasizing the capacities and virtures of Mr. Stone for the position of attorney-general , the aforesaid Mr. Stone had accepted the appointment two days before . The above facts are recommended to the people who still consider that Governor Calvin Coolidge was asleep when Police Commissioner Curtis lost his entire force of policemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as silent then but just as much on the job . With every preparation made , when the issue came legally before him he had only to press the button and put into action and most effectively the plans that he had formulated before the issue arrived . The world knows the electric effect . Boston has now the best police force in the country , and Mr. Gompers is still reeling under the force of the rebuke from Governor Coolidge ? " There is no right to strike against the public safety by anybody , anywhere , anytime . "                     