@@691355

txt Premier Herriot of France is  --  busy explaining what hit him , and even on that point he exhibits a truly Socialist ignorance . He tried to govern France by raising money on a credit which socialisin had gone far to destroy . What hit him is what hit the government in England laTst November and what has rendered government , in any real sense of the terns , impossible in Russia . The same experiment was tried in Hungary , with equally disas I trous results , and Mussolini is the answer to the problems it gratuitously raised in Italy . It might almost be said that one of the greatest evils arising out of the war , in its way as considerable as the loss of life and the destruction of property , was the effect lit had in destroying the faith of-.peoples in themselves and their neighbors . What underlies the heavy French armaments and the hesitation to face the new facts established by the Dawes plan ? Is it not that the French can ! not bring themselves to believe in German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her fingers at treaties when she is financially reestablished and in a position to repudiate the annuity payable under the Dawes plan . But adding  --  to this inevitable distrust , to some extent a modern condition arising out of modern credit in its international use , is the further complication of socialism . There are some nations which have preserved their credit . An Englishman 's word is still as good as his bond , while the Bolshevist 's bond is. boastfully , as worthless as his word . Socialism everywhere has told us that " capitalism is robbery . " and that agreements made with countries where that system prevails are not to be kept . The Herriot government had destroyed French-credit by the very fact of its Socialist existence . When it added to that an ignorant attempt to juggle the accounts of the Bank of France so as to inflate by two billion francs the issue of paper money , it rang its own death knell . We have good cause to bless our stars that we have preserved a straightforward two-party system . The Socialists are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented a minority in Britain . They rule occasionally by the division of their opponents . There are so many parties that none can assure itself a. working majority . That is the situation in Germany today , although that country has largely shaken off the Socialist blight . France can come back , with patriotic unity among the moderate and responsible ' elements .. Her tax burden per capita is not nearly half of that in Great Britain today and the British taxa:IL:have been substantially reduced since 1921 . The first step in the right direction is the defeat of the Herriot ministry , which should have happened last November . When the Washington reporter ( so-called ) is hard up for an excuse to loaf he invents a Coolidge economy story . The real point of interest is the publisher who pays for it .                     