@@690617

txt No Sunday relaxation lightened the weariness of Dr. Benes , Czechoslovakia 's strenuous Foreign Minister , who has been charged with the task of framing a draft compact of arbitration and security by his fellow-delegates to the League of Nations Assembly . Throughout the day , with his counselor , Jan Masaryk , formerly Charg ? d'Affaires at Washington . at his elbow , and with frequent consultations with his Minister to Paris , Stephen Osusky , who labored modestly at Chicago before Czechoslovakia . was born . Dr. Benes slaved at his desk , trying to fashion a draft convention as a basis for later general discussion which would meet all objections and answer ail needs . Everybody in Geneva is beginning to show signs of tense strain from the laborious endeavors of the last fortnight to solve the biggest problem statesmen ever attempted since the covenant of the League of Nations was composed at Paris , and that task is the outlawing of war . Dr. Benes embodies the Rooseveltian strenuous life , but , like all the others , seems to be overdoing it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conflicting views . The subcommittee meetings designed to achieve progress on the three great problems before the Assembly  --  arbitration , bceurity and disarmament  --  will be resurned tomorrow . how to link these three questions and frame some convention calculated to receive general approval is the problem . When Dr. Benes began work on his draft project today he was almost officially forced to give serious attention to the draft compact on security and disarmament prepared by the Americans . The importance which all the delegates attach to the American document is shown by the fact that the official summary of the original pact of mutual assistance and of the objections which the various Governments have made'thereto Is accompanied by a detailed analysis of the American plan , which is officially labeled " The Shotwell Draft , " It was Professor Shotwell and his colleagues who discovered , to the gratification of the experts , that the best way to decide the question of an aggressor State was by declaring an aggressor to be any nation which refused to submit to the jurisdiction of the World Court . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this discovery , as the Spanish delegate . Senor Palaccion yesterday tried to impress his fellow delegates with the idea that it was Admiral Marquis de Magna , a member of the Permanent Disarmament Commission of the League , who had originally proposed that any State refusing to submit its disputes to the World Court of Justice or to the Council should be considered an aggressor . Having decided that the compulsory arbitration clause of the World Court required no amendment , the Arbitration Commission of the Assembly is now turning its attention to the problem of revising those articles of the covenant which deal with the manner of settling disputes between nations , with the intention either of amending the various clauses or drawing up an annex protocol clarifying the covenant , perhaps as a chapter of the proposed pact of security . Some of the delegates read into the past week 's developments e. tendency to ins , ke the League of Nations a kind of fedevatinn of world states based on the fundamental idea of maintaining peace and " order among its members . In the meantime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League has become a centre for the presentation of political grievances , are beginning to pour in to Geneva . Prince Malik Camba , chief of the Djilo tribe , in a. costume of gorgeous colors , has arrived as the representative of the ' ancient race of Assyro-Chaldeans . He brings petitions demanding liberty for his race under the protection of a Christian power , with restoration of their homeland , from which they claim they were driven by the Turks . Also have arrived Prince Michael Lotufelta , President of the Syria-Palestinian Congress , and Emir Chekib Arslan , member of the Arabian Academy and former Syrian Deputy of the Ottoman Parliament . Emir Arsian said today that he came to protest ' against the occupation of Syria and Palestine , demand the evacuation of the FrancoBritish troops and the admission of Syria and Palestine into the League of Nations . " Several States more backward than ours , like Ethiopia and Liberia , " he said , " already belong to the League ; yet Palestine , the cradle of Christ , and the home of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fatherland of the Arabs who conquered the world , is deemed inferior to the land of black men . " The arrival of a Turkish delegation headed by Fetid Bey. former Nationalist Minister of the interior , served to remind the Assembly that the Council has a serious conflict to decide as between Turkey and Great Britain in fixing the Mosul frontier between Irak and Turkey . Mosul , which is associated in the public mind with oil richness , was one of the chief disputes at the Lausanne conference . It was finally decided that the Council of the League of Nations Must settle the quarrel if Turkey and . great BrItala Iallsd to 60 so ,                     