@@685839

txt r ; le navy is the ** ! his of the national defense . To have a flat y unready la to have the oilier clout unlocked . Constant and instant readiness of the navy is the lI ? st essential of national security . But it it , the policy of the present administration to sec that . national defense is unready . Mr. Baker expressed his pride and delight that we were WI ? prepared to tight In the late ware It W U.5 noted that the war was " ; ; , 000 miles " from Mr. Baker at the time . Mr. Baker was not going into battle without oven practice In putting on a gas mask . Ile I was not charging machine gun nests . No was not waiting for air reconnaissance and protection while German airmen showered him with bombs and machine gun bullets . Ho was not lighting German airmen in second hand foreign machines . lie and the administration and their kin were 3,000 miles away and proud that the country was unprepared to light . And now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet as a first lino of defense is worth not 100 per cent but the percentage of either of ire divided parts . Mr. Daniels cuts the navy in two , which is good tactics , presumably , to win foolish votes , and inexcusable strategy for the navy . Waiving the question of strategy , a navy divided can not be an efficient unit , because a fleet is one of the moat complicated and delicate mechanisms existing . An essential of safety and of efficiency is constant practice in united and carefully articulated maneuvers . Officers and men must learn io know their material and each other as a football or baseball team does ; only the knowing is infinite . ly more complicated and difficult . If a baseball manager divided his team for practice , with the outfield at one training place and the Infield at another , he would be sent to an Insane asylum , But the training of it . fleet is infinitely more difficult . Very little common sense is required to understand that . Even a- man as unfit as Mr. Daniels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand it . ' But Mr. Daniels is not thinking and never did think of naval effisierry . He thinks of polities and of his own inane notions of naval administration , which never aim at making the navy At to fight . Mr. Daniels admits that In the forthcoming maneuvers " the exercises and drills will be simple and mainly of a competitive nature , including unofficial athletic competitions . " This is what our money is being spent upon . This is what passes for the administration of the nation 's first line of defense . Mr. Daniels is not trying to administer it . He is running a branch of the Y. M. C. A. An administration which tolerates Sosephus Daniels as secretary of the navy is a menace to the nation .                     