@@689743

txt From the present i outlook it would appear that whatever legislative action may be required before there can be a satisfactory solution of the transit problem in New York City will be deferred for many weeks , if not ? as was the case last year  --  until the session of the Legislature enters on its final stage . No transit measures were introduced in either branch on Wednesday , the opening day of the present session . Some of the leaders at the Capitol feel that , in the light of recommendations on the subject in Governor Smith 's and nual message , to consider measures affecting transit or publid utility control generally would be- premature before the lawmakers are prepared to take up the 7enabling legislation that must be enacted before the Home Rule amendment to the Constitution can become operative . That the two subjects are intimately related and were closely associated in the mind of Governor Smith when he wrote his message is the inference drawn by Democrats who have studied that document in which , recommendations regarding public utility regulation and control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reasoning to them clearly implies a conviction that management of public utility operations within their own boundaries is clearly a right cities should exercise without interference from the State . Democratic lawmakers here have expressed the opinion that when the enabling act to apply the home rule amendment is drafted it should be broad enough to vest cities with the necessary authority to own , operate and exercise the fullest regulatory control over transit lines and other public utilities where these operate exclusively within the corporate limits of a municipality . Within the commission created by Governor Smith to study the home rule problem and draft the necessary legislation there Is understood to be a distinct division of opinion on this subject . Amendment Blocks Action . The home rule amendment does not make specific mention of public utility control in Section 3 , which defines the domain within which municipalities virtually will become a power unto themselves after the necessary legislation to render the amendment operative shall have been enacted . Even now , before any such statute is in existence , the Legislature is restrained through the language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alike to all municipalities ,  - -  affecting the " property , affairs " or government of any city . There are some lawmakers of experience here who hold that this language will give rise , to a question whether  --  especiallv in the case of New York City , which h- olds a large proprietary interest in its principal transit lines , the subways ? any attempt o.t legislation affecting its transit affairs would not come . in ' conflict with the terms of the . home rule grant " Every city shall have power to adopt and amend local laws not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the State , relating to the powers , duties , qualifications , number , mode of selection and removal , terms of office and compensation of all officers and employes of the city , the transaction of its business , the incurring of its obligations , the presentation , ascertainment and discharge of claims against it , the acquisition , care , management and use of its streets and property , the wages or salaries , the hours of work or labor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any contractor or sub-contractor performing work , labor or services for it , and the government and regulation of the conduct of its inhabitants and ' the protection of their property , safety and health , " the grant of power contained in Section 3 of the Home Rule amendment reads . Some Urge General Grant . In another section the Legislature is vested with discretionary authority to confer on citieg by general laws further powers of administration or legislation when deemed expedient . The Court of ' Appeals has upheld as constitutional the regulatory control of transit operations and construction in New York City exercised by the Transit Commission under a law enacted while Nathan L , Miller was Governor and the repeal of which is urged by Governor Smith in his annual message . With this remaining on the statute books as a State law , it would act as a bar against any legislative home rule grant to the City of New York that would involve public utility control now exercised by that body . At the Capitol it has been urged , however , since the legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the test of constitutionality before the highest court , the Home Rule amendment had not then as yet become a part of . the State Constitution . Adherents of this extreme view who believe that the enabling act should give to cities home rule powers in public utility matters as well as in regard to other " affairs and property , " includ- I ing the right to own and operate certain kinds of public utilities , are urging , that nothing but a general grant would be feasible within the terms of the amendment which requires that home rule powers shall be conferred by general laws applying equally both in terms and effect to all cities and that ! under the circumstances this grant must be broad enough to enable them to meet their transit and public utility problems In the manner best suited to their local needs . Nothing more definite could be done , they urge , because conditions differ so widely in different municipalities . Some cities , like New York . for instance , have a property interest in transit lines or other public utility enterprises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their public utilities . Conservatives for Restrictions . From more conservative quarters decided opposition has been voiced to any attempt at making the Home Rule enabling act so inclusive . Governor Smith makes no recommendation in his message , but urges that municipalities be vested with broader powers over public utilities as agents of the State The advocates of narrower home rule powers profess to foresee untold complications in the event that public utility control should be welded into the enabling act as an integral part of the prospective home rule grant it will bestow . From their point of view it might embarrass New York City in public utility matters if municipal ownership and operation , or mere regulation , should be canstrued as home rule functions under the terms of the constitutional amendment . They foresee that inevitably special legislation would be required for New York City to help it set its public utility affairs in order . Under the terms of the amendment , such legislation could not be proposed except where the Governor is willing . to certify to a public emergency requiring a special act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except by a two-thirds majority in each house of the Legislature . With the Republicans firmly committed to continued State regulation of public utilities everywhere , it was pointed out , there would be not the slightest prospect of the present Legislature , which must pass the enabling act , doing anything for New York City transit relief it transit control should be treated as a. home rule fanction . Without Republican aid , the Democrats , who have mare majority of one : the Assembly , could , not hope to ac , - complish ' anything - - that direction , - especially where a ! rtwci-thirds majority is required . On - the other hand , there is at least some. , ; siender. prospect that , with transit and ' weblic utility - control , treated as a. separate proposition , some compromise measure may be framed as ' the result of confereneps-betivequ Governor Sialth and the Reptiblican leaders in the Legislature .                     