@@689009

txt An unannounced meeting , understood to , have , been held in the interests of the Ku Klux Klan , took place last night in Junior Order Hall . Plainfield , N. J. The fact that nothing was known of the proposed meeting until only a short time before . it took place is thought to have prevented a serious anti-Klan demonstration . As it was , several hunt dred men gathered outside the hall when it became known that the meeting was in progress and smashed several windows on the lower floors with stones . It was entirely an invitation affair . and it was estimated that about 100 men attended . There were no women present as far as could be learned . Guards at the door were careful to carry out their instructions to allow- no one inside except on the presentation of cards of invitation . . Only one concession was made . Those in charge of the meeting finally declared that newspaper men would be allowed to attend , but only on condition that they give their pledge to divulge nothing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of the principal speaker at the gathering was not announced , and no one could be found who would or i could reveal it . It was believed , however , that he was a Klansman from Newark , there to set forth the principles of the Klan and to induce the hand-picked ' audience to become members . When it first became known that the meeting was to be held , late in the afternoon . the word quickly was passed around and by the time the meeting opened there was a crowd of between 300 and 400 men gathered outside the hall . They showed their feelings of lantagonism against the Klan by breakI ing several windows and causing con ' siderable disturbance by throwing stones , in spite of the presence of the police . In the midst of the demonstration , the Mayor of Plainfield , - Charles E. Loizeaux , appeared and appealed for order . His remarks were applauded . and many of the men who had taken part in the disturbance left for their homes . PLEASED AT BAN ON DANCER Former Husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former husband of Jessica Brown , at one time a " Follies " dancer , sent a letter of congratulation yesterday to City Clerk Michael J. Ciaase on his refusal to issue a marriage license to Miss Brown and the Earl of Northesk . The letter , written on stationery of the Steiner Yarn Corporation , read : " I note by the morning papers that you have refused to issue a. marriage license to ' my wife , ' Jessica Brown , ' and the Earl Northesk. 1 am agreeably surprised that money and notoriety can not always suborn justice and right in New York . " Mrs. Reinhard. ever since she left my bed and board , has known my address and where she could reach me at any time . Of this I am assured , because I have communicated with'her at various times by registered letters sent to her in care of her mother in Buffalo . care wish to thank you as an official and a man for the action you have taken . " It was said yesterday that Miss Brown and the Earl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooklyn Federation- of Jewish Charities Reduces Deficit . Nathan S. Jcinas , President of the Manufacturers ' Trust Company and founder and first President of the Brooklyn Federation of Jewish Charities , way the guest last evening at a dinner of the Committee of 100 of the Federation , held in the Brooklyn Jewish Centre , 667 Eastern Parkway . Speeches were made by Supreme Court Justices Edward Lazansky , Ramey E. Lewis and Mitchell May , State Senator Nathan Straus . Jr .. and Louis Marshall . . Benjamin H. Namm , toastmaster , introduced Mr. Jonas to the 185 persons present . Mr. Jonas told of a deficit of 3150,000 in the Federation from last year and asked those present to help tha officers of the Federation to get it out of its financial difficulties . Immediately $100 , - 000 was pledged . Senator Straus pledged $10,000 for his father , who was unable to attend the dinner .                     