@@693529

txt President Coolidge 's proposal to Great Britain , France , Japan and Italy that steps be taken at Geneva looking to a reduction of naval armaments through the application of the 5-5-3 principle to auxiliary ships , thus amplifying the scope of . the Washington treaty , which applies only to capital ships of war , is likely to prove abortive , according to the opinion of many leaders in Congress of both houses . The President 's move was generally favored in Congress . but many doubted whether the powers to whom the memorandum was addressed would accept the proposal . Senator Borah , Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee ; Speaker Longworth , Senator Hale of Maine , Chairman of the Naval Committee , and Representative French of Idaho . manager of the Naval bill , expressed themselves as entirely in sympathy with the purposes the President seeks to accomplish . Representative Butler , Chairman of the Naval . Committee , declared that the President 's pronouncement would force the hand of the four powers on armament and that , if they failed to fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Government should proceed to prepare America for its own defense . Submarines and Cruisers . Skepticism was expressed by Senator Reed of Missouri that the President 's overtures to the powers would lead to any affirmative results . A prominent leader , who has taken part in Geneva conferences but who refused to permit the use of his name in this connection , asserted that France could not be persuaded to suspend building submarines and that this would mean that no agreement could be reached with Great Britain with respect to cruisers . Accordingly , this leader said , the work of the Preparatory Commission at Geneva would amount to naught . Representative Garrett , the Democratic House leader , expressed the hope that if another agreement were negotiated and advocated by the President some attempt would be made to clear up points in dispute that have arisen under the treaty of 1921 . One point that Mr. Garrett mentioned was that involved in the insistence of Great Britain that elevation of guns on American battleships with a view to increasing their range would violate the Washington treaty . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's message was timed so as to defeat , if possible , the three-cruiser amendment to.the Naval bill , the " big navy " bloc was apprehensive as to its effect . on that particular project . They fear the President 's strong utterances on disarmament might impel a House majority to vote down the Senate amendment . Speaker Longworth reaffirmed the position he took in his speech last night that this country would . be able to bring more influence to bear in a limitation conference by constructing more cruisers at this time . He again drew attention to the position taken by Secretary Hughes in his Navy Day speech in 1924 in which he urged the country to maintain the ratio prescribed in the Washington conference . " I am in entire harmony with the President 's policy to check competitive building , " he said . " I believe that we would be in a stronger position to deal with the powers on this subject if we had behind us a building prograin that would include the three . ships of the 1924 program included in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Mr. Longworth . " we ask other nations to make Republican , of Idaho , who is in charge of the Naval bill , said : " The President 's message is timely because it directs attention to the constant policy of the national Administration to bring about reduction in armaments through international agreements and because it directs attention specifically to what seems to be steady propaganda within the several great nations looking to the fostering of competitive building of armaments . Urges Support of President . " The President 's position ought to have a direct bearing upon whether or not the Congress should appropriate money for the commencement of work on the three cruisers heretofore authorized . Three times the Congress has asked the President to take the lead in further limitation conferences . The President is carrying forward that program . Preliminary negotiations are under way . Amidst that condition the President is asking this Congress as a means of aid to him not to make appropriations for new ships. - If the Congress is in sympathy with tion of competitive shipbuilding , it I must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of leadership in bringing it about . " Other comments by Senators and Representatives were as follows : Senator Borah : " I am thoroughly in sympathy with what the President would achieve . " Senator Reed of Missouri : " It is intended as a step to fill the gap left at the Washington Conference , but 1 do n't think it will get anywhere . I have not the slightest idea that France will consent to a limitation of submarines or Great Britain of cruisers . It is also aimed at the three-cruiser program now being discussed in Congress . My idea would be for us to go ahead and build more cruisers . " Denies Bearing on Building . Senator Hale ? " I have always been in favor of extending the provisions of the Washington treaty to other types of ships than capital ships and carriers . The President 's proposal is in line with this-policy and has nothing to do with the present building plan of the navy , which , if carried out , could not raise our strength to any limitation level which by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the contrary , the building of new cruisers now con-1 templated would improve the position of the United States at such a conference . " Senator King ? " I favor the President 's suggestion heartily . If we do n't get naval disarmament , our naval expenses will increase until in three or four years they will reach at least $500,000,000 annually . With our military expenses added , this will place a burden of from 6850,000,000 to $1,000,000,000 on the American taxpayers . It is imperative , in the interests of the taxpayers , as well as world peace , to further limit world armament . My only regret is that the President does n't propose a broader program for the conference . " Senator Gerry ? " It is the duty of the United States to maintain its position and not to be second to any other power . If we do'thie , I believe we are much more likely to be successful in obtaining satisfactory agreements in the future ! ' " Should Be ' Encouraged . " Senator Walsh of Massachusetts ? " Any movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tremendous cost and expense of maintaining navies and armies should be encouraged . But to be a real contributing force to peace , disarmament should be complete , and not partial . " Senator Curtis , Republican floor leader ? " It is a valuable suggestion , which should encourage all the nations to join in effective limitation . " Senator Moses ? " There will be people who will interpret this as an attempt to defeat the three-cruiser program . I place no such construction on it . I regard it as a great state paper . However , a time when our foreign affairs are being conducted in Central America and in China almost entirely by warships and marines may seem to some an inopportune time to talk naval disarmament ! ' Senator Warlsworth " I shall be very much interested to see how the powers greet the suggestion . It will be a test of their unselfishness . We made a sacrifice in .1922 , and we shall see if they will make one now . " Senator Caraway ? " I am in favor of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Senator La Follette ? " The President 's program will meet with the approval of a large majority of the people , who , I believe , are sincerely desirous of securing effective arms limitation . " Senator Gillett ? " It was an admirable message , both in the suggestion of a conference on limitation of cruisers and other naval armaments and in the suggestion that Europe must settle her own problems on land agreement . " Butler 's Mind Made Up . ' Representative Butler , Naval Chairnian ? " I have not changed my mind in twenty years , and I do n't intend to do so now . I am thoroughly in accord to limit these ships , and I believe- the American Congress should sustain the President by placing in his hands a large building program for , the United States Navy . It was the .1916 program under construction that brought in 1922 the limitation on ' battleships . We had something to surrender : We have nothinenow to give away because we own but little . " We made the awful sacrifice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , something to ' give away do it - now ? This message to the great powers will compel them to show their hand . A real test of the good intentions of these powers can be manifested right here by their suspending construction programs until the conference meets . If the President can obtain an agreement the world will applaud him . If the other powers decline the President can prepare America for its own defense . " Representative Burton ? " It is a State document of great importance . Undoubtedly it will be so received in Europe . It shows unmistakably that this Government is willing to take the lead again in checking disarmament . ' I am hopeful that it will lead to results of world-wide importance . "                     