@@691343

txt From the Bureau of Agricultural Economies , which is a division of the Department of Agriculture , comes a : heerful song entitled " The Hopeful Season . " That it is dated as of April 1 should detract nothing from its : harm , bath because of the high standing of its sponsors and also that it is based on actual facts . The song , therefore . is full of hope and cheer for the agricultural outlook of this year . " A new chapter , " it says . " has been opened in the general post-war condition . " What better music can business hear than this regarding agricultural conditions which for the past five years ha-Ve been sung in hardly any key but D Minor ? There is now a more jo2. - ? ous strain . There are no big surpluses of agricultural products left save the partly fictitious one of cattle . And this is exactly true . Within the period covered the cotton market was staggered by a surplus of cotton equal to one of our smallest crops . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though a large crop was raised last year , the world is avid for cotton . Last autumn this newspaper estimated that foreign consumers would take 8,000,000 bales . Exports have already passed the 7,000,000 mark and there are three and onehalf months of the season remaining . It is certain that our carryover of cotton will be one of the smallest known in modern times . There may be a large carryover of oats unless the present low price stimulates consumption far beyond what it has been thus far this season . But in the other grain crops and in livestock there will be scarcity . Corn is almost purely a domestic matter with us . All the season the supply has been short and it will be a close matter to tide the season over until the new crop comes . There has been a heavy liquidation in hogs , and this spring there will be 14 per cent . less breeding sows . Consequently , there will be no surplus pigs this fall . The same is true in the cattle industry . For some years we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country must soon wake up to the fact that we are facing a shortage of beef . Looking at the wheat market , now under bearish influences . one might think there was a great surplus , but the reverse is the case . The consuming countries are not building up a reserve , but arc carrying on from hand to mouth and at the end of the season will be practically bare of supplier . The great exporting countries taken together , the United States , Canada , Argentina and Australia , as compared with a year ago will be short at least 200,000,000 bushels of wheat by the first of July . and our own carryover will be down to the danger point . It is well said , therefore , that there is no surplus of agricultural products .                     