@@685105

txt The Daily Chronicle 's Peace Conference reprenentatiVe - writes as follows : " The disciplinary occupation of Constantinople , as it may be called , to distinguish it from the ordinary occupation which followed the conclusion of the armistice , has been definitely ordered by the Allied Powers and will be carried out at once . For the present it will consist in posting Allied contingents at strategic points of the city on both sides of the Golden Horn . For this purpose there are troops enough on the spot , and more can ' be brought up In a few days . " Any question of further measures will be answered according . as this unsensational demonstration is or is not effective in bringing home to the Turkish Government and the people the determination of the Allies that provincial disorders shall cease and the terms of the Peace Treaty be executed scrupulously . " A very important meeting of the Supreme Council took place at 10 Downing Street , the sitting being wholly devoted to this subject . It is significant that Mr. Churchill and Mr. Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Council on this occasion , and that Venizelos , the Greek Premier , was present , as well as Mr. Lloyd George , Lord Curzon , M. Cambon and M. Berthelot , Signor Sclaloia , the Marquis Imperials and Viscount Chinda . Several experts were also heard . " The official communiqud merely states : " ' The Council considered the measures which were being taken to insure the protection of the ArmeniaNis and other minorities in Turkey . ' " While the indeterminate attitude of the United States toward Turkey presents evident difficulties , it may be said that ' the American Government has been urged to take part in the measures for the protection of the Armenians , and that leading statesmen are painfully conscious that without American cooperation no ideal ' solution of the Turkish problem can be expected . " England and France are heavily overburdened with the duties they have already accepted and are faced with the possibility  --  through their efforts to bring some order out of this Chaos  --  of new troubles such as America has never to fear . They will suffer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armenian race should suffer further some responsibility must fall also upon the nation which , , associated with this problem by many fine traditions , is for such a purpose the strongest and freest of all . " Greeks Offer to Coerce Kemal Pasha . LONDON , March 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? The report of the allied commissioners in Constantinople was presented at Wednesday 's meeting of the Supreme Council , according to statements current in Peace Conference circles tonight , ' where it also was said that the Council adopted the main proposals of the report . These are believed to have recommended very sharp measures to impress upon Turkey that the Allies are determined to have Turkey comply with the armistice terms and treat the Armenians and other subject races in ac- cordance with the Ideals of Western civilization . To this end the Council is believed to have . ordered Certain important points in European and . static Turkey occupied by allied nakal and military forces . It seems doubtful whether any direct punitive action against Mustapha Kemal Pasha , the Turkish commander in Asiatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems likely that ouch action is to be held in abeyance until the effect of the occupation of the strategic points indicated above is observed . Should a decision be made to round up Kemal and his forces , however , it is thought likely that the task will be intrusted to the Greek army now occupying Smyrna and the surrounding district , whose services M. Venizelos , the Greek Premier , is said to have offered the Council on behalf of his Government . This army is estimated at 00,000 men , while it is presumed Kemal 's forces do not exceed 40,000 . Meanwhile the Turkish treaty seems far from completed , and it is reported that the existing draft will be materially amended . Venizelos for " sternest Dieasures . " The Peace Conference spent the daY trying to work out the details of military and naval plans ih connection with Turkey , giving particular attention to Armenia . Admiral Beatty , Winston Spencer Churchill , Secretary for War . and others were called in to give their opinions . Premier Venizelos of Greece was also present and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Sultan . The general plan of action was not changed , however , as a result of the conference . It became known today that the military demonstration at Constantinople would probably take the form of allied military control of certain Turkish governmental activities ? very likely of the War Department , among others . The conferees were careful to make it clear that this did not mean the taking over of the Turkish Government at the outset and would not in the future if Turkey showed an inclination to abide by the terms of the armistice and cease massacres . The fears of some that the conference 's military demonstration at Constantinople would lead to further massacres among the unprotected in A rmenia and Cilicia have been comiderably allayed by the attitude of M. Venizelos . He ! s represented as being confident that a stern show at Constantinople would bring the Turk to his senses . Those joining in this attitude are certain that the Turkish Government has enough control . over Mustapha K.'mal to prevent his troops from committing excesses in Asia Minor . Should this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other nationals , as there are a million and a half Greeks in Asia Minor . A French force is bound for Cilician territory to the number of 7,000 . PARIS , March ** Temps says it appears clear ? that the Allies pro pose to take certain measures against Turkey because of the recent massacres of Armenians . These , the newspaper believes , will consist of an effective occupation of Constantinople and certain important strategic positions and the exercise of Allied control over all telegraphic communications .                     