@@693139

txt That distinguished economist , Guy M. Walker . v. ho has written so lucidly on railroad rates , capital and labor , writes as follows concerning the interesting topic of instalment buying : My dear Mr. Barron : With all the discussion that has been in the papers about instalment buying or instalment selling and the evils connected with this practice it seems strange that no economist has attempted to dissect the practice and show its true character . For a long time I have given the subject considerable thought and studied it carefully , but have not felt particularly moved to write anything on the - subject until I saw a statement given to the public that pseudo-economist , Roger Babson , in which he declared that : " A distinct recession in business , possibly a panic , would occur within two or threeyears , and that it would be the result of.overcxtension in the instalment business , which today is eating the vitals of business like a cancer . " The ignorance displayed by Babson and the folly of his statement has at last moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is only one method of wealth creation , and that is , by producing more than we consume . The first man who ever saved was , of course , compelled to do so by.exercising self-restraint and not consuming everything that he produced . For long ages this was the only method that man had devised , and so thrift was preached not only in " our time but by the ancients as far back as we have any records . In order to buy a home it was necessary to produce more than one consumed and to save the surplus until be had the price of a home ; then he bought the best home that he could find with the sum that he had saved . But it was found by long practice that the degree of self-restraint that was necessary to save the price of a home before you bought it was more than most =en had and so the acquisition of homes did not increase very rapidly . Then was devised the purchase of homes on the instalment plan . Even the ancients knew how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third down and the balance in two anaual payments secured by mortgage . It was not until comparatively recent times that the building and loan associations were devised whereby a home could be acquired with a small payment down and the purchaser could move in at once , enjoying the possession of a home while paying for it . It was , of course , well recognized that the price of a house sold under these conditions would have to be higher than it would be if the purchaser were able to pay all cash , because if he paid all cash he bought and moved into a brand new house , while if he bought it through a building and loan association plan it would be six to ten years old before it was paid for . So the price of a borne sold under the building and loan association plan had to include the price of a brand new home plus the depreciation that occurred by reason of it being occupied during the time it was being paid for . INCREASING IIOILES AND PERNISIEINGS This later method was recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , List by offering the benefits of occupation of a home of . your own during the process of buying it induced so many more men to undertake self-denial and saving that , expensiee as the method was , it still resulted in an enormous increase in the aggregate - wealth of the communities where the practice prevailed .. " Wherever building and loan associations prospered the cities grew enormously , home owners multiplied , saving and thrift prevailed , wealth increased and with the ownership of homes there grew an enormous increase in the business of furnishing homes , and with the increase in the furnishing of homes there grew up the same method . In the days when most men were tenants there were many that hardly owned a bed , a table or a chair of their own , but with the owners of homes becoming so numerous it would of course have been a ridiculous thing for people who owned homes not to own the furniture in them . But in many instances the effort to own the home made it difficult properly to furnish the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance , and so the suitable furnishings of homes , which were being paid for through building and loan associations , were accomplished through the purchase of furnishings also paid for on the instalment plan . IIIMPING THRIFT AND SAVINGS Our people have failed to realize the character of the purchase of furniture on the instalment plan .. The English have a phrase that much better describes the process- They call it " hire-purchase ; " that is , the price of the chair , the bed , or table includes not only the purchase price but the hire or rent of it during the time that you take to pay for it . This practice is distinctly one that induces thrift and saving . It does not require the self-denial that is called upon to save until you get enough to pay for the furniture in full , but it gives you the benefit of the easy chair , the comfortable bed and the suitable tables . The practice - of - selling furniture on instalment plan soon spread to many who were only tenants and who did not pretend to own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-denial to the point where they would undertake to buy a home , but they would at least undertake to buy furnishings on the instalment plan , and meke more comfortable their rented houses or apartments . This practice of selling furniture on the instalment plan , giving the purchaser the enjoyment and use of th furniture during the time in which he was paying for it , has induced many to buy and pay for the furnishings of their home who before had never owned a stick of furniture- And , also in this way , the practice of selling furniture on the instalment plan has added enormously te the thrift and saving of the masses of people and has resulted in wealth creation , even though of a comparaticely unsubstantial kind . . atsrostontass ENSTAIAIICNT BITTING The present practice of selling automobiles on the instalment plan , which is the thing primarily which has induced the criticism of the practice , is absolutely on a par with the selling of homes through the building and loan association plan or the selling of furniture under the instalment plan . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambitious persons may have mortgaged their little homes to buy automobiles , a thing of course foolish on its face , but in no - wise to be compared with the general run of mankind who have attempted to buy automobiles and pay for them in instalments . Most of those who have done so have done so exactly as they bought their homes and their furniture , and their purchase of an automobile on the instalment plan is simply the extension of the same system by which they acquired their furniture and then their homes . It is a method of wealth creation that can not and must not be overlooked . Of course they can not expect to buy an automobile on the instalment plan as cheap as they could buy it if they bought it and paid in cash , because in one case they get a brand new machine already paid for , and in the other they get the use of a machine that it not paid for and that is decidedly secondhand before it is paid for . And so the price they pay must include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the machine or the interest on its cost plus the depreciation during the period that they have to pay for it . But the point is that by the time they have it paid for they have added to the wealth of their community a good secondhand automobile , just as by their previous practice of thrift they added a good secondhand lot of furniture in a tenant house or a good secondhand home which had been bought and paid for through a building and loan association . Instead of condemning the practice of buying or selling on the instalment plan , the system shmild be used wherever possible to induce the further exercise of selfdenial and thrift in order to get every possible human being to acquire and own something more than he would otherwise acquire and own . Whatever production can be induced by the instalment plan adds to the wealth of the community and of the nation . The practice is economically sound and morally and ethically is traced to those members of the human race who are not yet strong enough of will to exercise self-denial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand . The farmers of the country would never have taxed themselves to secure the good roads that have been built past their farms in response to the demands of users of automobiles . But although the farmers have had little to do with the development of good roads , these good roads have added enormously the accessibility and so the value of the farming lands that have been reached by the good roads , and further than that they have so reduced the cost to the farmer of reaching the cities and towns which are his markets that they have added largely to the value of his farm products and to the rewards that have come to the farmer from everything that he raises . And at the present time the maintenance of these roads is largely being taxed not to the farmers , who benefit from them so enormously , but to the automobile users of the roads through the gasoline tax levied on them through their consumption of it . PROPERTY PROTECTION The only question economically that is involved in the practice of instalment selling is the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is paid for and of requiring such payments as shall exceed the interest on the cost and possible deterioration . Only when the competition for sales shall reach the point where deliveries are made and use permitted upon payments less than enough to cover depreciation and interests on costs will the practice be fraught with danger to merchants , manufacturers or bankers advancing credit against the unpaid balances . It is almost inconceivable , with the present knowledge of values , and with the earning power of our people who are buying , that any contracts for sales would be nade or deliveries permitted in return for payments that did not involve the payment of a considerable sum on the purchase price itself above the costs of the hire , rent or depreciation , during the time of payment . When . the sound economic character of instalment selling and buying is understood and when it is realized that the practice in ' relation to automobiles and furniture is exactly the same in character as that so universally successful in the case of building and loan associations , the critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice will be extended into many fields where it does not yet prevail and wherever it goes it will result , as it always has in the past , in inducing more and more people to practice self-denial and thrift and to join the army of those who produce something more than they consume , and so add to the general mass of wealth production which promotes the general welfare .                     