@@689890

txt Three years ago Judge Anton Zeman sentenced Albert Breitung to the Joliet penitentiary for a thirty year term , after a jury had found him guilty of attacking several girls and women near Englewood . Yesterday Harry C. Thomas . who ' had already admitted committing one Unsolved murder and several hundred burglaries , eased his overburdened ' Conscience still more by confessing that he perpetrated the crimes for which Breitung is ? now - serving , time . One of his victims , he said , was a 16 year old-girl ( whose name he gave ) in South Sacramento avenue , whom he attacked in a vacant lot near her home as she was ' returning from a grocery . Attached in IIomes . Thomas mingled assaults with burglary . according to the strange story he narrated to , Acting Detective Chief ' William Shoemaker and hrs ' aids , Sergts . Goggin and Barry . No less than twenty-five times within the lak few years . Thomas admitted , he had attackdd women when he found them alone after breaking into their homes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street , Evanston , about three months ago ? I was the one that attacked her , " he said . " And a few days later I attacked a woman that was about 65 years old  --  also in Evanston . No , I do n't know her name . " Beeps Police Busy . Thomas ' mania for clearing his conscience has kept detectives busy checking up on the facts . 8'or three days he 's been reciting the story of his misdeeds , which included an attempt last year to rob the home of Shoemaker . one of his - pollee confessors . ' He 's got the most remarkable memory I ever came across , " declared Shoemaker last night , while Thomas was dining on the milk and raw ham ' . burger sandwiches which he insisted on having , " So far as we 've been able to investigate , all of his story has checked up . Crazy ? Not a bit ; he 's just got religion and is trying to ease his mine ' Yesterday Thomas accompanied the detectives to ' a residence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ robbing four years ago . He stale It fur coat there , , - he said . ' Inquiry revealed that he Was right . . Find Watch Story TrUe . Thomas ' story , of giving a watch . end more than $800 to Sergt. George Garry , with the reqUest that they.be returned to some of his victims . was also substantiated , it is said . The veteran burglar charged that the sergeant kept the plunder , which was turned over to him during ' a fit of conscience in 1921.                     