@@690012

txt The one Eastern representative of the National Parks System , " says ROBERT STERLING YARD in " An Analysis of Lafayette National Park , " " upholds to " the full , under the different conditions " of landscape and flora , the best stand " aids set by the ruggeder West . " And the West has no more splendid park , limited in area as Lafayette is : It combines mountain , lake , sea and estuary ; it brings Eastern landscape and forest into the National Parks System ; it contains plant examples from the Arctic to Plorida ; its human history is highly romantic , involving incidents in the warring of two great nations preceding the birth of our own . Lafayette is the superlative expression of the world-renowned beauty of Mount Desert Island . It is rapidly expanding by private gifts of land . Nowhere else on the Atlantic coast do mountains come down , to the sea . Of the twenty summits on the island nineteen are to be found in this national park . It contains several lakes . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A good map of the recreation ground shows that all ' that is best in Mount Desert has been included within its boundaries , from , Bernard Mountain on the west to Champlain Mountain on the east , " Seen " froth Baker Island or the Duck Islands " on the south , " says Mr. YARD , " the " entire national park range stands at " dress parade . " It is said that . CHAMPLAIN first saw it in the transfiguring rays of a setting sun . What are the transports of a tourist compared with his ? There are more than 200 miles of completed trail in Lafayette Park . Its three forest-bordered sheets of water , Jordan Pond , Bubble Pond and Eagle Lake , " might be in the Adirondacks , or in any " part of the West , except for the ex " quisite , graceful Eastern forests " which enclose them to the water 's " edge . One may fish for haddock in " the sea and within the hour for trout " in the heart of this mountain wilder " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that , although the United States Government has given the name of Saint Sauveur to the eminence on the western shore of Somes Sound , early residents prefer the old name , Dog Mountain . Usage is too much for historical romance . Western Mountain has been re- - named Mansel , after Sir ROBERT MANSEL , once Vice Amiral of the British Fleet and a member of the Council for New England , but custom still hankers after the old style . Perpetuating Sir ROBERT seems to be uphill work . His surname was given to a village on Southwest Harbor , but a careless Post Office clerk wrote it Manset , crossing the " 1 " with his pen , and Manset it has always remained . With an eye to historical verity , the National Geographic Board is striving to keep Mount Mansel at the fore . " An American masterpiece , " Mr. YARD calls Lafayette : The sea and sky changing color with the hour , the forest and meadow varying their hues with the season , the witchery of sunshine and shadow , invisible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pale sunrise end painted sunset  --  these , in kaleidoscopic sequence , give this national park a peculiar charm which it shares with none . Forest lovers and naturalists find Lafayette their hearts ' desire . Its exhibit of deciduous trees is surprisingly rich : " In the profusion , wide range of species , " strong contrasts , luxuriance and color " ing of the hardwoods lies the superior " charm of the Eastern forests . " Majestic is the white pine . It is predicted that the white pine forests of Lafayette will become one of the sights of the nation . Gigantic are the ancient hemlociss . Reviewing the trees , flowers , ferns and mosses of this park , Mr. YARD says that its " entire surface is a garden of beauty . "                     