@@696054

txt ALLIED WAR DEBTS . Uncle Sam Not the Shylock Debtors Would Make Him Appear . On the subject of allied war debts it was interesting to find on a recent visit to Canada that the attitude toward them by English and Canadians is strongly as follows : ( a ) The United States eves nearly three years late getting into a war that was justly hers from the start . ( b ) The United States is exacting the last ounce of flesh by demandInc , payment of war debts , ' Inasmuch as the Allies " held the line for us " that length of time . In necessary rebuttal , particularly for the benefit of our own citizenry who think their Uncle Sam a Shylock for demanding payment of these debts , is it not true that the war started as the result of European economic conditions , intrigues , hatreds. and jealousies from ' which the United States was as cleanly severed as . the earth is from the moon ? Having entered it , then , without obligations of any nature , did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Did not the United States gamble $9,455,000,000 in loans ' to the Allies , which , at one period *of the war when the Allies were fighting with their . backs to the wall , it was in high danger of losing , at least in good part ? Is it not true that.in the event of defeat , something which our entrance guaranteed against , the Allies would have had to pay a sum the size of which would have dwarfed their present debts ? In the matter of territorial acquisitions , permit me to quote Ralph B. Strassburger , formerly in the United States diplomatic ? service : " The three main European allied powers , Great Britain , France and Italy , have derived considerable material benefit from the victory over the Central Powers . Great Britain acquired in Africa 930,000 square miles , with a population of approximately 11,000,000 . By these territorial acquisitions she has now a continuous stretch of British territory from Egypt to Cape Town . In Asia Minor , Great Britain obtained control , in the form of mandates , of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2,000,000 . This territory , lying mainly in the Valley of Mesopotamia , contains rich oil fields , mostly in what is known as the Kingdom of Iraq . In addition to this , Great Britain has acquired the former German islands , the Bismarck Archipelago , Samoa , Nauru and the Kaiser Wilhelm Islands . Tire size of these territories is well over 1,500,000 square miles and their potential wealth can be measured with the standards usually applied to India . " France received Alsace-Lorraine , with a population of almost 2,000,000 persons , with its large steel mills and coal mines . Besides , she obtained control of the coal mines of the Sarre VaNey . " Italy added to her territory at the expense of Austria and obtained possession of the important harbor of Trieste . In addition to these benefits , the peace treaties have divided German shipping among the European Allies and gave them important industrial and trade advantages . The Dawes plan has been drawn with a view of having Germany pay a large part of the reparation . " America . on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not benefit from the Dawes scheme , which works out solely to the advantage of the European Allies . Verily , ' Uncle Shylock , ' if he were the ogre such as he is described in some parts of Europe . would not be satisfied with getting nothing for the billions that he had sunk into the late war . " As a final rejoinder , let none of us forget that from the day of its entrance into the war until the day of the armistice the United States spent the neat sum of 522,500.000,000 . Poor Uncle Sam and his money-bags ! How hitter is the truth of " neither a borrower nor a lender he , for loan oft loses both itself and friend . " . ARTHUR FLAHERTY . New York , Aprif 1 , T926.                     