@@684895

txt The Extraordinary Grand Jury , in an open letter , last night notified Governor Alfred E. Smith that it could not legally respond to his refusal . on Dec. 26 , 1919 , to consider further the question of designating a legal adviser for the jury until it either had made specific charges against District Attorney Swann or exonerated him . The jury told the Governor that the conditions he sets forth in answer to their appeal for aid to investigate municipal departments and the District Attorney 's office are neither legally a function or duty of that body nor consistent with the public interest . " The Grand Jule believes it should not abdicate its own function , given it by Section 260 , " . it was asserted . The jury sent a direct appeal to Attorney General Charles -D . Newton , asking him to appear before the jury as legal adviser to conduct investigations and " to prosecute the criminal cases with which it is or may become concerned . " A copy of the communication to the Governor was inclosed in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoted both Governor Smith and Attorney General Newton as saying they had not received any communication from the Grand Jury . " I Mould not act in any capacity to the Grand Jury except by appointment by the Governor , " added Mr. Newton . Both letters were said to have been prepared with the unanimous approval of all the Grand Jurors . They were signed by Raymond F. Ahnirall , foreman , and were sent by mail from his office at 12 East Forty-sixth Street , which has become the official headquarters of the jury since it barred Mr. Swann from its deliberations in the Criminal Courts Building . Strike Collusion Charges Dismissed . A few hours previous to the sending of these communications to Governor Smith and to the Attorney General , the jury went before Supreme , Court Justice Weeks with a presentment , dismissing the District Attorney 's charges of alleged collusion against Interborough officials and employes based on information from Mayor Hylan on Aug. 11 , 1919 . The present and future investigations contemplated by the jury grew out of this first inquiry . into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made this refertnee In court yesterday : 8 ' In the Grand Jury 's opinion the evidence presented was not only entirely insufficient to warrant the finding of an indictment , but lacked any real basis of substantial fact . " The Grand Jury 's letter to the Governor , commenting , on his refusal to heed its request for the designation of the Attorney General and his appointments of George Gordon Vattle and Joseph M. Proskauer , and , the reason for their withdrawals , asserted that " it . sought for counsel entirely independent of the District Attorney 's office as a matter of principle . Even then the Grand Jury was of the opinion that the appointment of a special assistant to the District Attorney would defeat this vital principle . Governor 's Alternative Rejected . Referring to the effort of Mr. Proskauer , who had been named by the Governor for appointment as a special assistant after Mr. Battle had resigned , to get an agreement from the District Attorney to proceed without interference from Mr. Swann or any one concerned in the investigations . Mr. Almirall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Grand Jury notes from your last communication that you have finally come into accord with its prior conclusions in respect to the necessity of counsel being independent . of the District Attorney 's office . " The Grand Jttry can not help but feel , however , that the alternative proposed by your Excellency  --  that the Grand Jury should at the present stage of the inquiry formulate charges against the District Attorney , and that it should prefer such charges before your Excellency ? is coupled with conditions which are neither legally a function or duty of the Grand Jury nor consistent with the public interests . Your Excellency 's letters also permit , unintentionally but equally unfortunately , public misapprehension both as to the suggestions of Mr. Battle 's name and as to the declination by Mr. Proskauer of the appointznent as Assistant District Attorney , as well as in other matters . " When Governor Smith named Mr. Proskauer he issued a public statement advising the jury to " get to work and make good . " Apparently in reference to this , Foreman Almirall listed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 , 1919 , which he told the Governor " will clarify and determine the situation . " He said each juryman had been challenged by the District Attorney and accepted only after proof of a proper conception of the duties of good citizenship . The jury , he said , had disposed of the criminal anarchy cases , a charge of conspiracy concerning milk distribution in the city , and two charges of criminal conspiracy made by the Mayor . Mr. Almirall said one of the charges was against the Federal receiver and the President of the New York Railways Company of conspiracy to intimidate a public officer , and the other against the officials of the Interborough ktapid Transit Company and the officials of the Brotherhood of its employes of conspiracy to foment a strike . " The consideration of these grave charges , " Mr. Almirall said , " was imposed upon the Grand Jury at the urgent insistence of the District Attorney himself , who confidently and openly assured the Court of his ability to secure indictments . The Hearst newspapers loudly heralded the sensation to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milk and Interborough cases , the District Attorney , during all the twenty days witnesses were heard , signally failed to produce any convincing proof . " Mr. Almirall challenges Governor Smith 's contention that he lacks power under the law to designate the Attorney General . Several pages of the thirteenpage letter are devoted to a review of the law and closes with the assertion that the Governor has authority to act . In the presentment in court yesterday afternoon , when the jury dismissed the transit charges by the Mayor and the District Attorney , this quotation from a statement ' by Mr. Swann concerning the conspiracy charges was incorporated in it : " The first is that we feel that we will bring out before this Grand Jury sufficient evidence to justify the charge that the conspiracy consisted in an effort to influence . threaten and intimidate the public officers I have referred to in order that they would accede to the demand of the Interborough theretofore filed with the Board of Estimate to increase the fare to eight cents . " Mr. Swann was not in court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the presentment of charges having included the Federal Receiver of the New York Railways Company . He said no charges had been presented to the jury concerning the receiver . Justice Weeks ordered that mention of the receiver be omitted from the report . Some days ago District Attorney Swann had sent a stipulation to the Grand Jury announcing his willingness to have all the minutes of the jury made public , declaring that the public would then see that there was no evidence in them tending to show the existence of an " overshadowing crime . " In relation to this the jury included this statement in its presentment : " The great publicity given to the , Mayor 's charges of conspiracy and their bearing on the general traction situation , so prominently in the public mind at present , impels the Grand Jury very respectfully to request the court to make public the minutes of the Grand Jury in the Interborough Rapid Transit Company conspiracy matter . The Grand Jury , however , does not agree with the suggestion of the District Attorney that the minutes of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he made public at the present time , as the Grand Jury believes it would be improper to make public the minutes of cases which are still under examination . " Mr. Talley objected to giving out part of the minutes . He said the District Attorney wanted publicity for the entire minutes . " It must be all or none . " Justice Weeks took the matter under advisement . SMITH 'S CONSENT NEEDED . Could n't Act Unless Appointed by ' Governor , Says Newton , ALBANY , Jan. ** Governor Smith nor Attorney General Newton had received any word from the Special Grand Jury investigating an alleged " overshadowing crime " in New York City , regarding appointment of Mr. Newton as counsel , both announced tonight . " I have not received any word from the special Grand Jury , " declared Governor Smith . " I have no word from the New York Grand Jury asking me to act as counsel , " said Attorney General Newton tonight . " I could not act in any capacity to the Grand Jury except by , appointment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               