@@687173

txt The American delegation to the armament conference , it was made known today , is opposed to the demand of the Japanese delegation for an increase in capital ship tonnage over that allotted them in the five-five-three Hughes proposal . The British delegation stands with the Americans on the ground that the original proportion should stand . Thus , on the Japanese proposal , as announced last evening by Admiral Baron Kato , the Japanese are in a distinct minority . The attitude of the Americans is based on the fundamental prerhise that the five-five-three ratio represented - the comparative naval ' strength of Great Britain , America and Japan on Nov. 12 . To meet this it Is altogether likely that the Japanese will reply that it may be just . that ' the proportions should stand in relation to the strength of the threb navies on Nov. 12 , but they will argue that those relations were not five-five- , three , but something like five-five-three and a half . That , naturally , will cause a long expert discussion if the Japanese push the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of the British delegation , made it plain in his speech Tuesday , accepting " in principle and spirit " the Hughes proposal , that his Government agreed to the ratio of fivefive-three as measuring the strength of the three navies and believed that this ratio should be maintained in the final settlement . I understand that now , twenty-four hours after the announcement of the Japanese contention , the British delegation sees no good reason for retreating from the position that Mr. Balfour laid down . The American delegation argue that it is proposed to stop now competition In the building of offensive ships which are capital ships . Having figured the comparative strength of the three navies as of Nov. 12 , the Americans hold that five-five-three represents a fair ratio to be adopted and that any departure from this means not cessation of competition In capital ships , but a disguised continuance of competition . In other words , if the naval race is to stop it should stop . If you do n't step sometime you will stop no time , is the way the Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( ai ? , the United States delegates hold that it does not mean stopping naval competition to be trying to get a little more than the ratio existing on the day it was proposed to call . a halt . Small Ships a Matter for Discussion . The American delegation believes that the relative provisions for auxiliary ships is a proper field for discussion . This means that the Japanese plea for more small ships would come up for consideration at the same time as ebnilar suggestions by the British and French and Italian delegations . However , It is not to be expected that the Americans or the British will be able to see in the geographical position of Japan justification for a request for as many smaller craft as are allotted to Great Britain and America . though such was the indication Admiral Kato gave of Japanese intentions . It is the major premise of the Hughes program that the building of capital ships , big fighting ships , represent. ; the real naval race , and that If this race . is stopped the argument over subsidiary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary importance to capital ships , they do not look kindly upon the Japanese movement against what they regard as the-basic and ( air ratio . It is understood that in the careful preparation of the Hughes plan it was felt that the ratio allotted to the three nations was ample for defense , this including Japan . On the ground that the naval question is that the competition should stop where it stood on Nov. 12 , or continues unhampered , the American delegation frankly believes that ? the Japanese suggestion is a step in the wrong direction . Of course , if Japan can prove that the American figures are , wrong and that her naval strength was really greater than Mr. Hughes calculated , the question is put in a somewhat different manner . But up to the present the Americans stand on their calculations . Of course the Americans do not take the stand that the five-five-three ratio is a take it or leave n .. brit : they regard it as the is'permitted for one n go-ahead of its pretio rule , of Tight . or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference would get on a path that would lead away from . a definite conclusion of a basis of fixed strength for the countries concerned . Americans ' Attitude Firm . Naturally , the Japanese proposal has not reached the stage where it is being officially discussed , but there is every indication that the Japanese expect to Push it as hard as they can , and there is likewise every indication that at no stage of the proceedings will the Americans make any bones about their opposition to an overturning of the proposed capital ship ratio in favor of Japan , or any other country . The American attitude does not imply s definite answer to any proposals for alteration in the schedule of auxiliary craft . It is , perhaps , a source of satisfaction to the authors of the American plan that pleas of special conditions come from many sides , for the more exceptions that are asked for , the stronger will appear the wisdom of sticking to the original plan . But the American program will be shaped by the primary consideration that capital ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence which the Americans doubt exists ) must be presented to justify a change in the ratio . The experts have not yet considered the Japanese proposals . But in British circles distinct disapproval of it could be felt . The British , in accepting the ratio of five-five-three , have a distinct interest in seeing that no other country increases its ratio . The importance Britain attaches to the smaller fleets is shown by her insistence that there be a limitation placed on the naval forces of France and Italy . Despite the talk in Japanese quarter% that It can be shown that the Japanese fleet was larger than Mr. Hughes calculated and their insistence that he erred in classing the Mutsu of 35,000 tons as a launched ship , whereas it was in commission on Nov. 12. it is noted that in announcing the Japanese requests for a larger ratio yesterday Admiral Kato referred to her geographical situation as the sole reason for asking increased capital ship tonnage . It is presumed that the American determination to oppose the requests is based upon the ground that geographical position does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down . Every one can plead the peculiar situation of his country , since no two countries have the same geographical position , and thus consideration of the Japanese proposal for more capital ships on that ground would , in the opinion of the American delegates , serve only to lead the conference away from its object .                     