@@696656

txt Between now and November there will be plenty of time for Mr. LA GuAranA. to develop the attack on the Tammany administration , in which he has already shown considerable aptitude . His speech accepting the Republican-fusion nomination by no means left his adversary unscathed . His description of the Citizens Committee as a " dumping ground " where constructive measures were left to rust , his comment en police administration since , his references to political favoritism , all were nicely aimed i at weak points in the Mayor 's armor , Nor was the speech without epigrams . " Childhood can not be pro " tected by an arrow on a police " sign . " " You can not move a family into a blue-print "  --  a telling thrust against the failure of the llayer 's housing efforts . But in the main Mr. LA GUARDIA 'S address was . In the nature of a program adciressecl to the sober thought of the community , and particularly to that better element " in the Republican party to which General HARBORD , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if the candidate for Mayor had called the voters together in ' an old-fashioned town meeting and said to them : " Here , gentlemen , is my under " standing of the problems con " fronting us . " Reorganization he put in the forefront of his program , daring , as have successive Governors familiar with local affairs , to call for . a reform in county government ; vestigial , v : ? . - invisible . Local autonomy he preserve by according the Ecrough Presidents " con " ' Diets jurisdiction over all purely " local matters . " Here he enters a field where controversy has ever been rife , though he joins with Mayor ' WALKER in the belief that street cleaning activities should be consolidated into one department . Mr. LA GUARDIA cuts deeper still in his advocacy of better planning . He quotes with evident approval the program of the Regional Plan Committee and the words of one who wrote that " the city must hence " forth be built consciously , and not " merely grow at random with " . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all parties may well desire to write that legend over the portals of City Hall . The other outstanding municipal problem , transit relief , Mr. LA GUARDiA discusses at some length . His emphasis on unification , his promise to bring the companies together into conference , his pledge of a nonpolitical operating agency are all welcome , though one may wonder how he will manage to reconcile the improvement that he forecasts with his explicit adherence to the Republicanundertaking to maintain the five-cent fare . Certainly he shows courage in advocating resort to cal assessments to help finance new subways . Thar is sound doctrine , but not popular . Reorganization , - regional planning , improved transit ? these are words to conjure with . Citizens will no doubt ponder them in the ensuing weeks , balancing Mr. LA GOARDIA 'S pledges against  --  the achievements of the present administration , with due allowance for those tangible and intangible factors in ' human character and affairs which limit ability to translate promise into performance . No one can read the La Guardia speech without seeing that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about city affairs . He has now even convinced himself that a policy of party spoils will not do , and that the highest non-partisan ability obtainable is necessary .                     