@@686576

txt The sport of statesmen , war , Wits played to the limit from 1914 to 1919 , and it is natural that men are turning with relief and renewed enthusiasm to the sports of common men . The summer of 1921 is going to be a great season in sport , the real sports of peace . First and towering over all other events is , of course , the contest between Dempsey and Carpentier for the world , heavyweight boxing championship . ' Without question this is the greatest sporting event In history . We have had prize fights for the world championship before . In their day they were great sporting events. - Some have come down vaguely to us . IV they pale into insignifl.:ance beside the coming fight of July 2 . Putting all buncombe aside , Caipentier is a name better known in America today than Briand or Ciemenceau . More Americans knoW who Dempsey is than who Charles Evans Hughes is , and we suspect more than could tell offhand the name of the present resident of the White House . , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilt . His pulse will be as high on the evening of r July 2 as any one 's , and he will read every line of I the columns the press will print about what has , happened in . theving at Jersey City . This may be deplorable , but it Is life . ' We are I not going to philosophize over It . What we could say would be mostly platitude , for , the fact is as old as man . Indeed , It isseveral million years older , for the fact is vital energy , the foundation of the complex thing we call life and all that it accomplishes from the Parthenon to the making of a treaty or a marriage . The most interesting thing about life is life ; and life is force and skill . When we get the love of a great fight . out of our nature the sun will be cold , The Dempsey-Carpentier fight not only draws on our deepest and oldest instinct but it draws on others almost as venerable , especially the instinct of race and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeals is really its background and divides allegiances and shapes many a bet . 1o contest in the ring ever drew on so many elements of interest and partisanship . None was ever fought on such a plane of universal feeling . In the great days of Greeks the victors at the Olympian games were famous throughout Greece while the Greeks remembered . Yet here is a contest which is staged In the eyes of two continents , we suspect even in the eyes of the world . The Dempsey-Carpentler fight is enough to make any year memorable through gelerations . But the air is full of sport : and ' of . International contests which have something of the same flavor . A battalion of our golfing stars has invaded England and will do their best to bring the laurels of that ancient game home with them . American polo stars are after honors In the home of modern polo . A Japanese university baseball team has invaded the home of our national game , matching their new skill against the native . All games are alive . Professional baseball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the champions of ' tomorrow . In Europe two million men are under arms and some of them are drawing blood . Statesmen are plotting and counterplotting . The burden of living , the problem of surviving , weighs'on aching ' shoulders . Let us be glad to turn to the sunshine of prairies and athletic fields , the squared ring and the green links , clean intlseles , clear eyes , quick instincts , keen skill , and the primitive but everlasting joy of animal contest , It began when we began and will last while the race lasts . It is to be a great sporting summer and therefore a great human summer . Out of mother earth we grow and thrive and to her we return again . And the  --  things we get from her , are good  --  the joy of sport not least ? Vier gifts to us all .                     