@@693369

txt The annual report of the Board of Indian Commissioners calls attention to the reorganization of the Indian field service of the Indian Bureau . The members of the board , who serve in an advisory capacity to the Indian Commissioner , visited most of the important reservations during the year and were instrumental in bringing about the reorganization of the field service . Under the new system the Indian country is divided into nine districts , each in charge of a district superintendent , whose duty is to supervise the work of the agents in charge of the different reservations in his territory . He has general charge of the educational , economic and social conditions within his district . The medical work is placed in the hands of the newly organized Indian medical service . The purpose of the new field organization is to expedite the handling of routine matters . Under the old system the - Indian agents and superintendents dealt directly with the Indian Bureau in Washington . This placed on that bureau an excessive amount of petty routine work , and delayed action on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1920. for example , the total number of communications received by the Indian Bureau in Washington concerning Indians was 261,486 . Many of these were from individuals , either Indian or white . The mere clerical labor involved was necessarily great . Under the new system the general superintendent of the field work , together with the district superintendents , will handle most of the routine business quickly and easily . The district superintendents are picked men , thoroughly familiar with the field work . If the recommendation of the Board of Indian Commissioners is adopted , they will be given authority to suggest rules and regulations which will facilitate the direct handling of many routine matters without reference to Washington . The Board of Commissioners also recommends that a bill be introduced in Congress placing the entire Indian service , from the Commissioner down , under a civil service status . The purpose of this is to eliminate the element of politics entirely from the Indian service . fortunately , conditions in this respect have been steadily improved in the last half century . and we no longer have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corrupt and selfish " friend " of the Administration for exploitation . The minor positions in the Indian service are already on a civil service basis . But the Board of Indian Commissioners advocates extending this protection to all , from the Indian Commissioner down . Despite the hopes of this board that the work of relieving the Government of its supervision over the Indians can be accelerated , there is little doubt that close vigilance will be necessary for many years if the Indians are to be protected from the many who would and will exploit them . As a matter of fact , experience has shown that in Oklahoma , where so many Indians have been relieved of governmental protection , they have fallen a prey to the rapacity and greed of unscrupulous white men , The moral is plain  --  that the greater the legal independence of the Indians , the greater is their need for protection from their white neighbors . Even those still on reservations are in constant danger of being robbed of their rights with the sanction of politicians , who use specious arguments about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian reservations . It follows , therefore , that whatever strengthens the Indian Bureau and increases its efficiency is in the interest of the Indians as a whole .                     