@@695907

txt A. searching ? investigation of the judicial conduct of Judge Francis A. Winslow of New York was proposed in two resolutions offered in the House today by Representative Graham of Pennsylvania , chairman . of the House Judiciary Committee . One of them asked the House to empower the committee to inquire into the matter " stated , in the Laduardia resolution affecting the administration of justice " by Judge Winslow . The other , a . joint resolution , requiring . action by the Senate . as well as the House , provided ' for the appointment ? of a subcommittee of seven . to report " whether in their opinion the said 7 . antis A. Winslow has been guilty of any acts which in contemplation . of the Constitution prove high crimes and misdemeanors requiring the interposition of the Constitutional powers of the House . " The first merely sought authority for the committee to inquire into Judge Winslow 's alleged misconduct , as set forth by the LaGuardia ' resolution , while the second was designed to give the proposed subcommittee authority'to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 and the assembling of the new Congress . . The resolutions will he called up in the House tomorrow . Mr. Graham will ask for their immediate passage . So far as known there will be no opposition to this procedure . Sub-Committee Reports . The decision of the judiciary committee to Investigate the Winslow case was reached at a meeting this morning . A subcommittee appointed by Mr. Graham last week , composed of Renresentatives LaGuardia of New York , Stobbs of Massachusetts . and Surnners of Texas . reported that it had called on Attorney General Sargent as instructed . It also reported that the Attorney General made it clear that he did not believe he had authority to investigate the LaGuardia charges . Thereupon Mr. LaGuardia urged that the committee should ask for authority to make an inquiry on its own account . The committee accordingly instructed Chairman Graham to draw up and introduce the two resolutions above outlined . The first resolution follows : . asking for the passage of the resolutions . Owing to pressure of business in the House he was obliged to defer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms the basis of the proposed investigation , is the outgrowth in part of certain charges that have been made with respect to bankruptcy administration in New York courts . This is now the subject of investigation by United States District Attorney Tuttle . The LaGuardia resolution , broadly , accuses Judge Winslow of nepotism , favoritism and other acts of alleged improper conduct . Resolved , That the matter stated in the LaGuardia resolution affecting the administration of justice by Francis A. Winslow , a Federal judge in and for the Southern District of New York , shall be investigated by the Judiciary Committee of the House and a report be duly made thereon . Names of Subcommittee Proposed . The second resolution names the seven members to act as a subcommittee of inquiry and clothes the subcommittee with broad powers . The subcommittee is authorized to send for persons and papers , administer oaths , and sit in Washington " and elsewhere . " All those named on the subcommittee will be members of the new Congress . They are : Representatives Dyer , Missouri : Christopherson , South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Republicans ; Summers , Texas ; Montague , Virginia , and Dominick , South Carolina , Democrats . It is understood that in pursuance of its authority to sit " elsewhere " than in Washington the subcommittee is very likely to hold prolonged sessions in New York City , probably this Spring . Resolved , by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America , in Congress assembled : That Leonidus C. Dyer , Charles A. Christopherson . Andrew J. Hickey , George R. Stobbs , Hatton W. Summers , Andrew J. Montague and Fred H. Dominick. being a subcommittee of the Committee on . Judiciary of the House of Representatives be and are hereby authorized and directed to inquire into the official conduct of Francis A. Winslow , United States District Judge of the . Southern District of New York . and to report to the House whether , in their opinion , the said Francis A. Winslow has been guilty of any acts which in contemplation of the Constitution prove high crimes and misdemeanors , requiring the interposition of the constitutional powers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hold meetings in the City of Washington , D. C. , and elsewhere , and to send for persons and papers , to administer the customary oath to witnesses , all process to be signed by the clerk of the House of Representatives under its seal and ? be served by the sergeant-at-arms of the House or his special messenger ; to sit during the sessions of the House until adjournment sine die of the Seventieth Congress and thereafter until said inquiry is completed and reported to the Seventy-first Congress . Section 2 : That said special committee he and the same is hereby authorized to employ such stenographic , clerical and other assistance as they may deem necessary . and all expense incurred by said committee . including the expense of such committee when sitting in or outside of the District of Columbia , shall be paid out of the contingent funds of the House of Representatives on vouchers ordered by said committee , signed by the chairman of said committee ; provided , however , that the total expenditures authorized by this resolution shall not exceed the sum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today that when he requested the Attorney General to make an inquiry into the LaGuardia charges it was because he had received unofficial information that the Attorney General was ready to do so . He declared that in view of the Attorney General 's declaration that he had no authority to conduct such an inquiry it was the duty of the Judiciary Committee to go ahead with an investigation of its own . Chairman Graham re ! mained in the House until a late hour this afternoon with a view to                     