@@695014

txt Following a conference with Mayor Thompson , Gov . Len Small announced yesterday that . ho . will call a special session of . the general assembly for May .15 to consider giving : Chicago home rule over its oublientilitieti . Through his personal counsel , Werner W. Schroeder , who also sat in the conference , Coy . Small gave out a written statement that this step was in conformity with his campaign pledge given to Mayor Thompson at the outset of the primary battle . Mayor Thompson made no state ; ment supplementing the . governor 's but it is understood that he intends to hurry up the city council and Its committee on local transportation so that a definite transit program will be ready to submit to the legislature when it convene &; Gov . Small 's Statement . Gov . Small 's statement follows : " In accordance with the pledge made by coo during the recent primary campaign , I shall call a special session of the general assembly convene on May 15 , RIM for the pur ? pose of giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the management and control of their miblic ' , Unities , as well as full power to negotiate and grant franchises tp utilities scry Mg the people of Chicago ; such fran . Chises to become effectivn'OnlY- when approved by a majority vote of the people . - " it is my plan also to communicate with the mayor and city council and request that they prepare bills and have them ready for submission to the legislature on ' May ' 15 . Any civic ofganization , public bodies or individuals who may have , . plans for home rule which they may desire to submit are requested to have their bills drawn and ready for ' introduction at that time . " Carries Out Campaign fledge . Before his statement wasnmde public , Gov . Small bad started on his way back to his home in Kankakee and no amplification of its contents was obtainable . But there had been reports current for some time that he had determined to carry out his campaign pledge to the letter . " The governor does not intend , " said a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jet the public tho impression that his part of tile pre-primary agreement with Mayor ThomPson was a bluff that can be forgotten now that the campaign Woven " Time for City to Act . " . " If the administration is sincere In wanUng home rule it still has time to whip its proposal into definite ' form before the session convenes . " . Representatives of the governor said the call will be limited to the subject of home rule for Chicago and one other , the use to which the $6 , - 500,000 collected in gasoline taxes be ? 1 fore the tax law was declared uncoilstitutional shall be put . It will not Include provision for consideration of a new gas tax measure , they said . Therefore that subject can not be brought up . Aldermen Wait on Mayor . Informed of the action of the governor . members of the city council said the action of the council committee on transportation .. will depend largely on Mayor Thompson . If the mayor has an agreement with the governor , they said , and cracks the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and night sessions in order to decide upon the five bills it already has under ; consideration . A meeting of the committee Is scheduled for Monday . the first . since two weeks before the primary election . The five bills under consideration are : 1 . A bill for a terminable permit ; 2 , a bill caning for consolidation and unifications or the elevated , surface and bus lines : 3 , a subway bill , empowering the city to start digging ; 4 , tho home rule bill ; 5 , a technical MIL repealing the 20 year franchise clause and permitting the terminable franchise .                     