@@695782

txt Representative JOHN C. Box of Texas , who has been elected Democratic whip of the House , evidently takes his duties seriously . It might even be said that he takes them portentously . For the function of the ordinary whip is certainly not to set up as a leader or to formulate policies for his party . His business is to see that the Democratic members of the House are kept well advised of the legislative situation , informed when important debates are coming on , and notified to be present in Washington when it is desirable that a full vote shall be recorded . He is in reality a lieutenant of the leader . But Mr. Box gravely steps forward as if he were commanding General . His letter to Governor ROOSEVELT , in reply to the latter 's congratulations , undertakes a survey of the entire political situation in the country , with the special object of pointing out the possibilities of unifying and strengthening the Democratic party . What he says on this point is well enough , so far as it goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Box is vehemently for Democratic " principles , " if some one will only tell him what they are . On almost every suggested issue he admits that the party is divided , but cheerfully believes that something like a consensus could be arrived at if only enough Democrats would get together and talk things ever . In only one matter is Mr. Box dogmatically positive . This is his assertion that if the forces within the party which brought about the nomination of Governor SMITII seek to retain control , the consequence will be the loss of the entire South , the further alienation of the East and the " permanent estrangement " of the West . Thus it would look as if there would not be left even a patch of woods to which despondent Democrats like Representative Box could betake themselves . Where his letter is not so vague as to be pointless it is filled with gloomy apprehension . That is proof enough that if its writing was gratuitous , its publishing was superfluous . It leads nowhere at present . By so much it confirms the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to fuss and fume about revivifying and reuniting the party  --  a task just now impossible for any leader or group of leaders  --  but to " let things stew a while . " Historically , there was once a whip applied with good effect to a corrupt theatre , but at this stage of the political situation the best thing to do with all Democratic whips is to keep them safely locked up until they can be laid on Republican backs .                     