@@686061

txt The naval building holiday suggested by the Japanese Government through the medium of the press received attention today at both the Senate and House ends of the Capitol . Before the House Committee on Naval Affairs , Josephus Daniels , the Secretary- of the Navy , spoke in opposition to the suggestion , while in the upper house , Senator Borah of Idaho seemingly sought to boost the suggestion through offering a. joint resolution designed to bring about an agreement among the United States , Great Britain and Japan for a cessation of warship construction for a period of five years . Mr. Borah 's resolution attracted more attention than the testimony of Mr. Daniels . On its face it was directly in opposition to the Secretary of the Navy 's views , which presumably were the views of the Wilson Administration . But among Senators Senator Borah 's proposal was construed as intended to test the good faith of Japan 's desire for a building holiday , and the announcement of her representative at Geneva that on account of the heavy construction program of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of disarmament . Senator Borah said his resolution if adopted would " develop whether Great Britain and Japan are sincere in the talk of reducing armaments . " Text 44 the Borah Resolution . Senator Borah 's resolution reads : Whereas , a representative and official of the Japanese Government has advised the world that the Japanese Government can not consent even to consider a program of disarmament on account of the naval building program of the United States , and . Whereas , by this statement the world is informed and is expected to believe that Japan sincerely desires to support a program of disarmament , but can not do so in safety to herself on account of the attitude and building program of this Government , and Whereas , the only navies whose size and efficiency require the consideration of this Government in determining the question of the size of its navy are those of Great Britain and Japan , two Governments long associated by an alliance , and Whereas , the United States is now and has ever been in favor of a practical program cf disarmament , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled , that the President of the United States is requested , if not incompatible with the public interests , to advise the Governments of Great Britain and Japan , respectively , that this Government will at once take up directly with the Governments and without awaiting the action of any other nation , the question of disarms. - ment , with a view of quickly coming to an understanding by which the building programs of each of these Governments , to wit , of Great Britain , Japan and the United States , shall be reduced annually during the next five , years to 50 per cent .. of the present rate . Second , that it is the sense of the Congress that in case such an understanding can be reached , it will conform in its appropriations and building program to such an agreement . Resolved , further , that this plan is suggested by the Congress of the United States in order to bring about a. substantial reduction in the naval armament of the world , On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Relations Committee . Daniels Before House Committee . Secretary Daniels went before the House Naval Committee to defend his recommendations for a continuation of the 1916 naval program . He said that he was a pacifist , but that with the " chaos , disagreement and trouble " existing in the world it would be a " blunder worse than crime " for the United States to enter an agreement with two or three nations to stop buildiing . He expressed the opinion that this country must continue to build naval craft until it was determined . whether the United States would enter into a League of Nations or some association that would have power to decide the question of the armament of nations . In his testimony , given in open seesion , Mr. Daniels declared that the United States must protect what it has and he then proceeded to say that the coast of Alaska , and the distant possessions could not be allowed to go unprotected . While he gave the committee the impression that a large navy was necessary to protect our interests . Mr. Daniels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more definite statement , he said that he did not think It wise to discuss his reasons in public . The committee decided to hear him next Thursday in executive session , when , he will lay before it in confidence the needs for an enlarged navy . ? Mr. Daniels quoted figures prepared by Admiral Coontz , Chief of Naval Operations , to show the present naval strength of Great Britain , Japan and the United States . If naval construction were stopped now , he said , the United States would be in second place , closely followed by Japan . The present naval strength in first-line ships as given by Admiral Coontz , is : Great Britain , 804,050 tons ; United States , 468,000 tons , and Japan . 325,000 tons . " If Great Britain engages in no new construction between now and January , 1924 , the American Navy then will he supreme in first-line ships , " declared Secretary Daniels . " Our country can not afford to take a holiday in naval construction or in aircraft or in the carrying forward and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world in these days of chaos , differences and disagreement . " It would be a blunder worse than a : crime for the United States to agree with two or three other nations to stop naval building . It would create world suspicion , instead of world stability . Such an agreement can be made only by all the nations of the world . Quoting a speech made by Senator Harding at Norfolk on the policy of a big navy , in which he declared that the United States should not end its naval building program until its policy as to entering a league to govern armament had , been decided , Mr. Daniels said : " I am in accord with what he has said on the subject . It shows he has studied and grasped the large world problems the United States has to face . " Chairman Butler interrupted to say that Senator Harding was surrounded by " much gold lace " when he made these recommendations and that " puts the blood to bounding . " Representative Britten of Illinois suggested that in 1924 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain 's 900,000 tons . . " Our superiority in tonnage will be about 30 per cent .. " he said , " to say nothing of our superiority in speed and guns . " Representative Padgett of Tennessee asked Secretary Daniels if he thought the country would be in better shape to make appropriations next December . " I have ceased making prophesies , " replied the Secretary . ' My plans do not contemplate my remaining here until next December . " CRITICISES OUR NAVAL PLAN . London Chronicle Finds Contradiction of " Spirit of Monroe Doctrine . " Special Cable to Tim NEW YORK Times . LONDON , Dec. ** Daily Chronicle says editorially : " The League of Nations , it seems , is a wonderfully convenient thing in political argument in the United .. States no matter what it may be desired to prove . If the Americans enter the League , it used to be argued , they will become mixed up in European affairs and be unveil to maintain a large army and navy . But because America has not entered the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Navy , she stands alone and must prepare to defend her interests against any combination . The fact at any rate remains that he approves the recommendation that Congress should authorize another three-year program , to be begun as soon as the sixteen capital ships now building are finished . " The question that is not ' yet satisfactorily answered is against what enemy and for what exact purpose is this force being built up . Mr. Daniels says against any combination , but we hardly suppose he means to build against the combined navies of the Old World . and Japan . We are led in any case to the conclusion that the attempt to build against any European navy or combination of navies is in itself a contradiction of that spirit of the Monroe Doctrine which led to the rejection of the League , for it implies an entanglement in European affairs . The argumcnts which Mr. Daniels uses are arguments not so much for a big American navy which can be used for no purpose but aggression , but for entering into closer understanding with possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not an increase , of armaments . That was the ideal of the League of Nations . " The Daily News says today 's debate on disarmament by the League of Nations Assembly " will bring disappointment to millions of people who are looking to the League of Nations to stop the international race in armaments . " " The debate , " it adds , " revealed the presence of so many faltering nations in the League that the prospect of worldwide agreement to reduce military standards seems to be fading away . All the great nations are groaning under the load of taxation which threatens them with bankruptcy , - and that burden is due in large measure to the  --  fact that the Governments concerned are Still safeguarding ' themselves against war . In other words , they- are preparing for truth was . "                     