@@686064

txt Action of the Mexican Eagle Oil interests in acquiring concessions to oil lands granted hastily at midnight prior to the expiration of the temporary administration of de In Huerta as president of Mexico , credited to the Royal Dutch company . Another one of the latter 's Mexican subsidaries , the Corona company , also is named as obtaining concessions of this character . It is not believed that if Lord Cowdray were still in control of the Mexican Eagle property this grabbing of oil lands would have been countenanced by this company . Lord Cowdray sold his interest in the Mexican Eagle property for 512,000,000 more than a year ago . An unfortunate aspect of the situation , whereby concessions to oil lands owned by Americans and others were granted under conditions regarded as reprehensible , is that the Mexican Eagle company is a member of the Association of Oil Producers in Mexico , comprising practically all of the American oil companies operating in Mexico . Under Royal Dutch control this company has acted jointly with the association in making representations to Washington against the confiscatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its British offices has been partly instrumental in bringing about a joint protest by the British government . Resentment against the Mexican Eagle company and its Royal Dutch control and against grafting Mexican officials just leaving office is undisguised , but oil men generally take the position that the situation in one respect , at least , has improved decidedly . The Mexican oil affair is now a part of the big international oil question , which first came into prominence through the grab of the Mesopotamian oil fields by the governments of Great Britain and France , the former getting 75% of the oil wealth and the latter 25% . The international oil question is one which vitally interests the various governments as well as the companies involved , and complete confidence is expressed by American oil men that the American State Department will arrive at satisfactory results . The resignation of the Mexican Eagle Oil Co. from the Association of Producers in Mexico has not yet been accepted . It has been referred to a committee which will determine what action is to be taken in respect of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expelled from the association . The present situation is the acid test for Obregon , who is now president of Mexico . If he countenances this jobbing of concessions by de la Huerta and members of the latter 's Cabinet , the Mexican oil question can well be regarded as hopeless so far as Mexicans are concerned . On the other hand if he is the big man which his friends believe him to be and repudiates this wholesale juggling of concessions in the last few minutes of de la Huerta 's administration , he is the hope of Mexico . Men with big interests in Mexico believe that Obregon is a big man , and are hopeful front the Mexican viewpoint as well as from the determination of the American State Department to protect the rights of the citizens of the United States .                     