@@687370

txt ' Within the next few days Judge Landis will hold a conference with representatives of the Associated Builders of Chicago and the Building Construction : Employers ' association  --  the two large contractors ' associations  --  to decide upon a wage scale tor the mum ing trades for the year starting June 1 . It is believed that there will be no change from the scale decided upon last . September by Judge Landis . Judge Landis at a recent rehearing raised the rate of pay in several of the trades when it was shown that they had not received an equitable wage provision in the original award . Neither of the two builders ' associations will make any recommendations relative to a new wage scale , it was announced yesterday . This lea , , ? .4. the matter solzly be7 tv. - cen the union officials and the arbiter . Union Leaders Balk . Last week leaders of the unions de clared that under no circumstances would they appear before Judge Landis as arbitrator for the building trades . It is said that a petition signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Landis , asking him to resign from his position as arbitrator . Under the award made Sept. 7 it was also agreed that on or before Feb. 1 . 1922 , the umpire should determine the rates of pay for the building trades unions from May 31 for the period of coo year . A delegation from the twe builders ' associations were appear-before the Judge yesterday ' to argue their side of Any proposed wage changes . Judge Landis was ill , but the leaders of both employing groups made it plain that ' A ley would advise no changes from the present scale . Confidence in Landis . " ' We feel that Judge Landis is us familiar with conditions in the building Industry as we are , " averred Edward M. Craig , secretary of - the BUilding c3onstruction Employers ' association . " We are willing to leave it entirely up to the Judgc . " The Associated Builders took ' the same stand and pointed to a resolution passed by their organization , which read as follows : " Moved and seconded that the Associated Builders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or consent to his withdrawal 1,8 arbitrator In the building trades dispute . " That they also notify him that the Associated Buildes ? has no recommendation to make iegarding a wage scale in the building trades for the year beginning June 1 ; 1922 . " Business Agents Meet . The board of business agents of the Chicago Building Trades council met yesterday In Hodcarriers ' hall to discuss further action in calling strikes on construction work where nonunion mechanics are employed . The business agents represented the twenty-eight building trade organizations that have                     