@@691910

txt President Coolidge conferred four hours today at White Court with Senator James E. Watson of Indiana , one of the Republican leaders of the Senate , who will be . Chairman of the Commerce Committee . They discussed railroad legislation and a variety of subjects dealing principally with the Administration 's legislative program . The coal situation and local and national politics also came up in the conference . According to Senator Watson , the President made it very clear that he was especially desirous of bringing about a general consolidation of railroads as a means of relieving the situ , ad.:in and solving the rate problem . The Indiana Senator declared Ile was as ardently in favor of railroad consolida-% tion as the President was . He said that during their talk it was agreed that the Senator should take charge of legislation to amend the lilsch-Cummins act so as to give the railroads from five to seven years to effect the consolidations voluntarily , after which time consolidation would be made compulsory . That President Coolidge favors compulsory consolidation of the carriers was heard with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had on the question . It was recalled that lawyers in the Senate , in , eluding Messrs . Pepper . and Reed of Pennsylvania , had declared that corn ' pulsory consolidation was clearly uncoxstitutional . The compulsory , feature of the Cummins bill met with such stubborn opposition in the last Senate as to forecast defeat of any railroad legislation con ' taining it , even though President Coolidge should support the priposal , as reported today by Senator Watson . Hope for Nickel Plate Merger , The Senator said both he and the President believed railroad consolidation would be greatly encouraged if the Intel ' state Commerce Commission successfully works out the Van Sweringen-Nickel I Plate appeal for a merger . " We expect this merger to serve as a model for the other roads to follow , " Mr. Watson said . " This merger , if h allowed by the commission , should open the way for others . Both the President and I hope so . " Proper consolidation , will unquestionably take care of* the so-called weak lines , and there are any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet the great increase in the cost of railroad operation . There are more than 50,060 miles of weak roads . " Besides this phase of the consolidation subject , there is the possibility of its serving as a ready cure for the railroad rate troubles . Revision of rates is something the agriculturista ? have been crying for . and we feel confident that proper mergings of roads will make lowering of rates possible . " In reviewing the tentative legislative program for the Senate , Mr. Watson said he looked for the greatest fight in connection with , railroad legislation . He feels certain that when this matter comes before the Senate it will result in a reopening of the entire railroad question . He expects the long disputed question of long and short hauls will reappear and assume great importance. , Rail Labor Board Dispute . Another troublesome feature expected to appear will be attempts to bring about abolition of the Railroad Labor Board so that organized labor and the railroads will wage a stubborn fight on these subjects . Senator Watson thinks It is not improbable that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to some extent . He believes it should be given some authority in the matter of fixing wage scales after proper arbitration has failed . " The source of much trouble now is Section 15A , commonly known as the guarantee clause , " Senator Watson said . " Consolidation will ' remove the irritation of this clause . I believe that everything possible mho* be done to stabilize railroad securities so that the public will have no fear in investing capital in railroads . This is a feature that should be borne in mind when this legislation comes before Congress . " Senator Watson left ' White Court this afternoon , saying that , at the request of the President , he would go to Chicago within a few days to confer with Senator Cummins of Iowa to obtain any suggestions the latter may have to make In connection with rail consolidation and rail legislation generally. , Senator Watson said the Iowa Senator was regarded as one of the best railroad authorities in the country , and because of this the'President desired him to have his assistance . Mr. Watson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compulsory consolidation . he did not believe he would make this an Issue in the coming session . Senator Watson said the President impressed upon him his desire to have railroad legislation ' placed near the top of the list when the party 's legislative program is finally agreed upon . The Senator expects the railroad matter to come before the Senate directly after tax revision . Immigration on the Program . The President and Senator Watson discussed the program-dn'a general way . and the Satittar ABU Uttar that the program would include tax revision , railroads , World Ceurt and immigration , He explained that there was a strong movement by Senators of both parties to bring about further immigration rest:it:dons , with particular reference to ' limiting South American immigration . In Mr. Watson 's opinion there is a I strong likelihood of a general public building program for the District of Columbia . The Administration 's Reorganization bill had a good chalice to pass , the Senator said , if offered at the coming session , but the President did not Indicate today that he wanted it among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Watson said he felt errtela that the World Court proposal would be passed in some form , but he did no I want to make any guesses at this time , He assured the President that he would support the proposal if he ' is convinced there vas no likelihood of the United States becoming linked up with the League of Nations . . " I have always been a. bitter otiponent of the League , " Mr. Watson said , " anti I have n't changed any , but if I can be shown that our entering the World Court is given the proper safeguards as to the League obligations I will support the Administration 's program . " Sure of Tax Revision . The Senator told the President he did not expect any difficulty in getting through a tax revision bill , as there was every indication of practical unanimity regarding it among the legislators . The consensus of opinion among those members of Congress with whom he had talked was that the maximum normal tax should be kept at 5 or 6 per cent . and the surtax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Watson informed the President that he had heard of some threats of the minority ' party to bring up the tariff revision question at the coming sessioe , but he doubted very much if this would actually be done . He feels sure no attempt will be made at tile coming aession to revise the tariff . During his conference with the Presideet . Senator Watson said , the coal question was touched upon , but he was not fit liberty to discuss ' this conversation for publication . Be said he felt convinced that the President stood ready to handle the matter with a firm hand in the event of any grave crisis . Rail Men Mame Compulsory Plan . Many railroad men in the financial district believe that any attempt to forte the carriers to consolidate would result in weakening the roans ' earning power . They contend that there are both weak and strong consolidations , and that uni , fication is successful in remedying railroad ills only when dictated by economic laws . - Despite this belief , they are . for the most part , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that known as the Four System Plan , if President Coolidge clings to the idea of compulsory consolidation after he has been apprised of the railroad executives ' point of view . A unification plan recently submitted to the Interstate Commerce Commission by Leonor F : Loree , President of the Delaware &; Hudson and Chairman of the Kansas City Southern , has done much to upset previously conceived consolidation schemes by the trunk lines and the Commerce Commission . Me , Loree is credited in the financial district with having radically altered the situation and made necessary a differant set of groupings frorii-thoae beret. ) . fore contemplated ,                     