@@695296

txt vtrectors of the General Motors corporation declined today to accept a Proffered resignation of their chairman , : Pierre S. du Pont , but granted him an indefinite leave of absence so that he may , if he wishes , advocate the repeal of the prohibition amend . Ment , without creating ' the suspicion that the corporation is identified with the agitation . By this action the board is believed , to have patched up what threatened to be a serious quarrel among important groups in the corporation . Du Pont had determined to sever his executive connection with the business and thereby follow the example of his friend and associate , John J. Raskob , who resigned the chairmanship of the finance committee of General Motors after becoming chairman of the Democratic national committee . Explanation Issued . The following statement was issued by President Alfred P. Sloan Jr. : " Mr. Pierre S. Du Pont submitted to the directors ? his resignation us chairman for the reason that he felt that his activities in connection with the Association Against the Prohibl tion Amendment might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impression that General Motor : was involved in the movement . " The board felt that the position of the corporation , having been stated was understood and that all snouts appreciate that Mr. Du Pont 's activities in connection With the association 's work are entirely those of an individual and did not concern the corporation . The resignation was , therefore , not accepted and Mr. Du Pont was accorded a leave of absence instead . " Favors Ai Smith . Du Pont is understood to favor Gov . Smith 's election but there has been no intimation as to how active he will be in the campaign . The Fisher brothers of Detroit , some of whom are reputed to be ardent Hoover supporters , are said to have actively advocated Mr. Raskob 's resignation from General Motors . According to reports in Wall street , Mr. Du Pont took sides with Mr. Raskob and it has bene rumored that a rift developed between the Fisher and the Du Pont interests in the cobporation . Du Pont , as chairman of the board of E. I. Du @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the common stock of General Motors , has been looked upon as the dominant figure in that . corporation . He is a cousin of T. Coleman Du Pont , Repuobean senator from Delaware . Du Pont , in addition ts his heavy holdings In General Motors and the Du Pont do Nemours company , is h. director of the General Exchange Insurance company , American International corporation , General Motors Acceptance corporation , Bankers Trust company and other corporations , and i vice president and director of the Wilmington Trust company . Raskob has resigned from the exectltive committee of the Missouri Pacific railroad , it was learned today . He also has resigned as director of the Gulf Coast lines and the Texas and Pacific rail way .                     