@@696271

txt MUSEUMS HAVE NOT KEPT UP WITH CHANGES IN CONDITIONS One Finds Them in Much the Same Position As the Pubic Libraries Were Before the Open-Shelf Policy Was Adopted To the Editor ol The New . York Tines : Museums have not adapted themselves to the new social , economic and educational conditions which have arisen in the last six or seven decades . As they passed from the hands of the ruling aristocracy they retained their fundamental character of seclusion . Their trustees , directors , experts and curators , being absorbed ' in acquisition , identification , labeling and preservation , came to think that what they had done was all that museums should be asked to do . Museums have not radically changed their methods , although we have added to the factors of our daily life countless things , from cheap steel to cheap print and from department stores to universal education . It is absurd to hope that the museum which was not adjusted even to the type of society of the days in which its form and manners were determined , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern inventions have changed us . We are today absorbed in a thousand activities and moved by 10,000 stimulants to see , to enjoy and to learn , none of which existed fifty years ago . Yet museums generally still seem to believe that they are exerting a deep and widespread influence on the development of art interests of all kinds . Libraries Changed Their Ways . Forty years ago , only two libraries in the country permitted borrowers to see and handle their books . To borrow a book , one selected from a printed list , wrote on a slip a mystic number , passed the slip to an attendant through a hole in a fence and awaited results . It was obvious that a collection of books thus guarded could have small influence . A modest crusade for the " open shelf " in libraries was soon under way . In 1894 , at a national library conference , there were present six rather timid advocates of the proposed revolution ; but by 1900 the " open shelf " was an accepted idea in all libraries not unduly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change was not simply a change in an administrative detail ; it was a radical change in the attitude of an institution toward the public which it was created to serve . With the adoption of the " open shelf , " libraries straightway became institutions hospitable to the last degree to both old and young . They gave a service stimulating in a score of ways , not simply toward reading and study ; and they gained thereby the good-will and the generous support of their communities . Art museums are in much the same condition of self-contemplation and self-appreciation in which were our public libraries forty years ago . Their trustees and administrators are deeply interested in the objects which have come under their care ; but they seem to give little thought to the service those objects could render to their several communities , were they applied fully and heartily to that service . More Liberal Policy Needed . Obviously they should look upon their collections as means to certain ends and not as ends themselves , and thus arouse in the general public the attitude toward them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Museums must advertise . Thus they would make known their collections ; would tell how they can best be enjoyed by visitors ; how they can be made of use by students ; what the management plans for the future , and what new work could be carried on were income increased . Today advertising is the mother of use . If a community establishes an institution for the pleasure and profit of its people , its administrators should feel that their earliest duty is to make widely known its position , its hours of opening , its contents , its activities and the help it can give to the public . A museum should advertise freely until it enjoys such daily patronage and use as is manifestly a fair return to the community for the money it costs . Nor should this nevertising expenditure be shirked by a museum 's management because it gets what it considers ample publicity through the courtesy of the daily press . The press should not be expected to give a public institution all the advertising that the community may properly ask for . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Through them It can make its influence felt in all of the city , and especially in parts other than the remote aristocratic quarter in which it stands . Branches would be well visited if well advertised . For a museum to think that Its treasures are so important that all who wish to learn of art will come to visit it no matter how remote or how few its open hours is in assumption born of isolation , and fie seclusive spirit , and of a touch of the curious superstition that museum 's objects owe their existence to the experts and curators who groom and install them . Museums should lend objects to public , private and parochial schools ; to libraries , academies , colleges , universities and educational bodies of every kind ; to societies for self-improvement ; to churches ; to educational clubs ; to hospitals , recreation centres and rest houses in public parks and gardens . This will be expensive , surely ; but will bring large returns ; public institutions set up for general welfare are supported by taxation quite in accordance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , in a paper prepared for the American Association of Museums , I urged these two fundamental and most essential reforms ? branches and lending collections . There is no small promise that the ; , will soon be adopted by not a fess museums . Museums should be open evenings , It will be said that evening opening has proved to be not worth while , for few visitors come . But museum . " which have tried it are most of them remote from the homes of those whc can make museum visits only on evenings , holidays and Sundays . That few will visit under proper conditions has not yet been proved . More suggestions are not needed . I do not offer a definite program of radical changes . Museums need a change of heart ; the change of manner will then come of its own notion . Museums now preserve things ; here is the suggestion that they use things . Museums are bound up heart and soul in their collections ; here is an appeal that they be also thoughtful of those for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locked up in our museums in. objects which are capable of giving pleasure , enlightenment , incentive and education . Those in charge of them are eager to have them used to all possible good ends . If they will show by changes in manner and method that they intend to have them so used , the expense of that use will be forthcoming . J. C. DANA . New York , May 27 , 1929.                     