@@690535

txt In his first campaign speech at Seagirt yesterday Mr. Jost W. DAVIS gave the Republicans a foretaste of the kind of fight he means to make upon them It will be aggressive from the start . Mr. Davis evidently intends to force the attack all along the line . But first of all he challenges the President to make a like pronouncement with his regarding the Klan in order that this issue may be eliminated and the more vital questions be brought to the front . He justly conceives of this Presidential election as equivalent to a vote of confidence by the people as between parties . That necessitates a comparison of their respective records . Mr. Davis serves notice that he intends to make his searching of the Republican record unsparing . It is not a question of " personalities . " The Democratic candidate disclaims any thought of bringing railing accusations against President COOLIDGE . But he objects to the attempt of Republican leaders to hide behind Mr CooLmos . What they are endeavoring to do , declares Mr. DAVIS , is to reorganize their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " taking over any discoverable assets " and repudiating all unpleasant lia " bilities . " As a lawyer representing the creditors . Mr. DAVIS does not propose to allow the liabilities to be forgotten . This is tearfully objected to by Republicans as " mud-slinging . " But the question is , Who furnished the mud . Mr. Davis yesterday gave only a hint of the line of evidence which can be produced  --  really only reproduced  --  regarding the Republican scandals which broke the morale of the party during the last session of Congress . The effectiveness of this sort of political argument may still be in doubt ? we can tell about that later  --  but its propriety can not be challenged . If a party is not to be held responsible for its misdeeds , then the political value of having government by party at all is badly impaired . The kind of attack which Mr Davis makes has always been regarded in American politics as legitimate Candidates have from time Immemorial had the habit of going to the people and asking them if they did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a change is desirable , it is necessary to set forth everything that can be interpreted as misfeasance in office . Every official who can fairly be charged with that is fair game for political campaigners . We are glad to see that The Herald Tribune is frank enough to admit this . It concedes that there can be no objection to a statement of the facts concerning " Republican corruption . " It adds : The Democrats are entitled to make the most of that , and it is right that the facts should be presented to the American people . It is a black spot in the Republican record and properly to be weighed by the voters in the campaign . The same holds true of the corruption in the Veterans ' Bureau . Mr. awls need ask no other excuse or justification for his determination to expose and denounce the derelictions of the party in power . His further outline yesterday of the issues that divide the two parties is an earnest of the debating which is to come concerning many matters besides corruption . These are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' himself ready to meet his opponents at every point . One of the sharpest challenges which he addresses to the Republicans has to do with the very organization ? . of their party itself . He draws a picture , not exaggerated , of " a President facing in one direction , a " Congress in another , and the rank " and file scattered in between . " By - contrast-  he speaks of the Democratic Party as harmonious and " marching to a common . end . " This must mean what Mr. Davis is aiming at rather than what has already been achieved . Indeed , as no one more clearly recognizes than he himself , a large part of the task laid upon him is to unite anti inspire a party which was left much shaken after the bitter struggles in. the Democratic National Convention . No one is better fitted that Mr. Davis for the work which he is now caned upon to do , but neither he nor the party at large should be in any doubt that it is a work exceedingly difficult . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sufficient to change the whole aspect of the campaign . The response of the country thus far to his personality and appeal has been markedly encouraging . In politics it may not be true always that well begun is half done , but it is something for a party to have its chosen leader begin so well . -                     