@@695693

txt Chile , the first . of the South American A B C nations to be visited iiy the President-elect , . welcomed Herbert Hoover today . . It was a reception marked by dignity but not without ovations by the populace . The military was prominent throughout the affair , for Chile is extremely proud of her army and exhibited it in all its glory to Mr. Hoover as he arrived in the capital in the forenoon by train from . Valparaiso and again as he passed through the streets of Santiago in the afternoon . Chilean army planes flew over the battleship Maryland as it reached Valparaiso with the Hoover party soon after sunrise . The official greeting . at the port was brief before Mr. Hoover entrained for Santiago . Here the beautiful Alameda , the Fifth Avenue of the Chilian capital , waslined for more than two miles with troops , all splendidly uniformed and with the most modern equipment . Lancers. infantry , machine gun units , mountain batteries , de . ' tachments with field pieces and a motor transport train were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . these cordons Mr ; Hoover rode in a State carriage with President Carlos Ibanez , who had mlt him at the station , at the head of a great parade from the railroad terminal toward the American Embassy , an imposing building fronting on the beautiful Parque . Forestal and directly facing the noted ' memorial erected on the 300th anniversary of the discovery of the Straits Of Magellan . Fully 100,000 persons , it is estimated , : saw Mr. Hoover as , with Senor Ibanez and followed , in other ' Carriages by . Cabinet Ministers , members of the American Embassy staff And American and Chilian naval and army officers , he slowly made his way along the Alameda . There was little hurrahing , but much handclapping , . waving of flags and thousands of smiling faces , in evidence of the cordial appreciation ' of the people generally for the first visit of a . President-elect . of the United States . The day was notable ! in that it was the first time ashore on his LatinAmerican mission when Mr. Hoover has had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed another . First came a luncheon at the Embassy ; then an official call on President'Ibanez. and -a return call by the President ' at the Embassy . : Through the streets ' the parties-Were accompanied by ? detachmelits ? of all branches ' , of the army .. with inauy bandsi , . indinding a ' Splendid mounted unit , alteinately American and Chilean. : a:11-8 , with repeated renditions Of national anthems of the two ' countries : Overhead the Chilean planes again staged an air demonstration . Next Mr. Hoover received members of the American colony here . at the Embassy . This evening he ' is the guest at a dinner at the Embassy at which President Ibanez , members of the . Cabinet and diplomatic corps and leaders in the financial , business , and social life of Santiago are present . Mr. Hoover was delighted . at the chance : to mingle with people and talk in man-to-man fashion . . But this : was . only . for today , for tomorrow at a luncheon which the Chilean Government will give in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ibanez will reply . Mr. Hoover 's address is expected to be . his most extended utterance since leaving home shores . It is unlikely that it will contain any political references , but it Will constitute a warm plea for a better understanding and closer cooperation in all movements for the betterment of the North American and South American nations . . In the afternoon Mr. ? Hoover will receive an honorary degree iron ! the Chilean Institute of Engineers . Afterward he will make a trip into magnificent country around Santiago , where , there are among the best views in all South America of the snow-capped peaks of the Andes . At 7 o'clock tomorrow evening he will leave by train for Los Andes , thereto spend the night before beginning the journey across the mountains - to Argentina . ? Last night as the Maryland was plunging through half a gale it looked as if the worst sort of weather would be Mr : Hoover 's lot , but sunup , - with Valparaiso Harbor in sight , found the skies clearing and a fog lifting . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Southern Temperate Zone. - Eastward in the distance were the giant peaks of the Andes , while to the west were the lesser yet inspiring summits of the coast range . Chile 's Cordiality Evident . Chile in the past has been a ' fertile . field for propaganda against the United States . But now on all sides there is evidence that the influences which brought about are . - rapidly losing effectiveness . Not one Chilean with whom the correspondent talked but declared that the friendship of the two nations was never so secure as now . The confidence apparent here in the polic ? of amity which Mr. Hoover will hold as President is expressed in editorials in the leading newspapers . La Nacion , the organ of the Ibanez Government , says : " Air . Hoover . with the typical virtues of the Quaker , is worthy of the nation which has just bestowed on him the title of first citizen of the land . He is the most representative American . Ever since the days of Washington and Franklin. , the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes stretching out a friendly hand . " Chile 's handshake will be restrained , but cordial . He will find Chile sincerely willing , open-minded and thoroughly conscious of the duty imposed on each and every American nation by our common destiny . ' Welcoming him , we take pleasure in stating our fondest hopes that during his administration the bonds linking us will be strengthened even more . " Says Welcome Is Sincere . El Mercurio , the oldest newspaper in South America , asserts : " Although Chile 's welcome may lack the . effusive expressions of other countries , it is no less:sincere . We will not seek to influence Mr. Hoover 's opinion of Chile by laudatory expressions ; but prefer that he meet Chileans at close quarters and reach his own understanding of our country . - ' More than $600,000.000 from the United States is invested in Chile at this moment , and hundreds of Americans are coope  --  atine in the development of this country . The people of Chile only want to take Mr. Hoover 's hand and say , ' Make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conveying more affectionate sincerity and simplicity than all the dramatic formula hitherto employed . " El Diario , leading Conservative paper of Santiago , in its editorial calls the Hoover trip to Latin America one of the great events in the history of the countries he is visiting , adding that his tour has assumed " the beautiful contours of a triumphal march . " It speaks of Mr. Hoover as the champion of private effort and initiative and one of the most representative men of the American union . Finally , La Union of Valparaiso declares that Mr. Hoover in coming to South America has awakened new confidence between the United States and her sister nations to the south . His - visit , it says , in so far as it concerns Chile and the United States , ' will lead to real sympathy and understanding between the peopres of the two nations . Mrs. Hoover this afternoon was entertained by the wives of memnhere of the Cabinet and leaders in the society of the capital . She did not participate in the public function in honor , of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as guest at the State luncheon at the National Palace . other officials of the port welcomed the President-elect , and a group of American residents was on hand to cheer him . Mayor Roses presented to Mrs. Hoover two beautiful - pieces of old colonial silver . The Mayor accompanied the Hoover train to Santiago . United States Ambassador William S. Culbertson and J. G. Lay , Councilor of the Embassy , were in Valparaiso also to greet Mr. Hoover and accompany him to the capital with the official Chilean ' party . For more than three hours the special train passed through a country very similar to Mr. Hoover 's home neighborhood in , California . A . hot sun shone from a cloudless sky , early Summer flowers were in bloom , and from villas upon the hillside and at every station along the route smiling people waved greetings to the travelers . This was all a : preface to a tremendous outpouring In the capital . It was estimated that at least 100,000 people were on the five miles of splendid avenues through which Mr. Hoover was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other members of the Cabinet to the United States Embassy in the heart of the city . Lines of Chilean infantry , cavalry and police guarded the route , but were scarcely needed , as.the.crowds made no effort to break through the lines . Mr. Hoover and the President of Chile rode in a gold-decorated carriage of state . Their immediate escort . was a troop of the . Presidential Lancers carrying pennants of alternately the United-States . and Chilean flags . The Lancers were superbly mounted , and their prancing steeds beat time - to the natiOnal'anthems of . both countries as played by bands in the plaza and in the procession . Airplanes droned overhead . Sidewalks , balconies and roofs showed flower-throwing , smiling people , all of whom waved and many of whom cheered as the . gay.cavalcade classed . President Ibanez wore the uniform of a- General , while Mr .. Hoover was in formal morning dress . The President-elect and Mrs. Hoover lunched at the embassy with Ambassador Culbertson . The first event on the program at 2:30 in the afternoon was a call by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to the embassy President Ibanez made a return call there . Then . Mr. Hoover went to the Union Club , where the American colony gave a reception in his honor . This evening Ambassador . Culbersort was host at a dinner , at which President Ibanez and . Mr. Hoover were joint guests of honor . A general reception at the em ( basser , attended by Chilean society generally and leaders of all the foreign colonies here , wound up tke busy day . Santiago 's foremost newspapers , La Nacion , La Union , El Diario and El Mercurio , all made . lavish displays today of , pictures and news accounts of the Hoover visit . They all , however , expressed the editorial thought that , while much good would come from the visit , more would have been accomplished if it could have been made longer . Considerable space was also devoted to Ambassador Henry P. Fletcher , who was stationed here before he was accredited to Rome . La Nacion , which is the government organ , welcomed Mr. Fletcher 's arrival as adviser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chile . " The article said : " Mr. Fletcher 's return is especially welcome to Chileans because he knows who and what we are and he is our friend . " Sea Rough on Last Night . ABOARD THE U. ' S. S. MARYLAND , ' Dec. 10 ** Pacific gave the Hoover party a farewell last night that belied it name . A brisk wind kicked up a fairly heavy sea which caused the Maryland to pitch and roll steadily as she moved southward ? toward Valparaiso at a speed of fifteen knots , - Mr . Hoover was little- affected by the rolling and several times took long brisk walks on the deck .. The Chilean cruiser Chacabuco , which was accompanying the Maryland , labored through the heavy seas . She frequently took water over her bow , and sometimes the rollers threw her prow into the air . The Chilean vessel , . however , kept . a steady pace under a forced draft . Commander Lane , chief medical officer of the Maryland . will accompany the Hoover party as far as Buenos Aires , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greeted by Scores of Thousands . SANTIAGO , Chile , Dec. 10 Herbert Hoover , President-elect of the United States , was received with highest official honors and a picturesque , popular outpouring both in this city and Valparaiso today . The Chileans , who have been called " the Yankees of South America , " turned out by scores of thousands in both cities and government officials said that the reception surpassed any that had ever been given here to a foreigner . Regret , however , was expressed by officials and also by newspapers that it was necessary for Mr. Hoover to limit his visit in ' the beautiful Chilean capital to two days . Aside from friendly criticism on this point , the newspapers unanimously praised Mr. Hoover 's good-will mission and predicted that it would give important results. * Mr. Hoover was unusually honored when President Ibanez went to the ' railroad station here to meet him . This was said to be only the second instance in which a President of Chile had so acted . ' The previous occasion was on the visit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was only 8 A. M. when Mr. Hoover landed from the U. S. S. Maryland . the quays were lined with.many spectators . He walked through lines of soldiers , sailors . naval cadets and police to a special train , while national salutes . were exchanged by guns ashore and ' afloat . The ' salute from the Maryland was also in the nature of a farewell to Mr. Hoover ashe and his party quit the vessel . They will journey overland to the east coast and use the U. S. S.- Utah for . the return northward . Valparaiso Mayor . Meets Him . The station plaza in Valparaiso was packed and streets in every direction were jammed with people eager to catch a glimpse of the Hoover party , Mayor Lautaro Ropesy and                     