@@692615

txt Captain Richard H. Ranger . designer of the photo-radiogram system by which photographs have been transmitted successfully across the Atlantic Ocean by wireless , expects to begin a New York and London service within a few weeks . His method was demonstrated in November , 1924 , when photographs were transmitted for publication from London to New York newspapers with the cooperation of the Radio Corporation of America and the Marconi Wireless Company . Captain Ranger has arrived here with trunks filled with apparatus , packed with extreme care . His apparatus , when running , sounds exactly like the cackling of hens . Associates of Captain Ranger estimate that it will cost between $5 and $10 each to transmit photographs , although no definite rates have been announced . BOY ON SCHOOL CREW CA N'T SWIM , DROWNS Father of Oarsman at George Washington High Demands an Investigation . SHELL CAPSIZED IN HARLEM Parent Says He Refused to Let Son Row  --  Principal Declares He Had Card of Consent . Herman Greenfeld , a tailor , of 567 vt est 178th Street , announced yesterday he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Edward , 17 years old , who was drowned in the Harlem River on Monday when a racing shell capsized , ? was allowed by the Principal of George Washington High School to be a member of the rowing squad despite the boy 's inability to swim . Mr. Greenfeld said he learned of the drowning of his son on Monday about 6 P. M. through a friend . Then , he said , he was informed that the accident had occurred two hours before , while Edward and three other boys were rowing in- a four-oared shell . He said he went to the Wadsworth Avenue Police Station to ask the police to drag the river for the body . The police were still dragging the river yesterday . Mr. Greenfeld said . he sent his two daughters , Elsie and Lulu , to the school on Tuesday morning to ask Arthur A. Boylan , the Principal , about details of the accident . Later in the day , he went OR , Mr. Boylan came to his tailor shop with four boys who were members of the rowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 803 West 184th Street , Richard Heppner of 2,851 Webb Avenue , Justin Levy of 471 Audubon Avenue and Herbert Schane of 473 West 158th Street . He said he asked how the accident occurred and that Mr. Boylan explained that the shell was capsized by the backwash of a passing tug . Mr. Greenfeld said his son had been a pupil at George Washington High School for three years and had mentioned two months ago that he would like to try for the crew , but was told by his father that he must learn to swim before attempting it . Mr. Boylan said Edward applied oto him two months ago for permission to join the rowing squad . The Principal gave him a card to be filled of , his parents , giving their consent He said that not only had young Greenfeld produced the required written consent of his parents to join the rowing crew , but that his mother nad frequently witnessed her son practicing with other members of the crew in the shell . As to whether or not the boy could swim , Mr. Boylan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get a diploma unless the student could swim . Sigmund Cederstrom , a real estate broker of 189 Montague Street , Brooklyn , widely known in Brooklyn political circles , identified a body washed up at the foot of Ocean Avenue , Coney Island , yesterday as that of his son , Joseph , who was last seen the day before . The boy had been a student at Columbia University . The body was taken to the Kings County Morgue . It is not known how he came to be drowned .                     