@@693762

txt Edward J. Kaindl , chairman of the committee on railway terminals , urged an idea on the city council yesterday with reference to a convention hall tv hich appealed to the aldermen . He fathered a resolution " - tendering the good offices , aid and assistance of the city council to those who have taken the lead in this matter and offering such pledges as will promote the progress of the project and hasten its materialization . " Because the meeting had been called to consider flood relief alone , the Naiad ' resolution was declared out of order , but his colleagues Indicated such unusual interest that it seems certain he will get action by the council at its next regular meeting on May 2 . Vision Held Only Size Limit . " The limit of clear vision by the audience should alone determine the capacity of the hall , " asserted Ka ' Ind ' " The time has passed when the range of the human voice decides how many rows of seats shall be put in a con ? vention hall . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 12,000 , and it took an exceptional voice to do that . That is the reason the so-called large halls of the country have a seating capacity of about 12,000 . : ? But the new Madison Square Garden of New York has 17,000 seats and Atlantic City is constructing an auditorium that will have a capacity of 36,000 . Loud Speaker Is Solution . " The application of the loud speaker and the amplifier tot a convention hall makes an area seating 60,000 entirely practicable . If 100,000 in Soldiers ' field can follow an Intricate football game , then 60,000 can see a speaker on a rostrum in a public hall . " The next question is where to place such a hail . It should , have ample transportation and railroad facilities and be conveniently close to the hotels , theaters , shops and other attractions . Such a location in my opinion Is the south side railroad terminal area which will be developed following the straightening of the south branch of the river . Urges immediate Action . " A convention hall above the railroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the street level above the " tracks . 4 monumental convention hall would attract one to three large hotels , and they in turn a theater . Then would follow an office building , and soon there would be an airtight development which would far surpass the New York Central development in Manhattan . " " Why ca n't this subject be deferred for a regular meeting ? " some one asked . " It can , " replied Kaindl , " but the delay is likely to deny the assistance which I think we should tender . It is urgent that Chicago have a convention hall , the largest and most convenient in the country . "                     