@@695398

txt Vigorous advances were recorded in many stocks during yesterdays session . Interests working for higher prices were encouraged by the fact that brokers ' loans did not increase as much as had been predicted . Most guesses were that the gain would be in excess of $100. - ( inn nnn New leaders again were brought forward and Mont. - gomery Ward was the outstanding feature . The stock developed pronounced strength and scored a sensational advance , just when increased profit taking- was coming into the market , and this turned stocks upward with a vim . Many of the leading commission houses continued to advise customers to reduce their long holdings . This resulted in considerable outside liquidation at times , but offerings were absorbed easily and when the selling became smaller many stocks moved forward vigorously again . Sentiment around the Street continues mixed . Those who have been working for higher prices continue to insist that with credit plentiful , even at comparatively high rates , nothing more than a technical reaction can be expected . They maintain that stocks will meet good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses are more cautious than they have been in several weeks and several are urging customers to protect accounts with stop orders , pointing out that following such sensational advances , a corrective setback could by extensive . Trading Commission houses were sellers on balance again . , Many new buying orders came into the market through , leading wire houses , but there were offset by the profit taking on the part of those who had purchased stocks at lower levels . Professionals and floor traders purchased on balance .1 In addition to short covering by some of this element , the leading professionals appear confident of their bullish position and add to their lines on small setbacks . Brokers ' Loans Increase of $54.061.000 , or nearly in brokers ' loans of the Federal Reserve bank was smaller than most observers had expected . It was believed that the gain would be substantial in view of the remarkable advances recorded in many stocks during the week covered by the figures . Present total of $4,2S9.209.000 is $21 ' 4,031,000 under the peak of $4,563,240.000 established on June 6 last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they were when the record was made is taken to indicate that margins are considerably larger at present , and accounts arc in better shape . Recently much study has been given to the segregated figures in the weekly reports of loans . Thus the increase of $114.013,000 in the loans of the banks for their own account during the past week is considered significant . Loans for the account of others went down $46 , - 512.000 and loans for out-of-town banks were off $13,440.000 . The interpretation placed on these changes in many quarters Is that the local banks supplied funds when others temporarily withdrew part of their money . This might be viewed as somewhat of a change on the part of local banks toward loans of stock and bond collateral . Money Bankers do not expect any decided ease in call money They point out that while there may be temporary periods of a more liberal supply for market purposes . the period is approaching when seasonal demands for credit will reach their maximum and this will prevent any decided lowering of rates on funds for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is some good reason to expect a resumption of purchases of government securities and bills on an extensive scale by the Federal Reserve System , primarily for the purpose of aiding the fall crop movement and to meet the increased seasonal demands for business . Pools Many important pools have bhen formed in recent weeks . They are active in various stocks . These groups have been taking advantage of public sentiment and have made their favorites strong features , thus attracting considerable outside buying during recent advances . Such tactics are likely to be continued as long as market conditions are favorable . Steels Increased activity which has come into the steels recently is logical in view of the excellent showing made in that industry during August and the prospects that improvement will be shown in the coming months . The situation in the steel industry today is better than it has been in several years . Consumers are realizing that the makers are firmer in their price attitude and concessions are no longer obtainable on attractive orders . It has been realized by many steel authorities for some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs , and while there can be no agreement as to quotations because of federal statutes . the fact remains that most makers are no longer willing to accept the bids of purchasers . All this must mean a better margin of profit and larger earnings for the leading steel companies . Tin Plate Strength in Tin Plate has been accompanied by rumors of an increase in the dividend rate to $5 a share per annum in the near future . At present $4 a share is being paid . There has been no ward on the matter from interests oho have been active in the stock recently . Apparently the rumors are based on the fact that this year 's improvement in the tin plate industry should lead to larger earnings next year , with the possibility of a higher price for the product . Tobaccos What is termed selective buying has been coming into some of the tobacco stocks in the past few days . The demand has come from interests who are identified with the industry . It has led to some discussion of the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distant future . Such a move probably would bring new buying into this group and also cause some covering by a sleeping short interest which still existsAmerican Safety Razor American Safety Razor has been meeting with a much improved demand in recent sessions . Buying has come from outsiders who have been advised of the improvement in the company 's affairs . Interests identified with the management are decidedly optimistic on the prospects and have been accumulating the stock at advancing levels . Lambert Demand for Lambert has been accompanied by discussions of prospects of a merger with another drug company , although no mention is made of the second organization . Considerable profit taking has come into the stock at the higher levels , but the offerings have been well absorbed . Brunswick-Balke A sharp overnight advance occurred in BrunswickBalke on the accumulation of large buying orders . For some time purchases of the stock have been for the account of important interests in the Middle West who are credited with being optimistic on the outlook . This buying has found the offerings rather scarce at times . Sloss-Sheffield As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefiting by the improvement in the pig iron industry . The small capitalization of the company makes the issue respond immediately to any new buying which develops . Many interests who accumulated the stock at materially lower levels are still maintaining their long position because of the confident feeling that the strong financial position will result in further advances . Timken Roller Bearing A spurt came into Timken Roller Bearing , and when the stock crossed 135 it was a signal for buying by chart students who have been contending- that this figure would be a logical resistance point . Record shipments , large earnings , and the strong financial position of the company have caused some discussion of special dividends for stockholders in the future . There is at present only a small floating supply of the stock , so buying finds immediate reflection . Montgomery Ward When there were indications of increased profittaking during the early forenoon in the general list , a buying spurt started in Montgomery Ward . resulting in a sensational advance and affecting other stocks favorably . Some of the urgent buying of Ward was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many quarters on Thursday that the issue was meeting good selling and this led some traders to try putting out shorts for a reaction . International Combustion Action of International Combustion Engineering during the irregular periods of recent sessions has attracted new buying into that stock . In many quarters the advance is credited to an important operator who has been responsible for upturns in various other issues in the past Itwo months . Vanadium Vanadium is selling considerably below its high of the current year and those who have been identified actively with the market for the stock in the past are of the j opinion it will be brought into line with other issues . 1They have been quietly adding to their long line . General American Tank That any movement in the equipment stocks will find ' General American Tank among the outstanding leaders is the view of important market interests . There has been evidence recently of quiet accumulation in the stock rn the theory that higher prices are warranted in connection with expansion plans which have been discussed by the management . Bela Robert Reis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were indications yesterday of a better demand and the stock responded to small buying orders . ' Because the issue failed to share in the general strength of the past there has been some liquidation by out , siders who followed the stock during a previous advance . It is now believed that the bulk of this weak following has been eliminated .                     