@@688652

txt From the distribution of flags at Luxor today , one would think that there is an American colony here grouped under the Queen of the Belgians . All the hotels at Luxor are filled with eager Atherica.ns , while the whole riverfront is alive with American flags waving from private Dahabeyahs . There was a race meeting  --  races of donkeys , camels and horses  --  this afternoon 1. nd the attendance was almost exclusively American , and as the idea of Americana rolling in wealth is fashionable here , the prices for the tickets increased 100 per cent . The majority of the Americans have had their interest in Egyptology stirred by Tut-ankh-Amen and have been raiding the bookstalls , and wherever one turns now one meets a party of Americans deeply focussed in Egypt 's ancient history . It is interesting to note that the standard work ? on the subject is by the American Professor Breasted . Since the arrival of the latest big parties of Americans the social life has been considerably livened . It was once fashionable to loll in the hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the Americans decided that orchestras should play not classical but dance music , and every evening now there is a vivid scene in the ballroom . extending to long after midnight . Members of the British aristocracy find the American girls charming and there is now a laughing , joyous AngloAmerican entente . The whole story was told in one sentence by a young American talking to a well known English Lord yesterday ' vening . He stated bluntly : Luxor is all right except for the gloom cast around by Tut-ankh-Arnen 's I death . " ' Visitors Tie Up Work at Tomb . The tomb will be closed at the first , opportunity , but the stream of visitors is so turbulent and so unbending that It is difficult to prophesy when the opportunity will arise . A distinguished coterie braved a sand storm to go to the tomb today . They were taken in to see the gold and blue catafalque and later permitted to inspect the treasures , being treated in the workshop in the tomb of Sett II . They have been talking about it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendid vision , but there is now serious curiosity as to the real historical facts which the discovery will reveal . That desire for knowledge can not be satisfied now or in the near future , primarily because work can not be done while these constant interruptions continue . In any case . It will be years before the world knows what the material in the tomb has to tell , but it is certain that the longer this procession of sightseers goes on the longer must be the wait for an answer to the questions whether Tut1 ankr-Amen came voluntarily to Thebes from Tell-el-Amarna and whether he became reconverted to Amen faith through policy or enthusiasm . There is a proposal afoot to take a selection of the finest objects alreadytreated and to put them on show in the Cairo Museum . That would be one way of eliminating local interruptions : but for the present it seems that Lord Carnarvon will finish the season in the blaze of glory with which it commenced when the news of the discovery was first announced . It is possible that the cos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of until next Fall . The discoverers may perhaps close the fomb just long enough for public interest to subside and then resume their investigations unhampered by besieging crowds of visitors . TWO MEMORIAL MASSES . Knights of Columbus at Cathedral and Holy Name Society Celebrate . Washington 's Birthday was celebrated by 600 members of the New York Chapter of the Knights of Columbus at a memorial mass for war veterans of the order at St. Patrick 's Cathedral yesterday . The mass was celebrated by the Right Rev. John J. Dunn . Auxiliary Bishop of New York . He was assisted by the Rev. William S. Meehan , as Deacon , and the Rev. George J. Hail ford , as Sub-Deacon . The memorial sermon was preached I by the Rev. Daniel Kiernan , Chaplain of the De Soto Council . rector of St. Paul 's Church . East Harlem . Father Kiernan praised the knights for their patriotism and perpetuation of the ideals of George Washington , and he paid a glowing tribute to the members of the order who fell in the late war . The annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holy Name Society . Branch No. 273 , was celebrated yesterday morning at St. Columba 's Church , West Twenty-fifth Street . The Rev. John J. Kiernan . Spiritual Director of the Society , was the celebrant of the mass and the Right Rev. Mgr . Joseph R. of Our Lady of Lourdes Church delivered the sermon . POLICE SEIZE KLAN WREATH Ku Klux Tribute Placed at Washington 's Statue Causes Complaint . Two white-robed members of the Ku Klux Klan placed a wreath at the foot of the equestrain statue of Washington in Washington Park . Newark , N. J. , yesterday morning . The wreath , which was made of bay leaves and was about four feet in diameter , bisected by a broad ribbon with the initials ! K. K. K. , " was later removed by the police and a policeman was placed on guard to prevent any possible attempt by Klansmen to place another . The stares of nearly fifty.pedestrains , who stopped to watch the proceedings , evidently disconcerted the two supposed Klansmen , who had alighted from an automobile . The latter ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statue and dropped the wreath in an awkward position . It was picked up and placed in a more appropriate position by a passerby . ' Residents of a nearby hotel made objection to the pollee . A patrol wagon was sent around and the wreath taken to the station .                     