@@689971

txt Secretary Hoover of the Department of Commerce , which has jurisdiction over the issuance of radio broadcasting licenses , issued a formal statement late today in which he declared his belief that public policy would never allow wireless broadsating to become monopolized . The Secretary 's declaration was with reference to inquiries as to his attitude toward the Issues involved in the radio contest in the courts between officials in New York City and the American Telegraph and Telephone Company . Secretary Hoover 's statement reads : " I am in receipt of many requests for my views as to issues now before the courts bearing on the control of radio broadcasting . " While it is impossible for me to express any opinion on particular issues that are before the courts or the Federal Trade Commission , I can state emphatically that it would be most unfortunate for the people of this country to whom broadcasting has become an Important incident of life if its control should come into the hands of any single corporation , individual or combination . " It would be in principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was so controlled . " The effect would be identical whether this control arose under a Patent ma-noboly or under any form of combination , and from the standpoint of the people 's interest the question of whether or not the broadcasting is for profit is immaterial . " In the licensing system put in fame by this department the life of broadcasting licenses is limited to three months . so that no vested right an be obtained either in a wave length or a license . " I believe it is safe to say irrespective of claims under patent rights on apparatus that broadcasting will not cease and neither will our public policy allow it to become monopolized . " Talk of Radio " Strike . " With present conditions in ? radio broadcasting being assailed from several directions , certain officials of companies engaged in the practice have begun to , show cases of nerves in face of the difficulties that have followed the American Telephone and Telegraph Company 's suits for infringement of patents . Some of them talked yesterday as if they regarded the present embroilment as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be coming to , " said one of them , " Is what you might call a broadcasting strike  --  that is , a cessation of broadcasting . Every one in the business knows that broadcasting is its backbone , and yet every one engaged in broadcasting is getting tired of fighting the obstacles constantly in the way , especially when they recognize that the great expense , and effort are going to something whose future you can not even guess . " Of course , if this strike did come , it would only be temporary and would be indulged in primarily for the purpose of precipitating public opinion , so that we could force what we seem to be able to get in no other way , a complete clarification of the future of broadcasting , perhaps by governmental action . ' I do n't suppose Sou could get any one in the business to admit that over his signature , but there is something in it . How else are we going to get things settled ? " Government May Intervene . The man who expressed this view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the A. T. and T. as an effort on its part to get control of the broadcasting of the radio industry , and therefore he looks upon the new development as another difficulty the broadcasting folk have to face . According to his view , and he says it is the view of others in a position similar to his . if the present suits establish a complete control of broadcasting for the A. T. and T. it will mean that the Government will intervene in the situation and either take over entirely or regulate drastically the practice of broadcasting . - This view , it was pointed out , was substantiated to some degree by a statement issued in Washington yesterday by Secretary of Commerce Hoover , in which he said it would be most unfortunate if the control of broadcasting should come " into the hands of any single corporation , individual or combination . " A significant point in the formal statements President H. B. Thayer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company has issued since his company was attacked for alleged desire at monopoly , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity of governmental regulation of broadcasting . Mr. Thayer yesterday reiterated his company 's disclaimer of monopolistic intention . saying that the infringement suits were brought merely to safeguard the company 's patents . One of the difficulties the " broadcasting strike " men have in mind is over music that is put on the air . The music publishers have issued an ultimatum that copyrighted music of the composers they represent must not be used in broadcast concerts unless royalties are paid . " The music publishers . " said one of the broadcasting officials in discussing the subject , " have adopted the slogan , One million dollars from radio . They say we can not use their music unless by prorated subscription we raise that amount from the industry for them . " By that process we are very much restricted as to the music we can put in the air . If it goes much further , we shall not be able to get the music we need to vary our programs . The people want it and will not be satisfied without it . We could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So if we are pushed much further we might just as well give up the battle we are fighting . Broadcasting has been put over against all the odds the human mind can conceive of . Not only the music publishers but every one else is after us all the time . Under the conditions the temptation is just to stop and see then what will happen . If we did , the public indignation would force a settlement of all these questions in less time than you could take to tell it . That might be the best way . " In the meantime those who have been assailing the A. T. and T. were not silent yesterday . Grover A. Whalen , Commissioner of Plant and Structures , gave out copies yesterday of a letter he had received from Huston Thompson , Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission , relatin* to the charges of air monopoly he recently brought to the attention of the commission . Mr. Thompson 's letter assured Commissioner Whalen his charges would be brought to the attention of the commission at its first meeting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company . Newark , N. J .. President of the Radio Trade Association , made up of dealers and jobbers in radio equipment , supplemented an attack he had made on the A. T. and T. Co. the clay before by issuing a statement in which he said that if the Telephone Company would say what rates it would charge in licensing broadcasting stations , his organization would call a meeting and investigate the matter . Loew Replies to Thayer . Marcus Loew , President of Loew 's Incorporated and part owner of radio station WHN , on his arrival from Palm Beach in reply to statements recently credited to Mr. Thayer , President of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , said : " The issue between the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and the radio public is not a narrow question of patent infringement , as Mr. Thayer would have it appear .. The broad issue is . whether the American Telephone and Telegraph may own and control to its own aggrandizement the most important source of public information of the future . " According to Mr. Thayr 's own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of its licensees even to reimburse themselves for the cost of running their stations , and it arrogates to itself the right to limit the number and the size of broadcasting stations , although that duty by law rests with the Radio Inspector . ' If that corporation , a quasi public service corporation , be given the right to control this vitally important source of public information , there is no restraint upon its distortion of public opinion to its own ends . What is to prevent the attempt to influence public opinion to support unreasonable telephone and telegraph rates ! But the ultimate menace is the exercise of selfinterested influence , industrially , politically and socially , by the American Telephone and Telegraph combination if the absolute control of information and advertising by this fundamental source of intelligence is to be relinquished by the public . " We feel that the issue involved in the pending suit is one of vital importance to the American people , on which the continuance of free opportunity for industrial , political and social development may in the end depend . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , and we have engaged the firm of Duell , Warfield and Duell , 19 West Forty-fourth Street , to defend us , and in effect the public in this matter . We do not believe that the patent laws were intended to grant to any . one such despotic power as the plaintiffs claim , but if they do , it is essential that . those laws be changed at once . " " It is true that my firm has been retained but I must decline to comment upon the newspaper interviews . " said Holland S. Due11 of Duell , Warfield and Due11 last night . " The two suits brought by the American Telephone &; Telegraph and De Forest Companies involve eight patents which from various aspects appear to claim the fundamental use of a vacuum tube for radio broadcasting . Questions of infringement and validity are presented which will have to be determined by the Federal Courts . We have entered our appearance in behalf of the defendant Loew interests In the pending litigation , and propose to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with the American Telephone &; Telegraph Company sold the defendants the tubes and elements of their , apparatus for use in the very relationships in which they have been used . If so , a question of jusitfied use is presented which may settle the entire controversy , apart from the dubious validity of the patents involved . " Asked what the effect would be should the American Telephone &; Telegraph Company interests prevail , Colonel Duell said : " It would certainly mean the end of competitive broadcasting , and it might well mean the end of broadcasting as an educational or entertainment medium . "                     