@@691679

txt The Riffs are employing against the French the same tactics which they used against the Spaniards . momentarily meeting with success . They know the country ; they have taken the offensive ; they have impaired France 's prestige . Like the Spaniards , the French have found that in a guerrilla war in open country many advantages accrue to those familiar with the terrain . Furthermore , the Riffians can more easily live off the country than can Europeans . The French , unwilling for reasons of domestic politics to embark upon an aggressive war , have confined themselves to holding and policing the area already in their control . Such a defensive is at a particular clicalvantaze in Morocco . Doubtless , also , the mental reaction upon the tribes of seeing France unable to hold off a small band of tribesmen has strengthened the hands of the enemy . Until a few months ago the North African tribes cherished no particular animosity toward France . , They respected her power . But such respect is based on the maintenance of prestige . So serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to send a new military commander and enough troops to make a smashing offensive . It had been hoped that some agreement with the Spaniards might be reached , either for joint operation or else to permit the French to pursue the enemy into territory under a Spanish protectorate . This region has constituted a sort of asylum for many of the Riff tribesmen along the FrancoSpanish border . After raiding the French of communications or harassing French posts they would withdraw to the Spanish zone , whither the French could not follow without risking diplomatic difficulties with Spain . But unless and until an understanding is reached with Spain the French must proceed by themselves , if for no other reason than to restore their prestige throughout their North African possessions . There is no denying that this campaign is embarrassing for the French Government . It is costly , and France is not in a financial position to war1 rant shouldering heavy military expenditures . It also introduces a discordant ' element in domestic politics . Many Socialists in Parliament are opposed on principle to an extensive Moroccan campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. PAINLEVE in the present crisis . It is a habit oeFrench politicians to drop personal prejudices when they believe the nation 's honor to be involved abroad . But at any moment a political quarrel in the Chamber may ' result in the overthrow of the present Ministry . That would be unfortunate in view of the serious efforts to establish French finances on a firm footing . It does not follow , of course , that PAINLEVE , CAILLAUX and BRIAND alone possess the acumen to solve France 's monetary problems . But they have been busy repairing the harm done by HERRIOT . An immediate change might seriously impair this work . There can be no doubt of the ultimate outcome of the Riff war . The danger is in its by-products . Failing an understanding with Spain , France can do nothing but go ahead . Fortunately , she has the example of Spain before her and realizes that dilatory tactics do not pay . In the person of Marshal LTAUTET , Governor General of her North African territories , she has a colonial administrator of tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous policy is to be adopted . That way peace would seem to lie .                     