@@695069

txt The first convention of the Continental Advertising Association opened in Paris today , with delegates from Great Britain and thirteen Continental European countries attending . The congress will continue for five days . This is Europe 's first organized attempt to emulate the intensive advertising methods of the United States . Those back of the idea visualize this part of the world as more or less a virgin field , capable eventually of , providing advertising copy on a scale even greater than the United States . The chief aim . therefore , of the new organization is to " sell " the theory of advertising to the average business man , a task in which considerable headway already has been made , but a great deal remains to be accomplished . The Continental association came into existence at a London meeting a year ago . American advertising clubs were its inspiration . Its present sessions first will draft a constitution and arrange to merge with the International Advertising Association , in which Americans are interested . C. K. ' Woodbridge , President of the International association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Berengaria this afternoon to attend the meetings . The New York Advertising Club is represented by Arthur W. Tager , Vice President of the Diary Publishing Company . The Americans are ready to give the Europeans the benefits of the extensive development of American advertising , and one of the problems to be considered will be how best to utilize the American plan of attack in going after European business . . The moment , according to the Europeans , is opportune for starting a drive for more widespread use of advertising in European business . That strides already have been made is evidenced by the fact that full page advertisements , very rare until a few years ago , are now regular features of the more important daily newspapers . Between the days before the war , when a certain big newspaper tried to gave away advertising space to exclusive Rue de la Paix houses and failed , and the present time much ground has been covered by the pioneers , but in the opinion of European advertising men the average Continental business man has yet to appreciate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates tomorrow as the guests of France .                     