@@696626

txt While practically all the contestants for important nominations will make final appeals to the enrolled voters tomorrow evening , the heavy work of the primary campaign came to an end last night with all the candidates : and fictions making the usual prediction 's of victory . Interest in the primary campaign has centred , in the fight for the Republican nomination for Mayor be ? ireen Representative Fiorello H. La Guardia , organization candidate for the nomination , and former State Senator William H. Bennett , an independent and a dry , and in the contests in the primaries of both the major parties in Queens for the nomination for Borough President , with three contestants on the Democratic side and two on the Republican . The Republican primary fight in Queens over the Borough Presidency involves the leadership . of the party in that borough , held for more than twenty years by Joseph H. De Bragga . There is every prospect also that by the outcome of the Democratic primaries will be determined who shall lead the Democratic forces in Queens in the immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight over the Mayoralty nomination ex-Senator Bennett has been struggling against heavy odds , his opponent having the solid backing of the Republican organizations in all of the five boroughs , Borough President George U. H- rvey , who has been contending for a renomination against ex-State Senator John L. Hanle , Leader De Bragga 's candidate for Borough President , in the course of his primary battle has succeeded in arousing a strong sentiment in his own favor and has profited ? also from the hostility to Mr. De Bragga and a ' desire to see him dethroned among a strong element within the Republican party in Queens . While the Harvey sentiment in Queens has been strong enough in the last two weeks to lead many impartial observers to believe that he stands a chance to win and while predictions of victory came last night from the Harvey camp , some politicians , not unfriendly to Mr. Harvey , discussed the outlook with more caution . They called attention to the fact that the Republican organization which has been fighting Harvey would be in control of the election machinsry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Mr. Harvey should succeed , with the organization he has been in a position to build up , to bring his supporters to the polls in ? great numbers . On the Democratic side the major fights have been amongCounty Clerk Edward W. Cox , designee of the Executive Committee of the Democratic County Committee ; for- mer Borough President Bernard M. Patten , backed by a group headed by County Chairman James Butler and Representative William F. Brunner , sponsored by the so-called Clean Government Democracy , which is headed by Transportation Commissioner Frank X. Sullivan , who led the primary fight for Mayor Walker against John T. Hylan in the Queens primaries four years ago . Close Queens Fight Predicted . On the Democratic side strong predictions of victory at Tuesday 's pri ? maries were voiced by the backers of both Representative Brunner and leaders of the group that is backing ; the fight of former Borough President Patten . It is predicted that the vote between these two aspirants for the Borough Presidency will be close . In all there are 1,881,599 enrolled voters in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participation in the official primaries . Of these 1,265,423 are Democrats ; 601.719 Republicans , and 14.457 Socialists . While all enrolled voters are entitled to take part in primary elections , there is little doubt that removal from the localities where they enrolled has disqualified a large proportion . Political leaders , both in the Democratic and Republican camps , predicted a light primary vote everywhere except in Queens . which has witnessed its most hotly contested primary contest since candidates for office have been picked at primary elections . If 25 per cent of the enrolled voters should show up at the Primary polls on Tuesday it would be surprising to the party leaders . The fact that Mayor Walker and running mates on the Democratic side are without opposition in the primaries will tend to keep the Democratic primary vote down to a minimum everywhere except in Queens and in districts where there are local contests. and of such there are few designed to bring out a big vote . La Guardia klxpects Victory . The following statement was made public yesterday by Keyes Winter , manager of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has ignored not only Mr. Bennett 's contest against him in the Republican primaries , but also the false issue interjected by him at a time when the people of this city are interested in twelve years of Tammany maladministration of the city government and the official graft and corruption and racketeering that has accompanied its misrule . " We are absolutely confident that the enrolled Republicans throughout this city on primary day will unrestrainedly indicate by an overwhelming majority that Major La Guardia is their choice as the candidate for Mayor to lead in the fight to put Tammany Hall and its army of grafters and allied racketeers out of City Hall . " Mr. Bennett also predicted victory . He said he would carry the Queens Primaries over Major La Guardia three to one and do well in Brooklyn , Bronx and Richmond . The big majority in Queens , he said , would more than offset the advantage he admitted his opponent would have in Manhattan and make him the winner in the fight for the Republican Mayoralty nomination . Koenig Sees Small Bennett Vote . Republican County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part in the primary contest , which he has felt right along was a onesided contest heavily favoring Major La Guardia in Manhattan , expressed the opinion that if Mr. Bennett should receive an average of fifty votes in the twenty-three assembly districts of Manhattan he would be doing well . Mr. Bennett , who has been a perennial candidate for the Mayoralty nomination at municipal elections ever since 1917 , when he succeeded in defeating Mayor John Purroy Mitchel , who was an independent Democrat running in the Republican primaries , at his last venture as a candidate for the Republican nomination for Mayor in 1925 received only 4,494 votes out of a total of 134,934 cast for the three candidates at that primary election . The other candidates were Frank D. Waterman and former Secretary of State John J. Lyons . In Queens where all the contenders in the primary fight were doing some of their heaviest fighting at a score of rallies last night , their campaign managers were busy preparing for the protection of their respective candidates ' interests at Tuesday primary election . All of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves as confident of victory . Mr. Karle , the " regular " Republican designee for the nomination for Borough President , said : " Republicans want a Republican to be their candidate for Borough President at the coming election . For that and other reasons I am certain of success on primary day . " Mr. Harvey said : " I feel certain a great majority of the Republicans in Queens want me as their candidate for Borough President . The only way I could lose would be for persons who favor me failing to vote at all , because they are over-confident of my success and feel that I will not need their votes . I feel certain , however , that this will not happen . " Mr. Cox , " regular " Democratic designee for Borough President , said. : " I am confident that the ' enrolled Democrats of Queens will express their confidence in the reorganized , regular Democracy by nominating me and all the other designees of the regular organization : " Mr. Patten said : " The rank and file of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and efficient standard bearer in the coming election by nominating me . " Mr. Brunner said : " I am confident that together with all the candidates of the Clean Government group I shall come out ahead in the primaries on Tuesday . The efforts of my opponents to belittle my qualifications for the office of Borough President , in my opinion , will utterly fail . " Vote Trading Alleged . A last-minute development in the Democratic primary contest in Queens is a crop of rumors that there has been trading in votes by candidates and their friends . Most of the rumors were sponsored by spokesmen for the ' Clean Government group , headed by Mr. Sullivan . They were denied by other Democrats affected by the rumors . Mr. Sullivan , whose candidate for Borough President is Representative Brunner , charged Bernard M. Patten , a rival candidate , was in a votetrading deal with District Attorney Newcombe , candidate for Surrogate , and James T. Hallinan , candidate for District Attorney on the " regular " organization ticket . On the other hand . there was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Clean Government rally at Astoria on Friday evening in a guest for votes from that group . Stanley Fowler , campaign manager for the candidates on the regular ticket , said both candidates had assured him the report was without foundation . Nevertheless observers insist that even though the leaders of the several factions are honestly striving to make a fight for all the candidates of their respective groups many of the workers in one group are favoring some candidate for a nomination from another group and predict that this is going to result in a very mixed vote on primary day . On the Republican side repudiation came from the Karla headquarters of claims recently made by Harvey backers that Republican County Committee members and Republican clubs were deserting the regular candidates and flocking to Harvey . Specifically it was declared that fourteen members of the county committee , from time to time set down by Harvey supporters as new recruits to their cause , had ' sent letters of protest to the Karle headquarters against the use of their names by the Harvey campaign management . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the borough remained loyal to ex-Senator Karle , the organization designee , and had gone on record as indorsing his candidacy , even though the support of many of these organizations had been claimed for Harvey . From Harvey headquarters came the reply that this was the result of De Bragga 's systematic efforts to remove from jobs on elecion boards workers who admitted leanings toward the Borough President . A list of the candidates in the primaries in this city and up-State and a statement of the issues that have stirred the most interest are published on page one of Section 2 of this issue of THE TIMES .                     