@@687003

txt Muriel Lannard stopped abruptly when she saw the lowly flivver standing at the curb . " That ! " she exclaimed . " Is that your car ? " " Absolutely ! Why not ? " responded Harry Bacon , opening the door with an elaborate flourish . " My lady , the car awaits ! Let us away through the lovely parks anti teeming boulevards . " Her face reflected a tumult of angry emotions . She had an impulse to fly back into the house . How could she ride up the BouleVird at this fashionable hour in that thing ! A hundred acquaintances were certain to recognize her . The cranking of the car took some time , during which the occupants of passing motors looked on with curiosity and amusement . Miss Lannard'was conspicuously dressed for a Rolls-Royce , not for an humble flivver . She was deeply chagrined , and held her fur high about her face . If Harry was conscious of her anger , he gave no sign . Glancing quickly from right to left , she hurriedly entered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Park , " she said abruptly . He smiled . i " Not ashamed of my car , are you ? " She flushed . just remembered that I must go down to the Day Nursery . " He smiled again . The , way to the Nursery lay through obscure streets into the heart of . the tenement district . She would never be recognized ' in those sections . Soon the little car was rattling busily over cobblestones instead of asphalt . " Do n't you think she runs nicely for her age ? " asks g Harry cheerfully , apparently unaware of the smellier-frig resentment at his side . " I got it cheap , " he continued , steering between tho crowds of children playing in the streets When the car grazed one group he heard her exclaim irritably : " How annoying ! Why do n't they keep their mis ? erable children at home ! " At that moment Harry suddenly hates the girl . After a time they drew up before a neat building bearing a sign " Day Nursery . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's pet charity , to which she gave an occasional hour of service when social demands were slack . A pleasant-faced lint rather harassed matron greeted them , and was presently pouting out the woes of the institution into Miss Lannard 's unheeding ear . The expenses were still nearly double pre-war ones , and she knew people were less than ever inclined to give to charities . But unless supplementary funds were raised at once , she would either have to turn away tired mothers who each day , on the way to factory or shop , brought their pale children for the clean food and wholesome attention of the nursery , or else cut down mercilessly on that very food and attention .. One little girl looked wistfully into Miss . Lannard 's face , which suddenly showed a glow of tenderness . " You pOor little dear ! " she exclaimed , kneeling and catching the shy little thing in her arms . Harry 's eyes softened as he watched her . The imAritIsive action , so appealingly natural , struck a chord deep in his heart . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so low that only she heard . " You love children , don't. you ? " She shot a quick glance at him . There was no mistaking what he was thinking of , and she flushed uncomfortably . Again , on their way home , he spoke Of her love for children and how they must adore her , but her beautiful profile was now tight-lipped and set . And once again Harry puzzled over the question that was growing in his mind , Which was the real Muriel Lannard  --  tho one who Was irritated by children play ! , ind in the street , or the one whose arms " had tenderlY caressed the little unfortunate in the Day Nursery ? ? ? One was hateful , the other adorable . Their arrival at her ' home was tragically ill timed . Mrs. Lannard had just alighted from her limousine as the filvver rattled up to the curb .                     