@@694475

txt A final drive to obtain repeal of the Federal estate tax will be started tomorrow when the National Council of State Legislatures assembles here . On Tuesday and Wednesday the delegates will carry their case to the House Ways and Means Committee . More than 150 delegates from State legislatures will participate in the conferences , including official delegates from each of the forty-eight States . Governors Small of Illinois , Hunt of Arizona , Green of Michigan , Erickson of Montana , Trumbull of Connecticut , Sorlie of North Dakota and Robinson of Delaware , and Governor-elect Bilbo of Mississippi will attend . Efforts to effect repeal of the Federal estate tax have been made for several years . Both President Coolidge and Secretary Mellon are on record as favoring its repeal . Vigorous opposition to the tax has come from several States which contend that the National Government is tapping one of the principal sources of State revenue . When the 1926 tax reduction bill was framed the advocates of repeal obtained modification of the law , and now States which have inheritance tax laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Federal Government , but Congress has refused to eliminate the tax entirely , and present indications are that a repeal clause will not be written into the 1928 tax reduction bill . Chairman Green , Republican , and Representative Garner , ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee , have opposed repeal . The convention assembling tomorrow will be called to order by Lee Satterwhite of Texas . The opening day will be devoted to discussion of resolutions to be presented to the Ways and Means Committee , when , according to a statement from the National Council , a strong " plea for States ' rights " will be made . To impress upon the committee the wide opposition to the Federal estate tax the roll of States will be called before that body on Tuesday morning . " Every State , " it was said today , " will respond with a delegate officially appointed to represent the Commonwealth , either by the Legislature or the Governor . " William H. , Blodgett , Tax Commissioner of Connecticut , will be in general charge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislatures contends , he said today , that the intent of the present Federal estate tax was not revenue but to coerce the States into levying uniform estate laws . Louis A. Cuvillier of New York City , a member of the New York Legislature , is the delegate from that State . George M. Graham , assistant to the President of the Willys-Overland Company of Toledo , tomorrow will ask the Ways and Means Committee to recommend the automobile tax . Suggestions to the committee for a tax on beer were approved in a statement today by Representative Dyer , issued through the association against the prohibition amendment . He advocated such a tax , " not only for the substantial annual revenue it would net , but also for its beneficial influence toward lessening graft and corruption in prohibition enforcement . "                     