@@685392

txt INTERCHURCH MOVEMENT . Position of the Presbyterians and John D. Rockefeller , Jr . To the Editor of The New York Times : As Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Interchurch World Movement , I would like to express my appreciation of the admirable reporting hr Txe Ttmr.s of church matters in general , and particularly of the recent full reporting of the action taken by the Presbyterian General Assetuldy at . Philadelphia on its relations with the Interchurch World Movement . As to the action taken by the Presbyterian Church in the United States in regard to its future relations with the Interchurch World Movement , permit me to say that this action was very satisfactory to me and is in close accord with the resolutions adopted by the General tThmmittee of the loterchurch Movement at its recent meeting in New York . The Presbyteria.n Church has voted to discontinue its relation to the Intel-church World Movement as at present organized , but it stands ready to co-operate , provided the movement is reorganized in a way which will be satisfactory to It . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that proposed by the General Committee of the Interchurch World Movement : and is already in process . There is no doubt , therefore , in my mind that the Presbyterian Church will continue to co-operate . Your report of the meeting of the Presbyterian Assembly in your issue of May 28 , however , . leaves an erroneous impression . which in justice to the Northern Baptists and to Mr. John D. Rockefeller , Jr .. should be corrected . The expenses of the Interchurch World Movement were guaranteed by underwritings given by the co-operating denominations on the basis of five per cent . of the sums for which they were appealing for one . year . ' When it was found that additional underwriting was required to meet the expenses , three denominations , among them the Northern Baptists , generously agreed to provide part of tile additional underwriting , and Mr. Rockefeller personally underwrote a million dollars . It seemed to the Executive Committee just that all these additional underwritings should be preferred . The committee , accordingly , adopted resolutions to this effect and ordered that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , making the request of them that they should give additional underwriting up to the amount which was then required on the same basis . All of this was without the knowledge of Mr. Rockefeller . The action was taken regarding the underwriting by private individuals because it seemed the merest justice that individuals who generously came to the assistance of the movement should enjoy the same preferential treatment as the three denominations above referred to . The point to be emphasized is that Mr. Rockefeller 's underwriting was absolutely unconditional . in point of fact , at the recent meeting in New York of the General Committee of the Interchurch World Movement conjointly with ? denominational representatives , the preferential character of this secondary underwriting , as constituting a lien on the undesignated gifts received by the Interchurch World Movement up to May 15 , was expressly waived for the time being , pending the receipt of additional funds , in order to provide for the current expenses of the movement . By this action these preferred underwriters released a prior claim which they had on existing funds , thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JAS . M. SPEERS . Chairman Executive Committee , New York . May : : 11 , 1O20.                     