@@693856

txt Discussing resemblances between the situation in Europe today and in this country soon after the Civil War , ' Murphey , Favrc &; Co. , Spokane , say : " While some of the European countries may not have the large natural resources with which we arc blessed , they have what we had not , a considerable population- A nation with an intelligent and industrious population possesses a treasure g-rater tI . n any natural resource . Most European ccantries , an the application of machinery to industry and agricultur , are new countries compared to the United States . We are now loaning to the European nations largely for government purposes . Industrial loans and partnerships in foreign industries must follow . Over a period of time the English and Dutch have found their investments in industries more profitable tha ... loans to states and governments . In a number of instances the industries continued to pay interest and dividends when the bonds of the country were in default . Industrial loans as a class are more productive of wealth for the borrower than government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country should strengthen the government loans already outstanding . " Another house in a Pacific Coast state , Strassburger &; Cu. , of San Francisco , in their May review , discussing fascism and democracy , say : " The retention of government by consent of the people , as an ideal to be aimed at , need not blind one to the fact that between consent and intelligent belief there is a deep gulf fixed . The majority of those who arc supposed to control the governmental machine assent to its proposals not because they are qualified to judge of their wisdom but because they are not . Recognition of this fact is the real hwiis of what is known as Fascism , whose ultimate aims , differing actually but little , if at all , from those of its most strongly contimed opponents , are obscured by the Fascist method of pursuance through deliberately organized suppression of experimeotal and unbridled individuall-m . The Fascist is popularly regarded as democracy 's enemy . bet . use his conception of democracy is broader , deeper , truer than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood that Fascism 's present leader is but its Interpreting mouthpiece . Mussolini rules because lie setae 's , not de . otedly only , hue intelligently . " What the regenerator of has already accomplished should inspire confidence . If 1i fails to accomplish fully what he is now engaged in , it , A ill be because it has so often proved easier to lead people blindfolded to your goal than to acquateit them with w hat you are doing ? owing to their inability to sense the measure of thy blessings you propose to confer . " Holders of bonds throughout the country whose names are on the mailing lists of one or more bond distributing houses are receit me nottces along the following lines : " Bonds of the Second Liberty loan are so widely held by investors that we arc taking the occasion of the:r call by Secretary Mellon to offer our scrNices to all of our clients for the tat/ice-than : of these funds . If you are considering replacing them by tax exempt inun.c:pals. railroad or public utility bond- , or trytestment preferred stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on our current list which will fulfill your requirements . " All of which may look a good deal Illoo a mere effort 1. o find some additional business . Of course that 's what a bond house is in business for . but all the same it is only a phase of the numerous serNices bond houses perform or endeavor to perform for their clients .                     