@@691315

txt Ttro famous Frenchmen are busy writing their reminiscences . They are Raymond Poincare , ex-president and . ex-prime minister of the republic , end Georges Carpentier . M. Poincare is at present conducting a vigorous anti-British campaign in France , and it is hardly likely that his book will increase the cordiality of the entente . . to make as much out of authorship as he made out of a fight with Demp-I say . When his manager , Descamps.1 told an English publisher how much ho wanted for the British rights of the boxer 's autobiography , the publisher did not know whether to laugh or cry . It is curious how profitable ! writing booka deems to pdople who doh not write them . A famov English actor was finishing a book ormernories when he died recently and -I am told that he had succeeded in pledging the royalties that he expected to receive to a trustful peer for no less than f20,000 . Anatole France 's secretary , Jean . Tacques Brousson , has published in Paris a book about the master which lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an unusually amusing and malicious volume and as it has ) already sold over 100,000 copies it is certain to appear in translation in England and America . Anatole , as his secretary describes him , was a vain and amorous old gentleman , the slave of two masterful women who forced him to dress up and go to fashionable parties when lie was longing to browse in the bookstalls by the side of the Seine . In private ho was even a greater pessimist than he is in his books . According to his secretary , he once said : " In all the universe the most unhappy creature Is man . They say that man is the king of creation : he is the king of misery , my friend . There is no stronger proof of the inexistence of God than life . If you could read in my Hind you would be afraid . There is nobody so unhappy as I am . People think that I am happy , but I have never been happy for an hour . " - ? - A. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has given the title of " The Enduring Purpose , " and which is described as " a study of a young man 's reactions to post-war conditions . " His clever slater Vera , the author of " Sea Wrack , " has finished a book which she calls " The Naked Man " and which she herself describes as " a Very brutal story . " Its scene is the coal mining district of northeast England . It will be published in America in June by the Century company . " Figures of the Passion of Our Lord , " by the Spaniard , Gabriel Mire , is an amazing book  --  terrible , almo.st horrible , in its realism , wonderfully beautiful in its manner of presentation . Figure after figure is sketched , with consummate skill , and every one Is made intelligible Mire makra us understand Our Lady , and with equal ' success he makes us understand Pilate and Herod . Senor Mire , has learning and Imagination , As a work of art his book is incomparably greater than Papini 's " Life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have anything like the same success in English reading countries . It is most admirably translated by C. J. Hogarth . ? Trotsky 's biography of Lenin has been translated into English and will be published almost at once . It contains , I am told , some caustic references to IL G. Wells , who , it will be remembered , visited Moscow during the Lenin regime and of course wrote a book about it as soon as he arrived home . The University of Chicago . One of the booklets which the committee on development of the University of Chicago has published to acquaint the alumni of the university and the public with the ideals for the future of the university is called " Dialogue with a Dean , " which states in the most exact manner possible what the ideal school will do in the way of making men and women . It Is as fine a statement of what education and friendly guidance can do in the molding of humankind as I have read . It 's worth awning . And the pamphlet " Men " contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invincible faculty of the greatest university in history . If there could be gathered together Horace Mann , Adam Smith , William Ellery Charming , Michael Faraday , Ralph Waldo Emerson , John Stuart Mill , Charles Darwin , Herbert Spencer , Louis Pasteur , and Ernest Henan the result would be the 11 .. uatest university the world has ever known , he says . The university which is now mak ing a drive to collect seventeen millions to make itself as fine a realization of the ideal university as possible did not even exist thirty years ago . The tale of its sudden and almost miraculous growth at that time is told by Thomas W. Goodspeed in his " Story of the University of Chicago . " Dr. Goodspeed was one of the ardent young men working with Dr. Harper at that time for the establishment of the new university .                     