@@690466

txt A tempest that would not down was the aftermath yesterday of the Fridayafternoon raid in which prohibition agents removed . $7,500 worth of liquors from 142 East Fifty-fourth Street , the home of Hugo Gibert de Fritsch , clubman and wealthy real estate dealer . Mrs. de Fritsch , who was away in the country with her- husband at the time . is a niece of the wife of Chief Justice William Howard Taft of the United States Supreme Court . On the one hand , Agent Robert J. Owens persisted in his story that he had evidence to justify the seizure . He intimated it was possible servants had taken advantage of the abserce of Mr. and Mrs. de Fritsch . On the other hand , Mr. de Fritsch , through his attorney , ? Charles H. Griffiths of 120 Broadway , took immediate steps toward redress , demanding the return forthwith of the seized liquors and threatening other action against what he I termed an outrageous invasion of a private house . That the Federal authorities thought it not unlikely that a bad blunder had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prohibition officials but also of Federal Commissioner John Boyle and Hugh , chief of the special intelligence unit in New York of the Internal Revenue Bureau . Though Enforcement Director R. Q. Merrick and Federal District Attorney William Hayward would make no comment , it was evident that an official investigation would be made and a full report demanded from the raiders . Agents Contradict Each Other . A peculiar circumstance incidental to the raid was that it was said yesterday at prohibition headquarters , at Broadway and Twenty-fourth Street , that Agent John P. Lennon was not in the raid , though Lennon on Friday night told reporters he had obtained the evidence and had conducted the raid . He gave a full description of the seizure and said that the butler , whom he confronted at the door , was vigorous in his efforts to block entry . Contradicting this , Agent Owens said he and Agents Vogt and Gallo were the raiders and that forceful entry was not necessary , as the door was unlocked and nobody was in the house . A statement made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the breaking of the lock , against the butler 's protests , was resorted to . Mr. and Mrs. de Fritsch remained in the country yesterday . Mr. de Fritsch is expected back tomorrow morning . In his absence , his attorney , Mr. Griffiths . said to a repoyter for THE TIMES : " The affidavit on which the search warrant was based has been examined by me and it shows that the search was directed toward a public restaurant . No such warrant can be issued under the law against a private dwelling unless there is evidence of sale . There was no evidence of sale In this house . The affidavit was palpably false and perjurous . The search warrant itself , issued to an agent named Owens , authorized the search of a public restaurant " It is significant that the search warrant at first was made out for an address at the same number in West Fiftyfourth Street . I am told that is another type of building entirely from the one Mr. de Fritsch lives in . Demands Return of the Liquor . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The butler Sea informed Mr. de Fritsch and me that he opposed entrance of the agents and re- fused to grant them admittance . He has informed us that they literally broke into the building , forcing the lock . The lock is still smashed and is ev , idence bearing out the butler . " I have made written demand on the prohibition offices for the immediate return of the seized liquor and I expect to have it back for Mr. de Fritsch Monday morning . While no such assurances have been given me , the entire attitude of the prohibition offices was such as to indicate realization that a gross blunder had been made . The stock seized was in the house for a number of years . It was , most of it , pre-war stuff and the labels show it right now . They can see from these labels at the prohibition offices that they took pre-war liquors . Why , some of the liquors were brought to the house on permits granted by the prohibition authorities themselves ! " Mr. de Fritsch has been considerably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain full redress . Whether civil action will be started in the courts even after the return of the liquor has not beeen decided upon . But Mr. de Fritsch is determined to obtain full redress for the invasion of his home and the violation of his constitutional rights . " Commissioner Boyle said that his records showed that on July 30 Agent - Owens ' presented an affidavit in support - of an application for a search warrant for the premises at " 142 West Fiftyfourth Street . " which the ageent denribed as a four-story brownstone building with a basement , the first and ... zeCond , floors being used as a public restaurant . A reporter yesterday found ' at that address a four-story brownstone building with basement , given over entirely , so far as he could learn from occupants and neighbors , to rooming Purposes . The de Fritsch home is In a three-story white front building with basement . Called House Night Restaurant . In his affidavit . Agent Owens swore that at a F. M. on July 26 he saw an automobile drive up to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which the man carried iiitathe aim:ten:matt He swore " on information and belief " that the place was us ' oi as ?  --  a night restaurant , ' activities latginnfng at 8 o'clock and continuing late into the morning . Commissioner Boyle said he refused to Issue the s2arch and seizure warrant on en application based solely " on information and belief , " whereupon Owens crossed out those words . Then the Commissioner issued the paper . Commissioner Boyle said that on the following day , Owens came to him and told him the address " 142 West Fiftyfourth Street " was wrong , that the stenographer had made a mistake and that the correct address , was 142 - " East Fifty-fourth Street . The Commissioner related that Owens reported he had been et the West Fifty-fourth Street ( address , had found it to be the wrong place and had gone to 142 East Fiftyfourth Street , which he found to be the place he was proceeding against . Commissioner Boyle said he had Owens make a new oath to the affidavit when the address was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The warrant was issued by me on the affidavit 's description of the premises as a restaurant , " continued Commissioner Boyle . " There was no attempt on my part to issue a search and seizure warrant on a place used as a private residence . That would be clearly an invasion of a person 's constitutional rights under the search and seizure clause of the Federal Constitution and also a violation of the Volstead act itself . I will not issue a search and seizure warrant unless the agents swear that the premises are used for business purposes . " ? Private Houses Inviolate , Chief Hugh said that if it were established that there was no restaurant at the raided premises the raiding agents had violated Section 25 of the Federal Enforcement act , which provided that no private residence could be searched unless there had been an unlawful ' gale of intoxicating liquors . Chief was conducting an inquiry behind closed doors most of yesterday , after legal advisers of the prohibition offices had expressed doubt as to the legality of the raid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was said that if it developed that false statements had been sworn to in the affidavit steps against the offender or offenders in this respect would be urged upon the Federal prosecuting authorities . Agent Owens told reporters that the raid was justified and . that he would stick by his guns . " I obtained a tip from a certain party that the house in East Fifty-fourth Street was a speak . easy . I was n't a block away , as some of the papers said , but watched the house from across the street with the man who gave me the , tip . We saw a Ford truck stop in from ( of the house on Wednesday and a case which Was n't wrapped up was taken into the house . The case was plainly marked ' Scotch whisky . ' Then 1 went to Commissioner Boyle and obtained a warrant . ' Put the girl in the Commissioner 's office got the address wrong . It was supposed to be in East Fifty-fourth Street and she got it West Fifty-fourth Street . So . on Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was wrong and I went back and got a new warrant with the right address . On Friday Agents Vogt and Gallo went with me to the East Fifty-fourth Street address . Owens Reports " Terrible Disorder . " " We rang the bell , but ' nobody answered , so we pushed on the door and It was opened . It did not have to be broken in and nobody was at the door to give us an argument . We hollered through the house and nobody answered , so we went into the cellar and found the liquor . Then we went upstairs and in the kitchen we found a whole bunch of empty glasses orl the table , smelling from liquor , and the floor and sink were covered with cigarette butts . We went up on the second floor and found all the beds were mussed up and the front room was in terrible disorder . " A little while later Percy Flschel , the caretaker , appeared and ordered us out of the house . While we were arguing a man came in who said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 . East Forty-eighth Street , the building in which Mr. de Fritsch has real estate offices . He said he represented Mr. de Fritsch . He demanded a receipt for the liquors . We gave him a. receipt showing we had taken possession of sixty-six cases of Scotch whisky , two of which were partly consumed ; two cases of , assorted liquors , a ten-gallon barrel of rye whisky and two four-gallon demijohns of gin . " We made the raid in the afternoon because speakeasies do n't start up until after 6 o'clock . The disorder we found made me feel sure we had come upon a regular high-class joint . " Federal officials said that Owens was suspended last Fall for three months after he had been arrested by the police on charges of intoxication and assault on a chauffeur , after the collision of his automobile with a taxicab in Central Park at 3 o'clock in the morning . The charges were dismissed in the Magistrate 's Court . On April 19 fast Agents Owen , Samuel Kupferman and others raided a garage at 248 North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas Monteforte , 50 yea . old , was shot to death . Agent KoPfkainan was arrested on a charge of homicide , but was exonerated . Owens , a few months ago , participated in a raid an the private car of George Le Boutillier , Vice President of the Long Island Railroad , on its arrival at the Pennsylvania Station , seizing a quantity , of champagne and wbisky . The negro Porter of the car was lined in the Federal court . Mr. Le Boutillier said he knew nothing of the presence of- the champagne and whisky on the car. (                     