@@690970

txt In the face of sharp opposition from Pacific Coast members . Representative Fred A. Britten . Republican , of Illinois introduced in the House this afternoon a resolution Proposing a conference of white nations bordering on the Pacific . The resolution , which was presenteil during the reading of the Naval Ali . propriation bill , meads as follows : I Resolved , That for the purpose e ! promoting the solidaritx of the : wig% people of the Pacific , the President be and he is hereby authorized to call a conference of the white nations bordering on the Pacific Ocean for the discussion of ways and means for promoting a better economic , commercial and political understanding between said nations . The resolution immediately became the target of criticism , Representative Johnson of Washington , Chairman of the Immigration Committee , leading the attack and provoking a bitter reply from Mr. Britten . Representative Summers of Washington supported Mr. Johnson , saying that all of the West ** members he had consulted objected to the Plan . Representative Watkins of Oregon declared that the Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last night , when the Illinois Representative announced it at their dioner to the commerce chambers of their section . Representative of California deplored " any expression of in-advised opinion based upon a lack of understanding . " After seeing how his resolution was received . Mr. Britten ad : itted that there was no chance of its being adopted , nut he announced that as a member of the Naval Committee he would offer another resolution tomorrow for an investigation of the Navy 's fighting strength . The Senate Committee on Naval Affairs at its meeting tomorrow is expected to pigeon-hole a resolution by Senator King demanding a naval inquiry . Johnson Calls It unnecessary . In opening his speech objecting to the resolution Mr. Johnson said : " I requested Mr. Britten to withhold his proposed resolution and stated that it was provocative of trouble and would result in no good purpose . 1 find now ? that I stated the ' consensus of opinion of practically all Senators and Repreeentatives present . " Mr. Johnson pointed out that because as Chairman of the Immigration Committee he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be thought he would consider it advisable to approve the resolution , and con-tinued : " It is not so . The immigration incident has passed Relations are normal with Japan . Their best men have said SO . Trade is going on as usual . ' We are the best customers that Japan has . ' To attempt to influence either the members of this House by an inflammatory , exciting and war-provoking state , silent such as that printed this morning apparently in the name of members of the Pacific States and the representatives of the Chambers of Commerce of those great Western cities ( Seattle . Tacoma , San Francisco and Los Angeles ) is to do something beyond my comprehension . " I am sorry it was done . Tod will never get battleships or strengthen your navy by paying any attention to such resolutions . " The proposal is an unnecessary thing . If the Committee on Foreign Affairs ever undertook to ask the Secretary of State to invite representatives from the go-called white nations bordering on the Pacific into a conference , you would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Empire , and those self-governing Dominions and their Parliaments would undountedly not act without the consent of the chief Foreign Office . " Britten Says Japan Is Preparing . Mr. Britten came into the House just as Mr. Johnson was finishing . The Illinois member showed signs of anger . " I 'm sorry I did not get here in time to hear all the remarks of the distinguished and serious-minded gentleman . who - is carrying all of the immigration problems of the country on his own shoulders , " he said . " The Secretary of the . Navy and the highest ranking naval officers in our ? service say that Japan is making great military preparations and I assume that any warlike activity of Japan may ultimately be directed against us . " Mr. Johnson started to rise , but Representative Britten sharply intercepted : " Just hold your chair ! ' " Is there any objection to America 's doing the same thing as Japan ? " demanded Mr. Britten . " Japan , it has been suggested , opposes the American naval manoeuvres in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object to any country suggesting where we may or may not hold our manoeuvres . It is none of their business . " The Hawaiian Islands belong to us , and if in the promotion of these manoeuvres - we go to Australia to pay a kindly and courteous - visit , that also is our business . The former Prime Minister of Australia is in favor of calling just such a. conference as my resolution calls for . " Declaring that in the conference he proposed national defense would also be considered . Mr. Britten continued : " The question of national defense is entitled to serious consideration now , when the Secretary of the Navy and our highest ranking officers are calling to the country 's attention the fact that the navy has degenerated .. Are we to believe what they say ? " When they say that Japanese interests are objecting to our manoeuvres in the Pacific , we are to assume that they know what they are talking about . In the name of heaven , what is the great and serious objection to the calling of a conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us ? And when I say ' us ' I mean all the people bordering on the Pacific Ocean . Is that a terrible thing ? " In rejoinder to Mr. Britten , Mr. Johnson said : " I took the floor to raise my voice so that the peoples around the Pacific might hear that no jingo talk written at o o'clock In the afternoon and sprung before the delegation representing the States of Oregon , California and Washington would be accepted on its face value by any nation of the earth . " DENIES PERIL IN EXCLUSION . Japanese Industrialist Says New Law Has n't Roused the Masses . Jiro Masuda , Vice President of the Daido Electric Power Company of Tokio , which he said has the largest hydro-electric system in the Far East and one of the largest in the world , declared in an interview at the Hotel Biltmore yesterday that the recent Japanese Exclusion act has no effect upon Japan 's economic conditions , and therefore is not considered very serious by the masses of his country . " All it means is that 150 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Masuda said . When asked about the vigorous protests made in Japan at the time of the law 's passage , he said they came only from a few persons . He characterized the legislation 's effect as too " trifling " to bring on war . Mr. Masuda added that there was no concern in business circles over the coming American naval manoeuvres in the Pacific . lie esnerted that it is the desire of the Japanese to work more closely with the western nations , with a view to solving problems that may arise on the Asiatic mainland . According to Mr. Masada , the appointment of Mr. Matsudaira as Japanese Ambassador to Washington is an excellent one , " as he is one of the ablest statesmen of Japan and has a full understanding of American conditions . " No misunderstandings are likely to occur with a man like Mr. Matsudaira to interpret Japan 's views correctly , in Mr. Masuda 's opinion . He said he came here to sign the bonds issued by his company last August . It floated through Dillon , Read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not state whether he intended to seek another loan , he admitted that while here he would " make a careful survey of business conditions and of the sentiment of the general public toward further financial transactions on the part of my company in this market . " The company is capitalized at 112,963,000 yen , approximately $56,000,000 at normal exchange . Japan . Mr. Masuda said , is gradually recovering from the effects of the earthquake . There has been a 20 per cent . increase in the demand for electric power in Tokio alone . He expressed the opinion that the yen , which has been stabilized at . 38 cents , probably will start on the road to parity at 50 cents in the late Spring ' .                     