@@695482

txt The keynote of the annual convention of the American Bankers ' Association is the country 's limitless prosperity , with but one cloud on the business and financial skies . that being the tremendous speculation which has developed in the stock market . Almost ever y speaker who addressed the first formal meeting of the organization today drew attention to the dangers inherent in a situation in which more and more funds are being drawn daily into stock speculation , to tile disadvantage of other and more important lines entitled to credit . At the same time these grave warnings were being emphasized , the fact was also stressed that 1928 will prove a profitable year as a whole . and that the outlook for 1929 is extremely bright . But probably because of its left-handed relation to their own business , the present stock market frenzy and its possible wake of unfortunate economic experience , should it continue uncurbed , appears upper-nost at every open meeting and every conference . It is the main topic of conversation -a the 4.000 delegates . Coolidge Extends Greetings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association at its opening this morning : Thomas R. Preston . President American Bankers ' Association : I have a very high regard for your organization ; its aims and purposes are high and its achievements have been to the benefit of the financial and business interests of the country . I wish for you a most successful meeting . Please extend my greetings and best wishes to your members . ( Signed ) CALVIN COOLIDGE . Mr. Preston , in his opening address , referred to the growth of speculation . Leonard P. Ayres , Vice President of the Cleveland Trust Company , declared that a new and more sober era is about to dawn , in which the rewards will be to " calculators rather than to speculators . " " The increase in interest rates and the attempt to curb speculation has caused higher interest rates for ness and agriculture , " declared Mr. Preston , " but viewed impartially the action of the Federal Reserve System in attempting to curb speculation has been fully justified . Nothing would be more unfortunate than to have a period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Features of the first day 's meeting were the advocacy by Mr. Preston of an International Bankers ' Association , a sharp attack on the chain banking system by Rudolph S. Hecht , President of the Hibernia Bank and Trust Company of New Orleans . A summary of the grave dangers of speculation by Mr. Ayres and a plea for political tolerance by Edwin A. Alderman , President of the University of Virginia . The organization of a world-wide association of banks to promote fuller comprehension of the difficulties which beset every country would make for " more cordial and sympathetic understanding " among nations , was Mr. Preston 's contention . He outlined the formation of an association of bankers of the world . " It seems to me , " he said , " it would be impractical to have any other kind of an association except a delegated one If the United States is to maintain its financial and industrial supremacy , it must continue to lend , invest and sell abroad . Foreign business will be more important In the future than in the past . Interdependence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries that what affects one section of the world affects all . It Would be desirable to have a meeting of representatives of all the banks of the world at some convenient point ouch as New York , London , Paris or Berlin at intervals of two or three years . " Our investment in foreign securities have not always been desirable and this international association might bring a better understanding of credit conditions and the wants and needs of all countries . The American Bankers Association , I think , should take the initiative in inviting such a conference , not in a patronizing way , but in full recogMtion of the fact that this would be snutually beneficial to all and that other countries might help us quite as much as we could help them . " A warning that a more sober era in the country 's business is about to dawn was sounded by Mr. Ayres . He traced first the loss of gold which the United States has sustained in recent months and pre- dieted that it would be a permanent loss . Predicts End @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , " said the banker , " 1928 may well turn out to be the end of one economic era in this country and the beginning of another . It will bring to a close a fourteen-year period of great credit expansion based on huge gold ' mem ts . It is safe to say that the /text rew years will be very different from those that are just behind us . " The transition to a new and sober era is not going to be easy . The . - 'imerican people are in a mood of invincible optimism . Three years ago they were speculating in Florida real r ' tate and finally that bubble burst . They then speculated in urban real estate and now they are finding that the rents that are obtainable will not Justify the prices to which property had been bid up , and as a result city real estate prices are rapidly coming down . " " Now they have turned to the stock market , where prices of the stocks of mall order houses , chain .. tear es , motor companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis to s field half as much as the obligations ( 3 ; the United States Government . Says Stock Prices Are Too High . " Pi obably it can be mathemati-1 catty demonstrated that on a yield basis the prices or representative ! gi cams of industrial shares ate now selling at prices literally twice as high as similar stocks have ever sold before at the tops of the most excited of previous bull mai kets . Stocks are now selling on expectation rather than on realization . All the experience of the past points clearly to the conclusion that prices are too high and must come down . " The public appears to be mistaking the past for the future and confidently believing that the credit inflation based on the gold that is gone will somehow suffice to support market prices for their stock equities until something else can take its place . No conclusion is more safe than that the speculative markets in their present mood would promptly sop up for stock margins any additional credit that the Reserve system might make available if it should attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our concern is not about what may happen in the stock market . We know that all exceptional waves of speculative fever ultimately run their course and flatten out . Our concern relates rather to the ' noble/11s involved in shaping a ' Ink 's ins estrnent policy for the new eotionne el a which we are entering . ' expects Normal World Trade . " It is safe to assume that tins new era will he one in which gold imports and exports will be smaller in volume than those of the years since 1914 . Probably they will mostly result from the normal transactions of international trade , instead of being caused by the collapse and rehabilitation of the fiscal systems of foreirt nations . " If this type of development takes place , we shall probably enter upon a period in which bond yields and short-term money rates will once more have relationships something like those maintained in the years before the war . One simple rule embodies the basic principle which Should guide banks in shaping their policy for the investment of secondary funds . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper when the discount rate on that paper is higher than the yields available from high grade bonds and to get out of the short-term paper and repurchase high grade bonds , when both yields at e above short-term paper . " Great Rewards " Duo to " Plodders . " " We may look forward to the longer future with confidence , but the great rewards of business and banking during the next decade will probably go to the plodders rather than to the plotters , to the calculators instead of to the speculators , to the thrifty and not to the shifty It may even be that the hour of the old-fashioned virtues in business life is about to strike . " Mr. Hecht declated that the unit banking system is in danger of being seriously affected if not entirely superseded by more centralized organizations such as are elsewhere in vogue . He expressed the opinion that it would be an irreparable loss to the nation if individualism in banking had now to give way to centralization of power in the hands of a few strong institutions . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch banking in the last few years , and remarked that branch banks have practically doubled each five years : Year . 1900 1905 1910 1915 1920 1924 1928 Questions Chain Banking . " There is no doubt that positive , intelligent and systematic efforts must be made if we expect our present banking system to survive , " said the Southern banker , " for a considerable wedge has already been driven in the independent banker 's stronghold by branch bank advocates , and once having succeeded in putting their foot in the door they will spare no effort to constantly open it a little wider at every opportunity . " Mr. Hecht charged that so-called " chain banking " has been adopted by blanch bankers merely as a detour to get to the goal prohibited by the eighteenth amendment to the Federal Reserve act , which sought to close that road . " Chain banking is not new ; there are a number of excellent chain systems which are ably and conservatively managed and which are doing a high-class business . On the other hand , there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly flourishes most where branch banking is prohibited . In fact it is nothing mote or less than an unauthorized form , or shall we say a sort of ' bootleg ' form , of branch banking . Suggests Federal Supervision . " Under the chain banking system , it is as easy to acquire control of a State bank as it is of a national bank and the problem is , therefore , aateStmataenyanNdv as Teaetliotralt oinee. the problem has reached such proportions that the Federal Covet nment would be justified in assuming some sort of supervizaon over all banking institutions or holding companies doing business outside of the State in which they are chartered and located . " Union banks have come to the ei oos-roads of their financial future . The choice lies between improved banking practices among the unit banks or ultimate absorption by a centralized system . It lies between financial Independence and monopolistic control . We should all agree to let each banking service stand on its own bottom and make a charge for it to cover its cost plus a profit , just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should cure the evils of ' buying ' business on an unprofitable basis , of paying too high a rate of interest on public or private deposits , of undue duplication of credit lines and of the innumerable other practices which are contrary to sound banking and which increase overhead and diminish profits . Competition may be the life of trade , but coopetalion is the real basis of bank prosperity . " Session Hears Dr. Alderman . Prohibition was mentioned for the fast time at the convention when Dr. Alderman , President of the University of Virginia , predicted that a solution of the " problem " would emerge limn the " heats and rancors " of the Presidential campaign . After declaring that American Presidents , " from George Washington to the present hour , have surpassed in character , ability and devotion any line of Kings and Prime AltnisteiS in modern history , " he said that Herbert Hoover and Governor Smith ate deally in line with the great tradition . " " 1 venture to predict , " he said , " that out of the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rancors and discussions , will emerge some plan to secure to our social betterment the enduring benefits of the noble purposes inherent in the idea of prohibition , unmarred by the grave menace that now threatens the country with lawlessness and internal discord . " Denies Democracy Fails . President Alderman said that Mussolini " and others who claim that democracy is a failure " were wrong . In support of this position he cited what he said were some of its accomplishments . " It has abated sectarian fury , " he said . " Sectarian fury , the fiercest of human emotions , is ridiculous in this age despite all efforts of the intolerant to kindle it into flame . Alfred E. Smith will not be elected or defeated because he is a Catholic . " Since I wrote this sentence some weeks ago I have been rather distressed and amazed to behold the degree to which religious intolerants have gotten themselves in politics . I had noticed a soft of growth , an ominous and sinister growth , for some years , but I am not downhearted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follies of the ' 50s . It is just an ephemeral throwback to an illiberal age , a scheme of society in which men can not seek the truth as they see it and proclaim it , as a scheme of society branded with the deepest infamy possible to the human spirit , and all brave men should and will crush it . " Revised Blanket Bond Accepted . The approval given on July 19 to the revised form of bankers ' blanket bond by the insurance committee of the association was accepted by the Executive Council . The committee said the new form was not as broad as it had hoped , the surety companies contending that to extend the coverage further would raise premiums above a salable level The committee recommended to the incoming insurance committee that a study be made of the existing bankers ' forgery policies with a view to determining whether they meet the requirements of banks In general and bring about any desirable improvements in forgery protection . An increase in the number of daylight robberies in California , Missouri , Oklahoma and Texas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , it was said by James E. Baum , in charge of the association 's Protective Department , in a report to the Executive Council tonight . This increase , he said , wiped out gains made during the preceding three years In the fight to reduce bank crimes of violence . Reliance on insurance indemnity instead of vigorous efforts at prevention and prosecution , he asserted , was an important contributing factor in the increase . Agents Caused Arrest of 251 . The report showed detective agents of the association had caused the arrest of 251 of the 445 bank criminals apprehended in 1927 . Of these , 194 were sent to prison . There also were seventy-eight convictions of criminals arrested by association agents the previous year . During the year ending Aug. 31 , Mr. Baum said there were 177 Cis:light robberies and twenty-eight night burglaries at member banks . In the similar preceding period , there were 114 daylight attacks and sixty-two burglaries . The Executive Council selected San Francisco for the convention 's meeting place next year . It will be held during the week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behalf of the San Francisco Clearing House Association by W. E. Wilcox , Vice President and Cashier of the Anglo and London-Paris National Bank of that city and former President of the California Bankers Association . Samuel James High , President of the Peoples Bank and Trust Company of Tupelo , Miss. , was elected Pi esident of the State Bank Division . He was President of the Mississippi Bankers Association in 1915 and 1916 and has gall ad wide recognition for his plans to brinal about better farming conditions . An extensive program of entertainment has been provided for the visiting bankers by the Philadelphia hosts , and these include an all-star vaudeville show tonight , attended by most of them . Luncheons and golf feature each day . Says women Dislike Debts . Women do not make as much use of credit at banks as do men , it was said today at the meeting of the National Association of Bank Women at the Warburton House by Miss Agnes Olson. assistant cashier of the Noel State Bank of Chicago . Women , as a rule , dislike the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men take advantage of by using their credit , she essetted . " Women , " Miss Olson said , " must realize that most accumulations of capital have come about through the assumption of obligations which made made economies and savings compulsory . " Regional conferences were held under the leadership of the respective Vice Presidents . The regions having the largest representation at the cons cntion ate the Lake Division , New England Division and Mid-Atlantic Division . Discussions covered subjects ' elating to a more effective and closer cooperation with the national membership secretary and the policy to be employed in the publication of the association 's organ . One of the by-products of the conference was the opportunity afforded each division leader to become personally acquainted with the members of her group . The annual dinner of bank women was held at the Penn Athletic Club . The speakers were Mrs. William Laimbeer of New York , former President of the organization ; Mrs. Henry Goddard Leach , Chairman of the New York State League of Women Voters , and Miss Ida A. R. Wylie , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 01 ' ) . ? Discrepancies between the reserve requirements of State and national banks as revealed in a report made before the State Bank Division of the American Bankers Association convention tonight called forth the recommendation that State banking laws be remedied to correct the situation . " State banks are not able to compete with national banks along specific lines of income , " said the report , presented by M. P. Beebe , President of the Bank of Ipswich , S. D. , us Chairman of the Public Service Committee . " With the exception of about fifteen Reserve national banks , the required reserve of all national banks is but 7 per cent . on their demand and 3 per cent . en their time deposits . Besides these reserves , which are carried in the Federal Reserve Bank , they are of necessity required to carry additional reserves to conduct rhea business . " We find that only 8 per cent . of the States allow their banks to compete with national banks on an even footing , against 20 per cent . of the Reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come within the rule of reason . " The Committee on Relationship With the Federal Reserve System , T. 0 . Hammond , Chairman , urged more State banks to become members of the Federal Reserve system . Number . 60 166 329 565 1 052 2,233 2 989                     