@@694213

txt If It is right to curse Wisdom those who have said After our good things beThe Event . fore we said them , what shall be done to the man who so acted as to make our good things seem untimely and flat when they are published ? This is a literary crime which can be laid at the door of President COOLIDGE . His announcement that he would not rim for the Presidency next year did more than upset the politicians . It left the plans of magazine editors all askew . With their customary foresight , they had engaged articles , historical and c  --  ntro , rsial , n the Third Term . These are now appear ing , owing to the fact that they had to be sent to the press a month or six weeks ago . Necessarily , it strikes the reader as a little comic to be told that the Democrats will make the Third Term " the paramount issue " in 1928 , so soon after the country had learned that there is to be no such animal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business of publishing magazines . No one is to blame , and the President certainly could not be held liable for this result of his Twelve Words . Yet he may get a little secret amusement out of it . If the , campaign Removing of the citizens of Local Cedarhurst , WoodSignboards. mere , Hewlett and vicinity to remove billboards in that neighborhood prove successful , another step will have been taken toward curtailing such defacements of the landscape . It is reported that the Long Island Railroad has agreed to remove the signs from the stations of these towns and villages , and that the realestate operators of the region , who have been among the principal users of billboards , have entered into an agreement to combine their advertising so as to reduce the displays on vacant lots . Where to draw the line between " le-1 gitimate " and " objectionable " billboard advertising has always been a subject of dispute . It is readily admitted that there are places where signs not objectionable in size or design are in no way offensive to thel neighborhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes of the local residents . So long as they are convinced that the billboards in their locality are eyesores , their opinion should carry weight with the advertisers . To the credit of most of the latter , it should be said that they manifest an increasing willingness to follow the suggestions of public opinion . The most effective work in ridding the countryside of objectionable signs and billboards has been accomplished by direct contact between the advertisers , or their agents , and representatives of the public . The one touch Rain and Cold of nature which Followed by makes all men Cool and Showers . kin has been provided by the present so-called Summer . It has been raining at Fontainebleau and Hampton Courts , as it has rained in Central Park and on Long Island . A hundred thousand American tourists , tempted to resent the cool reception extended to them , might find solace in the thought that they would have been just as uncomfortable had they stayed at home . Since June 1 the weather forecast in Paris has been " unsettled . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany and Holland have been flooded . Switzerland has had an attack of landslides . Lake Geneva has shown a tendency to get out of hand . Denmark reports the worst Summer in 100 years . We are now in a position to judge more charitably of the airmen on both sides of the Atlantic , biting their nails through the weary weeks , waiting for a break in the fog and rain . For the American abroad there is a silver lining to the storm clouds , though he is probably not in the mood to acknowledge it . His trip this Summer has been more educational than it has been for some time back . The guide-books have always recommended the museums and churches for rainy days . A good many Americans who came to play in Montmartre or tour along the Loire have thus been put in the way of conducting intensive studies in the Louvre and Notre Dame . The protest in a letMutilation ter printed last week of in THE TOES against Dogs . the practice of cutting dogs ' ears well deserves attention . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dog-lovers to object to the old custom of cropping the ears and cutting the tails of certain species . The terriers , for some reason , have suffered from this more than most dogs . It is true that well-pointed ears add jauntiness to the expression , and that the stubby tail often seems attractive . But this is partly because the public has become accustomed to think of these terriers with such points , and when people see them with long tails , or with flopping ears , they are surprised and a bit disappointed . Defenders of this custom have maintained that the actual injury to the dogs is slight and the discomfort of short duration . This may be true , but why should not dogs be spared even that ? It is more than likely that the dog-fancying public , once accustomed to uncropped ears and to long tails , will like them even better than the customary " smart " appendages still in fashion .                     