@@688549

txt The sub-committee of seventeen representing coal operators and miners from the bituminous fields of Indiana , Illinois and Ohio will complete the preparation of a basic wage scale today , according to indications last night . The i scale ' will be submitted to the full conference today or tomorrow . Whether it will be signed at once or at another conference was not indicated . Both operators and miners were reticent , but it was reported that the new contract would call for an agreement for one year terminating on April 1 , 1924 , duplicating practically the present arrangement . The miners prefer a two-year contract but , it is said , will renew their agreement for a year if the operators desire the shorter period . After yesterday 's meeting of the sub-committee there appeared to be little doubt that moat of the operators favored renewal of the . present contract for one year . The deliberations of the ' sub-committee yesterday are said to have been limited mainly to differences of opinion between ? the miners and the operators over the guarantees in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both sides charged that guarantees have not been lived up to . This dispute , it was said , was about con- 1 eluded . leaving for today 's session little business except for the revamping of the present contract and the wage scale in minor details . if the conferees decide to renew the agreement on a one-year basis they will be following the advice sent by the Fed- I eral Fact-Finding Commission to the Chicago conference which began early in January but which collapsed without 1 a wage scale being- formulated . An agreement on a wage scale reached by the sub-committee virtually means an agreement by the full body . There was a tendency in some quarters toward the belief that while the conference would agree . upon a new contract the signing of the document might be delayed until it is taken to Washington and submitted to the Federal authorities . Some ofthe operators believe that the Attorney General 's office should be asked to pass upon the legality of the agreement so far as the anti-trust laws are concerned . Further delay will be opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be in contravention of the Sherman law . Information that reached Ellis Searles. editor of the United Mine Workers ' Journal , yesterday , indicated that a number of large interests in the soft coal industry had entered the British markets early in the year and had contracted for some 300,000 tons of English coal under the apprehension that a strike might take place on April 1 . According to Mr. Searles , there is no possibility of a strike at the present time , and as market prices will not warrant the costly practice of bringing British coal to this market , it was said that the action of the importers would entail a considerable loss to them . I                     