@@685434

txt Again Massachusetts has performed a signal service to the nation . The still small voice of truth may not get a hearing in the beginning , but it is potential as a finality . Coolidge said : Let the office seek the man , public safety first. , the law must he sought in foundations of eternal truth . Was it political foresight , . or standing by principles of public safety in political nominations , or was it that straightforward character fundamental in Calvin Coolidge that induced him so early to declare : " 1 shall not permit the great office of Governor of Masachusetts to he put in " an unseemly*contest for delegates in primaries . Anybody is free to make his campaign in Massachusetts , but nobody can speak for me . My friends must not maintain any political headquarters or collect any money for a campaign for me . " This was the rock on which the convention split . The danger to the Republican party with either Wood or Lowden was in the preliminary campaign money , however legitimately expended . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If large expenditures begin in political education , there is danger of final political corruption . If Lowden spends a half million , in the preliminary campaign of education for the nomination and Wood 's friends spend a million and a half and he has the lead and wins , who shall set the limit ? Another time it maybe a contest between two and a half millions and five millions , and then between ten millions and twenty millions . The political leaders may not see the danger , but the people sense it  --  the . danger to the whole structure of equal rights and democracy . It was preliminary campaign expenditures that put both Wood and Lowden out of the race . After the first four ballots , Wood and Lowden were gotten together in conference and invited to agree on a third candidate in the interest of the party and the country . Lowden was willing but Wood refused . How could be assent ? He was not even as free as Lowden . There was then nothing for the delegates who saw that either Wood or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but to nominate the next strongest . man . If Harding could not be put over  --  Coolidge might he tried . Although there was distinct undercurrent for Coolidge in the convention as second choice , there was no way to measure the size of the sentiment with any proach to accuracy . The convention , However , quickly and most unexpectedly showed its sentimeria after the nomination of Harding . The one spontaneous act of the convention was in the nomination of Coolidge . Had Massachusetts been unanimous for Coolidge she might have led the convention in more way 's than she did . Massachusetts leaders asked : " What kind of campaigner acKoss the country would Coolidge make ? " The very proper response was : " The same kind of a campaigner that made when he stood on his lawn , received the delegations and spoke the words of truth that reflected the principles of his party and touched the hearts of his countrymen . Coolidge at the Massachusetts State House would be in the same position . He could speak words of truth and soberness that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Did the campaign of Hughes help or hurt ? " The National Committee and senatorial leaders had picked Lenroot to complete the Harding ticket . Chairman Lodge gave Senator Medill McCormick the platform from which to nominate , with ringing voice , Lenroot of Wisconsin for Vice-President . But a smaller , clearer voice from Oregon way down in the corner of the hall spoke a few masterly words for Coolidge and the hall rang with spontaneous applausx for the Governor of Massachusetts . Representatives of twelve states jumped to their feet to second the nomination . The Chairman courteously gave recognition to a woman delegate from Maryland to second the nomination , but her voice could be heard but a few feet away . North Dakota , in the front of the hall , was next recognized and quickly seconded Coolidge . Then Allen of Kansas and Anderson of Virginia were nominated and the roll call began . The first response was Alabama " Two votes for Coolidge " and the hall rang with applause . It then gave twelve votes to Lenroot. but it was suddenly alpparent that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clear high voice away back in the hall that for two days had sounded ten times ' ' Arizona has six votes for General Leonard Wood " answered second on this roll call . " Arizona has six votes for Governor Calvin Coolidge " , the Convention Hall from top to bottom and from every corner- and right through the middle rang with applause that gave the size of the Coolidge sentiment that nobody had been able before to measure . The third " A " . Arkansas , spoke " Thirteen votes for Coolidge " and again the house rang . California followed on a roil call that in her twenty-six votes resounded nineteen times for Coolidge . Colorado followed with twelve votes for Allen , but it passed without notice . The cheering came again when Connecticut ' cast her thirteen votes for Coolidge . Thirty-six votes from Illinois for Coolidge set the hall ringing again but the demonstration was louder when Massachui-etts shot in her thirtyfive. votes. ? The applause was double because it was for both Coolidge and Massachusetts . It was-renewed when New York announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received in practical silence " Ten for Coolidge , nine for Lenroot. , nine for Anderson . ten for Allen , and ten for Pritchard " . Ohio , through Myron T. Herrick , had seconded the nomination of Lenroot as was ? perfectly proper considering the agreement to make the ticket Harding and Lenroot . Mr. Herrick said . privately : " We are for Coolidge and will vote for him unanimously on the second ballot . But after the recognition of Ohio to lead the ticket we chose as a matter of courtesy to scatter our votes among all the candidate : , . " But there was no second ballot . Oklahoma followed with her full twenty votes for Coolidge , Oregon with her full ten . Then Pennsylvania put the finishing touch and with her full seventy-six shot Coolidge over the line at ten minutes past seven , as fifty-five minutes before with sixty votes she had carried Harding ten points beyond the finish line . The convention cheered for several minutes and people began to leave the hall bees Use the ticket had been completed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Dakota gave ten votes for Coolidge . Texas with twenty-two of her twenty-three votes for Coolidge was roundly aplauded . The smaller states and districts quickly finished the total and the vote was announced at 6741:z for Coolidge . Harding had received 674 7-10 , but the representatives of Hawaii casting two votes for Harding had evidently left the hall . They were the only delegates not responding on the vote for Vice-President . Harding had thus one-fifth of a vote more than Coolidge . Ohio was not unanimous for Harding until the tenth ballot . but Massachusetts was unanimous for CoolAge for Vice-President on the first ballot . ' The more important thing . however , was that for the first time in political history . the New England States were politically a unit . They were unitedly and without a dissenting voice for Coolidge for Vice-President , although they followed the lead of Arizona and Arkansas in the balloting and must yield to Oregon and North Dakota the honor of his nomination . It was Judge McCamant of Oregon . who sounded the note for Coolidge and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Coolidge and of Massachusetts prevailed over the politics of Massachusetts , of the National Committee and of Washington . The truth for which Coolidge stands was before the country , bigger than the state and its political delegation and that truth had a grip that could not be measured before Oregon sounded the note for Coolidge and can not again be measured until November 4 . We may yet find that the country has faith in Massachusetts because it has faith in the principles of Coolidge and has determined to put the public safety and the laws of order and of truth to the front . Although the women made the best speeches  --  Mrs. Douglas Robinson , the sister of Theodore . Roosevelt for Wood , and Mrs. Pfieffer of Massachusetts for Coolidge ? it was a business man 's convention . It would not sing . IL would not be led by pulpit or by press . It is going to battle it right out with the Reds , the Revolutionists , the Hearsts , the Soviets and anybody else that wants to join in on that side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , order and business progress , and it will sing with Coolidge : " The.man who builds a factory builds a temple , The man who works there worships there , And to each is due not scorn and blame . But reverence and praise . "                     