@@692827

txt With ten known dead and more than sixty injured , many of them seriously , it was estimated tonight that the toll of life in a coke oven explosion which wrecked the by-products plant of the Illinois Steel Company at Gary , Ind. , today may *each twenty . Property damage , outsiders believe , will reach into the millions . Officials of the company will make no estimates . They barred all but policemen , firemen and rescue workers from the scene . The plant was one of the largest in the steel mill group at Gary and covered two city blocks . Five of the . victims were killed instantly . They were near the large coke oven when it exploded . The blast , which came without warning , blew out the walls of the building , flooded the debris with coal tar and acids and started a fire that hampered the rescue work for several hours . Witnesses to the explosion declare that the blast occurred in the saturator of the coke oven , but the exact cause has mot been determined . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the ovens to the by-product plant proper was the cause . Floor and Roof Lifted by Blast . The second floor and the top were lifted from the plant by the blast . Brick and tile and steel hurtled down upon the workers inside . Then came the shower of acid over the prostrate victims . Rush calls were immediately sent to all the undertaking establishments and hospitals in Gary . A dozen ambulances were on the scene in a few minutes and the transporting of the injured and the dead was begun . The normal capacity of the hospitals was exceeded in a short time and many of the injured were placed on floors . All nurses , physicians and . interns were called to duty and every operating table in the city was pressed into service . Women relatives of the men employed in the plant heard the blast and gathered by the score in front of the gates , where they were held back by armed guards . Many of those who were dug out of the wreckage were so severely burned that identification was all but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mill foreman ; Harry Farres , Jesus Perez , Lloyd Collier , John Gaddis and Frank The last three name were colored . Four bodies of negroes in an undertaking establishment are unidentified . Late this afternoon scores of workmen were searching the ruins for the bodies of two colored workmen who are known to have been in the plant when the catastrophe occurred . It is believed they were buried under hundreds of tons of bricks and twisted steel . George Murz , an employe of the steel company , was standing only about 100 feet away when the entire plant crumpled like a house of cards and the slate roof was lifted in thousands of pieces . " I was in the war , " he said , " and there was nothing else so much like that explosion as a big barrage . I dodged several big pieces and was n't hurt . " A miraculous escape was reported by a crane operator on the second floor . The blast lifted him through a window and he landed fifty feet away in the yard , unhurt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several of them were struck by the flying debris and seriously injur.d . Lloyd F. Burress , superintendent of the coke ovens , was one of the first to reach the oven after the explosion . After summoning aid , he made personal efforts to recover the injured from the debris in which they were buried . Major K. M. Burr , Safety Inspector of the Gary works , announced tonight that it would be impossible to assign the cause of the explosion until a thorough investigation has been made . Pending this , no official statement will be given out by the company . Mayor Floyd Williams and Deputy Coroner Robert Marshall were among the leaders in rescue work . This evening relatives of the injured men were congregated by the hundreds in the vicinity of the hospitals . Details of police were assigned to hold them back .                     