@@694278

txt Formation of a " militant " Republican Progressive bloc in the Senate , with a program independent of that to be formulated by the regular party organization and the Administration , was forecast today by Senator Gerald P. Nye of North Dakota , enthusiastic advocate of the MeNary-Haugen form of farm relief legislation . The call sounded by Mr. Nye put forward Senator Norris of Nebraska for Progressive leadership in the Senate . Senator Nye 's program for legislation through a coalition of the Boulder Dam , Muscle Shoals and farm relief blocs of last Winter and the flood relief group is as follows : Immediate adoption of farm relief legislation closely following the lines of the bill of last Winter . Authorization of sufficient appropriations by Congress to " forever insure " the Mississippi Valley against another such flood disaster as swept through it last Spring . No tax reductions whatever . Application of whatever surplus is left in the Treasury to reducing the public debt . Possible Trouble to Old Parties . This is the first serious effort to bring the Progressives of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an organization , if effected . might wield great influence in the next Senate , where the balance of power between Republicans and Deniocrats is narrow . Regular Republican and Democratic groups alike might have to trade . with the Progressives on the basis of Senator Nye 's program , it is argued , ? in order to save their own party programs from defeat at the hands of the insurgents .. Senator Nye says he believes he can count " right now " on twelve Senators joining the ? Progressive group . " We lacked organization last session , " Senator Nye said . " Otherwise we would have made a- far better record . Now we definitely hold the balance of power in the Senate . Ofganized under the leadership of Senator Norris . we should be able to put our program through . " I believe Congress will pass the farm relief bill in virtually the same form that it passed last year . Nye Not Averse to Attacking Tariff . " If President Coolidge vetoes it again , I believe we will have enough strength this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe the President 's trip West has convinced him , however , that some such legislation will have to be worked . out . for the farmers . " If Congress should fail to give the farmers " full and adequate " relief . Senator Nye said he for one would be as vigorous as any Democrat in demanding revision of the tariff downward . The choice war , up to the Republican Party , Senator Nye declared ; either give the farmers their full measure of protection or modify the protective tariff . Senator S. W. Brookhart favors the Nye program and , in addition , urges restoration of the former higher rates of the Federal inheritance tax . He . said here today that he would fight against repeal of the Federal inheritance tax and would offer a bill to restore the rates prevailing before Congress changed them last Winter . Tax reductions of any kind are impossible this year , Senator Brookhart said . The full benefit of whatever surplus there is in the Treasury next Tune , he said , should be devoted to farm relief and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed tax reduction programs , he said , could well afford to pay existing rates . Senator Brookhart left Washington today for a tour of the . West , where he will urge farmers to demand " full Government " aid in what he termed their present " desperate condition . " Curtis Qualifies Tax Reduction . That the amount of tax reduction by the next Congress must depend in large part upon the amount of money appropriated to take care of the flood situation , Senator Curtis , the Republican leader in the Senate , asserted today . " It will be impossible , " he said , " to tell how much of a tax reduction can be made until Congress is advised as to the amount of money that will be required for flood control and for other emergency appropriations . It is likely that the amount necessary for such purposes will be known by the time we meet in December . " Army engineers who have been studying the needs of the Mississippi and its tributaries , are expected to have their data assembled by the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for convening , in which period they will formulate their conclusions and prepare recommendations .                     