@@693770

txt In the Charter of Labor promulgated at Rome we see again how much more novel are the Fascist method and vocabulary than the ultimate Fascist aims . There is nothing startlingly new in the basic principle of the Charter that capital and labor are functions impressed with a social duty . The difference is that Fascism speaks of duty to the State and democracy speaks of duty to the public and the community . There will be no quarrel with Mussourn 's repudiation of the doctrine of class war . That has been openly rejected In this country by organized labor as well as by capital , and among the democracies of Western Europe has been abandoned in fact if not explicitly . The principle of collective bargaining decreed by MussoLINT is well established in our democracies . The principle of judicial settlement of industrial disputes is making headway . MUSSOLINI does leap forward in instituting compulsory arbitration and prohibiting strikes and lockouts as treason against the State . We have no legal compulsion , but we da stress the rights of the public in industrial warfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure which in Italy is to be more directly applied by the Government . So far , then , as concerns the maintenance of industrial peace and the inculcation of the principle of cooperation the Fascist purpose does not differ from the goal toward which the democratic nations are moving at their own democratic pace . The Fascist program apparently does look beyond industrial peace to compulsory industrial efficiency . The Charter of Labor endorses private initiative in one clause and seemingly takes it away in another . It decrees that when private initiative in any specific industrial undertaking is below par the State may step in to " encourage , control or take over " the enterprise . At first sight this would mean the State in business ; but we must wait and see how much reality there is in the phrase . Actually the Fascist procedure has been the other way about . It has sought efficiency by handing over the telephone system to private operation . In Russia it is now being demonstrated that dictatorship and industrial efficiency do not march together . Moscow is now preparing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that Mu'ssoLnu will be taking over many private businesses in order to run them better . The new Fascist industrial policy is , NFgrork-not-new. -in-ItA-gbiectivm It wants productivity through peace through discipline imposed from above . Under democracy we strive toward productivity through peace through the pressure of public opinion and the enlightened self-interest of workers and employers . Fascism is only a method . Its apologists assert that it is the only method possible for Italy . Perhaps that is so . But that would mean that Fascism has no universal validity and carries no intrinsic challenge to democracy . We are under no need of calling in Fascism so long as we produce , piosper and keep the peace under democratic liberty . That is not only our own record , but the record in European nations as sorely tried by war as Italy has been . It is the record in France and Germany . It is decidedly not the record in the one country besides Italy where a dictatorship and centralization have been practiced on a grand scale . That is Russia .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        