@@693365

txt Traveling from On Intelligence the East to Cali in orni a , Josseft Writers . HEROES REIMER ' stopped long enough in Kansas City to make a few , remarks about the lack of intelligence in authors . He spoke of it as an obvious fact , nothing to be sad or surprised about , but the simple and not undesirable truth . While newspaper men attending the novelist gasped with astonishment , he assured them that he was himself unintelligent . " Intelligence ? Huh , I have a $50 a week secretary who has more real intelligence than I ever had . " Then to what is the success of a writer who has produced more than a score of novels and 500 short stories to be attributed ? One might think that the power of close observation combined with imagination and a rather subtle understanding of human nature bore some relation to intelligence and to his success . But after all the writer nimself ought to know , and he gave it as his belief that his production of fiction is due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that he has not had " the disadvantage of an education . " Putting his statements together , one is bound to reach the conclusion that his definition of intelligence is mixed up with a notion of schooling . His secretary , who Is trained to spell , punctuate and combine nouns and verbs correctly , may possibly be intelligent as well , but these things are not infallible evidence of that quality . Mr. HERGESHEIMER himself is probably no less intelligent than most authors , and they will scarcely agree meekly to his assertion . Now it is a reOversensitiveness vue in Berlin , and " Oh , U. S. A. , " Common Sense . which is making international trouble . Frankly anti-American , it has brought from the German Foreign Office an expression of regret that it has caused a bad impression . since the whole affair ( lees not truly represent German opinion . These things , like the plays in Paris and London and the movies in New York which have given international offense , are best left to expire of their own inanity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Indignation about such trifles is a mark of " oversensitiveness . " By contrast may be mentioned an incident which was really important in the relations of France and Germany . but which was quietly handled in a common-sense way . It came to the knowledge of the French Government that a military manual was being distributed to the members of the Reichswehr in which it was said that every officer must have it in mind to win back Germany 's lost territory , specifically Alsace and Lorraine . When the French Foreign Office brought this to the attention of the German Government , an apology was quickly forthcoming and a promise given to withdraw at once the offensive book . The affair shows on how sensible a footing the dealings of France with Germany have now come to stand , and also how much better it is to go directly to headquarters than to start up a lot of shouting in the streets . Another cause for Good Wines American unpopular and ity in France has Ordinary . come to light in a publication called " Le Bon Vin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like so much water . This , at ; first blush , hardly seems a capital offense . We can not get wines in this country . Why , then , should we not drink them freely in France ? Our crime appears to be not so much the violation of the laws of prohibition as of the laws of , taste . There are wines I which should be drunk , and others sipped and enjoyed . This discrimination is plain to all Frenchmen , who distinguish between the " yin ordinaire " and a bottle of especially fine wine of some famous vintage . Americans , however  --  with , of course , a few exceptions  --  are indifferent to this refinement . Some will gladly drink and highly praise an " ordinary wine " so long as it is expensive . This shows an amazing lack of discrimination , but is at least profitable for mine host . Others  --  and these are the real criminals  --  win order a bottle of some famous vintage of " Chambertin " or even a " Ch  --  teau Neuf du @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wine . This is naturally painful to Frenchmen to whom such a bottle even in the days before the war would have been an occasion to be prepared for with ceremony and to have been enjoyed with prolonged moderation . Today . when so many purses are lean and the price of vintag , , wines is excessively fat , it is bad enough to see rich Americans ordering such wines freely . ' But it is unpardonable for these happy foreigners to toss off the priceless liquor in barbarous unconsciousness of such refinements as the aroma and " bouquet " of a wine .                     