@@692797

txt The fame of " dragon bone medicine " throughout the Chinese Province of Zechuan has led to the discovery of fossils of longextinct animals by a member of the Central Asiatic expedition under Roy Chapman Andrews . The Interest aroused by the trade in " dragon bones , " which has flourished along the middle Yangtze for seven or eight centuries , Walter Granger , paleontologist of the expedition , investigated the sources of supply of the commodity and as ; a result found the fossils of between thirty-five and forty animals of the Pleistocene Age . Mr. Granger dischised his discoveries here , where the expedition still is waiting for a chance to get to Kalgan and the Gobi Desert to continue its search for traces of primitive man . Civil war at present bars any movement along the railway from Peking to Kalgan , although the American scientists are ready for their next excursion into the upland wastes of Mongolia . Among Mr. Granger 's most notable discoveries among the so calleci. " dragon bones " were skulls of the Stegodon , an animal which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhinoceros ; a complete fossilized skeleton of a guar , or East Indian bison and fossils of about thirty-five other extinct forms , including the ancestors of many existing species . Near Wan Helen on the Yangtze , Mr. Granger learned . farmeis in the slack season were digging tong of bone fossils out of mud-filled pita in a limestone ridge running sixty to seventy ' miles along the river and selling these to be pulverized for " dragon medicine . " Dealers bought them for shipment , . to Chungking , the most important river port of Szechuan . The excavations made in the pits , which had been formed by the action I of water on the rock , were often from 75 to 100 feet deep , Mr. Granger said . " The salvaged bones are dried , cleaned and piled in a corner of the farmer 's house , waiting for the dealer to come along , " he further explained . " I adopted the plan of visiting the natives engaged in this work and encouraging them to take special care with the skulls . for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' market . . " There are from thirty-five to forty species of extinct animal bones to be found in these pits , including remains of monkeys , probably related to those now living in the gorges of the Yangtze , and of ancestors of the lion , tiger and other present-day mammals . There are no modern types of animals and only a single evidence of the presence of man in the age in which they were deposited . A pair of antlers had the tips cut off , evidently by human agency . " N. C. Nelson , the expedition 's archaeologist , who made extensive investigations along the Yangtze above Ichang , which is below Wan Hsien , found plentiful evidence of EC pre-Chinese race in the shape of stone implements along the river banks . PROTESTS THE PAROLE TO CREDIT SWINDLERS Mattuck Says Two in Bankrupt Fraud Were Freed Against His Plea to Board . Over the protests of the National Association of Credit Men and the United States District Attorney here the Federal Board of Parole has freed two self-confessed fraudulent bankrupts , who were each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assets aggregating 5150,000 . The men , who were freed after serving about seven and a half months of their sentences , were Morris B. Israelsky and Maximilian Buehman of a bankrupt concern at 22 West Twenty-second Street . Maxwell S. Mattuck , chief attorney for the prosecuting division of the National Association of Credit Men , submitted to Attorney General SArgent and the Parole Board legal reasons why the prisoners should be held to the end of their terms . Mattuck received a reply from the Attorney General approving his stand , but said he had received no opportunity to appear before the Parole Board , as he had requested , before the men were freed . " There was no reason for the Parole Board to free these men , " asserted Mr. Mattuck . " They got away with $150,000 by stealing and concealing assets so that it was impossible for their creditors to get recovery . " Federal Judge Estes sentenced the two to the maximum penalty of two years , but afterward changed the length of sentence because of the pleas of guilty . ' Equitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Equitable Trust Company will be opened today at Madison Avenue and Twenty-eighth Street , to be known as the company 's Twenty-eighth Street office , it was announced yesterday . George V. Drew , Assistant Vice President , will be in charge . The Equitable Trust now operates four offices in the city , the others being the main office at 37 Wall Street , the importers and traders office at Z47 Broadway and the uptown office at Madison Avenue and Forty-fifth Street ,                     