@@696869

txt Premier Tardieu has no intention that France should go to the London naval conference unprepared and without a policy of her own . For that reason he called the first meeting today at the Quai d'Orsay of those of his colleagues who are most immediately concerned with the problem of Prance 's defense . Those who took part in " this inner Cabinet meeting were the Premier himself , Aristide Briand , Minister for Foreign Affairs ; Georges Leygues , Minister of Marine ; Andr ? Maginot , Minister of War ; Francois Pietri , Minister for , Colonies , and Laurent Eynac , Minister for Aviation . Admi ? al . Violette , chief of the Naval General Staff , also was in attendance . The meeting , of course , was secret , but it is understood that the main lines of the : attitude which the Premier believes France should take were outlined by him and that a beginning was made in the discussion of technicalities . Defense to be Navy Basis . It may be said that the French attitude will be , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to the statement of Ambassador Dawes , based first and mainly on her needs for her defense . It was perhaps for that reason that Colonial Minister Pietri was asked to attend today 's meeting . Having helped to make and having signed and ratified the Kellogg pact , France considers the whole question of naval armament as one of defense alone . She is ready to propose at the forthcoming conference that the capital ship be abolished , and as far as she is concerned it is certain she never will undertake the construction of even that proportion which was allotted to her at the Washington conference . That question is , however , for the London conference as a whole , and more especially for America and England . France is concerned only with her own defense and the defense of her possessions . In the defense scheme the navy is only one unit and it is as a whole that the problem is being studied before a decision is made as to the policy to be followed at the London conference . However , it is certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to abolition of the submarine . The same argument which Briand used at Washington is being used again , that no one can attack a country with submarines , and that they are essentially only a defensive weapon .. Opposes Ratio for Warships . ? The third plank in the French policy will be that there can be no establishment of any ratio for ships of ' any class among the different countries . It is no secret ? that even in the most authoritative circles in the country it is held that the idea of naval parity between nations is impossible of achievement . Their , needs , for their defense being ' all different , according to geographical and other ' circumstances , it ? is contended it is impossible to find any criterion by which the nations ' navies can be measured except that of needs .. If a country appears to exaggerate its building program beyond what the . rest. : of , the world considers sufficient it . will be easily apparent , . France believes . So long as that is not done , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and principle of the limitation of armaments . To any suggestion that a new proportion schedule should be established , France 's answer may , therefore , be expected to be a categorical " No . " She does not ask for parity with her neighbor , England , and she will not accept parity with her neighbor , Italy . She intends to take a stand solely on the reality of her needs for her defense and be in a position to say so , so there will be no future misunderstanding as to what she considers her needs are . If , for instance , the question of parity with Italy is to be considered , the French ask how the Italian mercantile marine is to be classed . It is known that- the splendid new Italian ships which have been built in recent years for the South American service can be transformed in time of need into auxiliary vessels of very ' great value . Today 's meeting of the inner cabinet on defense was only a preliminary . During the next few weeks it is expected each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the requirements for naval strength essential for the defense of the country . The Colonial Minister will make his estimate . The Minister of War will make his . The Minister of Marine will submit his . minimum program , and the Minister of Aviation will contribute sugges- ' tions . France will then have a unified program of defense which she *ill be able to produce- hi St. James 's Palace as her minimum needs . The program will be solidly established and there can be no deviation from it to meet the conditions of an artificially established ratio .                     