@@694173

txt Dr. Thomas W. Salmon , 51 years old , one of the leading mental and nerve disease specialists in the East and Professor of Psychiatry at Columbia University , disappeared last night from his yacht , Malabar II , in Long Island Sound and no trace of him has been found . Crews on four Coast Guard cutters sent from New London , under Ensign Henry Buell , dragged the waters in this vicinity all last night and today without result . Companions of Dr. Salmon who were on the yacht shortly before be disappeared expressed the belief that he had fainted and fallen overboard while taking a sounding of the water 's depth . The yacht was found drifting with the lead line over the stern . Was on a Cruise . Dr. Salmon , who lived in Larchmont , N. Y. , and had offices at 20 East Sixty-seventh Street , New York , left New York on Friday for a two weeks ' cruise along the New England coast . With him were Dr. Dana W. . Atchley of 730 Park Avenue , Assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gloucester , Mass. , captain of the yacht . Drs . Salmon and Atchley went from New York to South Norwalk and from there to Belle Isle , where they boarded the forty-foot two-masted auxiliary schooner which Dr. Salmon had owned for about a year . A cruise to Bar Harbor , Me. , had been planned . The yacht sailed from Belle Isle and cruised to Point Jefferson , where it anchored for the night . Early yesterday morning the cruise was resumed . About 8 o'clock last night the yacht was near Duck Island . There was very little wind . Dr. Salmon attempted to start the engine . He found there was no gasoline . Dr. Atchley and Captain volunteered to row to shore in the dinghy to get gasoline . They left the yacht shortly after 8 o'clock and after obtaining ten gallons of fuel returned to the schooner . They found the Malabar drifting , with its sails aloft and flapping in the slight breeze . It had moved in the current out toward the breakwater . The sounding line was twisted about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two hastened on board . Dr. Salmon was go.ae . Search below decks was in vain . State Police Notified . The anchor was thrown out and Dr. Atchley and Captain rowed back to shore . ' Dr. Atcheley stopped at Clinton , where he called up the State police at the Centerbrook barracks and told Lieutenant Willard Cushing of Dr. Salmon 's disappearance . Dr. Atchley asked Lieutenant Cushing to notify the Coast Guard at New London . Four speed boats were at once dispatched . Before the Coast Guards arrived word for help had been passed along to persons aboard other yachts anchored near Duck Island , and they joined in the search for Dr. Salmon . There is a fairly strong current at times near Duck Island , and fishermen and others acquainted with the waters suggested that if Dr. Salmon had fallen overboard his body might have drifted out toward Orient Point , L. I. , where the Sound empties in the ocean through Plum Gut . Dr. Salmon had apparently been in the best of health when he left on the cruise , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had seemed in good spirits . There was no possibility that Dr. Salmon might have rowed ashore as Dr. Atchley and Captain used the only small boat attached to the yacht . Questioning of yacht owners at Duck Island and a check on shore disclosed that Dr. Salmon had not used any other small boat . Captain Warner Libby of Duck Island iniormed the police that he had noticed the arrival of the Malabar II last night , as Dr. Salmon had been ' an annual visitor at the island . He said he had seen two men row from the yacht to the shore , but had not r.oticed anything peculiar about the yacht or her drifting with the current . Captain Libby said he heard nothing more about the yacht until he was aroused early this morning by Coast Guards who were inquiring about Dr. Salmon 's disappearance . There were about twenty yachts near the island and the Coast Guards were questioning the persons on board them . While the guards and others were dragging the waters , Captain remained aboard the yacht . Dr. Atchley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norwalk , Conn . During the morning Edwin A. Salmon of 6,802 Ridge Boulevard , Brooklyn , a son of the psychiatrist. who is spending the Summer at Belle Isle . came to Clinton and remained during the afternoon . He was kept informed of the search for his father by the State troopers and left for his home early in the evening . From Clinton he notified his brother . Thomas K. Salmon , 17 East Ninth Street . New York , by telephone of Dr. Salmon 's disappearance and the attempts that were being made to find him . The brothers gave the theory that their father must have fainted and fallen into the water . Mrs. Salmon and her two daughters are traveling in Europe . They have been abroad for several months . Had Been in Federal Service . Dr. Thomas William Salmon , son of Thomas H. and Annie E. Salmon , was born in Lansingburg , N. Y. , Jan. 6. 1876 . He was educated in the public schools and was graduated from Albany Medical College in 1899 . The same year he married @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice in 1899 and on Oct. 29 , 1903 , entered the United States Public Health Service . In 1911 he was made Chairman of the New York State Board of Alienists . Four years later he was named Medical Director of the National Commission for Mental Hygiene . He held this position until 1921 . From 1915 to 1921 he was on the staff of the Rockefeller Foundation , and in DR. - iFIOIVIAS W. SALMON , Who Disappeared Off e . Yacht in Long Island Sound . 1921 was made Professor of Psychiatry at Columbia University . He became consulting psychiatrist at the Presbyterian Hospital in 1922 . Dr. Salmon had a distinguished war-service record . He went into the army during the war as a Major and rose rapidly in the service , holding the rank of Brigadier General at the close of the war . He was the senior consultant in neuro-psychiatry in the American Expeditionary Forces . For his service he received the Distinguished Service Medal . He was a member of many scientific societies . He was a member of the permanent Interallied After-Crre of Disabled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exposition ; American Medical Association , American institute of Criminal Law and Criminology , President of the New York Psychiatric Society , President of the American Neurological Association , President of the American Psychiatrist Association and President of the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States . Dr. Salmon belonged to the Larchmont Yacht , Century and Army and Navy Clubs . He was author of many books and articles on psychiatry , and was a constant contributor to medical publications .                     