@@693068

txt Except for the delegates from Canada and New Zea1 land , who . bitterly condemned the American Senate 's reservations as an effort to secure for the United States a privileged position not enjoyed by any member of the League of Nations . and the Swedish representative , who suggested that the reservations should be met by a reservation on the part of the present Court signatories , the conference of signatories of tile statute of the Permanent Court today continued to give evidence of the greatest desire to meet the Americaa demands and assure the entrance of the United States into the interns ' tional court . But while the attitude of Canada . New Zealand and Sweden was far outbalanced by the conciliatory spirit shown by Britain , France , Italy , Belgium , Czechoslovakia , Uruguay and Poland , who all favored the utmost concessions to meet the American demands , its importance must not be minimized . All three have the right to veto America 's entrance into the Court and Sweden , as a Council member who may remain another term . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event that that body is asked to take the matter to the Permanent Court . Covenant Seen as Involved . Sweden is a great champion of the sovereignty of the Assembly of the League and in today 's discussion there was almost universal opinion that the question before the conferees involve the Covenant of the League . Sweden showed last March in vetoing permanent seats for Spain and Brazil she will stop at . nothing If she is 00:1-vinced her case is righteous , and it was evident today , from the word and tones of M. Unden , the same man who blocked Spain and Brazil , that his feelings are strong . " Why do n't we make a reservation from our side ? " he demanded . " Why not accept the Americans ' adhesion , but for only so long as they make no trouble about reservations ? The United States Senate reserves the right to interpret its reservations . Let them adhere to the Court , but if at any future time the interpretation they give is not such as we can accept we will withdraw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This suggestion was not commented on because adjournment for the night followed the lengthy discourses of Sir George Foster of Canada and Sir Francis Bell of New Zealand . While America 's demand was something , it is not as much as had been expected from the United States , Sir George Foster ( Reared . It was mandatory and dictatorial . Attention must be given when a country outside the League passed mandatory statutes directed against a court of law and said it could not do such and Such a thing . The Council and Assembly were free to make any requests to the Court it pleased , he said . The only limit was when the Court refused to take a case under consideration . It was therefore the duty of the Court to seek infotomaCon . But the Council and Assembly of the League could not tell the Court if the United States had an interest in the case . The Court must ask then United States Government if it had an interest . The question must be directed to the - United States Government . It must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it would not stop there . It would go to the Senate . That meant , according to the information of Sir George Foster , that the delay would be lengthy , if not interminable . Then came the question if the Court could ask proof of interest . The League of Nations was not sent by the Deity into Paris full grown , Sir George Foster continued . It represented an effort to build toward an ideal and the building was going on . It was prepared to work on the principle of equality of treatment which I was stressed by Senator Walsh in the , Senate debates . But the United States should be put on the same plane of obligations and privileges as other members . In conclusion he said it was certain that the United States , having declared that she did not wish to interfere with the League , would change her reservations if she knew they did interfere . Therefore he thought the United States should be asked to come down to a plane of equality . New Zealand Delegate 's Arguments . Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States was asking preferential treatment and that the power of veto should not exist . The League Council members were not representatives of their Governments in session at Geneva to protect their own countries , but to protect the world and all countries , he said . No member who exercised the right of veto to protect his own country could retain a seat on the Council . Therefore a nation not on the Council should not enjoy such a right . These discourses , which took up practically the whole afternoon , followed the morning session , which was marked by a conciliatory spirit . This session was " - given over to a sincere effort to ' find a formula to permit American adhesion to the Court and not to recrimination . Two schools of thought developed . One , headed by Britain , France and Italy , wishes to have the Council propose that the United States adhere to the Court on exactly the same footing as the Council members . The othhr school , headed by M. Bolin of Belgium , would ask the Permanent Court for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisory opinion .. If then it was found that the American reservations asked preferential treatment for the United States , it was thought that . the Senate would be willing to remodel its reservations . The first school thinks the Court ruling would have very little value . There still remains the obstacle created by the abstention of parties directly interested in a question , and the . fight of veto in questions in which she 13 interested is the very thing the United States is claiming . Proposal Opposed by Britain . Sir Cecil Hurst opposed the Bolin proposal on the grounds that the League was too young an institution to make it wise to try to obtain an opinion which must to a great extent be regarded as a binding opinion for the future . He said that if the conference - was right in thinking the desire of the United States in formulating the reservations was merely to obtain for herself a similar position to that enjoyed by the Council members , he was sure that the intrinsic fairness and reasonableness of the United States would lead her , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to accept her participation upon that footing , to participate on those terms , leaving the question of unanimity or majority to be decided gradually as the working of the Council progressed in the future . He considered , however , that the right of veto in a matter requiring a unanimous decision must be based on participation in the Council meeting and the right of veto exercised in that meeting . only after all the difficulties of the situation had been explained . Signor Pilotti , Italy , made a flat proposal for asking the United States to come in on a footing of equality . If that satisfied the United States everything would . be in order . If on the other hand , the United States was not satisfied they would have to ask the Court whether the decision of the Council to apply for a advisory opinion required unanimity or merely a majority . This proposal was strongly backed by France . Poland was for accepting the reservations as they were , merely a favored nation clause . Uruguay made a strong plea , after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference to stop talking ' about the form of the reservations and stick to their substance . He himself was satisfied that the United States only wished equal treatment and he favored according it .                     