@@689275

txt My attention has been called to an article in Ti-I ? Nww YORS ThrES today headed " Orders Typothetae to change Methods . " The first paragraph reads as follows : The United Typothetae of Chicago and affiliated organizations have been ordered by the Federal Trade Commission to cease using a certain cost accounting system on the ground that it tends to promote a uniform price to employers . This statement is misleading and is not borne out by the facts given in the balance of the article under the heading " Three Practices Forbidden . " You will note that first the commission in its order to cease and desist requests that the United Typothetae of America and its affiliated organizations cease and desist from " conducting its system of education In principle and methods of cost accounting in such a way as to suggest any uniform percentage to be included in selling price es profit or otherwise by members or others using such system of cost accounting . The Federal Trade Commission does not in any manner , shape or form order the United Typothetae @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one , " to cease using a certain cost accounting system , " as your first paragraph states . They simply order that this Cost accounting system shall not be used in any way " to suggest any uniform percentage to be included in selling prices as profit or otherwise . " There is a vast difference here . In the first place , the New York Employing Printers Association has never even attempted to use the cost accounting system in such a manner as to " suggest any uniform percentage to be included in selling prices as profit or otherwise , " or any of the other activities which the Federal Trade Commission in its order decides that we must cease and desist . You will understand that this order of the Federal Trade Commission is a blanket order affecting all affiliated organizations with the United Typothetae of America in all sections of the country , and the only reason the New York Employing Printers- Association is included in the order is that we are one of those affilt fated ' organizations . Our methods of serving our members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and always will be open to the Federal Trade Commission or any other Investigating body , and we do not want the public who might have read your article to be misled not only in regard : o our association , but to think that the Federal Trade Commission would order any organization to cease using a cost ' inding system , for the Government ' las always strongly urged organizations ind business men generally to use cost finding systems . J. A. HALL . Managing Director , New York Employing Printers Assoelation , In c . New York , Aug. 22 , 1923.                     