@@696433

txt When the Kellogg peace treaties were signed it was pointed out in these columns that they amounted to little more than a sentimental profession and bound nobody . To judge from some of the comment at the time , especially by newspapers with a faith in the League of Nations cure-all , war had become forever impossible . Both China and Russia subscribed to the Kellogg Treaty , the latter with suspicious alacrity . When nations willingly accept proposals of the Kellogg kind 4 " - ema people draw the correct inference . The treaty is signed because it means so little . It is an amiable futility , like any of the twenty-nine peace treaties negotiated by William Jennings Bryan . Within six months , although his peace treaties were supposed to delay war for a year , every one of those virtuous agreements had found its true level in the waste basket . When negotiation of treaties is simple it can always be assumed that the proposition is not of serious consequence to the negotiators . It is yet to be shown that offensive and defensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best guarantees for peace . It has been said in this place before , and it can not be too often repeated , that " outlawing war " is a phrase which is either meaningless or nonsense . War outlaws itp-tlf and that was why the Soviet government , cll . Dated with the Chinese Eastern Railway problem , did not waste two minutes considering the Kellogg treaty . Bryan was fond of using phrases like " I love peace " and " are we not as a nation opposed to war ? " , and the fact that the phrases were meaningless , and had been proved so over and over again , made no difference in his rhetoric . Peace is a mere negation . It connotes only the absence of war . Much is to be hoped from arbitration conferences but peace conferences are merely outlets for sentimental people who find them a means of relief . When Bryan said that he " loved peace. - he might have said that he loved not being sick . As a nation we are , no doubt , " opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fever . What of it It is hopefully possible that the difficulty in Manchuria will not prove insoluble . It is doubtful if either side really wants to fight and if only the conflagration could be localized the Soviet government might be all the better for a beating . There is no need to amend the suggestion made in these columns a few days ago that the quarrel was started purposely by Moscow to provide a popular issue as a refuge from misgovernment becoming intolerable .                     