@@695946

txt The political situation precipitated today by the new failure to form a coalition government , following as it did.the report of the alleged Franco-Belgian military ag-rcement , may contain elements of greater trouble for the German republic than anything that has happened since the congress at Weimar . For a full week the " Steel Helmets , " an organization of reactionary war veterans , have been agitating until the entire press is filled with sinister suggestions ranging from the establishment of a mere dictatorship , possibly to he personified by President von Hindenburg. to the appointment of n " imperial administrator " with flinctions similar to those of Admiral Horthy , Regent of Hungary . Present Regime Criticized . Although President von . Hindenburg has taken strenuous measures to curb the Monarchists , at least temporarily , today 's repudiation of Dr. Stresemann , the Foreign Minister . by his own party in its failure to heed his request to abide by a , coalition . even though the party later indicated that it might support the coalition , will certainly provide fresh arguments against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Geneva to attend the March session of the Council of the League , decided to tackle his own party representatives today and he did not mince words with them in assuring them of the gravity of the situation . Speaking as Foreign Minister of the Reich , as well as their party chieftain , he solemnly reminded them that a dictatorship might not be ontsido the realm of possibility . Itie even declared that in view of his bad health he would Probably resign In the very near future . Dr. Stresemann said : " Do not deceive yourselves . We are on the eve of a grave Parliamentary crisis . First . because mu ' Parliamentary system has become a caricature and secondly beour Parliament has lost its , of responsibility toward the people . " Must Limit Party rower . " " We must find a way to keep the Cabinet in power at least for the present , because our experts in Paris would lose all moral support if at the moment they : signed agreements involving the fate of generations , our government were to collapse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the helm of government to remain in their places even if the waves wash the deck and the crew talks of mutiny . Responsibility to the State comes first. , responsibility to the party second . " I call upon you to give the other parties an example showing that we %re anxious to bring about party reform . We must demand that  --  the power of parties be limited . " But despite Dr. Stresemann 's eloquence a resolution calling upon the People 's party to adhere to the coalition was voted down . The party found a convenient excuse for not supporting the Minister , namely , that the budget , in its present form , was not to their liking and that they really did not care to tie-up with any combination unless they were first assured the taxes would be reduced . At a late hour tonight , however , the People 's Party caucus , seeing in what a serious situation they had placed the government as a result of this afternoon 's refusal to cooperate with Dr. Stresemann , issued an ambiguous statement by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coalition . Whether this action will satisfy the Centrist and other parties remains to be seen . Disbelieve Pact Denials . Although the government is mute on the subject of the alleged FrancoBelgian understanding the press is almost unanimous in its candid disbelief of the denials emanating from Paris , Brussels and London . And into all this naturally comes fresh criticism of the Foreign Minister for following what is termed his conciliatory policy , adopted at Locarno and Geneva , instead of making a stronger show of independent spirit . The fact that since the recent accord was established between Signor Mussolini and the Pope the strong Catholic Centrist Party has shown an inclination to lean more definitely to the Right brings added fears for the present Cabinet and even encourages hints of a possible Fascist regime . Concerning the alleged Franco-Belgian pact , all parties of the Right maintain that the flood of denials by the powers concerned can not convince them that warlike plans against the Reich do not exist  --  and , as is pointed out generally , at a time when Germany is doing her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but at the council table of the reparations experts . One of the most eminent authorities declared to your correspondent today : " How do you harmonize the fact that Brussels reluctantly admits the existence of a pact , while Paris vociferously denies it and says that only the defensive agreement of 1920 exists ? We can not believe the understanding between these powers is merely a technical agreement which does not violate the Covenant of the League . British Position " Doubtful . " " Despite London 's denial , the British position in this game seems very doubtful . It is even admitted that their Generals took part with French and Belgian officers in discussions of war plans and possibilities and that the Franco-British naval arrangement was part of these discussions . If we add to this the new pact , supposedly dated shortly after the failure of the Geneva tri-power conference , we are convinced that international political interests of great importance are at work . " We must ask England whether she considers the Locarno pact only a one-sided affair , solely binding England and France together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an intermediary between France and Germany . Indeed , there seems nothing changed since the war that should force Germany to assume a standpoint different from the other European powers . " The French denial is weak , inasmuch as in consideration of this so-called supplement of 1927 it merely says that no new military agreement was signed then , but it does not say whether any alteration of the pact of 1920 was made then . " Dictatorship Plan Denied . Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . BERLIN , Feb. ** of the visit of the two leaders of the " steel helmets " Herr Seldte and Colonel Duesterburg to President von Hindenburg 's palace were made public today . The President had desired the visit because the " steel helmets " are suspected of planning a campaign to end parliamentary government and to set up a dictator . As President von Hindenburg was made an honorary member of this organization when it first gathered the war veterans into its ranks soon after the revolution , he naturally desired to know if the suspicion was true . Both Herr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans and though they wen : in opposition to the system now followed in Germany they would not use illegal means to remove it . Their attitude toward the former Kaiser , which has been questioned by their political opponents , was merely that of soldiers to their former commander , they said . President von Hindenberg accepted this explanation and declared he saw no reason to resign from membership .                     