@@686702

txt Declaring that the country is " drifting toward prohibition anarchy . " and that unless " calm and sane judgment " displace popular excitement and hysteria , all respect for the law so essential . to enforcement will be lost , Alfred D. Van Buren of Kingston , N. Y. , has resigned as chief counsel to the Federal Prohibition Commissioner - In an interview explanatory of his action , Mr. Van Buren asserted that the Volstead enforcement law has carried things to extreme , and that the people are just beginning to realize that the effort to carry into effect national prohibition is affecting the practice of medicine , pharmacy , chemistry and religion . Mr. Van Buren said he had always been a prohibitionist , but believed that , if national prohibition was to succeed , it would be necessary to maintain respect for the law at any cost , and this could not be accomplished by further curtailment of personal liberties and " abusive and ruthless " restrictions . " The situation is critical , " said Mr. Van Buren , " and deserves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this Government should not suffer from an abuse of those principles upon which it was erected . " There can be no doubt that when the Eighteenth Amendment was adopted the people intended to prohibit for all time intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes , but there is reason to doubt that the people intended , or at least fully understood , that the measure for its enforcement would be carried to the extremes which Congress deemed necessary to include in the National Prohibition act . Peril to Medicine and Religion . " Consequently , when the people realized ( and they are just beginning to realize ) that the practice of medicine , pharmacy , chemistry and even religion was affected , surprise and consternation prevailed , which , in many sections , have given way to resentment and indignation . The influence of this legislation and the regulation and control of the traffic as exercised by the Commissioner have penetrated into legitimate industry to such an extent that business conditions are intolerable . " From all over the country professional and business men , ardent supporters of prohibition against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dryest of the drys , are raising their voices in vigorous protest against further encroachment upon rights guaranteed in the pursuit of lawful occupations . " Liquor , as defined by Congress , includes not only alcohol , whisky , wine and beer , but also all other ' liquids or compounds , whether medicated , proprietary , patented or not , and by whichever name called , containing one-half of 1 percentum or more of alcohol by volume , which are fit for use for beverage purposes . ' " One can readily see that , when such liquors are prohibited for beverage purposes and the manufacture , purchase , sale , transportation , and even possession thereof for non-beverage or /legitimate purposes , are subjected to the drastic regulations and control of the Government , the problem Is a very serious one . " If the good people who have been enjoying the benefits of State prohibition for many years , and the so-called drys , wherever they may be , could realize and appreciate the many difficulties encountered by those who are endeavoring to supply such articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flavoring extracts and like products for legitimate purposes , be they manufacturers , dealers , chemists , doctors or druggists , they would not allow their spokesmen to be too insistent in their demands or suffer their Congressmen to be apprehensive of the folks back home . ' " There is a , bill now being rushed through Congress which further restricts the physician in the practice of his profession and clothes the Commissioner with the responsibility of limiting the manufacture and sale of spirituous and vinous liquors to such quantities as he may believe sufficient for non-beverage purposes . In this connection the defi- nition of liquor should be kept in mind , and though the Commissioner were endowed with the powers of the ancient prophets , it would be utterly impossible for him to anticipate such needs . " I can not believe that this country is given over to lawlessness and crime . The many problems of prohibition must be solved by chemists , doctors , druggists and other merchants , with the hearty co-PPerStien of all law-abiding citizens . The original law is amply sutfiCient to safeguard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be so taken that the honest business and professional man is not treated as a , - potential. bootlegger . The act provides swift and certain measures against those who disobey . Speaks as a Proldbitieulst . " I have always been a prehibitionist , and always will be . I have never touched a. drop of liquor in my life , and have little sympathy with those who becente victims of the habit . I have been with this cause now since national prohibition , Was born , and have given it the-best I that was in me , at no small sacrifice . I " If it is to succeed , and all good citizene are pledged to itS success under the Constituticiti , respect for law must be maintained at any cost , and this . can not be accomplished by the further curtailment of personal liberties and abusive d an ruthless restrictions , " Mistakes have been made , but wonders -- have-'been performed . Rome - was not built in e. day , and probibikion can not be established in eighte , en months . The same law which prohibits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beverage purposes , provides in no mistaken language that its legitimate non ? use se shall tie " encouraged and promoted . ' Those advocating more'drastic ' rules loudly proclaim that they do not intend to embarrass or disturb legitimate industries and oceppations , but they go ahead just the same and do so . "                     