@@695386

txt HE Cubs will get back to an active ride in the National league marathon when they assemble at Wrigley field this afternoon to repulse an onslaught from the Reds . After two days of rest McfJarthy 's flingers , who cracked a bit in seven consecutive games asseist the Reds and Pirates , are back to normalcy . Root or Blake are the logical candidates for this afternoon . After resting up a bit because of the whims of the schedule makers or the weather man , the teams that still survive in the two major pennant scrambles will resume business at the old itand this afternoon . And for a week the traffic will be so heavy that new faces may appear or at least begin to peek down the street that is known as First Place . The only important wheel that turned in the diamond industry yesterday was the triumph of . the Cardinals over the Pirates , who waited until the end of July before indicating they knew there was a championship race under way . The defeat was almost the death knell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by seven and onehalf games , the same as the Reds . The Giants and Cubs fell back a half lap to four and one-half games in arrears . Five hundred ball from now to the finish in 22 games will peae. tically assure St. Louis tho coveted post and its bag of gold . Yanks and Macks in Twin Bills . Today the American League race , for months , a one team affair but now a two angled scramble because of the slowing clown of the Yanks , will take on an important angle because of the maze of double-peaders into which the two contenderi must throw themselves . The Yanks , leading by two games where six weess ago they were out In front by more than a dozen , have a treacherous trail to tread . Because of rainfall yesterday the stuttering Yanks must battle the Senators twice this afternoon . The Senators never are easy for a fellow with ambitions . The Macks also have a twin bill against Boston . An even break for the teams involved in these bargain affairs merely will delay developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sneak by with only one battle , but the Meeks will be called upon for another two ply affair against the Red Sox . That makes two double headers for the Philadelphians in two days , but comprises only part of their worries . On Sunday they must struggle in another two sided aifair , this one against the Yanks on the latter 's own dirt pile . And on Monday and Tuesday the two contenders are slated for single battles . Fans Scramble for Seats . That the above mentioned battles are looked upon as having world 's series importance was ? Indicated in New York yesterday when the bugs stormed the club 's portals in quest of tickets . Everybody wanted choice seating space for the Sunday double header , but most of the tickets had been disposed of in the mail , so there were n't many available for the thousands who formed a line as early as 7:30 a. m . The line was still a block and a half long when the sale ended and the disappointed ones expressed thefts discomfiture in such noisy mare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May Ban Lightweight Teams Lightweight basketball In the city public high schools may be abolished today when the board of control , athletic governing body , meets at the City club . Growing prejudice against the teams which require boys to make 130 pounds for the games is almost certain to bring changes , officials indicated yesterday .                     