@@691660

txt It was learned today that a lively controversy has been started by reports that the , committee of architects and interior decorators appointed under authorization of Congress is going ahead with plans to remake the White House interior and furnish the home of the nation 's Chief Executive with American furniture of the eighteenth century and with appropriate rugs and hangings . Such a plan is said to have the approval of President and Mrs. Coolidge , but protests are being voiced by representatives of the American Institute of Architects . They want retained the French Empire Interior scheme chosen by the late Charles R. who supervised the restoration work on which $500,000 was expended during the Roosevelt Administration . Colonel C. 0 . Sherrill , aid to the President , has general supervision of all propoked changes in the White House , but any alteration would also have the sanction of the President and Mrs. Coolidge . It is understood that the plans to substitute Colonial furniture for French Empire have been completed , at least to take in the principal rooms on the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance of the White House interior pretty completely . There would remain scarcely any reminder of the White House during the occupancy of Roosevelt , Taft , Wilson and Harding . Architects Ask a Hearing . E. C. Kemper , Executive Secretary of the American Institute of Architects , it is understood , appears now as the spokesman for the protestants , and it is said that he has sent to President Coolidge a request that a bearing be given to the representatives of the institute before any of the proposed changes are made . The institute was actively interested 1n , the restoration work done in the Roosevelt Administration and Is ready to submit proof , it is said , that President Roosevelt ' expressed to Cass Gilbert and Mr. the hope that changes fn the future would follow the lines which Mr. laid out . So Intensely interested are the opponents of the proposed changes , it is said , that they have asked Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt , widow of the former President . and Mrs. Frances Folsom Preston , widow of former President Cleveland , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Coolidge has not replied to the letter sent to him requesting a hearing before the changes are made , and the opponents of the plan are anxious to make sure that the matter has come personally to his attention . One thing will operate to hold up the actual work of expensive alterations , namely , that Congress in authorizing the selection of a committee to study the matter and make plans , did not provide any money committee urchase of the fittings . The has the authority only to receive gifts of furniture , hangings , and rugs and not many I gifts are in sight as yet . One report here was to the effect that the idea of turning the White House into a Colonial Mansion  --  interior as well as exterior  --  originifted with Robert W. de Forest of the Metropolitan Museum . Mr. de Forest is Chairman of the Committee whim must pass upon plans for proposed changes , On behalf of the opponents of the plans the contention Is made that a tentative understanding existed with Mr. under which no changes were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave so much time and study , but this has not been recognized by the committee which now is giving consideration to altera-tions , Complete Change In Design . Advocates of the Colonial idea wish to abandon the ornate Louis XIV furniture and drapings and substitute Sheraton chairs , drop-leaf tables and pieces of curly and birds-eye maple of the Colonial period . If this is done , it also would be necessary to ' introduce hangings and carvings to match and alter the color scheme . The famous Blue Room , for instance , would scarcely be recognizable to those who have visited the White House in Other days . Lacking the necessary gifts of furniture the committee can not get very far at this time , but unless President Coolidge interferes because of the protest made by the American Institute of Architects , work may be started soon on the Green Room . An appropriation of $50,000 was made by Congress for necessary improvements to the White House and these are being made during the absence of President and Mrs. Coolidge in ? Massachusetts . Improvements now in progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new elevator and an overhauling of the roof . - There will be little of the $50,000 left to be used in expensive changes to prepare the interior for the hoped for gifts of early Colonial furniture which have not yet been made . If a comprehensive alteration program is to be carried out , it probably will be necessary to et more cash from Congress .                     