@@694076

txt If the state attorney general of New York has decided to examine the nature and methods of investment trusts which offer their securities on the New York markets be is well adti-ised , but not for the reasons which might be suggested by the fact that be would proceed under , the Martin act . The original purpose of that statute was to pre  --  ent the sale of worthless securities and misrepresents:ion in connection with offerings of any character . The art lays down certain requirements for all investment i bankers and there is no reason to suppose that bankers interested in the various investment trusts which have ' multiplied so rapidly these pastw years are averse to ; a broad inquiry by the state . So far from carrying any unfavorable implication , a comprehensis.e study of the investment trust field , to be ' followed by publicity and general discustion of the findings , would have come about sooner or later without action by the state authorities . Quite likely it would have been undertaken by some 14601 organization as the Investment Bankers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specifically because of any danger threatening the investing public but only because this country has much to learn about a medium of investment rapidly assuming an important place in American finance . Several years ago The Wall Street Journal asserted that the investment trust was sound in principle and might be used to enable the small investor to diversify his investments as he could not do without it . At the same time it ? u , pointed out that the great difficulty in domesticating here an institution which has flourished in England for something like a century would be that of assuring the permanence of an active and competent management . A rigid trusteeship , such as was set up in some of the earlier American investment trusts in the belief that it %ea , . the surest m ny to success , does not satisfactorily meet the problem . Al best . it tends to set up a slow liquidation of the principal , at least in those cases in which the trustee was allowed to shift investments only within the list of securities approved by the founders for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to corporations engaged in a single industry , much of the prime advantage of the inNestment trust , that of minimizing risk through diversification , was lost from the outset . ( Inc or two of the earlier trusts have already been wound up . fortunately without loss to their shareholders . A widespread inquiry , with the conclusions drawn by men qualified to draw them , could hardly fail to improve . the technique of investment trust management and at the same time teach possible purchasers of their shares much of what self-interest requires them to learn . It appears that public has been paying almost as much for theatre tickets as a Pennsylvania or Illinois Senator would pay for a vote .                     