@@686277

txt Hoots and catcalls were sounded and the word " liar " shouted on the floor of the house today in the Itormiest session in years . The uproar started when Representatile H. W. Sumners of Texas , having left a sickbed , appeared in the house and , supported by most members of his own state delegation , launched an ' attack on his colleague , Representative T. L. Blanton . Rumors had been circulated about the house foir days ' that the Texans were preparing to make , the attack on their fellow member , but that it was being held off until Mr. Sumners was physically able to direct it . When he stepped forward , with a newspaper clipping In his hand , nearly every member was on the floor . Read by the clerk of the house , the clipping revealed that Mr. Blanton , in a letter to Texas newsREP . II . IV . SUMNE1 spapers , had charged members with a concerted plan to raid the treasury and obtain salary increases , which he alone had prevented heretofore. , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which appeal was made responded with hitter assaults upon those charged with backing the alleged salary grab . Shakes Fist at Blanton . There was a tense moment in the chamber as the reading was concluded and Mr. Sumners , stepping dose to where Mr. Blanton was seated , shook his fist In the latter 's face and shouted : " And when you sent that statement to Texas you knew it was as false as hell . " The house broke into a wild shout , half the membership r 1 si n g . Blanton , REP , T. L. BLA.NTON jumping to his feet and trying to make himself heard above the din , demanded the right to speak . IIe was howled down , the chair sustaining a point of order that he could not be heard at that time on a question of personal ? privilege . Mr. ' Sumners , walking back and forth , continued the attack , Blanton 's eyes following every step . The speech was constantly Interrupted by shouting at the conclusion of almost every sentence of denunciation . Mr. Sumners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to slip through a salary increase bill , and that Mr. Blanton 's claim that he was forced-to remain constantly on the floor to block It was utterly absurd and untrue . Blanton Howled Down . The demonstration reached remarkable PiOportions when a tap of the gavel marked the close of the time allotted for the speech . Democrats , first on their feet in a body , were ' jpined at the saine instant by every Republican . There was a rush . to the front as members struggled to grasp Mr. Sumners by the hand . Above the tumult Blanton strove vainly to make himself heard . As Air . Sumners turned toward his seat another group of members started toward him to offer congratulations . Mr. Blanton , his voice still pitched high , again : attempted to gain a hearing . Again he was howled down as a dozen Republicans insisted on enforcement of the rule that he take his seat . After the hubbub had kept up for several minutes Chairman Slemp of the subcommittee In charge of the fortifications bill , . which was before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear half he to TCPIY. said . Race for Senate Revealed . In the last minute of his time Mr. Blanton declared that Mr. Sumners wanted to run for the senate from Texas and that this desire was the basis of the attack on bins . At this the whole house again rose , and the echo of the mighty shout the statement provoked must have reached the senate and disturbed Its dignity . Old members said later it was the most remarkable spectacle they had ever seen . The attack today on Mr. Blanton was the culmination of many made heretofore by members who charged that he was continually blocking legislation by Points of order .                     