@@696787

txt The clouds that have hung over the Smoot-Haw7 ley tariff bill had lifted a little today when the Senate recessed after two hours ' debate of and work on the measure . Irritated because the absence of certain Senators forced postponement of the consideration of important rates , Chairman Smoot of the Finance Committee asserted that , beginning Monday , there would be no further delays on any subject if he could prevent it . He would ask then , Mr. Smoot said , that the bill be taken up from the beginning and gone through until each duty , heretofore passed over , had been acted upon . He would Insist that Sena tors no longer be able to have consideration of important rates deferred because they were 1 away from the capital . At informal meetings outside the Senate , further overtures were made for compromises on disputed rates . It is still highly improbable that any compact will be reached , but the movement for informal agreements on various tariffs is growing . Senators Borah and Harrison , leaders of the Progressive-Democratic coalition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill in the special session . They predicted that the Senate would pass a measure in which revision was confined largely to farm rates . Moses Sees No Chance . Their view as to the time of action contrasted with a prediction by Senator Moses , Old Guard Republican , who forecast Senate adjournment Nov. 15 with the bill not nearly completed . It was useless , he stated , to try to drive the bill through the extra session , and the Senate might as well carry the measure over into the regular term . Although apparently without appeal to many Senators , there were again suggestions that the bill be handed over to a special committee which , composed of leaders of all factions , might be able to make a revision on which all could agree . The names of these Senators were suggested as members : Smoot and Reed , Old Guard Republicans ; Borah and Norris , Progressives ; and Jones " middle-ground " Republicans , and Simmons and Harrison , Democrats . The hope of Senators Borah and Harrison for Senate action in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements which eliminate debate on uncontroverted rates . Mr. Borah said it would be by far the best policy to try to work out what rates were uncontested and have these speedily accepted . Rate amendments approved during the day dealt with graphite and incandescent electric light blubs . In connection with graphite , a concession was made to Senator Black , Democrat , of Alabama , who asked unanimous consent , which was granted , to restore the House duty on amorphous graphite , 10 per cent act valorem , which the Finance Committee had cut in half . The duty on crystalline graphite was set at 2 cents a pound , instead of the House rate of 25 per cent and the Finance Committee rate of 20 per cent . Senator Harrison succeeded in fixing the rate on electric light bulbs with metal filaments at 20 per cent and on those with carbon or other non-metalic filaments at 30 per cent . The House rate was 30 per cent on both classes ; the Finance Committee had set the duty on bulbs with metal filaments at 25 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . Absences Are Criticized . Among the Senators absent were Edge of New Jersey and Reed of Pennsylvania , Republican chairmen of the sub-committees on the earthenware and metals schedules , items in which members present sought to call up . Senator Simmons , the Democratic tariff chieftain , was also away , a fact commented upon by Chairman Smoot . The absences met with sharp criticism from Senators Walsh of Massachusetts and Swanson of Virginia , Democrats , and led to the brevity of the session . . The motion to recess came just before noon , soon after Senator Smoot had passed over many items . He recommended discussing the wood tariffs , but Senator Walsh of Massachusetts objected and suggested that the much-disputed subject of manganese be . debated . Mr. Smoot protested that a. number of Senators interested in this matter were absent . " I object to Saturday being made a day of leisure for some Senators and a day of work for others , " retorted Mr. Walsh . " Every Saturday certain Senators absent themselves with the understanding that certain subjects will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or adjourn all day . We are making no progress with this hopping , skipping , jumping from one part of the bill to another . " Senator suggested taking up the agricultural rates to which there were no objections , but before this recommendation got anywhere Senator Harrison interrupted . Harrison for Taking a Rest . " I come from a part of the country where people do n't believe much in working Saturday afternoon , " he said . " I share that view . We have had long hours here , from 10 A. M. until 6 P. M. Let 's see some football , take an auto ride , play golf ; we neat ! . recreation . " Senator Walsh said he was perfectly willing to adjourn on Saturdays , but he wanted some definite understanding about it . In the meantime , he asked for unanimous consent to discuss manganese , put on the free list by the Finance Committee , but Senator Walsh of Montana objected on the ground that interested Senators were away . " We have had just about four and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Senator Smoot injected . Seconding Senator 's suggestion , Senator Borah wanted to discuss items of the farm schedule , but Senator argued that it was impossible to tell in advance whether a proposed rate was " controversial " or not . After Senator Harrison had urged quitting until Monday , Mr. Smoot made the statement that he would then bring up the paragraphs of the bill in the regular order . Senator Swanson seized on this declaration to pin Mr. Smoot down . The Virginian said he had traveled half the night to reach Washington , only to find portions of the bill being passed over for the benefit of absentees . " It is not fair that two or three absent Senators should cause the Senate such inconvenience , " he ex. claimed . Montanan Hits at Hoover . Senator Walsh of Montana , who is acting Democratic leader , in a statement later questioned what he called the attempt of President Hoover to hurry the bill along , without indicating whether he approved or disapproved of increases in duty benefiting Pennsylvania and Connecticut , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside from the transference of power involved , " said Senator Walsh , " it is difficult to understand how action on the tariff bill could be expedited , as proposed by the President , by passing the bill as it stands and leaving it to the President and the Tariff Commission to correct it by changes within the 50 per cent limit , in view of the record of the commission and the Executive in disposing of no more than thirty-seven items in seven years , while the pending bill deals with something like 4,000 to 5,000 items . " If the President really desires to expedite the passage , he could do so by indicating whether he approves or disapproves of raises in the duty on some forty-four of fifty-two of the leading products of the State of Connecticut and in forty-one out of sixtyeight of the leading products of Pennsylvania ; and it would help if he would indicate to the Republican leaders with whom he conferred whether he approves or disapproves of a duty of $2.20 net on sugar , as against $1.16 as provided by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It seems queer that the President should appeal to a group of Senators who stand for the bill exactly as it stands and ignore those Republicans and Democrats who find fault with it in an effort to promote speedy action . This attempt to hurry the passage of the bill without due consideration suggests that those advocating it fear discussion of the tremendous burdens It imposes on the . American people . "                     