@@688177

txt For the first time in the history of the League the British Dominion delegates today stood solidly together against the mother country on a question of general policy interesting the whole world . The question - under discussion was trie Nansen resolution that the Near Eastern problem be handed over to the League for solution . It became evident when Mr. Fisher , on behalf of the United Kingdom , today submitted a resolution to the committee that Lloyd George had instructed him to find a compromise . It was unwise to perplex the course of negotiations at present by the intervention of the League , Mr. Fisher said . It was essential to show a united front to the Turks . Therefore , although he said the British Government was most anxious for ? he League 's co-operation , his resolution really amounted to nothing more than the expression of a hope that peace would come . ' Both France and Italy stood firmly beside England against , the adoption of the Nansen proposal so that the whole proceedings developed into wordy argument in which delegates of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in lining up against the three great powers . Canada and Australia both considered that the Nansen resolution was not strong enough . Lord Robert Cecil for South Africa , while denying all intention to do anything which might interfere ? with the negotiations in course , said the League 's action in order to have any value must be free and must not depend upon the decision of any power or any particular section of powers , some of whom were , perhaps . at the present moment not greatly liked by the Turks . Ile , therefore , must strongly urge the adoption of the Nansen resolution for intervention of the League . The Bulgarian delegate voiced Bulgaria 's grief at having had her army taken away by the Peace Treaty . Bulgaria , was very near the scene of trouble . What was she to do if the storm approached yet nearer ? " Far be it from me to recriminate against clauses of the peace of Neuilly , " he said , " but I would just like to point out we are powerless to mobilize like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Owing to the unfortunate fact we fought the war on the side of the Central Powers we today can not take the necessary steps to make our frontiers secure . That is why we are primarily interested in the Near East question and anxious for a quick solution . " It seemed impossible to reconcile the two camps until Lord Robert Cecil and Mr. Fisher finally pointed out there was no divergence of opinion regarding the fundamental aims . namely , that everybody wanted a solution . It was . therefore , decided to form a small drafting committee in order to prepare a new resolution which would satisfy everybody . League Council to Keep in Touch . GENEVA , Sept. 22 ( Associated Press ) . ? After a lengthy discussion in the Assembly of the League of Nations of the resolution introduced several days ago by Dr. Fridtjof Nansen , High Commissioner of the International Commission for Russian relief , that the League intervene to stop the war between the Turks and the Greeks , several amendments were made today to the resolution , and it was referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the following sense : The Assembly would invite the Council to follow closely events in the Near East , to keep in touch with the negotiations of the powers and hold itself in readiness to participate in any way it can in efforts to restore neace.                     