@@695214

txt The body of Mexico 's gallant airman , Captain Emilio Carranza , was brought to this city yesterday to lie in state while this country and his own prepared to pay him final honors . President Coolidge , in a message to President Calles at Mexico City , expressed the grief of the American nation at the death of the flier , and offered the battleship Florida as a funeral ship to carry the dead aviator back to Mexico . The State Department announced in Washington last night that Carranza 's body would be transported to Mexico by rail and not by the battleship . It was understood that this decision was reached in accord with the wishes of the Mexican Government . The State Department announced at the same time that funeral services for Carranza would be held in this city on Wednesday . The personal message of the Presi ? dent was dispatched from the Summer White House in Wisconsin and coincident with it went one to Washington . This directed that the Gov ernment pay homage officially to the dead airman and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday night when his Mexican-American good-will plane crashed in a woods near Chatsworth . N. J. Military Honors to Be Paid . Full military and naval honors will be accorded to Carranza by the army and the navy , and the Department of State moved to make clear to the sister republic to the south that every agency would be enlisted in the trii-r-te to Captain Carranza . Secretary of State Kellogg and Secretary of War Davis sent messages of condolence to Mexico City . Before the decision to send the body by train had been reached , Sec , retary of the Navy Wilbur wirelessed the Florida , steaming toward New York after a cruise in Southern waters , to hold itself in readiness . Orders were sent to Major Gen. Hanson E. Ely , commanding at Governors Island , directing that a military guard of honor be assigned to duty at the bier of Captain Carranza . Dispatches from Mexico City last night dealt with the mourning into which the entire nation had been plunged . The fact of the death of its leading airman had stretched a shadow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his young wife were prostrated . Within a few months the dead flier would have become a father . Carranza 's Body Lies in State . While officials in both countries were engaged in plans for the funeral , Carranza 's body , clad in the uniform of his rank in the Mexican Air Service , lay in the gold room of the funeral establishment of Frank E. Campbell . Last night the public was admitted for several hours to file past the coffin . Sebastian Carranza , father of the dead man , broken by grief , remained in the seclusion of his home on Riverside Drive , in conference with officials of the Mexican consulate . Messages of condolence poured in there , at the funeral parlors and at the consulate , but only one reply was sent . Mr. Carranza , touched by a personal telegram from Secretary Kellogg , expressed his gratitude for sympathy extended him under " this terrible blow with which destiny has seen fit to burden me . " Arturo M. Elias , Consul General of Mexico , who had charge of the arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the name of the Mexican Gov- ernment and the Mexican people , I wish to express my sincere and deepest appreciation for the sympathy shown by the American Government and the American people in the tragical death of Captain Carranza . " Although Mexico is plunged into profound grief at the death of the gallant Captain Carranza , a grief made more poignant by his glorious youth and the promise of a great career in the service of his country , there is at least some assuagement of this grief in the fact that he died in the greatest mission that any man could give his life for  --  the mission of creating good-will between two sister nations . " Board Blames Forced Landing . During the period when Captain Carranza 's body was being prepared for the lying in state , a board of inquiry sat at Mount Holly to determine the cause of his fatal crash . When the body of the airman was found on Friday afternoon beside the tangled ruins of his monoplane in a wilderness of woods and berry bogs eight miles west of Chatsworth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the sky by a bolt of lightning . He had passed over the Jersey hamlet , on an attempted non-stop flight from Roosevelt Field , L. I. , to Mexico City , the final lap of his effort to return the good-will flight of Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh , while a severe electrical storm was at its height . The scene when he was found rrornpted the belief that only lightning could have brought him down . Army air officers at Mount Holly found yesterday that Captain Carranza had died when he attempted a forced landing . Caught in the clutch of the storm , they reasoned , the Mexican ace tried to come down and discovered too late that dense tree growth blocked his path . The body of Captain Carranza left Mount Holly , whither it had been taken on Friday night shortly after it had been discovered near Chatsworth , at 6:20 A. M. Two automobiles accompanied the motor hearse. one containing representatives of the Mexican Government and the other an escort of State troopers . Four motorcycle policemen escorted ' ' the cortege through Newark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tunnel . The Mexican representatives who had claimed the body at the Mount Holly funeral parlors were A. M. Martinez , who had acted as secretary to Captain Carranza in New York City ; ji Lopez , F. Gonzales and H. E. Rodriguez , Secretary of the Financial Agency of the Mexican Government . Mr. Martinez made the formal identification of the body . In accordance with army custom , Lieutenant Vincent Mee of Camp Dix , who had been assigned to guard the body , rode on the hearse . Before leaving the New Jersey town . Mr. Martinez explained that Carranza 's father had not been permitted to go to Mount Holly because of the mutilation of his son 's body . None of the Mexicans cared to hazard a theory as to the cause which sent the plane and airman crashing to the earth . Pass Through Holland Tunnel . When the cortege reached the tunnel , a detail of tunnel police commanded by Captain Alfred C. Warner conducted the cars through the tube . The procession reached the Manhattan end of the tunnel at 9:11 A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in charge thought a detail of New York motorcycle men would be there to take over the duty of escort . The Manhattan policemen , however , were not there and later it was explained that no reouest for an escort had been received at Police Headanarter , 4. ftet a brief halt the cortege proceeded to the Campbell establishment at Sixty-sixth Street and Broadway Six pallbeerers carried the plain coffin into the undertaker 's parlors . It was covered by an American flag which had been put in place on Friday night by members of the Mount Holly Post of the American Legion . A small groun of persons was at the parlors to witness the arrival of the body Hardly had the coffin entered the doors before the first of many floral tributes arrived . It was a huge wreath of red rases. bearing a card from Amira Cali ! ernn , Mexican singer . The card read : " To the gallant Mg " ieen officer and " ndwin nn - end friend . " Mexican and Spanish residents who had known Captain Carranza in Mexico City or who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but were not permitted to view the body . Honor Guard at Coffin . General Lilly . who had ordered Lieutenant Mee to Mount Holly , later sent Captain Keith B Wise of the Eighteenth Infantry to the funeral parlors Captain Wise relieved Lieutenant Mee as honor guard . Shortly after Captain Wise- went on duty two representatives of President Calles reached the funeral parlors . They were Colonel Samuel C. Rotas , Military Attache of the Mexican Embassy in Washington . and his assistant . Captain Beristain . They ioined Captain Wise in the guard at the coffin . Colonel Rojas , when asked . if knew the plans of his government for the funeral , said that he was without word . He said an announcement would probably be made in Washington by Ambassador Manuel C. Tellez , who was in long distance telephonic communication with Mexico City . The Mexican Consulate , at 225 West Thirty-fourth Street , was draped in black and sombre ribbons were about palms and wreaths which had been sent there . The staff on duty appeared to be overcome by grief for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stay in New York . Employes of the consulate stood guard last night over the coffin . Throughout the hours when five plastic surgeons were at work restoring the body from its mutilated condition , flowers wee() received in a steady stream at the funeral church , but wree not placed at the coffin until 6 o'clock . when Mr. Elias , afterviewing the body , decided that the coffin should be sealed . He made this decision after conferring with the surgeons . The plain oaken coffin , with a silver handle running it : . length . on either side , had a glass panel at the top through which the head and shoulders of the dead aviator were visible . It was placed on the catafalque at 7 P. M. and within the first hour about 200 persons had filed reverently past . Soon after the lines of mourners had been formed a spontaneous tribute to Capte Carranza was paid by the 104th Field Artillery , which has its armory at Broadway and Sixty-seventh Street . The band of the regiment paraded slowly by the funeral parlors playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body . The terrible effects of his fall were plainly visible to those who passed the glass panel of the coffin . The coffin was draped in the flags of Maxico and the United States , and one side of the chamber , about twenty feet by thirty feet in size , was banked i.vith floral tributes . Shortly after the artillery band had played a funeral march the entire regiment , some 700 strong , on its way to camp , marched to the front of the funeral church , came into line and stiffened to . attention . Colonel John J. Mangan and his staff took post in front of the regiment and the band played " Nearer , My God , to Thee . " Later Colonel Mangan and his officers paid their respects to the dead flier . The regiment marched away from the funeral parlors with the band playing Chopin 's Funeral March . Northbound traffic on Broadway was held up for twenty minutes while the soldiers were lined up in front of the establishment . Consul General Elias thanked Colonel Mangar for the tribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to end at 10 P. M. , was continued far into the night . Those in charge said the doors would be closed early this morning , but would be reopened at 10 A. M. Mourners were passing the catafalque - at the rate of 150 an hour .                     