@@692755

txt An innovation in connection with the selling of suburban real estate and the protection of the instalment purchaser was announced yesterday by Cadman H. Frederick In a statement that in offering the balance of the Belmont estate at Babylon the Midwood Trust Company of Brooklyn will act as trustee and will receive all monthly instalments , and upon completion of payments the trust company will deliver to purchasers a free and clear deed . The thousand-acre estate of the late August Belmont at Babylon and known as the Belmont Nursery Farm , which was purchased last year . by Cadman H. Frederick , is now to be subdivided into plots 100 by 100 feet in dimensions . This interesting announcement made yesterday by Mr. Frederick follows close on the heels of the purchase recently by the Long Island State Park Commission of approximately 200 acres of the Belmont estate for the purpose of a State park and the dedication 147 Mr. Frederick of a strip- 160 feet wide and 21/2 miles long , running east and west the entire length of the estate , for use in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The purchase by the Long Island State Park Commission , of which Robert Moses is President , included the Belmont residence , some twenty other estate buildings and the beautiful forty-acre Belmont Lake . The 100-by-100-foot acreage plots into which the estate is now to be divided by Mr. Frederick are equivalent to approximately one-quarter of an acre and equal five city lots . All of the lots and plots either faCe or immediately adjoin the State Park and Southern State Parkway . Already the Park Commission has a large number of men living on the Belmont estate rebuilding bridges and preparing the grounds for use as a park . The Belmont estate in the future will be known as the Belmont-Parkway estate . The Southern State Parkway practically will parallel the famous Merrick Road , just as the Bronx River Parkway in Westchester parallels the Post Road . The Merrick Road is only sixty feet in width , while the Southern State Parkway will be 160 feet wide . The Belmont Park and Parkway property has miles of frontage on the Southern State Parkway , also on both sides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the centre of the property and surrounds Belmont Lake . In discussing the ' creation of the Belmont-Parkway Estate , Mr. Frederick yesterday said : " I am subdividing this famous property in large plots for the distinct benefit of wage earners , men or women , who require large plots of ground around their homes for a garden , chicken run , &a.,; to reduce the high cost of living . " The property is free and clear of all mortgages or incumbrances of any ' kind .                     