@@685017

txt Two separate moves were tuade in the House toliar to allow the Supreme Court to determine when a President is incapacitated from performing his duties . Representative Fees of Ohio . a Republican . introduced a resolution proposing a . Constitutional amendment to the effeat Indicated . Representative Rogers of Massachusetts . also a . Republican . Introduced a bill which appeared to confer upon the court even more sweeping powers in the way of inquiry and decision than Representative Fees 's resolution . Neither the resolution nor the bill mentioned the present illness of President Wilson , nor was any reference Made to him . However , there has been much discussion within the last few months in Congress over the right of the President to continue Ca exercise his duties during his Illness . Both measures contemplate the conduct of the Presidential office by the Vice President . or a Cabinet officer . Mr. Rogers 's bill allows the Supreme Court to inquire . from time to time , into the condition of the President . Representative Fess proposes to amend Section 1 of Article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Said disability of the President to be determined by the Supreme Court . when authorized by concurrent resolutions of Congress . The Vice President is ' authorized to call Congress into special session for this purpose . " The bill of Mr. Rogers reads : " The Supreme Court of the United States shall , whenever requested by resolution of either House of Congress . determine whether the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of the office within the meaning of Article II .. Section 1 . Paragraph 3 of the Constitution of the United States , and may utilize such instrumentalities as it sees fit to aid in this determination . In case the Supreme Court finds that the inability exists the powers and duties of the said office shall devolve upon the Vice President . The Supreme Court may from time to time thereafter upon Its own motion and initiative , and shall . whenever requested by resolution of either House of Congress , determine whether the President 's inability has been removed . In case it finds that the inability has been removed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers and duties of the said office . " I have introduced this amendment . " said Representative Fesa In a. statement . " under the conviction that the Conetitution is silent on the proper procedure In case of disability of the President to discharge the powers and duties of the office of President . The Constitution expressly authorizes- Congress to declare what officer shall act as President in the case-of removal . death . resignation or inability of both the President and Vice President . but not in the case of the disability of the President . In 1886 Congress enacted the Presidential succession law . which provides for such a- contingency , but no action has ever been taken to provide against the disability of the President . Views of Authorities Differ . " There are three contingencies upon which the Vice President assumes the office of President upon his own determination . In case of death , resignation or removal . from office the deter- urination does not involve a judicial decision upon a disputed question , and the Vice President must at once determine that the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These facts are fixed and irrevocable . Hence , a. vacancy occurring in these three cases , the Constitution is self-operative without further legislation or proof than the event upon which the vacancy is based . On the other hand a vacancy In the fourth contingency caused by ' Inability to discharge the powers and duties of said office ' calls for the exercise of judgment based upon evidence which Ilmay be conflicting . Here action depends upon the facts to be established . Pertinent questions at once arise . " In the three preceding cases the duties devolve upon the Vice President without further legislation and without further proof for the balance of the unexpired term . The Vice President ceases to be the presiding officer of the Senate by becoming the head of the nation whether acting President or actual President . Tyler , Plimore , John ' , son . Arthur and Roosevelt were all regarded as actual rreskients rather than acting Presidents , whatever the prow Constitutional appellation might be . because the disability in these cases was pIrmaaent. ? lb the ease of a vacancy by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remainder of the unexpired term or until the disability is removed ? Authorities differ . Equal ability la found on both sides . but the preponderant view Is that he holds the office until the disability Is removed . The leading questions arising here and : " What constitutes constitutional disability ? ? Does it admit of degree ? " Is the vacancy permanent or partial ? ? Who determines these ! seta ' . ? Dishrag Given in inst . " These questions were asked by Dickinson In the Federal convention . They were not answered then and were not even discussed in the debates in the States . They were , however , quite widely discussed in 1851 by Judge Cooley . Professor Dwight . Senator Trumbull , Governor Butler and Senator Morgan . " Judge Cooley held that the Vice President could only act as President and only to such time as the disability is removed , as he could not be President while the elected President was still living and might qualify to resume the duties of the office . He can act no more after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He declared that there was but one proper and suitable tribunal for making the decision which the Constitution plainly points out . Congress is expressly empowered to make all laws which shall be necessary for carrying Into execution all the powers vested by the Constitution in the Government of the United States . " Professor Timothy Dwight held that . in the case of disability of the President . the Vice President becomes President with all the functions , of the President . He asks . ' What can take the office away from him ? Nothing in turn but his death , renioval from office . ' resignation . or inability ... * * . The Constitution means there shall be no interregnum : ite . He also holdS that the facts of disability are to be determined by Congress , which , is competent to prescribe under law the evidence to establish the state of mind of the President . Was Called Dangerous Question . " Senator John T. Morgan of Alabama . referring to the situation of Presidential disability . speaks of it under the caption df dangereul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislate but has aot  --  taken the necessary Asps . He observes - ' Does this feature of the Con- stitutlon execute itself , or is It a matterl to be determined and regulated by law In either case ave are equally forlorn . ' since neither the Cetitution nor the law makes any , provisidn on the subject . by which the inability of the President is to be ascertained and declared . ' " Governor Butler . on the other hand . holds that the Vice President upon his information would enter upon the duties of the Presidency . This opinion was also shared by Senator Hendricks of Indiana . ' On the other hand . Judge Dittenhoefer. took a decided position against the Vice President's- right to act . since his self-interest might disqualify him . lie holds that the Vice President is incapacitated to act upon his own judgment ' because of self-Interest He asserts that disability calls for judgment . upon evidence that may be conflicting . and there is no better settled rule than that no person can judge a matter in which he himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and common sense , for such person can not give impartial judgment nor such evidence as unselfish consideration demands . " However , contingencies might arise where the Vice President would undoubtedly act . In case of the capture of the President by the enemy in time of war , or his becoming violently insane . the disability though it might be temporary . would be sufficient that ' public Interest and opinion would compel him to act . now Congress Is Limited . " Constitutionally Congress can only act on removal , in which the Constitution fixes the limits by specific causes for malfeasance ? ' treason , bribery , or other high driznes and misdenwanona ? The last phrase has never been actually determined . The suggestion that Congress , having the power of removal fur malf. ! asonce in office by the process of itnpeachment. would be the proper authority to decide ppon the disability , has strong objection- It is urged that . should that have been the purpose of the trnancrs of the Constitution . it would hu%. ? 1 .. A.:1 2,0 expressed . rha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retail . ? ? It is argued that Congress can not declare the disability becausk. its eetion would have to be signed or vctbe41 tj ? the- President . who the net declares 10 disabled from performing the duty . it Is also urged that . in case t'onercss is not in session when the disabilit ) occunt , no one can call It together except the Preside.nt , who , In this case , is incapacitated . The Supreme Court could not act first , because it does not take cognizance of political questions . It does not net except when cases are brought before it . and there is nothing in the Constitution or laws providing for procedure against a co-ordinate department . Such a case can not be brought before the court for a decision without an amendment to the Constitution . " Unless the Constitution expressly states that Congress shall be the Judge of the disability of the Executive . it is argued that it can not safely be allowed by inference : especially would this be true where the two departments might belong to different political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly argue the wisdom it not the necessity of a constitutional amendment pointing the way out of a possible embarrassment . The confusion arising from the omission from the Constitution of specific direction on this possible contingency can be cleared away by the amendment to the Constitution which I propose . " " My bill . " said Mr. Rogers tonight .. " allows either house to initiate an inquiry . This would prevent a deadlock upon the question where the Senate was Republican and the House Democratic . or vice versa . I also differ from Representative Fess , Inasmuch as I do not desire the Constitution altered . I only wish the Supreme Court to be authorized to Interpret it . "                     