@@693277

txt Trapped in a dance hall at 109 West Seventy-ninth Street into which dense smoke from a fire next door was pouring , more than fifty men and women were carried down ladders to the street last night by firemen , policemen and volunteer rescuers . The fire was in a building housing a chemical firm and the thick smoke It sent out through the neighborhood had caused a rush of 225 other dancers from the dance hall that blocked the stairway and made it impossible for them to leave . Even after these persons had been brought to the street , it was learned that about twenty-five ethers still remained in the building wandering in the smoke , ' and Honorary Deputy Chief Robert Mainzer and a fire lieutenant braved the smoke to lead them to safety through a rear exit . Whole Neighborhood Roused . It was not until 1:30 o'clock this morning that the flames were under control . The smoke roused . the entire neighborhood , forcing occupants of several near-by hotels to leave their rooms . Five alarms were turned in , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippling service on the line for some time . The Ninth Avenue surface line was tied up for more than an hour . Two firemen were overcogne by smoke , another was burned and a fourth was carried unconscious from the burning building after he had fallen from the first floor to the basement . His injuries , however , were not serious . The fire started in the basement of a building at the northwest corner of Seventy-ninth Street and Columbus Avenue . Several stores ' occupy the ground floor , while the upper floors house the Emerson Drug Company . The fire was discovered by Patrolman Armstrong of the West Sixtyeighth Street station , but by the time the first firemen arrived , smoke and flames were already spreading through the building . A second alarm was turned in quickly and firemen mounted the Elevated structure to shed streams of water into the burning building from there . In the Academy , the dance hall next door , about 300 men and women were attending a dance of the West Side Brotherly Love Congregation and Benevolent Association . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in thin whisps and . few noticed It . One of those who did , it was said , went to the leader of the orchestra and directed him to keep en playing so that the dancers would not notice the smoke . Dance Oblivious of Flames . While the firemen fought the flames outside the dancers kept on moving to the strains of fox trouts oblivious of the flames and . smoke outside . Suddenly the firemen saw they were making no headway against the fire . The smoke began to pour into the dance place in black , odorous clouds . Firemen rushed into the Academy and ordered all to leave . The thick smoke had put a sudden halt to the dancing and there was wild rush for the stairways , many departing without their hats and coats . With the smoke increasing every coats . there was great excitement among the dancers . The rush for the stairway jammed it to such an extent that firemen saw it would take some time for the dance place to be emptied and fearing that smoke would overcome those whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the building as they afterward did , ordered ladders run up to the second-floor windows . While large crowds in the street looked on and cheered , the firemen , Policemen and civilians mounted the ladders , climbed through the windows to the dance floor and with some difficulty because of the thick smoke . took those inside in their arms , made their way back to the windows and carried them down . A third alarm had been turned in by this time and soon after a fourth was sounded , to be followed shortly after midnight by a fifth alarm . A Fire Department ambulance and an ambulance from Knickerbocker Hospital arrived and doctors treated Firemen Joseph Cunningham of Engine 56 and John J. Freund of Hook and Ladder 22 , who - had been overcome by smoke . It was nearly ten minutes after the last person had been carried down a ladder that Honorary Chief Mainzer , who was familiar with the building , was notified that about twenty-five dancers still remained within . With Lieutenant Kinsella , he climbed a ladder , groped his way through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building , lost in the smoke . Chief Mainzer led the way to a rear exit that opened on an alley . When the foot of the alley at Columbus Avenue was reached , it was discovered that the door to the Street was locked . Pounding on the door , however , Chief Mainzer and the lieutenant attracted the attention of Patrolman Armstrong . With a rush he broke down the door and they reached the street in safety . Meanwhile the smoke had spread and soon the rear of the Academy took fire . ' Filling numerous rooms in the Hotel Orleans at 100 West - Eightieth Street and the Hotel Anderson at 102 West . Eightleth Street , the smoke droye occupants . to the street . Firemen stretched links of hose through both hotels to : " get better positions from which to attack the flames and this added to the excitement in those buildings . They also ran lines of hose to upper floors of a ten-story apartment house just west of the Academy on Seventy-ninth Street , causing excitement among tewnts there . At the heightef @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Engine 4 dropped through a hole burned in the ground floor of the building on the corner . Lieutenant Kinsell and Fireman David Nixon fought their way through the smoke to the basement , where they found him unconscious and carried him out . He was treated . by an ambulance doctor and taken to quarters . Fireman Harold J. Burke of Engine 8 was burned on the face . Pouring streams of water from all sides , the firemen eventually got the flames under control , checking them before they did much damage to the Academy . Assistant Chief " Smoky Joe " Martin , who directed the firemen , said the total damage would probably reach $100,000.                     