@@690066

txt When Frank A. Vanderlip , having been invited to retire from certain directorships , ' announces that he is resigning every office of the kind he recalls an old but excellent story , the conversation between Casey and his wife when that free and independent toiler returned from work . " I 'll work no more for that man Doolan ! " " And why , Casey ? " " By raison of what he said to me today . " And what did he say to ye , Casey ? " " He said to me , ' Casey , ' he said , says he , ye 're discharged . ' " Mr. Vande'lip is in the position of the fox in the fable who lost his tail , and endeavored to convince the other foxes that tails were no longer worn in the bestdressed circles . It has been truly said that more money has been lost in Wall Street from pride of opinion than from all other causes put together . Pride of opinion can be expressed in another phrase . Mr. Vanderlip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indignation , but by much wounded vanity . He made a spectacular exhibition of himself , with special provision for publicity on the front page of a metropolitan newspaper , and then quibbled about what he had said . His experience before the Senate committee , to any man of really fine feeling , was one so abject and humiliating that it is necessary to go back to the stocks and the pillory to find a parallel . There have been recorded in history instances where the public has honored the pilloried martyr protesting against tyranny . But the public is throwing no flowers in the direction of Mr. Vanderlip . He is said to supply the Wheeler committee , through his paid organization , with the gossip newspapers treat with contempt . The information so collected has not contained any reference to relations of liog Island to the government during the war or Mr. Vanderlip 's own association with international finance at a time when he could see no limit . to'inflation . If we were not all heartily sick of investigation , so disgusted , indeed , that honest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object of it is more likely to be regarded as a martyr than not , there would almost seem to be an opening there . Edward Everett Hale is rather unfairly remembered as the author of a single short story . " The Man Without a Country . " If Mr. Vanderlip is remembered at all it may well be as " The Man Without a Company "  - -  without any company , so far as self-respecting business men are concerned . This county has no need for a Hall of Infamy yet , but eery great pioneer of the past would have found a place in it if politicians had their way .                     