@@691061

txt Cattle raising Is the only branch of agriculture in need of immediate emergency relief , the President 's agricultural commission has found , and Mr. Coolidge , to whom the commission made its preliminary report today , has undertaken to procure that relief from this congress before it ends March 4. in the light of the commission 's re port the President , holds that all the legislation agriculture now needs car be-passed by this congress and that ar extra session of the new congress It not required for this purpose , Senator Borah to the contrary notwithstanc ing . The commission 's suggestions for emergency legislation consist of only one proposal . It is that congress eo amend the agricultural credits act as to permit the rediscounting by intermediate credit banks of loans negotiated by federally chartered agtVultural credit agencies The Recommendations . Recommendations for administrative action by government agencies embrace the following : Inauguration by the Federal Farm Loan board of a campaign for the organizatiOn of discount agencies as a means of obtaining loans from intermediate credit ; banks to assist live stock raisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , credit banks to make it Certain the employ6d include persons conversant and sympathetic with the needs of agriculttre , including live stock . . rit special report by the chairman of the Federal Farm Loan board by July 1 , 1925 , indicating such progress as has been made in meeting the emergency in the live stock industry . An early and thorough revision of freight rates to relieve the raw Products of agriculture and live stock from a disproportionate share of transportation costs . ? Sources of Present Handicaps . The report states that the cattle industry IS suffering through the lack of tariff protection from competition with hides and meat : products from foreign countries produced by cheaper labor and under different standards of production . There also is a need for protection in the case of other agricultural products , jt is declared . The commission , however , found it advisable to defer the presentation of any tariff recommendations until the entire question of protection for agriculture is.studied . The commission also recommended a uniform policy of grazing on public lands ' and in the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has improved the quality of the range and the production ' Of cattle , it is stated . For Leasing - Grazing ; Lab &; Instead of continuing unrestricted grazing on the publki domain it is pro'Posed that the unappropriated public domain be placed under lease . To ' determine the administration , rules , regulations , and fees governing grazing , the commisison suggests appointment of a committee of one representative of the department of agri- ' culture , one of the interior depart- meat , and three . others , two of whoth shall represent the live stock grazing industry , appointed by the secretaries of agriculture and Interior , acting jointly . Until a uniform plan of leasing is agreed mien It is recommended that there shall be no increase in fees charged for grazing in the national forests . Industry Outlook Favorable . The commisison declared that . ebntidence in the future of the live stock industry is warranted . " In recent months there has been a heavy forced liquidatlen Of the cattle Industry , caused in past by shortage of feed , but principally by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report                     