@@695448

txt Outcries against a secret naval agreement between London and Paris have abated considerably . It has been ascertained that its terms have been no secret from our own State Department and that the two Governments are waiting for Washington 's opinion before proceed ? ing with their plans . Nevertheless , it is too much to expect that criticism of the " new Anglo-French entente ' " for the purpose of making mischief in Europe will entirely subside . In certain quarters the dogma has become too firmly established that the welfare of Europe demands a rupture of the ties between the two countries . That relations between the two have improved of late years is true . Sir AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN pursued a oonsistent policy of cooperation with France . His successor in active conduct of British foreign policy , Lord CUSHENDUN , has followed in his footsteps . Agreement on naval policy and agreement on German reparations policy offer a striking contrast to the suspicions and cross-purposes that characterized relations between Great Britain and France alMost from the morrow of the armistice to the inauguration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AngloFrench understanding should come so often from those who discern in the old balance-of-power politics the root cause of the World War . Yet balance of power is what they have essentially demanded when they have looked to England to act as a check upon France . The familiar theory has been that France is out to destroy Germany and dominate the Continent and that evil could be prevented only by a restraining hand from across the Channel . What elements of truth there may have been in the charge does not for the moment matter . The simple fact is that in practice the restraining hand from across the Channel failed to bring good to Europe . Anglo-French squabbles up to 1924 only served to breed irritation in France and to encourage unjustified hopes in Germany . With the Dawes Plan came a change . Events immediately showed that Great Britain could accomplish much more for European stabilization by inculcating moderation upon France as a partner than by playing the aloof censor . When London and Paris clashed we had the mailed-fist policy of PowCARE in the Ruhr . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dawes Plan , Locarno , admission of Germany into the League , the Kellogg-Briand pact , and now a fair promise of a definite settlement of reparations . In Germany the latest manifestations of Anglo-French amity have been described by the reactionary elements as signifying the death of Locarno . By that agreement Great Britain stands pledged to take action against aggression on the Rhine , whether the aggressor be Germany or France . But how can Great Britain play the impartial umpire , it is asked , if she is bound by an alliance with France ? The answer is , of course , that it is not a question of alliance but of amity . For the stabilization of Europe it is best that it should be known that the two nations are friends . Stability on the Continent is hardly conceivable if Great Britain is visualized as now " playing off " France against Germany and now Germany against France . Such a policy can produce only discontent on both sides of the Rhine . The opposite policy of consistent adhesion to the logical results of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not spell the destruction or the oppression of Germany is attested by the fact that so long as Great Britain sought to exert " pressure " on France no good came to Germany . Since pressure has been replaced by understanding the advantages to Germany have been manifest .                     