@@696507

txt Two girls returning home from : t dance were killed and : a captain of the Chicago tire department and three 1 other persons were slightly injured early this morning when the autemoibiles in which they were riding collided at Milwaukee and Austin . ave , Mies . The dead were : Dorothy Gunderson , 17 years old 5691 Norwood Park avenue . Violet iiittelson , 20 years old , o Janesville , Wis. , who was visiting at 2525 Lowell avenue during her vaca lion . The injured fire captain is Dante . Lyops , 36 years old , 7234 Calumet ave ? nue , commander of engine company 51 , 1 The others hurt are Leslie Gunderson , 22 years old , brother of Dorothy , wi/ was driving the car in which the two girls were passengers ; ' Miss ? Olga Dewey , 29 years old , and Miss Julia 1 Rudolph . 32 years old , who were riding with Lyons . Both Miss Dewey and Miss Rudolph are nurses residing at 7059 South ; Morgan street . Capt . Lyons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inquest this afternoon . On Wrong Side of Street . The Gunderson party was driving north in Milwaukee avenue on their return from dancing at the Wilahore Pavilion at Wilson avenue and the lake . According to the police , their car was on the wrong side of the road when Lyons ' car , southbound , struck it . All the injured were taken to the Belmont hospital , where their injuries were treated , and then to the . police station . In another automobile accident early this morning a man about 35 years old , believed to have been David Stark , was killed . He drove his car through lowered gates in front of an Illinois Cert . trot suburban train at 71st street and Stony Island avenue , zigzagged a block north , and crashed into the Hunding Dair  --  eompany building at 6949 Stony . Island avenue . These three deaths and four others increased the 1929 Cook county motor toll ' to 511 . The other victims : James Millard , 21 years old , colored , 4424 Forrestville avenue . Died of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State ** streets on Tuesday . William Cox , 35 years old , colored. 3923 South Dearborn street . lined When he was struck at 41st and State streets . Herbert J. Hanna , 3733 Lake Park avenue . . , ' Isaac G. Wilson of Wauconda , In . A verdict of accidental death was returned yesterday by a coroner 's jury Investigating the deaths of Hanna and Wilson , whose bodies were found early yesterday in a ditch beside Mannheim road , between the tracks of the Chicago . Aurora and Elgin and the Chi . cago Great Western railroads . From the position of the wrecked automobile the police believed that the two men were riding south at high speed when the driver lost control of the wheel ' and the car crashed Into a post . ' Both men were stock brokers . O'Donnell to Grand Jury , Myles O'Donnell , west side gangster and beer runner , and his companion , Edward Sernek , were held to the grand jury on charges of manslaughter yes- terday by a coroner 's jury Investigating the . death of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street . The verdict did not determine which man was the driver or the automobile that killed the woman and injured four other persona on Monday night . Witnesses identified the two as occupants of a heavy sedan that raced seventy miles an hour on the wrong side of Cicero avenue and , at Division street , crashed head on into the lighter machine in which Mrs. Potter was riding . ? Children Dia After Accident . Raymond Aidukas , 11 months old . and his 4 year old brother , Joseph , died in a Kenosha hospital yesterday of injuries received when the auto in which they were riding on Tuesday night was crowded off a highway near Kenosha and overturned into a ditch , bursting into flames . Mrs. Dora Aidukus , 39 years old . 9809 South St. Louis avenue ; their mother , is reported dying .                     