@@692517

txt The science of radio-telephony was carried a stage further yesterday , when home to home conversations took place with success between London and New York for the first time , according to The Daily Mail . The experiments began at 9 P .. M. Saturday and continued until S P. M. yesterday . Ordinary telephone instruments were used and the speakers in both London and New York were connected from their homes in the ordinary way through local exchanges to the trunk services . In this country the voices were carried eighty miles by a land line to the postoffice radio station at Rugsby , then wirelessly across the Atlantic on a wave length- of 5.770 meters . When received at Houlton , Me. , they were sent by a 600-mile land line to New York . Throughout the experiments the words came and went with such crispness that the speakers gave the impression of being only a few yards away from the listener , it is stated . The faintest sounds made by the reporters at the control board in the New York Telephone Exchange or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and once an American telephonist was heard turning the winder of his watch . Wireless amateurs in various parts of England listening in with suitable apparatus overheard some of the conversation . Two of the conversations most plainly heard were those wherein Sir Evelyn Murray , Secretary General of the Post Office and E. H. Shaughnessy , assistant engineer at the General Post Office , took part from London . Sir Evelyn spoke from his house in Manchester Square to a man in the centre of New York and Mr. Shaughnessy from his home in Streatham conversed with Doctor Jewett , an American engineer , at his country house twenty miles outside of New York . Another subscriber in London spoke to an American postal official at his home in Boston . Wives of some of the men who took part in the experiment exchanged compliments from their homes in England and the United States . Dr. Frank Jewett of Short Hills , N. J. , who is a Vice President of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , said last night that the test described in a cable from London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio-telephone conversations were held between New York and London . " The only difference betweenr this test and the one last week , " he said , " was in the extension 43f the conversation to lines further removed from the city . It was made to learn what was needed at the New York end to adapt radio telephony to different . tubscribers ' lines . The transmission was not as good as last week , static interfering somewhat , but it was nevertheless good and clear . " We made similar tests at Catalina Island two or three years ago , and the only thing unusual about this particular test , like the one last week , was that we talked across the ocean . "                     