@@688826

txt The Government suffered a defeat in the House of Commons tonight by seven votes . This will not lead to its resignation , but It has given a severe shock to the Cabinet . which is likely to be remembered in British political history as the one Ministry which , within six months of its return to office , with a comfortable majority has suffered defeat in five byeelections in succession , has failed to elect some of its members and ,  - -  ts been outvoted in the House on an , ... portant division . The motion which brought about the reversal tonight was a formal one , " that the House do now go into committee of supply on civil service estimates . " but it gave the members a chance to manifest their dissatisfaction with the Government . This had been running high during the afternoon on account of a reply given by Major Boyd Carl-enter concerning- certain grievances of Ex-service men regarding the salaries they . were receivineas temporary members of the Civil Service . Boyd Carpenter had merely said they would be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the House is getting tired of having one question after another shoved off on committees . Mem , hers from all parts of the House rose to ask supplementary questions , and even stalwart conservatives voiced indignation at the treatment the ex-service men are receiving . Neville Chamberlain Fails in Tactics . Everything . therefore , was ready for the revolt against the Government , but i actual explosion was more or less a matter of luck . The Government whips realized that they were in a ticklish place . and bade their supporters be in their places for a division not later than 9:30 o'clock . Then the Ministers went off to a Cabinet meeting and were , it is said . immersed in discussing the puzzling agI ricultural industry problem . Only one Cabinet Minister , Neville Chamberlain . was left on the Treasury bench , and he is not very experienced in the ways of the House of Commons . The result was that when the debate came to an I end at 9:15 o'clock he did not realize what taking a vote at such a moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , but he sat silent The usual delay followed as members trooped through the lobbies , and then as the whips advanced to the table to report the result a sudden wild cheer Ifrom the opposition side of the House I went up . The paper containing the figures of the vote was handed by the clerk of the House , not to the Government whip , but to Mr. Griffiths , the Labor lI whip . It was a sign that the Government was defeated , and amidst shouts ' of " Resign " and " Send for the Speaker , " Mr. Griffiths read out : " For the motion , 138 ; against the motion . 145 . " Mr. Chamberlain hurriedly conferred with the chief Government whip , Colonel Leslie Wilson . and then made the motion for adjournment of the House usual on such occasions . This was to give the Cabinet time to consider its poI sition , but in this case there was special I reason for so doing . The motion on which it was defeated was that " the House do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more ardent members of the opposition argued that this meant that it would be impossible tor the Government to ask for any more supply during the present session . It would , of course , be possible for Premier Bonar Law to recommend to the King to prorogue Parliament and then summon a new session immediately , but this would be to make the loss of prestige consequent on u , fcat all the more apparent . Speaker Extricates the Government . Speaker - tVhitley was consulted by the Cabinet tonight . anO found a way out of the difficulty . He ruled that the word now " in the motion referred only to today . and that there was no reason why the Cabinet should not bring for ! ward an identical motion tomorrow . As a matter of fact , it will bring up the motion again on Thursday , tomorrow being devoted to debate on the agricultural industry . The motion on Thursday will be treated as a matter of confidence , and there can be no doubt as to what the result will be . The Government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that it has received a nasty jar . Every Ministry suffers sooner or later defeat on more or less important motions , but they are always harmful , and it is unprecedented that a Government so recently installed should be so humiliated . Earlier in the evening there was a brisk debate on the best means of deerland . The President of the Board of Trade , Sir Philip Lloyd - Graeme . livened up the debate by conveying some information as to how empire developveloping the Empire 's resources by cooperation of the Dominions and motifment might be carried out . The forthcoming imperial conference , he assured the House . would not expend itself upon passing pious resolutions , but would devote itself to the transaction of real business . Britain 's export trade . he said , showed deficit of ? 35,000,000 at the beginning of 1923. and though this had been reduced in the first month of the year to 0.000.000. it must be wiped out altogether . If unemployment was to be cared for new markets must be found . and where could this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America 's position as a depository of gold provided by debt repayments gave an opportunity to British merchants to find their way into markets in which there had been American competition . The pource of cotton supplies in America was diminishing . while the American demand was ' increasing . Britain had colonies suitable for cotton grOwing , and schemes of development were being formed which only needed financial help ' to tide them over the initial stages . As soon as they were sanctioned the Government would come to the House of Commons , not for =obey but for authority to make advances to the crown colonies .                     