@@696021

txt Waiting , for the special session , Senator BORAH , in perpetual session , sits and judges . Why did the Wets miss the strongest point of attack on the Eighteenth Amendment ? Section 3 of that amendment provides : This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the Legislatures of the several States , as provided in the Constitution , within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress . He rules , as he ruled in the Senate , that the Constitution ? sets no firm limit on . the States for ratification and that the Congress had no power to impose such a limit . It is n't worth while , though , to take the matter to the courts . The interval since ratification has been so long that the Supreme Court would n't consider the belated objection seriously . If Mr. BORAH can ever take off time enough to read the case of DILLON v. GLOSS , decided May 16 , 1921 , he will- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contention , and decided against it . Mr. Justice VAN DEVANTER delivered the unanimous opinion of the court .. Summarized , that opinion is that it is a fair implication from Article V , which provides for amendments , that they must be ratified , if ratified , within some reasonable time after their proposal . Under that article , Congress , proposing an amendment , may fix a reasonable time for ratification . The seven-year period fixed by Congress in the resolution proposing the Eighteenth Amendment was reasonable : We take the liberty of quoting a passage or two from the opinion , though we hate to see Senator BoaAH 's mighty efforts in the Senate overthrown : We do not find anything in the article which suggests that an amendment , once proposed , is-to be open to ratification for all time or that ratification in some of the States may be separated from that in others by many years , and yet be effective . We do find that which strongly suggests the contrary . First , proposal and ratification are not treated as unrelated acts , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inference being that they are not to be widely separated in time . Secondly , it is only when there . is deemed to be a necessity therefor that amendments are to be proposed , the reasonable implication being that , when proposed , they are to be considered and disposed of presently . Thirdly , as ratification is but the expression of the approbation or the people and is to be effective when had in three-fourths of the States , there is a fair implication that it must be sufficiently contemporaneous in that number of States to reflect the will of the people in all sections at relatively the same period . Of the power of Congress , keeping within reasonable limits , to fix a definite period for the ratification we entertain no doubt . As a rule , the Constitution speaks in general terms , leaving Congress to deal with subsidiary matters of detail as the public interests and changing conditions may require ; and Article V is no exception . to the rule . Whether aslefinite period for ratification shall be fixed , so that all may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable time may be avoided , is , in our opinion , a matter of detail which Congress may determine as an incident of its power to designate the mode of ratification . So the court . Such is the law . But nothing can be regarded as settled that is not settled according ' to the everlasting right  --  which t is BORAH , J. , dissenting.                     