@@688651

txt All American financial and commercial markets were closed yesterday for the holidays . European markets were open as usual ; the cables reported steadiness both at London and Paris , but a slightly higher price for gold at ' London and an advance at Paris in the price both of the pound sterling and of the dollar , measured in francs . Had the New York markets been open , these European Quotations would have indicated a slightly lower rate for sterling and French exchange . Cotton closed at an advance for the day on the Liverpool market . Interest in today 's New York market will be at least to some extent directed to the effect on financial sentiment of Wednesday 's late advance of the New York Reserve Bank 's rediscount rate from 4 per cent . to 41 , . The change in itself was hardly such as to alter conditions in the Wall Street money market . Open market rates for rediscountable loans were ruling at and 3 per cent . when the advance was made . It is true , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its rate from 4 per cent , to - P. ' s on Nov. 3 , 1919. commercial paper was going at 51/4 to 33/2 per cent . on the open market . yet the Reserve Bank 's action created something like consternation on the Stock Exchange . That result , however , was clearly attributable to the recognized purpose of the higher rate ; which was , as the bank 's announcement put it , to check the process of " diverting to speculative employment rather than to reduction of bank loans " of the large credits released by the Government . No such purpose could have been in mind in Wednesday 's action ; whose immediate purpose was to check recourse to the New York market , where a 4 per cent . bank rate had Prevailed , by interior markets where the Reserve banks were asking 41 , . It is not impossible that the New York hank was willing to put itself in the position of discouraging reckless use of credit if the speculative spirit were to spread . Every one nowadays admits that the bank would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months of 1919 . But meantime the new per cent . bank rate is , except for 1919. as low as or lower than the rate pre'ailing at this time in any year since the t-sited States went to war . The most interesting part of the European bank statements issued yesterday Was the German Reichsbank 's re ' port of paper currency put out in the second week of February . This state , ment must be considered in connection with the repeated assertions of the P  --  eichsbank 's recent sale of foreign exchange bills to repurchase outstanding paper marks . It was this which was assumed to have more than doubled the foreign valuation of the mark since the close of January . Such a repurchasing process seemed a bit singular even a week ago , in the light of the 26S.000,000.000 new paper marks issued by the Reichsbank in the first week of the month . Now , however , comes yesterday 's statement for the week ending Feb. 15. which covers the period in whiesh the Rcichsbank was buying back paper marks on outside markets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that single week amounted to 430,831,000,000 marks . What this means , as a mere matter of progressive inflation , must be judged by the fact that the largest previous weekly record , that of the last week in January . was 329,921.000,000 . What it means when considered in relation to the repurchase of paper marks is something which the financial mind can not easily imagine . The whole procedure Is a nightmare of finance . Partly perhaps by way of contrast the French Bank 's statement of 100.000,000 francs of its debt repaid by the Government to the bank this past week , with 120,710,000 francs of the paper currency redeemed , is worth at least passing comment . In the two past weeks , when snapshot economists were pointing to the collapse of French finance under the burden of the Ruhr expenditure , the Government has pail off 200,000,000 francs of this floating debt and the raper currency has been reduced by 242,000,000.                     