@@696930

txt A special meeting of stockholders of Haygart Corp . has been called for December 31 for the purpose of authorizing directors to sell the net assets of the corporation to Or Adams Express Co. for such number of shares of the common stock of Adams Express as shall be determined by the directors of the two companies to be equitable and as may be approved and authorized by stockholders another meeting of Haygart Corp . stockholders has been called for January 7 to vote on dissolution of the company . In letter to stockholders . Charles Hayden . chairman , and Casimir Stralexn , president , of Haygart Corp .. state as follows : - Inasmuch as the assets of both companies consist almost entirely of a diversified list of Investment securities . which are subject to daily market fluctuations , the best method of determining a basis of exchange that is absolutely fair to both companies , is to make such determination immediately prior to the date of exchange . The independent firm of certified public accountants , Loomis . Suffern 8 Fernald , has been retained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the close of business December 30 , so that at the meetings of directors of the two companies to be held on the morning of December 31. with that report before them . the exact basis of exchange may then be determined equitably , for submission to such stockholders ' meeting on that day . " It is the opinion of directors of both companies that the consolidation of these two companies will increase the research facilities . strengthen the executive organization and produce a financial and investment company of great importance . resulting in wider opportunities for successful operation and substantial operating economies Messrs . Charles Hayden and Richard F. Hoyt. who are members of your board of directors . are likewise members of the board of managers of Adams Express Co ? ? 1:pon completion of the transfer of assets . Adams Express Co. shares that may be received by your company will be distributed at the earliest possible date to the stockholders of Haygart Corp and that company dissolved ? ? Adams Express Co. recently acquired the entire assets . consisting of cash and marketable securities , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long tune the leading stockholder.                     