@@690398

txt George Rexon , a 17-year-old boy . ' who was working in his undershirt and covered from head to foot with grease and oil . was called by a taxi driver yesterday afternoon from the garage where he was employed . Talking confidentially from the corner of his mouth , the driver told the boy something that made him grin and look foolish . " That 's a lot of sauce . " said the garage youth . But the taxi man talked fast and confidentially and got the youngster Interested . Another man dropped into the conference with winks , insinuating smiles and whispered infer- , motion . They finally convinced their immature victim that a beautiful woman ! who lived in a lonely bungalow was crazy about him and would be waiting for him at 4 o'clock this morning . Ater his night 's work was ended the boy spent an hour scrubbing himself With gasoline , pumice slid soap . He put his best clothes on , took a taxicab from his garage and made a shopping tour a all-night luncheon counters and caf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candy , an ice cream brick and a big bag of apples , oranges , cherries and bananas . Shortly before 4 A. M. he stopped his automobile a short distance from the beach at Fort Monmouth , near Deal Beach , and started to walk toward the bungalow with his arms filled with provisions . He opened a gate and picked his way in the darkness through trees and shrubbery to the porch of the bungalow . There was no light within . He hesitated for a moment , then walked up to the door and tapped lightly . Pistol Shots Ring Out . " What are you doing here ? " roared a voice from behind hint . " Call on my wife , will you ? " A revolver opened fire from the direction of the voice . Another revolver began shooting from another direction . Between shots there were cries from many voices and loud laughter . At , the sound of the first voice the boy dropped his armful of food . At the shooting he turned and started to run . He , pitched forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bungalow . There were more spurts of flame . When they ended , fourteen men appeared from behind trees and bushes , from the sides of the bungalow and from behind chairs on the porch . They were , shrieking with laughter , slapping themselves and shouting appreciation over the success of their practical joke . They had- played it dozens of times every Summer ' for the last three years , and it had become an institution In this section under the name of " the fireman 's widow , " so-called because the dupe is given to understand that it is safe to keep the appointment because his infatuated admirer 's husband is away firing an engine on the New Jfrsey Central . In the meantime electrical torches had been brought into play on the body on the path . " He 's fainted. " was the report and there was more laughter . When the body did not regain consciousness on being prodded with the toes of shoes , there was some apprehension . The band of- practical jokers remembered that they had been warned by Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because there was danger of frightening to death a. man of weak heart . Find Bullet Role . " He 's been hit , " reported a man who turned the boy over . " He 's bleeding badly . " The victim groaned as they gathered round to investigate . " Somebody 's ? gun was loaded , ; ' said another . They found the bullet hole just under the heall . All fourteen of the practical jokers fled . Most of them were taxi drivers who had , hidden their machines within a few hundred yards of the uninhabited bungalow which they had chosen for the jest . In less than a minute they were all bound for Keansburg . The shooting had attracted attention . Hastily dressed men soon arrived and found the boy ' . The half-melted brick of Ice cream , oranges and bananas strewed on the porch , and the box of candy told the story to them . They called for the Long Branch Memorial Hospital . The boy died soon after his arrival there . From past experience Chief Shear knew in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joke and he had started by daybreak to question them . He soon had some confessions , as far as the joke was concerned . There had been no intention of hurting the boy . Those with revolvers were to use blanks or to shoot wild . One of the bullets which was intended to go wild , however , had ? hit the boy when he tried to run awe. ) ; in the darkness . A bottle of ketchup found near the bungalow corroborated their story of a Prae1 joke gone wrong . It was their intention to pour the ketchup on the shirtfront of one of the Jokers. to lay him out as a dead man . to slip a revolver in the boy 's pocket and then to accuse him of murder . The last act of " the fireman 's widow , " when it is carried out in full detail , is to transport the victim to another empty house where a man ; with long . false whiskers and addressed as ' Your Honor " holds a summary trial and convicts the victim of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His youth might have caused him to be regarded in past years as an unsuitable subject for the joke , but the group which had developed this pastime were hard pressed for material . All who have lived at is.nshurg or have spent a season there re familiar with the affair of " the fireman 's widow , " and the jokers had come to be dependent on gullible strangers . Chief Shear arrested Michael Flaherty and Tames Downey and charged them with the crime . Six others were arrested as material witnesses . Others , not yet arrested , ars said to have beep onlook ? ers , Most of Oyer were taxi men who worked between th boats endthe road ' stationat sburg.                     