@@694524

txt Morley Drury , captain of the Vatveraity of Southern California football team , the so-called Trojan tractor , has Lived among the roses , oranges , and movie actors long enough far his blood to thin out somewhat . But , in case his gang is defeated at Soldiers ' field Saturday , he can not consistently be a part of the anticipated acclimation explanation . Morley has seen snow , and-how . This greatest or west coast pace field stars was born in Midland , Ontario , and is reported the net result of long line of hairy chested vroodchoppers who at least liked their Winters hard . Scotch and English were these rugged boys whose pictures adorn the Drury ancestral halls . They did n't know much about football , perhaps , but nary a blizzard ever slowed a one of ' em . That 's why Morley should have an edge on ' some of his mates 11 the seasonal staff gets strong on the south end of Grant park this coming Saturday . Drary Ts Great Da Carrier . Furthermore , no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be necessary insofar as he ikeoncerned . Drury has played his as r.test year at on the squad may make it necessary for him to play full or one of the halts . Under his technique , it does n't make much difference which of the back field positions he plays . Unlike many quarter backs in the middle west this year , Drury handles the bulk of the ball carrying . He frequently has carried the ball seven or eight successive times without seeming to care much whether the opposition was deceived about his plans . Drury 's record in Ms two biggest games this year  --  California and Stanford  --  has several impressive phases : In the California game the Trojan captain gained 193 yards from scrimmage add also ran 40 yards after intercepting a pass . Against Stanford he aye : raged four yards a crack from scrimmage and intercepted five forward passes . Ira Back from Palestine . While Drury 's hardiness is traceable to his forbears and the environment of his birthplace , the same can not be said of Harry Edelson , first string full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of being able to start against Notre Dame . So far as Is known , Harry is the only collegiate football star in the United States who was born in Palestine . Harry 's Jewish parents brought him to the United States and he eventually entered the Jefferson high school in Los Angeles . At that time he had not conquered all the intricacies'of the English language . He was a great favorite with his associates at the school and eventually they wanted to elect him captain and have him pilot the team from the quarter back position . He responded with grateful thanks , but declined , explaining he did n't speak English well enough or have the Inclination to tell the other fellows what to do . Edelson has been out of the game for three weeks with a ripped cartilage , but has expressed determination to be in the thick of the big show sn the lake front Saturday atlertraeir.                     