@@690017

txt 1 Four radical changes made in the football code by the rules committee tiat its annual meeting in New York on Saturday should go a long way toward Improving the game and make it even more Interesting for the spectators .. I Elimination of the artificiai tee Is a feature which ? should have been eradicated , long ago . Use of the tee has done much to discourage natural kicking , one of the fundamental features of the game . In the old days kickers with ability were able to drive ' the ball just as far by booting it from the ground and the same was true of place kicks . In late years use of the tee delayed games immeasurably . Whenever a team got within scoring distance the I games were stopped until the players scooted to different parts of the field to find the artificial tees . Such teams simply called for time and officials had to grant it . Kick Ball from Midfield . Under the new legislation players will not even be permitted to scrape l up the natural , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be made by the kicker 's heel to hold the ball in place . The change will unquestionably speed up the game and call for more coaching of kickers with natural ability . On the kickoff the ball ahap ? be booted from the fifty yard line Instead of from the kicking team 's forty yard line , as was the rule in the past . Blindnation of the tee will prevent the ball from being booted over the receiving I team 's goal line so often , and the kicker will be unable to get the height in his attempts as he did while booting off a tee , some of which were nearly a foot high . The driving kickoff should permit of greater runback of kickoffs and better interference . 1 The committee adopted excellent legislation regarding an ineligibli ) player of the passer 's side being struck by a forward pass . There has never been a uniform interpretation placed on this ECKERSALL , clause , but the committee cleared it up nicely . If an ineligible player is struck by a forward pass and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground , he may run with the ball the same as if it bad not struck a player . Big Aid to Mae &; In the past officials were undecided on how to rule the play , and it was generally taken up with the coaches before imPortint games . If the ball strikes the ground after hitting as in- I eligible playere , it goes to the opponents at the spot of the preceding down . Change In the rule which now per ? mita a scoring team to put the ball in play on its opponent 's three yard line atter a touchdown should result in more point 's being scored by rushing or foiward pass plays . The former rule called for the ball being Put in play on the five yard line , with only one down to make the five yards . If the new rule does not work out satisfactorily , the committee may change the rule again in another year or so by awarding a team two points which scores by a rushing or forward pass play and one point for scoring by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The penalty of taking time out more than three times in each half has been increased from two to five yards , but 1 the number of time-outs has been increased to four . Increasing the penalty from two to five yards should result in fewer time-outs and as a result do away with many delays , Firing of a pistol by the field judge to denote the end of the game or guar ? ter is another good amendment . The pistol shot will be heard more distinctly and will aid the referee to determine whether the bail was In play at the time the gun was fired . If the ball was in play at the time the shot was fired , the ball is not dead until the referee blows his whistle .                     