@@695519

txt New York spent Sunday thinking about the Graf Zeppelin and looking for her . Thousands of citizens put their thoughts into action and set out to Lakehurst in the hope of watching her land . Thousands of otners stooa for long or snort perioas of time at points of vantage on the chance of seeing her go by overhead . Thousands called up the newspapers about it , and thousands used up their " A " batteries listening for news over the ether . Few impending events ever caught the imagination of the city more vividly . New York was a way-station which the dirigible would only hover over if she passed by . at all But- the eyes of the metropolis were skyward. - A was just the kind of day to look for a Zeppelin  --  sunny , brisk and clear . The overcoat situation distressed nobody at Times Square , at Coney Island , at Central Park , on rooftops and penthouse verandahs , at Staten Island , on top Fifth Avenue buses or anywhere else outdoors in this vicinity . Buses Do Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Times Square and elsewhere resounded wit ! Culcet sweetness in the ears of more than 3,000 adventurers . By 4 o'clock the New York Sightseeing Bus Company had sent off twelvt caravans to Lakehurst. the Greeley Company ten , the Luna company eleven , the Rialto Company six . At 5 o'clock the last of the Rialto fleet opened - its doors at Forty-third Street and Broadway and was filled in ten minutes . Meanwhile six busc .. 3 departed from tL- terminal at . e Waldorf , five from the corner of Forty-third Street at - Sevinth Avenue , one special of the Royal Blue line at the three independent buses from Herald Square , three more from Times Square , and ve - ions others from other - trts el the city . Each bus  --  and each was loaded ? seated an average of thirty-three persons . Busmen estimated that 109 loads started off - during the day . Prices for the trip to Lakehurst and back ranged from $2 to $3.50 . Bus companies had arranged parking space at Lakehurst in advance . The fact that the parks were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobody . The distance to Lakehurst is eighty miles , requiring approximately three hours each way under normal circumstances . Nobody promised anything about getting there , or back . A cynical barker calculated the down trip would take six to eight hours because of the crowded roads . His imagination boggled at the thought of how or how soon the buses could get back . " Gone for a few moments " read a scribbled sign in the doorway of a bus office just above Forty-second Street . That was at 5 o'clock . The last of the five craft of this line which normally circulate through the devious thoroughfares of Chinatown had departed , fully loaded an hour earlier . The sign was still up at 7 o'clock . It might have read , " No buses , no business . " The sizable V-shaped sidewalk island just north of the Times building looked from 2 o'clock to nightfall like election time . So did the corners of the side streets leading into Times Square . Traffic policemen estimated the extra crowd of baskers at 2,000 at most any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Autumn crowd of mare years behind its seawall . The people began to gather in unusual numbers at noon and were there until dusk . The men who charge for peeps through the long telescopes at the moon , the sun , Venus , the aurora borealis and other sidereal phenomena sold innumerable peeps at nothing for special prices . The binocular renters also were busy .. A line of automobiles , numbering 300 or more , stretched from Pier A to Whitehall Street . Many cars bore licenses from other States . One family from Ohio arrived at the Battery to look for the Graf Zeppelin . When they learned she was n't likely to arrive they started back for Ohio . The rocky knolls of Central Park made vantage points for many . So did the eminences of Morningside Heights and other parks . The boulevard along the Bay Ridge waterfront was crowded with sightseers . Visitors at Coney Island took their eyes off the concessions still open and the surf , to look southeast-by-south . Hundreds went to Miller Field , Staten Island , on the chance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Stapleton , and Grymes Hill , Concord , both high places in Richmond Borough , to look . After noting birds , trees , vessels , the natural scenic charms of the region and other matters , they climbed down again . Lieutenant B. N. with Corporal Robert Burns set out from Miller Field at 9:30 o'clock yesterday morning to meet , if possible , the Zeppelin . They flew in ' an army . plane , and landed finally at Lakehurst . Learning that there was no definite news of an early arrival , they started home in the afternoon . Concerning the exodus toward Lakehurst by private automobile and privately chartered trucks , no final report was available up to a late hour . Officials of the Holland Tunnel reported that by 6 o'clock last night at least 2,000 more cars than the average had passed westward through the tube . Since it was probable that a large proportion of the normal Sunday traffic was headed for the naval air station , it was reckoned that close to 15,000 motorists had started in that definite direction since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gay parties , jammed on boards across the sides of grocery and butcher trucks and piled on benches inside moving vans , formed a notable proportion of the flow of traffic . The best limousines and the squeakiest rattletraps rolled through the tube in democratic juxtaposition . Many motorists picked the Staten Island route , with its choice of two bridges to New Jersey , and the oldest and stanchest traffic policemen paled at the thought of what would happen when everybody started to come back . The wisest were advocating a detour for the return by way of Cape Cod . Definite information about the airship was hard to get . Up to 9 o'clock last night inquiries numbering 2,046 had been made to THE TIMES by tele-I phone since 8:30 yesterday morning . The biggest number during an hour was 268 between 2 and 3 o'clock in the afternoon . '                     