@@696639

txt The United States Government will not join- the British Government in issuing formal invitations to the naval powers to attend a conference on disarmament in January . Britain is to be the sole sponsor in an . official and record sense . Although the current disarmament effort was initiated by President Hoover , this government is quite satisfied to have Britain assume the sponsorship . While the formal invitation of the British Government has not been received by the United States , it is learned ttiat an original invitation , which would have put off for some time the call for the conference , has been revised in the interest of expedition . Time Needed for Preparation . The four months that will elapse before the projected date of the international gathering  --  which may be further deferred if some of the powers express a desire for more time for preparation  --  constitute not ' too long a period , considering the slowmoving processes of diplomacy , to get ready for such a momentous event in world politics . A certain amount of satisfaction on the part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GreatBritain appear as the sponsor for the proposed conference . In considerable measure the responsibility for making the negotiations a success now falls on Britain . This factor should be read in the light of the fact that the Geneva conference of 1927 , which was called by President Coolidge , met with lamentable failure . Interested persons in the United States were disposed to place the blame for the fiasco on the British delegation , and when it first became known that President Hoover contemplated attempting a resumption of disarmament exchanges many here insisted that Britain should make the advances for further parleys as a means of offering amends for what happened at Geneva . President Hoover was not disposed to stand on any such contention and undertook the first steps to revive the discussion of naval armament limitation . But as things have turned out , the formal or record invitations are from the British Government , which thereby virtually pledges itself to bring the conference to a successful conclusion . From the British standpoint this course is not without its advantages , for to issue the call for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the present Labor Government . Likely to Preside . Assuming that the formal conference is certain to take place , it is taken for granted in Washington that Secretary Stimson will be the chairman of the American delegation and Premier will be the presiding officer of the whole conference if precedent is followed . Precedent demands that the Premier of a government which assembles an international conference shall preside over it . Georges Clemenceau , then Premier , presided over the Paris Peace Conference , and Oliarles E. Hughes , then .. Secretary of State . presided over the Washington Conference for the Lim/tation of Armaments . . . It is too early to attempt to give any definite indication of the personnel of the American delegation nn the coming disarmament conference , but no doubt is ? felt here that one of its members will be Hugh S. Gibson , Ambassador to Belgium . Mr. Gibson has been the chief American representative in the League of Nations preparatory commission fora disarmament conference since it first assembled assembled in 1926. and was head of the American delegation at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a close friend of ' President Hoover . Figures Correct . Gossip in Washington that Prim , Minister made an error in giving the figures of the American proposal for cruiser strength in his talk with press representatives on Monday is not justified . . This gossip had it that Mr. , in remarking that the propose/ of the ' United States Government for limitin. ; its own cruiser allotment would give the United States a cruiser tonnage of 315,000. should have given the figure as 285,000 . The cruiser tonnage suggestion for the United States advanced by . this . government in the final preliminary exchange 's contemplated twenty-ore cruisers of 10,000 Ions each . and five cruisers of 7,050 tons each , in addition to ten cruisers of that class alteady in our navy . Thus , twenty-one cruisers of 10,000 tons each gives 210.000 tons , and fifteen cruisers of 7,050 tons each gives 105,750 tons , making a total of 315 , - 750 tons , or approximately the figure mentioned by the British Prime Minister . The error attributed to Mr. in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of two items of 30,000 tons each of cruiser tonnage that figure in the respective-Proposals made by Britain and the United States.n . Britain had suggested that American cruiser strength be limited to eighteen cruisers of 10.000 tons , and seven cruisers of smaller tonnage to be built within a limitation of 50,000 tons , these vessels being in addition to the ten cruisers of 7.050 tons now in commission in the American Navy . The total tonnage of that British proposal is 300.500. which is the American cruiser tonnage built . building , appropriated for and authorized . Put , in another way , the British proposed that the United States should build only ? eighteen of the twenty-three cruisers of 10,000 tons each on its naval program , making 180,000 tons , and should take up the difference between that ? figure and the tonnage of twenty-three cruisers . or 50,000 tons , in . seven smaller bruisers of approximately 7,030 tons each . Add to these 180,000 tons and 50,000 tons the e0 ; 500 tons which we have now innruisers . of 7.050 tons each , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cruiser strength , - uilt and projected . American Proposal to Britain . The United . States proposed to Britain that this government should build twenty-one cruisers of 10.000 tons each or two less of that size than its building program calls - for and in addition five cruisers having a total tonnage - of 35,250 . Add to this total the 70.500 t.ns of cruisers already built and the grand tonnage total of the American proposal Is 315,750 . The gossip here appears to be based on the supposition that Mr. included in the American proposal three more cruisers cf 10 - 000 tons each than that proposal called for . ? With 50,000 tons deducted from the American proposal of approximately 315,000 tons , the figure of 285,000 tons of total American tonnage supposed to have been suggested by the United States is reached . But the fact is that the American proposal was that the United States should have approximately 315.000 tons of cruisers . Some surprise has been produced by this because it had been stated repeatedly that this government wanted : actual naval armament reduction from its contemplated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would total approximately 300.000 tons instead of 305,000 tons , the unrevised total . Why the American estimate of its required cruiser strength was revised upward from approximately 300.000 tons to 315.000 tons has not been explained in any authoritative quarter . No l'ie-Parley Agreement . The impression seems to prevail on the Continent of Europe that the United States and Britain have reached a hard and fast agreement with respect to their own warship tonnage and that of the other naval powers and will call on the others to ratify the arrangement . Nothing is further from the truth . No tonnage figures for France , Italy and Japan have been considered in the Anglo:American preliminary exchanges . Even the United States and Britain have not come to a complete agreement on their own respective tonnages . They have decided to leave to the formal negotiations the determination of whether the United States shall have eighteen or twentyone 10,000-ton cruisers to Britain 's fifteen ... A most encouraging sign Is that the American . cruiser proposals have the - approval of the general board of the navy and , what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had indicated that they would oppose any disarmament treaty which did not provide that the United States should be privileged to carry out in de entirety its program for .. building ? twenty-three cruisers of 10,000 tons each .                     