@@692696

txt Suburban hauling by motor truck for distances up to 30 miles offers . a more flexible and convenient service than any other form of transportation , and railroads generally admit that trucks are better adapted to this traffic the-. it rail service , declares a preliminary report by a committee of the Commerce and Marine Commission , American Bankers Association , prepared for the organization 's Executive CounciL Commercial motor lines compete injnriously with the railroads and among themselves , the report says , declaring that in the public interest they should be regulated to the same extent as the railroads . " Overland trucking companies operating over 30 miles compete with the railroads to a greater degree , " the report continues . " In many cases these companies haul commodities in carload quantities and over many routes provide more rapid service thar the railroads . In states where there is little or no regulation , soundly operated trucking companies are forced to compete with irresponsible operators who cut rates . No class of commercial trucking operations , whether conducted under state regulation or not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Motor coach operation is regulated by state commissions more extensively , and r-any lines , located advantageously with reference to sources of traffic and able to provide more frequent or convenient service than the rail lines , have been profitable . On the whole , however , motor coach operation has not been highly profitable . For distances up to 100 miles coach companies offering the equivalent of parlor car accommodations generally charge fares slightly above railroad arcs . Because of the inability of the motor coach to compete ' with the railroad in speed for long distances , motor coach fares for distances over 100 miles generally are established below railroai fares to attract patronage . Motor competition in the transportation of passengers has affected railroad passenger revenues noticeably . " Representatives of a number of railroads state that short-haul , less-than-carload traffic is a legitimate function of the motor truck . Many railroads are utilizing motor trucks themselves for the movement of freight . Competition from motor trucks has been instrumental in speeding up railroad freight it many instances . Motor coach competition has injured the railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken some cf their most profitable passenger traffic . Many railroads combat this by operating motor coach service in conjunction with rail service . Motor coach competition for relatively short distances seems inevitable . " The public , as tax payers and users of the highways , has an interest in commercial motor transportation . It appears that in the public interest commercial motor transportation should be regulated to the same extent as the railroads and that the number of operators should be limited . As now conducted , there is considerable waste in commercial motor transportation because the supply exceeds the demand . Limitation of motor transportation companies would reduce vehicles on highways reduce wear on the roads and by eliminating destructive competition put commercial motor transportation on a firmer basis . "                     