@@693513

txt Progress toward . an ideal regulation of the theatre in New York is gradually being made . For the most part , admirable restraint and open-mindedness are shown by all parties to the discussion . This ' may be due in part to the lack of conviction which keeps them wavering between offe plan and another , but , whatever the cause , the resulting free consideration of all sides is hopeful . In the fluid state of mind now general a man with a good scheme and a great deal of force and sincerity would find an opportunity for real service and fame as well . But no one has thus far appeared to lead the theatrical tribes out of the wilderness and they are struggling along as best they can , though.apparently In the right direction . Despite the variety of suggestions coming from actors , producers , playwrights , city officials and others , there is one point on which all are agreed . A clean-up from within is much to be preferred to outside control . There is every reason for unanimity about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doing their best work under the interference of well-meaning but possibly misguided censors . They know bow a play changes in rehearsal when a spirited director takes hold of it and how futile it would be to submit manuscripts to a board for decision . The artists in our theatre , particularly the producers who have shown themselves to be discriminating and sensitive , deserve greater freedom than they would have under official censorship . From the outside the view is much the same , though other reasons enter . The police , the District Attorney and all the machinery of the courts would be relieved of an unwelcome labor if the theatre would do its own cleaning . Mr. BANTON has made himself censor for the time being , although he declares the job is most distasteful . Police Commissioner MCLAUGHLIN has promised earnest cooperation . The law is being studied to make sure of its adequacy . Complaints against a play will be promptly investigated and evidence placed before the Grand Jury . But all this activity is initiated reluctantly and with the hope that Mr. AMEs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out a method of control , continuous and self-operating . While arrest and prosecution of law-breaking producers , specially speeded up by the District Attorney , will close plays which he considers immoral , there will also- be undesirable results . It has happened before and is an inevitable accompaniment of such trials that the attendant publicity is almost more demoralizing than the play itself . Many more people Elie informed about it ; its unpleasantness is forced on their attention . It was for this reason that the play jury was so highly praised at its inception . Nothing is necessarily known of work until the undesirable play is closed or changed . The producer can not Cash in on public curiosity . The general discredit in which this system is now held Is mystifying . In addition to the discretion with which it operates , it has most of the merits that are clamored for on all sides , Every one seems to have overlooked the fact that it requires no legal or municipal backing , for it works automatically , because of the actors ' agreement not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions are final , unlike the court decisions , which may , be reversed . In combination with the Ames commit-. q.eoz whose. , pia= 81146 IA mainable when completed , it is worth trying again . Perhaps jury members should be selected with more of an eye to public spirit , for there has been complaint that some have taken their duties too lightly . With conscientious men and women on the jury , and with inside supervision by the profession , the necessity of criminal prosecution would be largely eliminated .                     