@@688732

txt In spite of re- ? peatecl denials , it is now possible to say that negotiations were begun last week by the Berlin Government which it is hoped may shortly lead to a public opening of discussion with France of the terms on which evacuation of the Ruhr will be 13 , : gun . The intermediaries who have placed their services at the disposal of the two Governments are , it is understood , the British and Italian members of the Committee on Guarantees of the Reparation Commission , who in this n.atter are acting unofficially and simply as a medium of communication . Both Berlin and Paris have accepted their offices as ' bp:We:Preferable to those of a strietly " neutral , - Dower as the themhers , 13A this ? cothinlit06- - are mere fully acquainted with the situation of the two Governments and in closer touch with the matters In dispute than any outsider could be . Furthermore , as they are officials and not strictly diplomats , their action does not commit either Government , and should the exchange of conversations not lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more easily be avoided than if some personality . such as Premier Benes of CzechoslovaIda , were taking part . No Immediate , Accord Looked For . Though this attempt is being made to get the opponent countries to meet on common ground , it is believed in competent circles here that it is too early to hope for any immediate settlement . For this belief the reason given is that neither country can yet claim to have obtained any distinct advantage over the other in this complicated tussle . While the French can claim to have crippled German industry severely , tohave shut off the Ruhr coal supply and prevented any export of ma.nufacturCI goods , their advantage lies more in the possibility of doing far greater larnage to Germany than in what has been accomplished . The Germans on the other hand can point with satisfaction to the fact that France has herself derived no direct advantage from the occupation of the industrial district . With immense difficulty and at enormous cost she has obtained a mere fraction of the amount of coal which would normally have been delivered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has suffered almost as great an immediate loss by closing the Lorraine blast furnaces as have German industrials by the prohibition of exports . Further , the Germans are arguing that while they have begun stabilization of the mark at an average of 20,000 to the dollar , the French exchange situation has grown worse proportionately . In these circumstances it is proving . difficult for ethe negotiators to obba.infrom either side any concessions which might be interpreted as a sign of defeat . The best they can hope to do la to bring about a settlement which will have the nature of a peace without victory , and that kind of peace , it is pointed out , is always the most difficult to obtain . Situation Now at Critical Stage . The situation today is for this reason at a most critical stage . While the French have only to wait to secure . a larger measure of success in the ruination of German industry , the Germans have almost exhausted the possibilities of resistance . Moreover , though the first large-scale . attempt by the French to requisition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the expenditure in men and trouble necessary , it is being used and will be extended with the intention of showing that in the last resort the French are in a position to obtain coal and Joke in sufficient quantities to keep their industries going . To this measure the only possible re-. ply the Germans can make is by declaring a strike at the mines , as has been clone at Westerholt , and by allowing the passive resistance of the last twormonths to become active and maybe by encouraging armed resistance . There are signs , however , that neither the Government nor the local industrials and employes wish to proceed to these extremes . Though the men have stopped work at Westerholt , they are not ** the coke ovens to go out , as it Was yesterday feared they would do . And there is reason to hope that the assassination of the two Frenchmen at Buer last Saturday night and its sWift avenging will prove to be an isolated affair , - There is little or no likelihood of an guerilla warfare , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Ruhr to Ireland is to exaggerate groc.z.ly both the events which have happened and the spirit of the troops and people involved . Nevertheless , the possibility exists that , spurred by fear of losing , the German nationalists may by their propaganda excite some hotheads among their number to more assassinations , which , after the decisions of Brussels , is certain to lead to immediate reprisals . Industrials Pressing Berlin . The strongest factor for hope that mediation of the British members of the Guarantee Committee tray lead to some early result lies in the fact that the Ruhr industrialists of the more conservative kind , like Krupp and Thyssen , have joined with smaller firms in urging the Berlin Government to come to terxrs . There are unconfirmed rumors , which of course are denied at the Krupp factory . that even this great concern may be shortly compelled to pay off a section of its employes under the guise of giving there , a month 's holiday , and whether or not they are forced to this extremity it is known that , like ail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blockade and especially the prohibition of exports . The confidence which was shown two months and even three weeks ago in their power to resist indefinitely is fast disa.ppearing , and though the struggle might be continued much longer the industralists are admitting now openly that it would be a losing effort and ultimately useless . Like the French effort at requisitioning coal at the pithead their resistance has become more a matter of form than a real effort to break the French hold . Both sides are losing more than they can ever hope to gain , competent observers think . The best the French can hope for , they say , is the establishment of their right to continue occupation of the industrial district to the extent that Germany fails in her payments . The best the Germans can hope for is that France will accept a figure and conditions of payment within their capacity , and that the outside world will help to contribute the means necessary for mobilization of the debt . The time when the two countries will come to make some such attempt at an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the German industrialists are admitting their respective failure and that it is time to get together . Itubr Subscribing to Reich Lean . Even in the Ruhr , where work nas been largely brought to a standstill and in any case rendered unprofitable . subscriptions have begun to the Reich 's dollar loan . The banks record big application , and the curious situation is developing here , as brought out in Germany , of subscription to a national loan in foreign currencies which It is forbidden by law to any German to hold . Both for the loan and for the deflation which the German Government has begun the moment seems extraordinarily well timed in the view of financial experts . All holders of dollars , pounds and other good foreign currency are seeing their holdings depreciate every day in value and they are arguing that the terms of the new loan are far more advantageous than would be the immediate or even possible subsequent changing of their dollars into marks . At the same time every one is complaining bitterly of the result of deflation in increased cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed on the Government 's operations St Is laid entirely on the French occupation . To the French the whole operation remains a mystery . All pre di cti or s ' which accompanied the occupation have failed to come true with regard to the value of the mark and there is some uncertainty as to whether other predictions may not take the same course .                     