@@687458

txt If  --  the Comic Spirit sits up aloft in the Senate gallery these days , he must find much inatteibfor merriment . It is not simply revenges . that the whirligig or two years has brought round , but many whimsical contradictions and reversals . The pursuer of 1920 has become the pursued of 1922 , and any one following the Senate debates on the Washington treaties will observe more than one engineer deliciously hoist by his own petard . There is something pathetic as well as ludicrous in the . way in which Republican Senators are now forced to praise in a Republican President what they savagely condemned in ' a Democratic President . Senator Lotion makes a brave show of indignation when he resents inquiries into the secret negotiations leading up to the Four-Power Treaty . He protests that , if diplomats are to be trailed by a stenographer in every confidential conference , there will be an end of honorable dealing between nations and no more treaties can ever be concluded . Coming from the same high source that attacked President lArmsoN for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the satirist . It is to be noted also that the old " reservation " habit is still strong upon certain Senators . They get out their microscopes and scrutinize the text of the treaties under a calcium light . If the words might by some extreme perversion mean something different from what they are universally taken to mean , then the duty becomes evident of drafting a solemn reservation . Senator BRANDEGEE is very good at this . He can see perils lurking around every corner and insists that the United States must make sure of evading them by notifying the world that it will be under flo legal or moral obligation to do anything which at the time : it does not want to do . This tendency to hedge and qualify and to tack every possible safeguarding proviso to the treaties is plainly a mischief left over from two years ago . Most Senators are now frank enough to admit that the ' whole process is unnecessary . But the chief drafters and proponents of reservations to the Covenant of the League of Nations formed a habit that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppose that they will go on dragging out hidden and impossible meanings from the simple words of the treaties and " reserving " the assent of the Senate at one point or another , with the result of lumbering up the final ratification With all kinds of surplusage . The two parties in the Senate continue to fight . each other , but with changed rapiers , like Hamlet and Laertes . It is comforting to observe , however , that in all this flux or statesmanship one figure stands out as a man who sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not . Senator JOHNSON of California takes chre to let it be known that he among all the faithless will be faithful found . He took a certain position under a Democratic Adininistration , and he notifies the Senate , Sir , that he will take the same position under a Republican . Not for him the light-minded shift that goes with a mere change of the party in power . He apparently does not expect to rally many to his leadership . He would not be Happy if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and also more notoriety , to stand alone in his isolated virtue . And the strong probability is that , after a few weeks of long-drawn debate hand of displays of the hobgoblin of inconsistency on the floor of the Senate , the treaties will get that consent of the Senate which the country unmistakably desires and which they ought to receive .                     