@@691522

txt That the Commerce Commission will find it advisable , if not unavoidable , to adopt a consolidation plan for the eastern region in connection with its ruling on the Nickel Plate merger application , is the opinion of some of the leading executives of eastern lines . While the Nickel Plate application , hearings on which will be resumed in Wash : ington today , does not contemplate immediate con. solidation of the five railroads concerned in a single ownership , it is generally recognized that a proposal to establish single control of 9,439 miles of road through stock ownership and leases makes the adoption of a plan a decidedly live issue . A further reason why railroad men believe that the ! commision will hasten the adoption of a plan of its own ! is the recent activity of several trunk lines in obtaining ownership or lease control of various smaller roads . The ' Wabash has purchased a substantial interest in the Ann ! Arbor and is credited with accumulation of the stocks of certain other properties The Norfolk &; Western and the Delaware &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Buffalo , Rochester &; Pittsburgh respectively . If this process goes much further the commission may soon find itself seriously- hampered in the adoption of a plan , or may find that practically insurmountable obstacles have been raised to the execution of the sort of a plan it might wish to adoptA ** SIMILAR ( - AAR It is true that the commission approved the Missouri Pacific 's application for authority to acquire stock control of the New Orleans , Texas &; Mexico and through it of the International-Great Northern , without having adopted a consolidation plan either for the country or for the southwestern region . The majority decision in that case did not directly discuss the bearing of such authorizations upon a general consolidation scheme but the dissenting opinion of Commissioner Eastman , concurred in by Commissioner , said : " The majority are here authorizing the Missouri Pacific to acquire control of the Gulf Coast Lines and of the International-Great Northern . These are all large railroad properties . When once they are brought under common control they will become parts of one railroad system , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ af what our consolidation plan may contemplate , unless the Missouri Pacific wishes it to be broken up or becomes insolvent . It was not , in my judgment , the intent of Congress , however wise or unwise that intent may have been , that we should permit such great combinations of railroad properties to be brought about prior to the promulgation of our consolidation plan . It may well be that when we come to adopt that plan it will be found necessary , in obedience to the very definite and specific mandates , to assign either the Gulf Coast Lines or the International-Great Northern to some other railroad than the Missouri Pacific . I refer to the mandates which require us to preserve competition as fully as possible , to maintain existing routes and channels of trade and commerce wherever practicable , and to arrange the several systems so that they may employ uniform rates and under efficient management earn substantially the same rate of return upon the value of their respective railway properties . " 11110A1FIA5G OF LOILEM PLAN In important trunk line quarters it is believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Loree of the Delaware &; Hudson has submitted will have less effect upon the commission 's deliberations than is popularly supposed . The point is made that while Mr. Loree 's plan was submitted formally only within the past two weeks , the substance of it was contained in his testimony of more than two years ago . At that time Mr. Loree proposed to link his own road not only with all the eastern roads he now includes but also proposed to take the West Shore away from the New York Central and put that in . He did not then contemplate going west of Buffalo , but suggested that if it were desired to carry the system westward the Wabash was available for that purpose . Then , as now , he proposed to keep the RendingJersey Central a separate system but under joint control of the trunk line systems . It has not escaped observation that Mr. Loree 's plan would put three of the five leading anthracite roads into a single system which would also have a one-fifth interest in Reading-Jersey Central , another important anthracite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely independent of Mr. Loree 's combination . The Pennsylvania 's objection to the New York Central 's desire to annex the Lehigh Valley was based on the fear that it would be deprived of anthracite traffic . The question arises what the Pennsylvania management think of Mr. Loree 's disposition of the roads originating hard coal tonange . While the four leading trunk lines are watching with interest the progress of the Nickel Plate hearings , they have not suspended their efforts to bring about agreement of all of their number upon a consolidation plan .                     