@@693129

txt Columbia University opened its 173d academic year yesterday with exercises in the Academic Theatre on the campus , at which Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , President of the university , spoke . Similar ceremonies were held at the College of Physicians and Surgeons . For the first time in Columbia 's history , Faculty members in caps and gowns formed an academic procession on the Columbia campus for the event . Dr. Butler discussed three types of the human mind , designating the first as one primarily concerned with the protection of privilege , another which lent every effort toward obtaining universal conformity to its own standards , and the third , and rarest , that which understood and expressed liberty . " The mind expressing liberty always holds law subordinate to liberty 's just domain , and never permits an invasion , " he declared . " The notion that one man 's liberty is the creation of another man 's will is monstrous . There is nothing more sacrzd than human personality and its right to its own beliefs and conduct with proper regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest apart irom the interests of the individuals of whom the public composed . In a sound organization of society ea : la individual will gain by association and cooperation with his fellows , and only in this way will freedom of will be preserved . Opposes the Force of Numbers . " Liberty contests privilege , for privilege is something other than that excellence or possession which follows upon the just and righteous use of liberty itself . Liberty also contests conformity , which is a hopeless attempt to bind human wills to the chariot wheels of numbers using force . The rights of the majority are as closely limited as the rights of the individual and the same tests are to be applied to both . " It is not easy to think of a true university as engaged in upholding privilege or in establishing conform . ity . To be a university at all , a society of scholars is , and must be , the home of liberty . The boundaries of truth are almost daily pushed outward and upward . New discoveries , new insights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity true because it is new ; far less is anything of necessity false because it is old . " The type of mind concerned with upholding privilege had plausible argument to sustain it and could always depend on the powerful aid of selfinterest , he declared . " It frequently deceives itself by the belief that what others call privilege is in reality only justice and that the conserving and upbuiiding forces of society and of industry are committed to its watchful care , " Dr. Butler said . " When its prejudices have been satisfied it feels a proud sense of duty done . " Cruelty of the Conformists . The mind reflecting conformity , when inflamed by emotion , hastened to violence and persecution , he ? asserted . " Its tongue uses the language of the law , but its heart is that of the cruel , merciless , narrow-minded and lawbreaking tyrant , " he declared . " It burns , it hangs , it tortures , it despoils , it destroys , it deports . Its frequency and its power are a constant challenge to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down this type of mind , what will ? " Dr. Paul Lapie , Recteur of the University of Paris , spoke briefly in French , contrasting ihe French university with the American . He said the old continental universities , while they had long traditions behind them , were always young and alert for new knowledge . The annual academic address was by Dr. Charles E .. Lucke , Professor of Mechanical Engineering , on " Research and Invention . " He deplored the huge economic waste caused by the fact that only one invention in a thousand proved useful , and declared that adequate engineering laboratories were greatly needed . Dr. Frederick P. Gay , Professor of Bacteriology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons , Ninth Avenue and Fifty-ninth Street , told the entering class there that science was still producing giants , but they were working in narrower spheres because of the influence of division of labor . " The cry has gone up in medicine that we are losing the general practitioner , the old family doctor , " he said . " In the usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But both he and we , if we are wise , will turn on difficult occasions to that particular specialist who has made a life study of our Individual malady . " Virtually all departments of the university begin their work today , with a gain In registration of students over last year .                     