@@693490

txt Ham N. Coffey , 51 year old bigamist and slayer of his wife , Mrs. Hattie ? Hales Coffey , 53 , arrived hero tonight a few hours after a farmer found the torso of a woman in the woods where Coffey confessed he buried the dismembered parts of his wife 's body . A coroner 's inquest will convene tomorrow , authorities indicated , after Coffey is taken into the woods to point out where he buried the remaining portions of thwoman 's body . This will give the the its evidence to substantiate charges of murder , for which a life prison sentence is provided .. Stumbles into Grave . Discovery of the torso of the woman resulted from tho gathering tonight of a curious crowd residing near Ititers ' ' woods . Frank Olson. a farmer , discovered a mound of earth , which was soon cleared away , baring a. gunnysack and its contents , part of a fe. male torso , from the first rib to the thigh . Coffey at the time of rho discovery was en route to Platteville from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They requested authorities here to postpone any inquest action until they arrived . They had planned to have Coffey show them where lie buried tho woman whom ho says he killed by accidentally striking her with a baseball bat , afterward dismembering her body* . Plan Search for Bead . Authorities Indicated they would concentrate their search tomorrow for the head of the woman , In the hope that it would enable them to establish the corpus delicti . " When I buried the head , " Coffey 's confession says , " I tamped down the earth with a handle of a spade . Maybe that bruised the head , but I do n't think so . The skull was broken only at the temple , where I hit her with the bat . " Identification of the fractures would prqve sufficient to warrant murder charges . officers said , should Coffey re ? fuse to aid in the identification . Another section of his confession says : " As I sat there with parts of the dismembered body about me I suffered hell . I loved this woman . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Iowa , I would hang , but It was in Grant County , Wis . " Curious Flock to Wood . Finding of the body created much excitement here tonight . The wood , which is about five miles from this city , held a crowd of curious people who flocked there after learning that Coffey confessed he buried his wife in the wood and that he would be brought there from Mauston , Wis. , to-night : - Olson and his companions formed one of several groups standing in the plot of ground discussing the case . Automobiles lined the highway near by . Olson noticed a small mound of earth a short distance from where he was standing and turned aside to absentmindedly kick the Ice and snow away . He noticed that beneath was spaded ground and called for assistance . An as and spade were brought and In a few minutes a hole two or three feet deep resealed the top of the sack .                     