@@693942

txt Most of operations Saturday were in nature of evening accounts for the holiday . Professional operators were large sellers on balance . Considerable short selling came into issues which showed a lack of support and market students maintained that short position was increased substantially as result ( -4 day 's operations . Commission houses were sellers of some stocks , but sufficient new buying developed at reactions in some of ileading issues to make these firms buyers on balance . Short covering in some stocks Ras rather heavy at times land a as responsible for giving support in various directions . Sentiment in financial district is decidedly mixed at present . Caution and disci imination are being advised by consers ative interests on theory that there has been considerable over-trading recently and that a reaction could bring much forced selling into market at lower levels . On other hand those who hate been optimistic right along arc asserting that nothing more than a technical reaction should be expected at this time . because ease in money is an important factor to encourage bulls . Statements made in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss orders in the market now than in some time . Advices to protect margined accounts have been sent out so porsi-tently of late that many outsiders have followed this advice . In some stocks which hose enjoyed advances stops have . been raised as higher levels have been established and are quite close to prevailing prices . In fact some of them were uncovered in individual issues Saturday . There was some evidence of a pre-holiday market , mainly in fact that considerable evening up was in progress . A number of shorts took advantage of opportunities to cover , Ishile sonic of professional longs were taking profits on stocks carried since beginning of the week . Quite a number of large customers of commission houses had already straightened out their affairs on Friday and did not come to the Street . Saturday . An observer of one of commission houses , in discussing low return on stocks and its possible effect on movements in near future . said : " It may be of interest in passing to note that one of indications of market being at or near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past , has been attracting some attention . " It has been found that as a rule when the yield of stocks falls about three-eighths of a point below the yield of new bend issues the market is at or near its high . On June 2 , average of 27 stocks was 5.31 x , which was . le less than competing bond issues . " While there is nothing infallible or exact about this indication , it may be taken as a further reason for caution at this time . " RAILROADS Some of shrewdest observers are advocating a policy of picking up standard rails like Atchison . New York Central and others on reactions rather than following movements in more speculative issues based on merger prospects and other factors which may not develop for some time . They contend that during period when standard dividend-paying rails have been allowed to drift for themselves there has been quiet accumulation on a downward scale during reactions , and believe this buying has conic from impertant interests in the railroad field . FREEPORT TEXAS Rumors are being widely circulated that at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the dividend will be decided upon . Tnis is looked upon as explaining seine of buying which has come into that stock recently . Although no confirmation of dividend rumors- have been obtainable , many in financial district are inclined to believe something will be done . Point is made that all sulphur companies are doing an excellent business . Discussions of earnings of Texas Gulf Sulphur , and statements in scene quarters that May approximated largest month in company 's history have been responsible for a short covering movement in that stock . They have also attracted new outside buying recently . Wall Street believes that there is still a substantial short interest in Texas Gulf and that technical position of stock is unusually favorable as a result . CERTAIN-TEE1 ) MERGER Persistent stories are being circulated that announcement of the much-discussed Certain-teed Products merger will be made w:thin a very short time . Part of buying in past week w.a , the ie-ult of these statements . Latest reports have it that combination will be formed by Certain-teed Products , Glidden and Beaverboard Corp . Point is : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consolidation . OMNIBUS What is termed as " smart " buying is said to base been coming into Omnibus in past two business days . Talk of favorable developments is heard , but in most instances ns details are given . One story has it that an important announcement on traction situation in Chicago will h. favorable to company . Buy mg- of American Can at times last week has beti , described as the best seen in that stock in months . Houses which have often acted for important interests heretofee have been among purchasers . and this has resulted in an outside following . Theme is still quite a short interest in Can becau-e of selling several months ago when so much pessimist ! , talk was heard regarding can manufacturing industry generally . A covering motement by a sleeping short interest might be started on further strength in that stock PA VIII : ? ? A ? ? Detelopments are said to be pending in Pattie organ , - zation which have led to quiet buying of A stock by new important interests . No attempt has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably to fact that accumulation has not been entliely completed. ? Up to a few weeks ago stock had been running into liquidation . During this period scale buying was in evidence . It is now believed in reliable quarters that such selling has been about completed . Stock yields more than and average earnings of past three years were $6.60 per common share . ' Well informed interests state results this year are expected to be better than this average and successful completion of current plans might result in considerably greater earning power in 1928 . Although there has been a resumption of buying in Minneapolis , St. Paul &; Sault Ste Marie , which has carried that stock to new high ground for current movement , it is stated in reliable circles that those who purchased some time ago at materially lower levels have not been induced to take profits . These holders claim outlook for road is excellent .                     