@@692491

txt It may surprise the managing editors of newspapers who sent their star reporters to cover Wall Street to learn that if the Interstate Commerce Commission decision on the Nickel Plate merger had come in a normal market , it would have put prices up . It did not really put piices down , except in the opinion of . amateurs who could not have put the real reasons in a newspaper caption , much less have stated them in- a straightforward story on the front page . There is nothing remarkable in the fact that the bullishness or bearishness of an item of news is all in the point of view . It depends-a good deal upon the techincal condition of the stock market. , With a bull movement which had been in continuous operation for nearly two and a half years , a bull account had finally developed of the pyramid kind . The pyramid is the most stable form of all human structures  --  but not when it is standing on its apex . Therefore , the small trader , multiplied by thousands , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his brokers ' , but who was carrying on the margin so acquired ten times the stock with which he started , was up to be shot at . Any sort of push would have broken the market , and the spectacular front-page reporters did not know that the decline in stocks had been running six continuous days before the Commerce Commission 's decision was handed down . Still less did they understand the technical reasons why the decision was a bull argument on stocks , and especially railroad stocks . It specifically guarded the common stockholder , in this case the holder of Chesapeake S. Ohio . It made his security more secure . In condemning devices to take the control of the property from him , the real partner in the business , it made the securities of all railroad stockholders more secure . The decision even makes intelligent mergers pending more simple and practicable . It shows what should be avoided , and it certainly proves that the Commission approaches the subject with an open mind . There is not such a proposal before the Commission which on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval . In a major bear market such a decision might well have produced a rally of several points . Flimsy as the speculative structure had become , there was no part of it - which was really based on the Van Sweringen plans . This is not to say that the front-page reporters should be diszouraged from venturing into the financial district when there is a good " story " here ; on the contrary , this is an expression of gratitude to the Herald Tribune and the World for a hearty laugh . When this younger generation is older , what will it tell the new generation that it did n't do ?                     