@@696758

txt There is a special reason for the good playing of the Amy Neill string quartet , an organization of young women appearing at Kimball hall last night . Naturally there is the preliminary qualification , the assembling of four able artists willing to work at ensemble playing and merge their own personalities into the quartet . But beyond that there is something more important . After the first , which is after all more or less a matter of faithful study and rehearsal , there is 1 , the evident pleasure that they put into their performance . It is what makes their playing distinctive . Three numbers were on their list last night . The first was a quartet in D flat by Dohnanyi , the last a similar work in I by Haydn . Betweett these was a group that might be described as the American Conservatory Fantasia , so intimately was it connected with that institution of musteal lore . It contained Adolf Weidig 's " Autumn Leaves , " the slow movement from Henriot Levy 's quartet in A minor , and Leo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was expert music learnedly and often strikingly expressed , a fine performance of all three , and all three composers called upon in turn to acknowledge their shares . E. M. Newman Is taking his fellowgadders on a swift trip around South America at Orchettra hall this week . Beginning with the Panama canal , he takes his pictured course down the west coast of the continent along Peru , Bolivia , and Chile , then through the Strifts of Magellan and up the east coast . He concerns himself quite as much with nature as with civilization , sea lions and penguins alternate with cathetrals and hotels , and there are some protracted views of the Iguazu falls , the world 's greatest cataract ... Some of his most interesting pictures come toward the end of the journey during a trip up the Amazon . Here are sights to delight the nature lover , the fresh water dolphin , monkeys , parrots , and sloths at the tops of trees , unbelievable flower development , the fish that has to be speared for food , Dr. Bernard I. Bell Plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduate of Wendell Phillips High school , Chicago , 1903 , and University of Chicago , 1907 , now warden of the smallest college in America in the largest university in America , St. Stephen 's college , Columbia university , will preach to the Sunday Evening club in Orchestra hall , Sunday , Oct. 27.                     