@@693531

txt The influence of " big business " and men prominent . in the national councils of the Republi- , can Party is being exerted on the leaders of the legislative majority to prevent the adoption of the resolution , sponsored by Assemblyman Cuvillier , New York City Democrat , calling on Congress to hold a national constitutional convention for the revision or repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . Under the Federal Constitution a national constitutional convention must be called by Congress whenever twothirds of the States , through their Legislatures , shall have made demand for such action . Demands from twenty-eight States , according to Mr. Cuvillier , are already on file with the clerks of the two branches of Congress . New York , Massachusetts , Maryland and Rhode Island , all wet , by joining hands with these , he insists , would force Congress to call a constitutional convention . In these four States movements , have been initiated looking tothe'enadttnent ? of the necessary " measures : , Pear Democratic ' Advantage . It was stated today that . the , CUyillier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that bad made itself ' distinctly felt at the Capitol . The political reaction , too , has been unfavorable among Republican leaders of national prominence . They are said to feel that , whether the convention is held or not . the preliminary agitation would be bound- to prove embarrassing to their party and helpful to the Democrats on the eve of : mother campaign in which the wet and dry issue is bound to De well to the front . It is not the fact that the Eighteenth Amendment might be threatened that is troubling the Republican leaders here . On the contrary , they feel that the prohibition amendment would be better able to withstand assault than would some other clauses of the Federal Constitution should the " La Folletteisru " of the Northwest and other " isms " peculiar to certain sections tie ' allowed to enter into the deliberations of a constitutional convention . The Republicans are a bit worried because Mr. Cuvillier has threatened to bring such pronounced champions of the wet cause as Senator Bruce of Maryland . Senator Walsh of Massachusetts , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to urge the passage of his bill at a public hearing to be held on March 8 . The Republicans are inclined to believe that - with New York blazing the way the other wet States would follow and that in the circumstances Congress , under the mandate in the Federal Constitution , would have no option but be compelled to call the convention . Measure Almost Won Last Year . A similar bill sponsored by Mr. Cuvillier came within an ace of passing the Assembly last year when the lower house was still regarded as safely dry . This year the Assembly , like the Senate . has a wet majority . and should the Cuvillier bill be brought out in the open for - debate it is not unlikely that A. , would receive favorabh action in which , beyond doubt , the wetter Senate would concur . The bill , which has been pending for weeks , is being held by the Assembly Judiciary Committee , but Mr. Cuvillier has indicated that if it is not reported he will take other steps to have it brought out on the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was learned to day , following visits at the Capitol by Orville S. Poland , its general counsel , has practically abandoned hope for the enactment of any dry enforcement bill . at the present session , as well it might with sentiment in both branches of the Legislature what it - is . Speaker himself a dry , said this evening that any dry legislation-would be foredoomed to defeat . For all that , Assemblyman - Edmund B. Jenks of Broome , dry leader in the Legislature , made it known that he was prepared to tackle again the problem of getting a dry enforcementflaw on the statute books , this time in a new and somewhat startling way . Alms to Resurrect Dry Law . He aims at nothing less than resurrecting the defunct Mullan-Gage law , which was repealed at the 1923 session of the Legislature . Mr. Jenks evidently had his dry hopes quickened through a citation h3ri William Gibbs , in his recent address at Toledo , of a decision by the Wisconsin Supreme Court which held that once a State had adopted an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . was in conflict with the Federal Constitution . Taking this ground Mr. Jenks , utterly ignoring the repeal of the . Mullan-Gage law , will Offer on Monday night a search and seizure amendment to that statute , not with any hope ? of - favorable action but with a Mew of establishing a test which can be taken to the higher courts for decision . " The contention ' that the Legislature - had no right to repeal the Ilullan-Gage law , as I see it , is utterly fallacious , " said Speaker - qzmcq#Ginnies tonight . " If the Legislature had a right to - pass that act , also beyond doubt had the right to repeal it . Without clear recognition that- this right exists , how could Mr. Jenks ' or any ' one else presume , to offer an amendment for the vonalagratima at 112 lagfilataca4                     