@@691834

txt President and Mrs. Coolidge are resting tonight in the home of Colonel John Coolidge , the President 's aged father . They made the trip of 170 miles today by motor from the Summer White House at Swampscott , Mass. , and expect to remain three or four days . The trip was made through a misty rain , which turned into a hard storm near Fitchburg , Mass . As the Coolidge party turned into the winding road beyond Ludlow the sun came out ; brightening the trees and accentuating the beauty of the foothills of the Green Mountains , after the party had driven for almost seven hours in gloomy weather through Massachusetts , New Hampshire and Vermont . Colonel Coolidge awaited the arrival of his son seated in a hammock on the porch of his home . Two hundred neighbors and tourists had gathered between the Coolidge house and the Plymouth Church . As the President 's car stopped Colonel Coolidge walked slowly from the piazza and greeted the occupants affectionately . The President shook hands with his father and Mrs. Coolidge kissed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , father : so glad to see you looking so well , " the President exclaimers . " Well . Cal . I am Liad to see you and Grace , " returned Colonel Coolidge . The President and Mrs. Coolidge lingered on the lawn for a few minutes , while photographers and movie operators took pictures of the home-coming . While Colonel Coolidge appeared to have regained some of his strength since his recent operation , he showed the effects of his illness . He was not so cheerful as before . His step is less elastic than when he attended the inauguration last March , and he has lost weight , but he told his son he was " feeling fine . " Major James F. Coupal , the White House physician , made an examination of Colonel Coolidge and declared he was satisfied with the Colonel 's progress since a month ago . While the examination was being made the President walked about the homestead and inspected the shingles piled by his son John and the asbestos roof which has replaced the shingled roof , the work on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The President and Mrs. Coolidge were driven later to the cemetery , where they visited the Coolidge lot and . the grave of Calvin Coolidge Jr. , whose death occurred a year ago last month . Every week since then Mrs. Coolidge has sent flowers to be placed on the grave , and fresh flowers , which she had provided , were put there before her arrival tookay by Colonel Coolidge's. nurse . Mrs. Coolidge Works in Kitchen . After the visit to the cemetery , Mr. and Mrs. Coolidge walked about the familiar scenes in the neighborhood of the old farm and chatted with neighbors . Just before supper time Mrs. Coolidge went into the kitchen to help Aunt Aurora Pierce , the housekeeper , prepare the meal . Knowing that his son enjoys beefsteak , Colonel Coolidge had a big juicy portion for him . The President and his party , including Secret Service operators , newspapermen and photographers , ran into all varieties of weather on the way up from Siv3 ? pscott . The President also got a lesson . n road building . He encountered smooth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Keene and Bellows Falls , Vt . When the car drove out of White Court at 9 o'clock this morning , the fog seemed about to blow away . Before he was on his way ten minutes rain began to fall and continued for the first two hours . Between Ayer and Fitchburg the cavalcade passed through a veritable cloudburst and some of the cars were crippled . The first halt of the day was at a highway junction just outside of Ayer , near Camp Devens , where the President 's son John is a Corporal in a citizens ' training corps . In order to avoid ceremonies attendant upon the visit of a President to a military post . Mr. Coolidge had asked the camp commander , General Malvern Hill Barnum , to let John Coolidge meet his parents outside the camp . The General 's car , with Acting Corporal Coolidge occupying a seat with the General , had been waiting at the crossroads some minutes before the President arrived , and the lad chatted with his parents for about fifteen minutes . Take Lunch as They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Keene for lunch . The President and Mrs. Coolidge. however , had luncheon with them and no stop was made . They ate in comfort while the big car rushed over , the roads . Other members of the party went hungry until the trip ended about 4:45 o'clock in the Vermont hills . The rain had ' ceased when the party approached Bellows Falls . The cars halted at a cemetery , and the President and Mrs. Coolidge climbed a steep hill to ramble about the place , and visited the meeting house , built in 1787 , in which the President 's ancesters had worshipped over a century ago . The President 's mother . Victoria Moor , was born in this section of the cduntry , near Rockingham , and many of her ancesters had fought the British from the granite hillside . Nathaniel L. Davis . the President 's great-great-grandfather , who died in 1S02. is buried in the cemetery . A kinsman of the President , Senator Nathaniel L. Divoll , hurried up the hillside as the President and Mrs. Coolidge approadhed the church and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had been used by his great-great ' grandfather and posed with Mrs. Coolidge for a picture . While in the cemetery reading the tombstones , the President pointed out to the newspaper men the great number of bavises buried there , and remarked : " Probably I can claim as much Welsh blood as Jim Davis , " referring to the Secretary of Labor , who is a Welshman . Pays , Call on Aunt . Despite the forbidding weather , the President stopped for a short call on his aunt , Sarah Pollard , the mother of Park Pollard , Democratic candidate for the United States Senate in Vermont two years ago .. While nearly all the executive force at White Court remained behind , the President got into touch with affairs over the telephone tonight . In a room above Miss Cilley 's store , in the building where he was born while his father was the village storekeeper , Mr. Coolidge has a desk made of boards resting on two trestles . There is no telephone in Colonel Coolidge 's house , and kerosene lamps are I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and she MI fered to supply Colonel Coolidge , but he declined to have them put in . Before he left White Court the President said he would spend two or three days with his father . If his presence and the attendant excitement do not aggravate his father 's illness he will remain here until SiZednesdaT.                     