@@696792

txt Comparative normalcy returned " to the Stock Exchange trading yesterday and by 1:45 p. in. the ticker was up to the market and printing transactions in preferred stocks . This was probably the most marked change in the stock market situation . for it was a vast difference from the condition of the past ten days when the tape ran some two hours late . In the late trading stocks gave ground rather easily and earlier price gains were lost in many leading issues , bringing them under the opening levels and resulting in some size- i able declines from the previous closing levels . The reaction was rather general on other markets , bank stocks suffering a general reaction However , the market was a far more normal affair than any time in the past ten days , with bids always present in stocks . Following the run-up in prices of last Wednesday and Thursday many buyers of the investment class did not follow stocks up but were content to put in bids under the market . This type of buying and evening up of positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Business volume was not small by any means totaling 6.188.700 shares for the five-hour session . But as the day progressed the volume showed diminution and all through the session trading was at a far lower rate than on the first four days of last week . Day 's Sales 6.188,700 Shares Thus , in the first half hour Monday trading just topped the 2.000,000-share mark , more than 40% less than the turnover of 3.259,800 shares in the first half hour on Tuesday of last week , and but slightly larger than business in that period on Wednesday . Volume continued to drop , registering 1,679.000 shares from 10:30 to noon and from that time to 1:30 trading was slightly more than 1,000,000 shares . In this period last Tuesday the volume was 4,273 , - 800 shares , while on Thursday , October 24 , it was 4,460.700 shares . The anticipated big business at the opening developed to some extent with prices generally lower than the previous close . There were numerous big openings , 37 separate issues having opening trades of 10.000 shares or more , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radio were largest , 50,000 shares each on opening trades , off 2 points and 8 points . respectively . On the Curb Market Cities Service broke all previous records with opening trade of 225,000 shares at 417,4 for a gain of 4'R points . It was not until 11:10 that this was reported : the same stock held the previous record for large openings with 150.000 shares on October 24 . Banking Group Still Ready to Assist No regular meeting of the - banking group " was held during the day and no further meetings are scheduled . A. member of the group expressed satisfaction with the action of the market Monday . which . he said was " quite according to schedule . " with the decline in volume during the afternoon a healthy indication . While the banking group is no longer holding meetings it was indicated that its interest in the situation had not waned and that it still stood ready to offer any assistance to maintenance of orderly market conditions that might seem necessary . The view was expressed that a more orderly market was likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , stocks moving in a relatively narrow range . From earlier losses , prices recovered somewhat , and later , as the volume of business decreased . the market became a more stable affair . Many floor traders did not care to take any big positions and this represented a considerable part of smaller tracing volume . Decline in business can be visualized in manner in which the tape got up to the market ; it was 28 minutes late aroun ... noon . at 1 p. m. it was 21 minutes late and at 1:30 it was 13 minutes behind : by 1:45 it was up to current transactions . The Curb trading declined sooner for at 1 o'clock it was but five minutes late . Another signpost of the let-down in volume was in the ruling of the Stock Cleating Corp . that deliveries be made by 3 p. m. : though that was 45 minutes later than the normal time . in the heavy trading of last week the time was extended to as late as 4 p. in . Short . Sessions Coming The action of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Friday end at 1 p. m. with a holiday next Saturday was looked upon favorably all over the Street . With the Election Day holiday Intervening , houses will have a great deal mo ? e time to catch up with the routine office work . The Curb Exchange . Produce Exchange and boards in Chicago . Philadelphia and elsewhere followed the lead of New York in the earlier closings . Stock Exchange specialists , however , were ordered to have representatives on the Exchange not later than 8.45 a. in. tomorrow , Thursday and Friday . For the first time in its history . New York Stock Exchange required the attendance of specialists on the floor of the Exchange on a Sunday . On the preceding Sunday it had required their presents at their offices , and on Friday and Saturday . when the Exchange was closed for trading , it required the attendance on the floor of specialists and floor brokers . November 3 was the first day , however , when their presence on the floor was made compulsory . For the first time in the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operated on Sunday . While there were no sales of securities to report , several notices were printed and the system WAN operated all morning A great deal was accomplished by houses in clearing up the mass Of accumulated work during the holidays last Friday and Saturday . Office forces worked , wherever necessary . all through the week-end with the result that brokerage houses were in much better position to handle the large business which came in . Many of the orders came to hand during the days when the Excbange was closed , giving brokers time to place them in more orderly fashion before the opening . To Clear Up Accumulation Thus , while the opening trading was very large . there was less confusion than has marked previous days of big business . The whole Stock Exchange machinery was in better shape to handle the business which came in . Now . with further short sessions ordered and two holidays this week . the press of business which has accumulated ought to be cleared away in more comfortable fashion . Again the money market proved easy . opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day , some money was reported available at 5i. , e , on the outside . Wire trouble interrupted the flow of telegraphic orders in a number of Wall Street brokerage offices at the peak of the opening rush . The trouble affected only a comparatively few houses and was soon remedicd.the American Telephone &; Telegraph Co.said . The failure was in the " loops " connecting the offices with the trunk circuits . The table below shows the stocks which had opening trades of 10.000 shares or more on the New York Stock Exchange and the Curb Market , along with the opening prices and the changes from the previous closing : Board of Trade will be closed today . Grain . cotton and provision market , however , will be open as usual . CLEVELAND  --  Clenland Stock Exchange will have full sessions Wednesday , Thursday and Friday of this week but will be closed Saturday , November 9.                     