@@691507

txt Happy Canada ! No Canada Gets longer need she look a Lot of enviously at TennesAdvertising. see ! Just as the legislators of that fortunate State put it on the map by bringing.about the arrest of a schoolmaster , so the Canadian lawmakers have attained the felicity of numberless first pages by offering to numberless , or at least unnumbered , Americans what their own country refuses to give them  --  unlimited quantities of cheap beer . The device is one worthy of a great nation , and if it should turn out that a few fussy Canadians do not care much for the attainment of fame and favor by that particular means , they promptly can be silenced by presenting the figures of receipts at a multitude of Canadian hotels , roadhouses and other like resorts . Judgment should not be too hasty , however . Already there are whisperings beyond the border that the promises of delights to the thirsty foreigners have been kept only to the ear . The visitors are saying that the beverage offered to them , though " palatable . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one of them is quoted as growling , after drinking his tenth  --  or was it his twentieth glass ? ? " Let 's go back to Detroit and get some real beer ! " That is distinctly ominous , and the Detroiter 's adverse criticism seemingly is justified by the revelation that Canada 's method of measuring alcoholic content gives the deceptive result of recording a percentage twice the real one . As soon as this news gets really out , is it likely that trade will continue to prosper  --  that the ferries and bridges still will shake and bend under the rhythmic feet of multitudes hastening northward ? And how about the class of customers likely thus to be attracted ? They may not be altogether congenial to Canadians of the staider sort and solider heads . Long deprived of all intoxicants , there 's no telling what they will do even under the influence of a. drink that is only " palatable . " They might even wander about the streets of hitherto quiet Canadian towns , singing that hateful song about " Our Lady of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every Canadian properly reverent of real estate interests . Another thought They Invite suggested by the All Our Canadian effort to Undesirables . win the patronage of American topers Is based on the experience of many of our towns in the days when some States tried the loc .1 option system Almost always those towns first went dry in the interests of respectability ; then , when they found that too many of their citizens were carrying too much money to the nearest wet town , at the-next election the policy was reversed . These alternations continued year by year in regular sequence , dry towns going wet and wet towns going dry . in alternate elections , simply because neither status was found tolerable when both were neighbors . Dryness meant loss of business , while wetness meant the addition to a town 's own disreputable characters of those of like kidney from the arid areas . It is a sort of local option that Canada now has instituted , at least as regards the near-by American towns and cities , and the Canadian towns and cities that at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have extended to the least desirable elements in our population . Secretary HooThis Advice van exhorts the Is Well public , and does so Worth Heeding . wisely , no doubt , to lay in now the coal it will need next Winter . Thus , he says , we . can accomplish several good ends . On the one hand , we assure ourselves against ' the troubles and anxieties which- would be ours if a not impossible strike at the mines occurs in August and should find our cellar bins empty . On the other hand , present purchasers will help to regularize coal mining by dividing it better through the year , and so making it less a seasonal occupation . We are told , also , in our own interests as well as in those of the railways , that the transportation of coal is much more convenient now than it is after the crop rush is on in the Fall and after the Win= ter storms begin to hold up traffic . The coal dealers and the railway managers all will applaud heartily the Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not passionately in love with either need not reject it on that account . Of course , the burning of anthracite by householders is only a small part of the total coal business of the country , but it is an important one , and while the householder rather recoils from buying his Winter supply six months before he will need to burn At ? with loss of interest on the money coming to him instead of to the dealer  --  this is not a large price to pay for the freedom from apprehension that is his when he knows that , no matter what happens later hi the coal fields-or on the railways , he is not going to shiver when the cold Weather comes . Incidentally , everts suburban coal dealer has been preaching exactly the Secretary 's doctrine for at least two months .                     