@@686442

txt One plea offered against any reduction in wages anywhere is that rents are high and show no signs of coming down . In days before the war , a conservative estimate was that at the outside not more than twenty per , cent . of income should be spent in rent . This particularly referred to those whose income was derived from wages , salaries or fees . No doubt the proportion is higher now , although any assumption of 35 per cent : is ridiculous . But this is not the point . When wages were violently advancing the cost of living was always pleaded , but it is at least an open question whether the advancing wages were not the cause , or at least one of the causes , and the high cost of living the effect . This is certainly true in one particular case and this has a special bearing on the plea that high rents now call for high wages . High rents arc the direct result of high wages in the building trades , accentuated by preposterous union rules restricting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that the cost of production is in the materials . Granting the sinister influences of the Hettrick building ring , it could not be shown at the Lockwood inquiry that the advance in materials was responsible for twenty per cent . of the net advance in rents , even by ignoring entirely how much increased wages themselves advanced the prices of bricks , cement , stone and all the other things which enter into building construction . The argument is in fact an attempt to reinstitute the old vicious circle which was broken last fall , with the resulting unemployment and minor reductions in wages in some industries . It is small wonder that the labor unions are alarmed by the successful agitation in city.after city for an open shop . If the ' unions would only be decent , if they would realize that making profitless work for a few men means making idleness for many men , if they would make themselves responsible for the product both in ? quality and quantity , they would establish a trade leadership of the most valuable strategic kind , and would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion is apt to play favorites , but it is at present making no distinction between Hettrick 's corrupt ring of employers and Brindell 's corrupt ring of labor leaders . If union men were wise they would see that the grafters who are parading their loyalty . to Brindell are doing incalculable harm to unionism , for public opinion Is , eartain ; to say +h. * the morkers nne stick . gut the plea of higher rents will not enforce wages at a war level . It will merely hold up production , and ultimately produce a panic in the labor market instead of an orderly deflation adjusting simultaneously the cost of living to the purchasing power of the worker . " Theory of relativity " will not affect the man in the street , according to the author  --  nor anybody else .                     