@@687802

txt Consistency is a jewel which does not grace the diacle:n of that king of claptrap , William Randolph Hearst- One of his arguments for ship subsidy adds to his usual ( and not unjustified ) contempt for the intelligence of his readers , a contempt for his own record . Envying the success of the Canadian Pacific he now proposes to encourage our roads " to develop their carrying facilities by steamship lines operated in connection with the railroads . " He sees that the %Canadian Pacific can stay in business in both 9ceans , and he now professes to believe in the adoption of a similar policy for ourselves to help a ship subsidy . But it was at the instigation of Mr. Hearst , and other demagogues like him , that our . railroads were d'ris. - en out of the shipping business . It was at his instigation , primarily , that the Panama Canal Act prohibited American railroads from owning ships . The clause was largely directed against the New Haven Railroad , which was then the popular scapegoat It was directed against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road was making money by carrying transcontinental freight part of the distance from California to NeW Yolk in vessels owned by the railroad . Among other railroad shipowners was the Pennsylvania , which gave an indispensable steamship service to the fruit and vegetable farmers ' of the eastern shore of Virgiaia . This valuable service , not particularly profita'lle to the road , but immensely profitable to the truck farmers , wa-s abrogated with destructive consequences . The outbreak of the war , with the sensational advance in freights not long after , threw the shipping business into the hands of owners like Morse , of whom the least said the better . But the railroads had been successfully driven jff the seas by an act of monumental folly instigated by Hearst and other demagogues . It will be necessary later to show here that a ship subsidy , as proposed by Mr. Lasker of the Shipping Board , will not pave the effects he imagines , although he may well be anxious to find any desperate expedient to make attractive ships which he can not give away in present conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's seamen 's nnion'under the La Follette Seamen 's law . When we have repealed that piece of indefensible legislative folly , whin we have put American seamen on a parity with those of their well protected British competitors . whose conditions are dictated and supervised by the British Board nf Trade , we shall know whether there is a shipping trade which is worth subsidizing . Congress destroyed the railroad shipping'business . It must reverse itself to reinstate it . For Hearst to reverse himself is nothing . But for Congress to amend most of the Jones law and part of the Panama Canal Act is a much more serious matter . Not clear what Sir Atickland Geddes has done , or if he has done anything undiplomatic , but it might suit Senators to send him home in two pieces  --  in separate battleships to prevent a merger in defiance of the Sherman law .                     