@@696056

txt The shots that halted Stuyvesant Fish 's new cabin cruiser , Restless , in the harbor Saturday night were fired from a patrol boat of the Customs Enforcement Bureau , and the subsequent boarding and search for liquor was done by a custom agent . This was admitted yesterday by Deputy Surveyor of Customs J. H. , first assistant to Colonel William S. Conrow , in command of the bureau . The admission was made after the Coast Guard had denied all knowledge of the occurrence and the Marine Police had declared they knew nothing about it . The charge made by Mr. Fish that there was . a general display of firearms by the crew of , the patrol boat and also his statement that abusive language had been used , in the presence of his wife , who was aboard , were denied by Mr. . Earlier in the day Colonel Conrow had said he was positive that none of his men had boarded the Restless as ? the Enforcement Bureau 's records showed none of its patrol boats had passed the place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time given by Mr. Fish . Dillard Here for Inquiry . Meanwhile the story of the shots and the succeeding search had caused Admiral Frederick C. Billard to come on to New York and to begin an inspection of the Coast Guaru boats at the Staten Island base to ascertain whether any one of them had figured in the occurrence . He was accompanied by Captain A. J. Henderson of the Coast Guard . In relating his version of the incident yesterday Mr. said that about 6:30 o'clock Saturday evening one of his " slow " patrol boats , cruising along the Brooklyn waterfront , had sighted the Restless coining out of the Kill van . Kull . Being a new vessel she was a stranger , and strangers are under suspicion in these waters . The patrol boat , Mr. conUntied , followed the Restless , but could make no headway because of the yacht 's speed . Mr. Fish , in his story , said that the propellor of his vessel was out of repair and she could not make any speed . At Mr. Fish 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Car and Foundry Company , the boat 's builders , asking Mr. Fish 's attention to the matter of new propellor blades . The letter was dated April 1 . Two Shots Fired . Finding they could not overhaul the Restless , the men aboard the customs patrol boat hailed her , according to Mr. , but the noise of her exhaust drowned out their cries . Two shots were then ' fired into the ' air from pistols . The Restless hove to . Drawing alongside , the patrol boat was unable to remain close to the cabin cruiser on account of the rough water . It was a stormy evening . The rrtrol boat 's commander boarded the Restless , Mr. said , identified himself as a customs man by displaying his badge , and was taken to the cabin of the Restless , where Mr. Fish identified himself and his vessel by means of documents . Mr. declared the customs man who boarded the Fish yacht did not even open handbags , but merely lifted them to ascertain whether they were heavy enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cruiser was described by the deputy surveyor as " casual " only . Mr. said the customs patrol boat commander ha &told?; him he had used no abusive language , and did not believe Mr. Fish had been annoyed by the boarding and search . As the customs boats , unlike the Coast Guard boats , are not mounted with cannon , the only shots were those fired into the air from pistols , the customs boat commander reported . The search of the yacht required about thirty minutes , it was said . Says Lights Were Burning . Mr. Fish 's story of the incident was that all his yacht 's lights were burn1 ing and she could not have been taken for other than what she is , a pleasure craft . He said he , his wife and two sons , Peter and Nicholas , were returning with the new yacht from Wilmington , Del. , where they had gone to accept delivery of the craft . He said the men in the patrol boat flashed pistols and used abusive language . He told of sharp passages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to the earlier story , had pulled out cushions and mussed the new yacht generally in a futile search for liquor , not a drop of which was found aboard . From that time until yesterday , it was said , Mr. Fish had waited for an explanation of the incident . At the office of Collectgr of the Port , Philip Elting , it was said merely that it was the primary function of both Coast Guard and customs boats to halt , board and search suspected craft . No reason for suspicion being directed at the Restless was given other than that she was a boat new to these waters . Representative F. H. LaGuardia said that if Mr. Fish would submit the facts to him he would make charges at once . He declared he was ready to " get going at a moment 's notice . " Asked what method he would pursue , he replied : " I would pursue the same methods I employed in the Bridge Whist Club case , the Remus case and others . I would gather the facts and make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forerunner of others of its kind as the yachting season draws near . " Woodin Urges Protest . Aroused by the incident , William H. Woodin , president of the American Car and Foundry Company , with offices at 33 Church Street , telecessful liquor prosecutions some of graphed yesterday the National Association of Engine and Boat Manufacturers , 420 Lexington Avenue , recommending a protest to Washington . At the time Mr. Woodin was under the impression that the Coast Guard had done the boarding and searching . The telegram read : " The experience of Mr. Fish with his new A. C. F. cruiser runabout prompts us , as boat manufacturers , to recommend a protest to Washington against the general methods of the gvernment Coast Guard patrol boats . " Certainly , the sport of boating can not be sold if the lives and propperty of boat owners are to be subject to such perils as have been experienced by Mr. Fish . If , for no other reason , the government should be asked to curtail activities of the Coast Guard boats , but , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned about the future of the pleasureboat business unless public confidence can be restored . " Mr. Fish has protested to Washington , it was said , and his cousin , Representative Hamilton Fish , is expected to look into the matter thoroughly and , possibly , to make charges . Representative Fish Angry . Special to the New York Times .. WASHINGTON , April 2 . ? Representative Fish of New York , a cousin of Stuyvesant Fish , expressed indignation today over the halting of Mr. Fish 's cabin cruiser in New York . " The government official responsible for such an alleged stupid blunder should be severely reprimanded , " he said , " and the use of armed force in this instance only aggravates the offense . If our armed enforcement agents would only apply the same zeal to the searching and seizure of known rum-runners or smugglers there would be real enforcement . " I know nothing except what I have read in the newspapers , regarding the searching of the private cruiser of my cousin , Stuyvesant Fish , and do not desire to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report from the Coast Guard or customs officials , beyond a general statement that revenue or Coast Guard officers owe a duty to the public not to interfere with private vessels engaged in legitimate business or for pleasure unless there is substantial evidence of actual or attempted violation of law . It is utterly preposterous to permit the boarding and searching of private yachts by government officials merely on suspicion any more than allowing prohibition agents to break into a private home . " Customs Head Awaits Complaint . WASHINGTON , April 2 Ge ) . ? E. W. Camp , Commissioner of Customs , announced tonight that he would investigate the searching by customs officers of the cabin cruiser of Stuyvcsant Fish in New York Harbor last Saturday night if a complaint were made to him . He said that no report had been forwarded and none was expected unless the customs representatives in New York felt that the incident was one which demanded his attention :                     