@@684851

txt Governor HENRY J. ALLEN of Kansas , who took over strip mines during the coal strike and put several thousand volunteers at work to supply the people of the State with fuel , boasts that he knows nothing about politics , and on several occasions he has amazed the politicians by rushing in where they feared to tead . It was certainly not a demagogue who asked the Kansas Legislature on Monday to adopt his program to prohibit strikes and lockouts in cases where necessaries of life were involved and who made this argument in support of his proposal : There is no reason why government should not have the same power to protect society against the ruthless offenses of industrial strife as it has always had to protect it against recognized crime . Any minority which has secured control of a product upon which human life depends , and which undertakes for the purpose of affecting wages or profits to withhold that product from the public until the public shall freeze or starve , has in effect superseded government and has arrogated to itself the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone may have the power to safeguard . The Federal Department of Justice asked for an injunction against officers of the United Mine Workers on tt e ground that the miners were about to violate a contract with the operators which was to run during the emergency of war , specifically until peace was proclaimed , but behind this presentation of the case there was the principle held in leash , as it were , that inherent in government under the Constitution was the right to promote the general welfare by protecting the people from the acts of any combination of men that threatened them with suffering and loss of life . It might be necessary for Congress to gig expression to this principle by enacting a law to fit the emergency . Certainly an organized minority can not be allowed to demonstrate that it is greater than the Government by barring its right to protect the people from starvation and death by cold to which the organized minority , asserting the power to strike , arrogantly dooms it . Such is the position taken by Governor ALLEN of Kansas . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " this der .. t. active " philosophy would wipe out all that " the ages have builded for society . " Governor ALLEN believes that the problem of protecting the people by the instrumentality of law can be solved by creating a court of industrial relations to intervene in the event of a stubborn strike or arbitrary lockout affecting the necessaries of life and take measures to provide them for the public welfare . But Previous to action by such a tribunal , employer and workmen will render themselves liable to penalties by attempting to limit production and by refusing to perform any duty enjoined by the act . Governor ALLEN 'S attempt to blaze the way to industrial peace and the protection of consumers will be watched with sympathy and concern by the people of every State .                     