@@695411

txt There was no change in the character of the market yesterday . When profit taking developed good support was encountered , and efforts on the part of a few of the more courageous traders who tried to start a reaction were unsuccessful . Short covering was again in evidence and helped establish higher prices in several issues . Many switches were made in the leadership , representing the following among traders which is attracted when an issue shows ability to move forward . It has been the experience recently that outstanding features of strength have encountered additional buying on advances . and this demand has been a factor in some of the sharp upturns recorded . Sentiment around the Street has not changed . Conservative observers are still cautious and advise either profit taking when good gains have been made , or the protection of accounts with stop orders at moderately lower levels . Those who have been consistently operating on the long side are as confident as ever that the market will continue to move forward and are following the policy of seeking stocks which can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission houses were light sellers on balance again . However , the excess of sales over purchases was small , because the market continues to attract new buyers and this demand is important at times . Professionals and floor traders were taking profits at times , but there was a good demand for shorts for covering purposes and this resulted in purchases on balances by this element . Money ? Opinions on the outlook for money are divided . Wall Street market interests are hoping there will be an easier trend after the period of big requirements around September 15 has been passed . On the other hand most bankers still adhere to the view that there will be further tightening later in the month , especially if the requirements for crop and commercial purposes conic up to the volume now expected . Tip on Every Lip " We are now at a stage where there is a market tip on every lip . " said a trader who has been successful on the long side of the market since the beginning of August . This operator confined his activities mainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Continuing , he said : " Naturally so many of the tips of the past have made good that outsiders are inclined to follow the ' information ' which is now being handed about . Under these circumstances it is wise to use greater caution and discrimination in making buying selections than at any time in several months . " Readjustment Movements Much has been said from time to time about technical conditions and many have been , diecussing the prospects of a substantial setback because they believed the market has been over-bought . In this connection it is well to remember that many readjustment movements have occurred from time to time . Stocks which have scored substantial upturns in the past have met increased profit-taking and new issues have been brought forward as leaders . Thus the market has been eprrecting its technical position in many directions without attracting any great attention . At the same time the continuation of the advance in new socks has kept alive the outside ce.thesiasre which has existed . Car Loadings That there has been a definite upward trend in carloadings in recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended August 1S there was an increase of 12,500 cars over the preceding week . The following period recorded a gain of 24,000 cars , while in the week ended September 1 , the latest report , there was an increase of 36,000 cars over the previous week . Total loadings for the week ended September 1 amounted to 1.116,046 cars , the highest so far this year . A reflection of the steady improvement is a decrease of only 412 cars from the corresponding period a year ago Chesapeake &; Ohio Rumors are rather widely circulated that there is a possibility of the Chesapeake &; Ohio management disti ihuting its holdings of Erie as a stock dividend . Such action would be considered highly favorable for the stock . and several students have estimated that this distribution would be equivalent of something around $15 a share on Chesapeake . Coppers In mining circles optimism exists concerning the outlook for the copper industry . It is stated , however . that leading trade interests desire to prevent any runaway market for the metal and prefer to profit from a larger production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Companies which could increase output materially on short notice if conditions warranted such action include Anaconda , Magma , Kennecott , Nevada Consolidated , Calumet &; Arizona . Cerro de Pasco , Chile and others , and these stocks would be favored in the metal group . American Smelting In the opinion of those whu have been steadily picking up American Smelting , the stock has not yet reached its peak , as every day is bringing nearer the - time when something more liberal will be done for common stockholders . There has been much talk on occasion of an increase in the regular cash dividend . but at present the most popular view appears to be that a stock distribution or split-up is more lately . Cuyamel Fruit Quiet accumulation has been in progress in Cuyamel Fruit . based on the expectations of a favorable year . The outlook is for better than as a share being earned in the current 12 months . Company has laid down keels foe two new vessels to carry bananas to Germany and revenues will increase when these boats start operating some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resumption of buying of Chicago Pneumatic Tool by interests who were prominent on the long side of the stock during advances early this year and who took profits at higher levels . They have been replacing their holdings again , and the effect of this buying has been shown in the strength of the stock . Amusement Shares Because there have been indications of more resistance in the amusement stocks . several commission houses have advised customers to take profits in long holdings in this group . It is reported that quite a number of stop orders have been placed in these shares at somewhat lower levels . Union Carbide Judging from the comment of buyers of Union Carbide , the demand has been on - the theory that a rather generous stock dividend or split up is not so far away . Since 1921 , no change has been made in the capital structure of the company . Most interesting developments in the company 's affairs this year are the new " Eveready " radio sets and the possibilities in a new process of making illuminating gas . These have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being shown in Gillette and the buying appears to be coming from houses with New England connections . Advices received in Wall Street are that many expect an extra dividend soon . Grand Union Grand Union has been the feature among the lowpriced store stocks . The pubyc mind has become focused on the possibilities of tee chain store companies end considerable outside buying has come into Grand Union from those who insisted they could not afford to follow the advances in high-priced shares like Mont gomery Ward and others . One prominent commission house has been steadily advocating the accumulation of both Grand Union common and preferred and has been getting quite a public interest in the stocks through its own customers . Both issues have been in new high territory and have absorbed profit-taking rather handily . Fox and Warner Rather heavy liquidation came into Fox and Warner during the middle of the session when it became known that one commission house which had been carrying these stocks in long accounts for customers on a 25 , : - margin had increased these requirements to 40 , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more money fo carrying the stocks which have had rather sensational advances recently . ? American Can That American Can will soon again assume the important market position it occupied only a short time ago is the view of conservative interests . Affairs of the company are satisfactory and earnings this year should record a substantial increase over the 1927 results , because of the large demand for containers . U. S. Steel A house which has always been credited with being close to U. S. Steel informed its customers there were excellent prospects of a settlement of the corporation 's tax case under which the government would refund to the corporation a sum equal to about $10 a share on the common stock . It also stated that earnings for the third quarter would show a substantial increase over the preceding three months . This information was passed around the Street freely and resulted in good buying coming into Steel common , carrying that stock to a new high record for the year . Anaconda Accumulation which v.-as in progress in Anaconda between 75 and 77 has been completed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anaconda as the largest producer of copper should be the leader of the metal group , and the more cheerful feeling regarding these stocks has been responsible for bringing a good demand into the issue . In some quarters it is maintained that earnings UM year should be $7 a share at least , and observers maintair that the stock is entitled to sell on a higher ratio towarc earnings than other metal issues , mainly because the company is steadily expanding as a basic manufacturing concern .                     