@@688823

txt After a sharp attack by Controller Craig on the AllenDunne bill , which would enable the Hylan Administration to issue long-term securities for purposes which should be provided for in the ' budget with the cost defrayed out of current funds , it was the general opinion among lawmakers tonight that the measure would be defeated . The Allen-Dunne bill is one of Mayor Hylan 's pet measures . While he did not come here in person to ask the Assembly Cities Committee to report it , he sent Aldermanic President Murray Hulbert to take his place . Every Borough President was at the hearing , either in person or by proxy , to second the effort of Mr. Hulbert , who declared that the , ATtCltneCIT , . was . M0E1 urgently needed . The attack by Controller Craig was unexpected . Mr. Hulbert and other members of the Board of Aldermen listened in funazeinent as the Controller denounced them for greedy money grabbers , " phony financiers " and " improvident spenders of the public funds " who. while pleading the dire financial needs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's money for " a political celebration to glorify the Mayor and catch votes . " Hulbert Shows Anger . " It is a matter of the utmost surprise to me , " Mr. Hulbert exclaimed , " to hear . Controller Craig read himself out of the present City ' Administration . Until I came here I had thought all of us were elected on the same ticket . Evidently I was utterly mistaken . It II all comes from chasing the limelight . But for the Controller 's indulgence In self-glorification and abuse we might have saved half an hour at least of this committee 's valuable time . " Some persons have expressed the belief that the $75,000,000 the Allen-Dunne bill would yield might be used to provide funds for the bridge over the East River - which the Mayor 's friend , Commissioner of Plant and Structures Grover Whalen , proposes should be built . The Controller has pronounced the bill so loosely drawn that ft would permit of long term securities being issued to defray the cost of Mayor Hylan 's jubilee and celebration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted that every penny the city could scrape together would be needed for the construction of new transit lines if anything at all was to come of the new grant of home rule in transit and public utilities matters tha city was seeking through legislation now pending . " No private capital is available anywhere for added transit facilities , " said the Controller . " Such money must be supplied by the use of the city 's credit . and yet these gentlemen come here . these improvident speakers of public money , and actually suggest that they be permitted to fritter away New York City 's credit until it reaches a low level where it will not be possible to build a single mile of additional subway . Says It Means No Subways . " If you pass this bill you might as well abandon all hope of subway construction for years and years to come , because our credit will be at low ebb and there wo n't be sufficient margin for transit construction of any kind . " The whole argument of these gentlemen who are so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't want the cost of repaving and repair of streets paid for , as it always has been , out of funds provided in the city budget . And yet Borough Presidents Support Bill . Mr. Hulbert led the fight for the bill . lie war follow. ? d by the Borc.ugh Presidents or their representatives . who advanced a variety of reasons for giving the financial relief sought to the City of New York . They declared the money was needed to repave streets , for play'grounds and parks , for the instalrtient of fire alarm systems and high-water pressure in the suburbs and . to buy street . cleaning apparatus . Tw8 municipal Court Houses , according to President Lynch of Richmond , were wanted in that borough . Mr. Hulbert declared that greatly needed improvements in Jamaica Bay . traffic tunnels , the building of fire boats , sewage disposal plants , the elimination of grade crossings and taking kinks out of Riverside Drive were awaiting the enactment of this bill . No provision had been made in the budget for the repaving of streets badly damaged through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miller of Manhattan insisted that no part of the money would be squandered . but it would be impossible to fix up the streets in Manhattan unless the funds were forthcoming . Commissioner of Public Works Flynn . of the Bronx . speaking for the Borough President said one municipal Court House , eight comfort stations , public baths . a central garage and considerable street paving were required in his borough . In Queens they wanted a fire boat , garbage incinerators , fire houses , police stations and more policemen . While the straightened finances of the city were being emphasized before the Assembly Cities Committee , the Sedate passed half a dozen bills providing for salary increases , pensions and other ways for getting rid of the city 's money . Controller Craig referred to one of these measures , Introduced by Senator Hastings . putting on the city the entire cost of the Classon Avenue sewer in Brooklyn . to fulfill a campaign promise of Mayor Hylan to relieve 60,000 property owners in that area of paying the cost through assessments . The project will add some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tells of Unsolicited Gifts ? Drive in Bronx Opens . William H. Woodin , Chairman of . the Finance Committee of the Mayor 's Committee on the Celebration of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the Greater City of New York , denied yesterday published reports that the committee was having difficulty- in getting subscriptions to defray the expenses of the celebration . On the contrary . " Mr. ' Woodin said , " I was about to express appreciation for the unsolicited contributions and offers of services which have come to hand . " We have had a most gratifying return thus far from all sections of the city . It is too early in the game to be able to give out any definite figures . Nor would this be worth while so early in the proceedings . had a very widespread response from " I may say , however , that we have the general public In connection with the celebration . This shows , more than any one group , that the people as a whole are with us in this enterprise . We have had not only generous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have offered their services I to help in any way they could . The Brooklyn League for Professional and Business Men and Women , which has a ! large membership , . was among the organizations offering their services today . " The attitude of the city employe is best evidenced by a contribution from one of them today , accompanied by an offer of services after business hours . This is right in line with the generous offer of services by 640 stenographers and typewriters who have volunteered to work . for the celebration after hours . " ' The Bronx Board of Trade held a meeting yesterday in its " ' building at 137th Street ... and Third Avenue to ar- I range for subscriptions and the representation of the Bronx in the parade and will open the silver jubilee on May 26 . About fifteen persons were present , including Chief Engineer Josiah H. Fitch , representing acting Borough President William J. Flynn . Arrangements were made to send letters to business firms soliciting subscriptions . Albert Goldman , President of the board , announced that J. Clarence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headed the list with a subscription of $1,000 . CRAIG ATTACK DOOMS 1 PET HYLAN MEASURE the whole lot of them are literally falling over one another in getting behind an appropriation of $.500,000 for a political . celebration to glorify the present head of the City Administration . " Such is the poverty-stricken condition of our city that these - gentlemen are willing to spend money without end for a proposed jubilee . which , after ali , is not intended to signalize the twentyfifth anniversary of Greater New York , but rather to be a political celebration and a vote-catching enterprise . This bill is ' phony finance . and it is not the first time an attempt has been made to force the Controller of New York to go into the long-term bond market and sell the city 's securities when it is not to the best interest of the city to do so . The Borough Presidents who are here could have got their money for all the purposes they now claim they want it for as long as three months ago , without corning here , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a roll call at a Board of Estimate . And , let me add , they could have had the vote of the Controller , too . " In the interest of millions of people who have to ride each day on overcrowded subway trains , who in many instances have no adequate transportation facilities because they live in the outskirts of the city , and in the interest of the good name and financial standing of the city itself . I ask you to prohibit these men who have come here from frittering away the credit of New York City , to the end that when the time conies we shall have the necessary FUNDS ASSURED , SAYS WOODIN. funds to build the many transit lines that have been projected . "                     