@@688466

txt Arthur de Ferraris is. showing several of his portraits at the Knoedler Galleries . The sitters are Miss Dorothy Schiff , Felix M. Warburg , Mrs. Harry Hart and Miss Margaret de Ferraris . Each portraltatears the mark of being a. good likeness , and no intrusion into psychology has been attempted . The artist is a native of Hungary , who has made a European reputation with his " court portraits , " kings , queens and emperors having sat for him . He has made many visits to the United States and has painted a large number of wellknown people here . When he was working here , more than twenty years ago , he was summoned ' to Germany to paint the Kaiser , and tells the story of trying before leaving to get an idea of how Prince Henry , who was about to visit this country , would be received . He quotes Mr. Perkins as telling him that Prince Henry would be received with the greatest courtesy , but that we knew very well what was at the bottom of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany must end in victory because Germany was in heavy harness and we were free , surrounded and protected as we are by water . The artist repeated this to the Kaiser , who replied : " If I were surrounded by water I should n't need any advice . " Another story has to do with that friendship with Bismarck , to which the ex-Kaiser refers in his memoirs . A portrait of William was ordered for a large concern in Germany , and for the background Mr. Ferraris used a picture of the Proclamation at Versailles with all the noted men concerned in it . Bismarck was prominent among them , and the artist was asked to substitute another background . ' And so on . , One fore- sees a pleasant book of reminiscences written in the intervals of portrait painting . Paintings by Harold Phelan . Harold Phelan has brought the Westchester meadows and the landscape of Connecticut and Massachusetts into the Babcock Galleries . He first studied under Thomas Moran , then under Kenyon Cox and Bridgeman , finally under Smillie and Ranger . The earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be , played upon by the breezes of modern tendency . He would be a good gray rock under the sunlight . No impressionism , no pointillism , no nost-impressionism , nothing to shako the faith of his fathers in careful line drawing and detailed portraiture of the solid realities in nature . " Sunset : Mystic River " has a hint of Corot in the massed foliage and the boat at the river bank ; but the artist scrupulously has avoided the Corot grays and " feathery touch . " A large landscape with a wide horizon and a flat , broad ribbon of water is beautiful in the integrity of the planes . It is a good exhibition that has the soothing effect upon the observer of straight hair and " lips indifferent red " in an orgy of permanent waves and lip sticks .                     