@@684880

txt The outstanding economic need of the day is undoubtedly the stimulation of production of necessities , not the promotion of unnecessary enterprises or transactions . This is the statement made by James S. Alexander , president of the National Bank of Commerce , to a representative of Dow , Jones &; Co. - Mr. Alexander said that it is through adequate production that a salutary check may be brought to the high cost of living , making possible an adjustment of the whole business situation without serious shock . In discussing the financial outlook , Mr. Alexander says : " It is obvious at the outset of the year that as long as present conditions last it will be necessary for all elements of the public to maintain a more responsible nth- . tude toward the credit resources of the country . It may be said that the extension of credit is no longer purely a matter of private business arrangement between individuals . and banks , but that credit must be looked upon as one of our national essential resources . Credit arrangements , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought is agreed that the expansion of credit has now reached a point where there should be no further expansion , except for strictly constructive and necessary purposes , such as supplying the public with its economic needs . The outstanding economic need of the day is undoubtedly the stimulation of production of necessities , not the promotion of unnecessary enterprises or transactions . It is through adequate production that a salutary check may be brought to the high coat of living , making possible an adjustment of the whole business situation ' without serious check . This transition , however , will be made difficult by extravagance , speculation and interference with the production of necessities , and the use of credit for those purposes should be discouraged . " The responsibility for the restriction of unnecessary credits does not rest upon any , particular element in our national life . It must rest upon the habits of the people , upon their willingness to curb tendencies toward extravagance , speculation and curtailment of the production of useful goods . A shorter way to express it is to say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They should dominate our individual as well as our national life . This is the fundamental measure to avert possible serious consequences in the business situation in 1920. "                     