@@685090

txt Ever since New York began to realize that it was a metropolis its architecture has been of two highly divergent types , one of which perhaps deserves to be called the leisure class . Churches , private houses and governmental buildings could as a rule take whatever form seemed good to their designers , so we have a sort of architectural museum with samples of styles from every country and every age . Some of them , most notably specimens of the classic type , such as the Columbia University Library and the Pennsylvania Station , look as if they belong here ; others , which it would be invidious to specify , certainly do not belong here , and a good many of them do not belong anywhere . But buildings of a more practical character had to be governed by other considerations , and so came our one domestic type , the skyscraper . Sometimes it tried to be Gothic or Romanesque or Renaissance when it had lifted itself above its neighbors , like a self-made man going in for culture late in life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiar . Yet presently it was discovered that a city of skyscrapers would not be particularly healthy for those who had to live and work in it , who never saw the sun and : rarely breathed fresh air unless it were loaded with street dust . So the building regulations lately adopted prescribed that above a certain height building fronts must be set well back from the street , and higher up there must be still another recession . Thus light and air are guaranteed in some measure for those who live in the lower stories ; and New Yorkers who have seen the first buildings of the new type approach completion have been surprised to find that our native architecture has reproduced exactly one more ancient and foreign type -- the Babylonian ziggurat , or temple tower of stages . And this is not merely another addition to our historical museum ; as economic pressure compels the building of more and more modified skyscrapers New York will become a city of ziggurats . The archaeologists tell us that these towers on the plain of Babylonia offer clear proof that the earliest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought with them their tribal gods who had been worshipped on the mountain top , at a shrine reached by the windings of a mountain road . There were no mountains in Babylonia , so pious newcomers invented the ziggurat as a sort of artificial mountain , with the footway leading up over the roofs of the successive stages to the shrine at the top as the successor to the spiral trail of the mountain country whence they came . The Scriptural explanation is simpler : the ziggurats were put up as a sort of defiance of nature and GOD , a proof of man 's capacity which was promptly punished by a jealous deity . Early tradition is usually wrong , and even archaeologists are sometimes wrong , but man insists on drawing inferences from whatever evidence is at hand . So let us look ahead two or three thousand years , and imagine the traveler from New Zealand stopping in the Hudson Valley on his way home after sketching the ruins of St. Paul 's from a broken arch of London Bridge . From his inn at Pier:mont or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the neighborhood by that time , he will sally forth with a digging party of Appalachian peasants and amuse himself by working in the ruins of the ziggurats which are to be found in such numbers on what was once Manhattan Island , before the harbor was silted up by the discharge from the city sewers after six weeks of snowstorms . How will the New Zealander explain there ? He may hit upon the right explanation , of . course , but he may not ; for all we know , there were building regulations in- Sumer and Akkad . He may regard them as symbolic of an aspiration toward heaven , like a Gothic spire ; but the lamentable lack of evidence of any such feeling in the surviving fragments of the literature of the period will compel him , or at any rate will compel his professional colleagues , to reject that theory . Obscure texts provisionally dated 1920 may contain such dark passages as " wet wave gathers strength , " and a whole school of excavators will dispute whether a succession of tidal waves overwhelmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher stages of their temple towers , or a. gradual subsidence of the surface of the island  --  a view supported by allusions of ancient writers to " billions sunk in subway " ? compelled its inhabitants to make this frantic effort to lift themselves out of reach of the Atlantic . For all we know , the future may see such a development of social equality that our New Zealander will understand by " upper classes " only those who lived in the upper stories . Even a theological interpretation is possible ; the name " skyscraper " may be construed as indicating a dissatisfaction with the management of the universe , an aspiration toward the overthrow of ancient divinities and the enthronement of man . The New Zealander may live in a more pious age than ours , and see in the decline and fall of Manhattan some such divine judgment as the author of Genesis laid upon the builders of Babel . We can only guess and guess badly ; NARAM-S1N . and LUGAL-ZAGGISI . would have been sadly disappointed if they could have foreseen how little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a contemplation of the disputes which will certainly distract the archaeological circles of New Zealand in the fortieth century should be edifying and corrective to those followers of lost causes who appeal with such sublime assurance from present defeat to the verdict of history .                     