@@690385

txt There is much talk of finding an escape for the Democrats from their blind alley by changing the rules under which a national convention proceeds . This would obviously go counter to the sporting instinct . No one likes to see the rules altered while the game is in progress . Still there is no doubt that the thing can be done . Chairman WALSH is of the opinion that if the Committee on Rules were to make a privileged motion to abolish the two-thirds rule for a Presidential nomination the change could be made by a majority vote . Presumably , the same would hold of a resolution proposing to abolish the unit rule in the States that still have it . Merely as a matter of power , the convention could doubtless do both these things . The question of the fairness or wisdom of doing them is a thing by itself . Advocates of Mr. MCADOO protest that it would be grossly unjust to abolish the unit rule . They say that delegates were elected on the distinct understanding that this rule would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral obligation not to break It down before the end of this convention . This is no doubt true . But it is also true that the same delegates were elected on the distinct understanding that the two-thirds rule would also be maintained . They ca n't have it both ways . The unit rule is Well understood to have been adopted partly as a complement to the twothirds rule , or an offset to it . if it is Unfair to change one , it would be unfair not to change the other at the same time . It is alleged that with the vote so near a majority it is asking too much to demand that it reach two-thirds . But the unit rule ties to Mr. many delegates who would prefer to vote for some other candidate , so that but for it the vote would be far short of a Majority . On the other hand , if the unit rule were to be universally applied it would mean that one-quarter of the States and Territories could control the convention , and that Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohio , Illinois , Michigan , Wisconsin and some other States . The discussion has now shifted to the question of releasing delegates from instructions . The sensible men In the convention have seen how impossible it is for the convention and the Democratic Party to get out of their sorry mess by a mere change in procedure . The great need is not to invent new rules but to discover real men . The party will lose hope unless it finds candidates and leaders who are willing to make personal sacrifices , even cruel ones , for the sake of the Common cause . The great consensus of Democratic opinion at the present time is plainly that the two leading candidates ought to put aside their individual ambitions in order to save the party . It is not the two-thirds rule that is preventing Mr , from winning the nomination . What halts him is the strong conviction entertained by much more than one-third of the delegates , possibly by a majority , if all were left to express their unfettered belief , that his nomination would mean not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disruption . Such a settled judgment can not be shakeq by any mere change in the rules . It is equally clear at present that there is no way to secure for Governor Scars from this convention a two-thirds majority . If both the candidates named were willing to withdraw , there can be little doubt that the convention would soon be . able to make a choice . How can they resist , as good Democrats , if the preponderant voice of their party calls upon them to make the renunciation ? V : that call is made , it should - be made publicly . The delegates ought not to be left in ignorance of what is proposed , or of who it is , and for what reasons , that refuses to_the accede . It is improbable that if either Mr. or Governor SMITH , . : or both , should decline to do the thing necessary to save their party - from its impending destruction , their delegates would- long stand with them in unbroken phalanx . However that may he , the eyes of the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon men of large stature and generous impulses , who will bring them out of their existing depression and distress . If petty minds go ) 11 with great empires , they certainly do with great party emergencies . The Democratic crisis fairly appeals today for men of- broad - outlook , penetrating sagacity , party loyalty and patriotic spirit , first to lead the Democrats out of the morass in which they find themselves mired , and then to give them a candidate able to unite the party and quicken its flagging hopes . The Democratic Party can not be suddenly afflicted with such sterility that . it has no leaders of this kind . They exist . Their services can be had . The question of the hour is whether the Democratic Convention will have determination enough to find and follow them .                     