@@688007

txt After deciding to go ahead without the Illinois and Indiana operators , the joint coal conference today authorized , the appointment of a sub-scale committee to draft a new wage scale and agreement . The conference then adjourned to wait the report of the sub-scale committee , which is expected within the next forty-eight hours . The conference went into session , despite the absence of operators from Illinois and Indiana . The operators ' tonnage represented was estimated at 20 per cent . of the central competitive field output , or about 40,000,000 tons .. Union officals estimated that representatives of mine owners controlling 100,000,000 tons were also here ready to sign any wage schedule that would be agreed upon . Still maintaining that in time important producers in Illinois and Indiana would break away from their associations and sign the new schedule when it was . ready , International President Lewis of the United Mine Workers , in a formal statement made tonight , predicted that when the scale was ready 75 ' per cent . of all bituminous tonnage now on strike will sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Settlement in the anthracite coal fields will naturally follow , he added . " The miners have won their fight , " Mr. Lewis said , " and it is practically . over . There is no longer a thought in any quarter that wage reductions ' will be imposed on the mining industry . The question here is one of procedure without undue humiliation of the operators . We have no desire to humiliate them . We only want the immediate resumption of mining , the return to work of the men and the relief of . the public . " A sub-scale committee of operators and miners was authorized immediately to begin negotiations to settle the strike . The committee will go into session tomorrow morning and is expected to render a report to the full conference within forty-eight hours : , This scale , on acceptance by both sides , will enable all mine owners who sign the agreement to resume operations at once . The miners ' union will then turn its attention to forcing settlements on the " hold-out " " operators . Michael Gallagher , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and President of the conference , announced that actual tonnage represented in the meeting which only included Central Competitive field operators , was as follows : Ohio , 27,960,0110 tons out of a total of 40,000,000 ; Western Pennsylvania , 7,500 , - 000 tons out of a total of 45,000,000 ; Indiana , 2,470,000 tons out of a total of 25,000,000 . Abandonnient of the allied tentative agreements between counsel for the min ers and the operators at a secret Oxley In Pittsburgh last Sunday is expected to clear the - situation . This included con  --  nuation of the old wage t cale and working conditions together with the " check . off " until next April . 1n I the rreantime a committee within the industry was to be appointed to make a survey and set up new contract-making machinery . The miners , it is understood , will now hold out for unqualified renewal of the old contract , but let the conference declde how long it shall run . While there has been no open hostility shown on the part ? of the operators in the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that some obstacles may be thrown in the way of an early settlement because of a failure of a majority of the operators from the central competitive field to attend . Some of the operating interests have decided that bar- gaining may be in order . While not likely to insist on wage reductions in view of the position taken by the Illinois operators of offering to renew the old scale , a group of operators asserted that they will insist on a provision in the new contract providing for ' arbitration if negotiations fail to produce an agreement . " Such a proposae would be out of the question . " President Lewis of the Miners ' ' Union said . " The position of the miners is unchanged ? toward arbitration . We will not accept arbitration , and have repeatedly made our position clear on that question . " President Lewis made it clear that he had not given up hope that the Indiana and Illinois Operators Associations would attend the conference . It was learned that he had been in communication with both associations , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earl S. Houck of the union 's staff were in Toledo today cohferring with . James W. Needham , head of the coal interests of . the. : Chicago , Milwaukee . &; St. Paul Railroad : Andrew Maloney , head of large public utilities , and Herman Perry , Labor Commissioner of Illinois . While union officials declined . to discuss this conference it was learned that it . seas requested by the Illinois operators , anti it was considered possible that those , members of the association favorable to a settlement here might still join in the negotiations . Mr. Glasgow returned ' tonight from she Illinois committee will report back with recommendations to the Operators ' Association at a meeting tomorrow in Chicago . All doubt as to the intention of the miners anti operators here to negotiate a wage scale was swept aside this morning when the miners ' Policy Committee in session at the Hoilenden Hotel authorized the Scale ? Committec tp proceed with the negotiations with the operators , Announcement of this ' action by the coninattee was wade by ' President . Lewis to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : The  --  Policy . Committee authorized the Scale Committee to proceed with operatore of various States who are assemble ( 1 here . The committee will meet with the operators and prepare to swing right into - developing the operators ' poetnon and working out a possible scale . Any wage scale finally agreed upon will be reported back for review by the full Policy Committee . Most gratifying re -- ports have been received from operators representing the ' bulk of the bituminous tonnage in the country , indicating that practically all . outlying districts are ready to agree on the scale reached here and to resume work on that basis . " It still appear : that the Indiana and Illinois associations are divided and engaged in prolonged debate : about:the advisability , of entering this conference . We will be glad to have them if they ) will come . If they ? continue their arbitrary refusal it will make no difference . We will proceed with ' the work of this conference . In any event we have assurances-definite assurances  --  that if a scale is decided here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign the see.le . In fact , it can - be confidently predicted that when a Scare is reached hero it will ? be signed by 75 . per cent . of the bituminous coal interests of - the country . Work- will be resumed within one week . Settlement of the anthracite strike will naturally follow . " The Policy Committee meeting was held behind closed doors and- from the sound of applause that was repeatedly heard . f tom the conference- room . the - delegateS . were . satisfied . with- the reports on progress la the negotiations . . There was considerable excitement when a man was detected peering into the meeting room from an open fan ventilator . Several rninere immediately- rushed Out to capture him , but he made his escape . - Officials of the union said that for some time they had been shadowed by detectives . President Lewis in his report to the Policy Committee assured the miners ' representatives that no wage reduction would be accepted . He said : " Work will not be resumed in the bituminous mining industry at reduced rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " His remarks Were greeted by prolonged applause . Frank Farrington . President of the Illinois miners ' organization , who has been urging a separate ' State agreement , reported to the - committee that he had been urging the- Illinois operators to conic into the conference here and that he ? has taken no action " contrary to the general policy laid down by the international organization . " It was learned that the Illinois miners ' Executive Board had turned a deaf ear to the appeal of their leader to begin negotiations for a State agreement . The joint conference of miners and operators convened at 3 o'clock . The policy report was read and the operators from the outlying fields ' withdrew from the room . The conference then appointed the following Committee on Credentials : Operators , S. II . Robbins of Cleveland , James Paisley of Cleveland , F. O. Parker of Linton , Ind. ; Judge Richard Campbell of Danville , Ill . Miners , P. T. nigh ) , Acting President .. Pittsburgh district : Lee Hall of Columbus , President of Ohio district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - and Frank Farrington , Springfield , Ill. , President of Illinois district . On r ( presentation or the Credefitial Committee report the conference adopted . a resolution ihstructing the appointment of a sub-scale  --  committee of eight miners and eight- operators . The , international officers of the miners ' union , including President Lewis ; William Green , Secretary , and Philip Murray ; Vice Preziaent , will - also i:artieipate in the FC*.ale , meetings , as well as MichaeL Gallagher . President of - the conference . and W. L. Robisen. an- Ohio operator and Assistant Secretary of the conference. , ? Mr. teallagher as spokesmen ' for the conference in a statement said : " There was upwards of 40,000,000 tons represented in the conference . Our Scale Committee to be appointed tonight will meet tomorrow and with all possible speed will attempt to arrive at a. satisfactory scale . This scale is for all operators represented in this conference . ' The operators here are looking after their own interests and have no concern for those who have stayed away . The hold-out operators will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not working for them . " President Lewis said that " the miners will take care of those operators who - have not been represented here . " Mr. Lewis said he had assurances that half a million tons not represented in the conference were ready to sign in the central competitive field as soon as a scale was agreed to . He estimated that at least 100.000,000 , tons from the ' outlying districts were represented here : Representatives of railroad and- public utilities interests from alt parts of the country continued today to flock here and bring every possible pressure to bear - upon the operators and miners to negotiate an agreement and end the strike . Among these were F. A. Bushnell . fuel purchasing agent of the Great Northern Railroad : F. J. Jerome , general counsel for the New ? York central lines : H. 0 . amide , general agent of the Erie Railroad in Cleveland ; A. A. Augustus , President of the Cambridge Colleries Company of Cambridge . Ohio , and S. R. Smith , purchasing agent of the . Grand ' Trunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country toe-partiCipate in the joint conference here . of President Harding and the Administration at Washington , W. H. Rogers . conciliator of the Department of Labor . President had officially sanctioned the Davis several days ago asking-the coal. : announced today . He said that the The negotiations have the full approval " I have been authorized to tfnnounce , " said Mr. Rogers , " that President . Harding is backing the negotiations under way here arnedati ehdop afunOl : thma.t4 caif ** the conference and ( lc sir ( s to do everything possible to make it a success . lie is intensely int  --  rested in the.outcome of-this meeting . noqt.rs , who ' is accompanied by . several *of the agente : of - the pepa:rtment of Labor , is malting : daily reports - on the pregres of the negotiations Secretary of Labor office- at Washington . These ard ? being trans .. mitted directly to President Harding .                     