@@695914

txt Further improvement in the principal trading stocks yesterday demonstrated that Monday 's rally had been due to more powerful influences than short covering . In important banking quarters the opinion was expressed that Amer-can industry would look to the Stock Exchange for an increasingly large percentage of its fina.nzing . This belief strengthened confidence regarding the basic soundness of the market structure . Traders were obviously taking a cautious attitude regarding the immediate future of prices . But the action of high-grade stock .. like American Can . U. S. Steel , General Electric , Westinghouse . Montgomery Ward , Johns-Manville . Air Reduction . Union Carbide , and United States Industrial Alcohol indicated that prosperity in basic industry was creating a back-log of support for standard shares With trade activities picking up vigor , inventories low , commodity prices uninflated , and business sentiment confident , the credit uncertainties were looked upon as furnishing only a temporarily disturbing factor . Periods of irregularity were created from time to time during the day by profit taking attracted by the extensive recoveries from last week 's lows . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to start resumption of the decline . However , money was in good supply at 6%. shortly after renewals had been arranged at 7% , and the drift of prices maintained a definite upward trend throughout the session . American Can developed pronounced strength on buying based on the company 's excellent showing for 1928 when the balance for the common stock was $6.86 a share , against $4.11 in 1927 . In view of the stable character of American Can 's business , and its practically uninterrupted growth over a. long period of years . interests sponsoring the stock feel that it is entitled to sell at 20 times its earnings . Great optimism regarding American Can 's outlook for this year was created by the statement of President Phelps that the prospective demand for the company 's output would necessitate further large expenditures for plant expansion . While it is too early to make forecasts regarding crops , favorable weather conditions appear the only factor necessary to assure exceptional prosperity in the food packing industry in 1929 . Carry-over of canned produces from last year was small , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industrial can business so far in 1929 is running 25% ahead of a year ago . ? ? ? Strong buying of International Combustion was conducted by leading Stock Exchange interests who characterize the company as a. public utility without public utility regulation . " Three outstanding ideas arc suggested by a study of International Combustion 's so-called K. S. G. process of low temperature coal carbonization , all accentuating the conclusion that the common stock of this company is an unusually attractive speculation for long-pull appreciation . " says Jackson Brothers , Boesel S Co . " First , the evidence that a new smokeless fuel . at reasonable prices , will conic into competition with bituminous and anthracite for domestic furnaces . Second , the evidence indicates further that public utility corporations now furnishing artificial gas to municipalities for heat ' or light may be able to effect large savings in their costs . Third . a gigantic new public utility may be in the making . International Combustion may in time become a large holding company owning control of the equity stocks of hundreds of K. S. G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solvents , which has received good support . during the recent unsettlement in the general list , showed a disposition to rally briskly whenever pressure was lifted from the market as a whole . Company had one of the most profitable months in its history during January . and the management is anticipating an excellent first quarter . Buying of butanol , which is one of Commercial ? Solvents ' leading products , is going ahead in preparation for demand from automobile manufacturers for lacquers for spring production . Benefits from the company 's by-products are steadily piling up a comfortable increase in profits , which cuts down costs on the principal linen .                     