@@688448

txt canvass of the prohibition enforcement situation preparatory to another drive to bring about co-operation between Federal and ; State officials and clamp down the lid More tightly was made today at a lunch .. on given by President Harding to Vice President Coolidge , Secretary of the Treasury Mellon , Prohibition Commissioner Haynes and the Governors of fourteen States . While no definite conclusions were reached , the White House , through Commissioner Haynes , expressed the opinion that the heart to heart talk had been helpful . It is probable that another conference with Governors , of whom a number of new ones will take office on Jan. 1 , will be held early in the year . Of those who attended the luncheon only one , Governor Ritchie of Maryland , came out flatly with tile statement that the majority of his constituents did not believe that the Volstead law could be enforced . He said that he was op ; posed to the law as an encroachment on State rights and the personal rights of ? the people . Governor Cox of Massachusetts is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be enforced . Governor Miller of New York , Governor Edwards of New Jersey and Governor Sproul of Pennsylvania , all of whom will go out of office on Jan. 1 , were absent . So was Governor Parker of Lomb:dune , whose talks about the prohibition law from the viewpoint of the " wets " have attracted attention . Governor Allen ' of Kansas appeared as the foremost spokesman for the drys t and was pronounced in his . view that progress was being made and that help , ful co-operation would come out of the , discussions at the luncheon . Among the things which were distinctly harmful to prohibition enforcement , he said , were a leniency on the part of Federal courts When it came to a question of imposing fines and terms of imprisonment , and the levity of the metropolitan press in its treatment of the prohibition problem in its news columns . Haynes Says It ' Was Helpful . At the conclusionof the luncheon conference , which started at 1 : ; 30 and ended t 4 o'clock , Commissioner Haynes made this statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at luncheon today the Vice President , the Secretary of the Treasury , the Prohibition Commissioner and . Governor Cox of Massachusetts , Governor Ritchie of Maryland , Governor Trinkle of Virginia , Governor Hartness of Vermont , Governor MeCray of Indiana , Governor Kilby of Alabanta , Gov ! governor Hyde of Missouri , Governor Preus of Minnesota , Governor Olcott of Oregon , Governor Allen of Kansas , Governor Morgan of West Virginia , Governor AlcKeivie of Nebraska , Governor Davis of Idaho and Governor Campbell of Arizona . " The Governors came to the White House from their annual conference , which was held this year at White Sulphur Springs . After luncheon the Presi " lent invited from them a wholly infer/ma/ expression of their views as to the effectiveness of tile enforcement of the prohibition law under the concurrent activities of Federal and State authorities . ? " In many cases the reports of Governors were of an encouraging nature , indicating very gratifying progress in making the enforcement of the Volstead act effective . Numerous instances of lack of co-operation were pointed out ; many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the whole , the informal conference was helpful to both State executives and Federal officials who were present . " There was a preponderance of opinion that an earnest official appeal for reverence for the law and a cordial support of law enforcement by the press Nvould combine to cure the worst condi:It:ens reported . " Attorney ** Daugherty also attended the conference , but it is said that ' Air . Daugherty and Secretary Mellon did not enter a detailed discussion , pimply listening to the views exprehsed by the Governors . Commissioner Haynes is reported to have said that a larger appropriation and the development of the enforcement personnel would , be helpful to more effective work . Ritchie for State Option . While there was a general understanding that the discussions at the luncheon Were to an extent confidential , each Governor was permitted to make public the opinions he held . Governor Ritchie made this statement : " The great majority of the people of Maryland believe that the Volstead law simply-eannot be enforced there . Our people are imbued with a fins traditionrespect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solving nits temperance question by local option ' fit-the various units of the State . Under method , when the people of a com- community wanted prohibition , they actually got it . " The Volstead law changed all this . Our people in the main regard it as an unnecessary and drastic Federal infringement of their State and personal rights . The lack of respect for law and the actual lawlessness which . have resulted is deplorable . The only remedy see is to recognize that the Volstead Jaw is destructive of the rights of the States , and to turn the whole question back to the States , so that each may settle it in accordance with the will of its own people . " The necessities of the time and our great industrial expansion have , of course , inane a great centralization of power in the Federal Government inevitable and desirable , and we have de . ' parted far from the old conception of the inherent rights of the States , but if the States are to preserve . their autonomy and their ancient heritage as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them again to assert their rights . " This apathy as ' to the rights of the several States will , unless now checked , ? result in extending still further the mistakes of overcentralization in the future . We are a dIVerse population with diverse views and problems ; and different States desire different results . For Kansas to dictate to Maryland is foreign to the spirit of the Federal Union , and results in a sectional tyranny , that the people of my State will not brook . " No Talk of Modifying Law It was said authoritatively that there ? woe  --  no ? talk about the possibility of ? modification ? of the Federal prohibition laWs ? and that the only points considered were means to obtain mbre rigid enforcement . Practically all of the Governors , it was said , promisectto give cooperation . There was some complaint that State enforcement laws were not effective in many instances and that efforts to remedy this . condition would be made . The lack of effective State laws , it was held , worked against effective enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President called upon each Governor to present his views , and also talked frankly about the laxity in enforcement which was evident in a ' number of sections . An opinion expressed by Governor ' Allen was that the nation was passing through a phase of bringing about enforeement 01. peolilbition whieii was not surprising . He pointed out that it required a long period to educate th , . people up to its benefits . " Today Kansas enjoys a better degre of temperance enforcement than hei neighbors , " he declared , " because we are in the second generation of men wh " have never seen the saloon . Federal prohibition will become a national success when the business man realizes that the total abstainer makes the best workman and refuses to hire any person who takes a drink . " Prohibition has proved its worth already . We hear a lot of talk about more persons drinking more than ever and the drug traffic increasing as intoxicants become more scarce . The bootleggers deny the first assertion because they are striving with might and main to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make it possible to distill and sell more intoxicants . The second assertion 14 absolutely untrue ; statistics prove that drink and drugs are inseparable ; where you find one you find the other . Alien for Tighter Bain . " Tighten up the prohibition laws ; do n't loosen them . The people soon will realize that prohibition is almost their salvation . In the-Middle West I believe we have a better degree of enforcement because it is more truly American than the Atlantic seaboard . Here you have a greater number of Europeans and the Continental ' influence . Why , . out West we still gaze in astonishment on a woman who smokes a cigarette . " Governor Trinkle of Virginia , advised heavier fines and longer jail sentences for offenders against the dry laws : He said he had refused to pardon any man , regardless of his prestige or position , who had been convicted of dispensing intoxicating liquor for gain .. " ' Take politics out of the prohibition enforcement agencies , " Governor Trinkle said , " and we will have better enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agents and ' - officials who are in favor of the law . themselves . I have found that prohibition is benefiting the State of Virginia already and those benefits will grow with time . " ? Governor Morgan of West Virginia practically reiterated Governor ? rinkIe 's view , Although he did not suggest making the enforcement , laws more drastic he , too , said that the enforcement division of the Prohibition Department should be separated from polities. if a referendum were taken in West Virginia ' tomorrow , the Governor asserted , it would show that State to be overwhelmingly " bone dry . " Governor ? Kilby ' of Alabama felt that Federal resources should be increased , with more agents to help enforce the Governor Hyde of ? Missouri said that closer co-operation between Federal and local enforcement agencies would bring better results .                     