@@696785

txt As the Mayoralty campaign is drawing to a close Tammany Hall appears confident of a sweeping victory at the election Tuesday . According to claims put forth by Tammany leaders , the re-election of Mayor Walker , Controller Charles W. Perry and Alderrnanic President Joseph V. is assured by toWering pluralities that may reach a new high level of 550,000 . The Republicans , after a campaign of unprecedented intensiveness conducted by their candidate for Mayor , Morello H : La Guardia ; and his associates on the Republican ' - fusion ticket , disputed the Tammany claim by issuing an eleventh-hour estimate in which a victory for Mr. La Guardia by a plurality of 200 .. 000 was claimed . ' They insisted that during the last ten days of the " campaign there had . been a decided undercurrent in favor of the Republican-fusion nominee for Mayor that would make him emerge the winner . Prhdict " Reign of Terror . " From Republican sources came last night a. : . prediction that Tammany , in order to win the election , would attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ districts on election day ' and that the Republicans had made preparations to cope with rough tactics , to be . instigated by Tammany on an unprecedented scale . Mr. La Guardia. in an interview , said he had information that Tammany had made arrangements to bring in a host of gangsters , thugs and gunmen to rob him of his victory , and that intimidation of voters had been . in progress for a long time . One of the foremost Republican leaders said that a report had been received ? that Little Angle and : his gang in Brooklyn had been enlisted to " take the Republican keymert in some districts for a ride " . in order to leave the polls unprotected . " I do not mean to say they are intending to kill them , " this leader said , " but they are to be spirited away for the time of the voting . " A forecast of victory , but less definite than that from the other political camps , came from Richard E. Enright , former Police Commissioner , who is running for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political agency of his own creation , making his fight on an anti-Tammany platform in a campaign designed to pare down the Tammany strength . One feature of the campaign has been the widespread support by nonSocialists of Norman Thomas , the Socialist candidate for Mayor . In the Mayoralty campaign four years ago , when , as now , Mr. Thomas was the candidate of his party , he polled slightly less than 40,000 votes , and as a Presidential candidate last year almost 51,000 . Last night a claim from the Socialist campaign headquarters estimated his strength ' on Tuesday at from 200,000 to 250,000 votes . This claim was pronounced exaggerated in other political camps , although it was admitted that the Socialist candidate would poll a sur- prisingly large vote . Mr. Thomas himself would furnish no figures or make any prediction regarding the outcome of the election . With the exception of a few seats in the Assembly and the Aldermanic Board , Tammany expects to make a clean sweep of all the borough and county offices in Manhattan . its political stronghold . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five seats on the Supreme Court bench that . will become vacant on Jan. 1 , to elect its two candidates for the City Court , its candidate for the Court of General Sessions and its Municipal Court nominees . Tammany also expects the hard fight for the District Attorneyship to end with a victory for its own candidate , former Supreme Court Justice Thomas C. T. Crain . This is vigorously disputed by supporters of Frederic R. Coudert Jr. , the youthful candidate for District Attorney on the Republican-Fusion ticket . Samuel S. Koenig , president of the New York County Republican Committee , last night expressed the conviction that : Mr. Coudert would win . In Brooklyn one of the interesting features of the present campaign has been the fight made to re-elect Justice Stephen Callaghan , Republican candidate for the Supreme Court in the Second Judicial District . who was refused a Democratic endorsement , although he had served with satisfactory record a full term in his present office . Front the chairman of the Callaghan campaign committee came a prediction last night that his election was assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two heavily Republican Long Island counties outside of the city , are included in the Second Judicial District . The hotly contested battle for the Queens Borough Presidency between Borough President George U. Harvey , who won the renomination in the Republican primaries after a bitter fight . and County Clerk Edward W. Cox , who emerged a winner from tin equally bitter Democratic primary , is regarded by most of the local political observers as close . Both sides last night were claiming a victory . The Pstirnate issued from Tammany Hall yesterday was that Mayor Walker and his two associates on The Democratic city ticket would carry every borough and possibly every Assembly District In this city and that . Mayor Walker 's plurality would he 550.000 . Reports from Assembly district leaders in this and other boroughs serve as basis for the forecast . it was said . The announcement carried the following borough pluralities for the Democratic city ticket : Tiaviha Ile n r ront ; lyn tryrils 11 ! : linntiti - resat ssissee The Republicans , without giving figures contended that Mr. La Guardia would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trouble . Discussing the possibility of trouble at the polls on Tuesday , Mr. Koenig said last night that the RepublicanFusion forces , after planning that had been in progress for weeks , would be prepared for any contingencies after the polls open . " We have made more ample preparations this year than for any election that has gone before , and we will be fully able to meet any disturbances or any interference with the voters in their lawful exercise of the franchise . " Mr. Koenig said . The eve of almost every recent election in this city has witnessed ominous predictions from the Republicans that Tammany would make trouble at the polls . In most instances the predictions have not borne fruit on election day , and in some instances have not been taken seriously even by the leaders responsible for the conduct of campaigns and elections . In this instance , however , the Republican leaders from ' Mr. Koenig down are taking seriously reports of rough tactics to come and an invasion of thugs and gangs sters to create disturbance at the polling places in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was learned last night that some precautions were taken as early as a month ago to forestall the possible importation of " floaters " from Philadelphia and that these steps met with a measure of success . Difficulty was encountered , it was said , when an attempt was made to insure immunity against such an invasion from some of the near-by large cities in New Jersey where Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City is the dominant power in politics . Among the precautionary measures that have been taken , according to information that came yesterday from authoritative Republican sources , is the swearing in of from 2.000 to 3,000 Special deputy Atter. net 's General to arrest fraudulent voters at the poll . Squads of ex-service men will also be mobilized to aid . Mr. La . Guardia , an ex-service man himself , and be held in readiness to be rushed into any district where trouble of this sort threatens . Republican leaders were talking also last night of a " secret service " corps that has been organized and already has been at work for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in detailed reports of where and in what form trouble is brewing . In Tammany quarters the tales of trouble to come from such sources at the instigation of Tammany were met with smiles and shrugs . One Tammany leader pointed out that there never had been an election in him memory when the Tammany organization had awaited the opening of the polls with so much confidence . The Republicans , however , declare that Tammany is decidedly uneasy because Mr. La Guardia had departed front the tactics used by Republican candidates for Mayor in the past , had concentrated his fight on the districts where Tammany and its allies in other boroughs had their greatest strength , and . had made a special appeal to and heavy inroads into an element among the voters with which Tammany has been exceptionally strong in the past . The general use of voting machines which insure secrecy and eliminate the possibility of a fraudulent count , according to the Republicans , has left Tammany no way open except intimidation of voters and rough tactics at the polls . Alleges Intimidation in Schools . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had carried its campaign of intimidation even into the public schools . " Every decent candidate , " Mr. La , Guardia said . " must make an allowance for 100,060 votes that Tammany will get by intimidation and fraudulent voting and prepare to overcome it . Why , they have even carried . it so far that in many of the public schools the teachers or some of them are telling little children to go home and tell their parents that if they know what is good for them they had better vote for Mayor Walker . I have received information that in one high school in Brooklyn a lecture was delivered during the civics period , the sum and substance of which was ' Vote for Walker . ' In addition to such tactics , Tammany is bringing in gunmen , thugs and ' tough guy gangs ' to create disturbances at the polls in many east side and lower west side districts . " The attention of Mr. La Guardia was called to the warning issued by Mayor Walker in his speech on Friday evening that a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " diabolical forgery " reflecting on him . He was asked if he could tell what had prompted this statement . " There are two reasons , " he replied . " A guilty conscience and sleenless days . That 's what is rattling him . Defeat is . staring him in- the face , He is seeing ghosts . He fails to realize that I have been most kind and charitable in dealing with him during the campaign . He knows that we have stuff on him that I have not used . " No forgeries will be necessary , and I have just stated that we are kind and charitable . I can readily understand how he feels after having been compelled to go through a real campaign and Governor Smith on the sslatform talking about everything except the candidate . He sure has ! ost his head . Jimmy , I told you this was to be a real fight . I 've got you going now and you are licked . " " Will you have some startling disclosure to make on Monday to worry the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He is worried enough as it is , " was his reply . " That will depend upon his conduct tomorrow . " So far as Mayor Walker and his associates on the Democratic city ticket are concerned the Mayoralty campaign came to an end last night with the mass meeting at the Century Theatre . Tomorrow will be a busy day of preparation to get the voters to the polls on the part of the myriad of election district workers in all parts of the city . Tomorrow , also election day allowances will be handed out to the leaders at Tartsmany Hall . Mr. La Guardia and his running mates expect to keep up an un'unbroken fire on their ' Democratic . rivals up to midnight tomorrow and perhaps beyond the midnight hour , as has been the custom of the Republican Mayoralty nominee whenever speaking engagements have made campaigning in the early morning hours necessary . His final battleground will be Manhattan , Tammany 's stronghold , and the campaign will be wound up with a neighborhood gathering in his own Congressional district . The campaign has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are concerned . Mr. La Guardia has been campaigning since his designation on Aug. 1 , first as a candidate in the primaries for the nomination and subsequently ' as head of the Republican-fusion ticket , with an average of five or six meetings a day . He has not rested even on Sunday . It has been estimated that he has met at least 250,000 prospective voters face to face at the rallies he has addressed . , As far as Tammany is concerned , the campaign in all its phases open to the public gaze has more resembled a dress parade than a battle . The Democratic campaign did not begin until the middle of October and Mayor Walker and his running mates have limited their campaign appearances to one meeting a , night during the most intensive part of the contest . The Mayor and the Democratic candidates generally have had the aid of former Governor Smith who , however , has not showed up at his best in the campaigning , limited to less than half a dozen speeches for . Mayor Walker and his running mates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of orators of first magnitude , in both the Democratic and the Republican campaigns . 115000 14701110 11 ; 1 nits S(I.i1111) 171,01111                     