@@691767

txt Political friends and foes of William Jennings Bryan , Modernists and Fundamentalists . were shocked and saddened by the , news of his death last night . His immense vigor and activity during the last few weeks heightened the surprise ' caused by his death . He was I thought to be hale and hearty enough I to be the leading champion of the causes of Fundamentalism and prohibition for many years to come . The political and religious enemies of the old crusader spoke with feeling last night in expressing their regret at his sudden death . Those who had fought him for three generations respected hire as a foe for his sincerity and for his fighting qualities . His followers in religious and political battles were stunned by the news of his sudden death . The drys regarded him as the greatest living champion of prohibition and the Fundamentalists looked to him as their ' la-. tional chief and hoped that the man who played so great a part in putting prohibition into the Constitution would eventually succeed in safeguarding the literal word of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I heard of the death of Bryan with a great deal of regret . He was a vigorous American and even those who disagreed with his ideas had a great regard for him . " Mayor Hylan said : " I regret very much to hear of the'death of Colonel Bryan . I have known Colonel ' Bryan for a great many years and always held him in high esteem . I believe that he has always been sincere in any cause he espoused . " John W. Davis , Democratic candidate for President at the last election , said at his home at Locust Valley , L. I. : " The depressing news of Mr. Bryan 's death must prove a great shock , not only to his friends but to the country at large . I am most deeply grieved by it . No other man of his generation has been so long identified with public questions or has been so universally known throughout the United States . Although many of the things put forward by him were not accepted , I think it is only fair to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see so many of the policies they advocated enacted into taw . " His incalculable influence upon public thought can not be ' measured however , only by the standards of personal or political success . If he had done no more than furnish to the men of his day an outstanding example of unflinching moral courage he would have rendered a great service to his age . This virtue earned him the respect even of those who Most profoundly disagreed with him . He was never content until he had discovered what he believed was the moral right or wrong of every public questicra . When this had been decided he was unwavering . " The country is poorer for his loss . " United States Senator Royal S. Copeland said he had always recognized Mr. Bryan 's great sincerity and persuasive power , although he had never followed him in politics . " No man ever had greater power over an audience than William Jennings Bryan , " said the Senator . " I talked to him many times about his religious convictions . He said that he felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had he been President of the United States , because he felt that he had a greater personal following and personal influence than any President had had . I think he was right in that . Great numbers of people fere enthused and uplifted by him . " William C. Redfield . Secretary of Commerce in the Cabinet of President Wilson when Mr. Bryan was Secretary of State , xecalled the resignation of the Commoner and the President 's effort to have him continue With the AdmMietraLion . " I think I was the first person , next to the President , to hear of Mr. Bryan 's resignation as Secretary of State , " sa ? l alr . Redfield . " I had an appointment with the President and he was-late , en unusual incident for him , and I waited in the White House office for half an hour . Then the President came down the stairs and announced he had just left Mr. Bryan , who had resigned , and that he had tried to have Mr. Bryan reconsider and withdraw his resignation . " Bryan Walked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her husband had walked the floor most of the night preceding his resignation to the President , trying to reach a decision ' as to the best course to follow , and he finally decided that it was his duty under the circumstances to retire from the Cabinet . " Frank L. Polk , who was Acting Secretary of State under President Wilson , said last night in a telegram from Bar Harbor , Me. : " It is with real regret that I have heard of Mr. Bryan 's death . One could not come in close contact with him without appreciating his sweetness of character , honesty and , above all , his courage , even though disagreeing with his doctrines . He was an idealist and not always practical , but some forlorn hopes led by Mr. Bryan in time found prominent places in the platforms of both parties . For many years he had been a commanding figure in American life and the news of his death will be received with sincere sorrow by the people of his country . " Bainbridge Colby , one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Bryan , said " I just learned the news of Mr. Bryan 's death , On my return from a trip out of town . I am very much shocked and grieved . " Colonel Lloyd C. Griscom , Syosset , L. I. , Chairman of the State Republican Committee during President Roosevelt 's Administration and an intimate of Mr. Bryan , Bald : " He was a great product of America . He represented a great number , of the American millions . He was a man of high moral influence . While I disagreed with him in politics . I ; shared with the American public a great respect for his sincerity in all matters relating to temperance and religion . He was a man of obvious , immense quailties . " County Clerk William E. Kelly , one of the leading Democrats of Brooklyn , made the following comment : " Very few men possessed the forensic ability Of Colonel William Jennings Bryan . The three outstanding ideals he sponsored were free silver , prohibition and antievolution . He held the unprecedented reputation of having been three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although unsuccessful In each instance he continued to be a potent factor in the affairs of the Democratic Party . His last and supreme effort to disprove the theory of evolution was one of his few successes . Colonel Bryan had a large following , and his death comes as a great shock . A. good citizen of America has passed away . " Says Trial Was Hie Death-Blow . Charles Francis Potter . Unitarian clergyman , who assisted in the preparation of the defense of John Thomas Scopes , said that the strain of the trial had caused Mr. Bryan 's death . " Mr. Bryan was a mighty palliative of the old days , " he said . " He lived in a world of his own imagination . He was . sincere in his own beliefs . The Dayton ? trial was his death-blow . I studied his face during the trial and remarked to several that this would be his death blow . " -                     