@@690627

txt Premier Herriot is described by those near him as disposed later in the year to take up the question of France 's debt to the United States but as not yet having committed himself positively on the question . The Premier i4 said to be receptive to opinions prevailing both in the Ministry of Finance and the Foreign Office that the time is near for the French Government to enter into definite engagements for payment of the debt . The Ministry of Finance has prepared several alternative projects , at different rates of interest and percentages of amortization . One of these follows the general lines of the plan attributed to Edward N. Hurley , of a five-year moratorium . per cent , interest and onehalf of 1 per cent . sinking fund , so that the debt could be extinguished in between sixty and seventy years . This plan would be equivalent to the cancellation of about 70 per cent . of the total obligation , as compared with 5 per cent . interest which the debt now bears and 1 per cent . for amortization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of France certainly are thinking in the direction of an early arrangement of the American debt . The Government is so anxiously occupied with the whole subject of national finance and the preparation of the budget for the Fall session of Parliament , however , that the American cleat question must await solution of more pressing problems- , - such as fresh taxation , refunding of Dart of the floating debt and economies in administration arid to a considerable extent also of the need for preparing French public opinion , which up to the preesnt time has been cold toward the debt ques ' don , having accepted the definitions of successive Governments that the American debt was " political . " American Suggestions to Paris . Myron T. Herrick , the American Ambassador , began eighteen months ago to bring forward in conversations with the French political officials the excellent effect which would prevail in the United States if France should make a fresh acknowledgment of her debt and agree upon terms of payment . Articles began to appear in the French press at the suggestion of the Ambassador and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing something definite regarding the American obligations . Mr. Hurley 's visit here during the Summer gave a big push to the question in official circles . Less formal observations by Secretary Hughes and Secretary Mellon during their visit to Paris helped the idea along . Mr. Hughes is quoted as having put the question to one : French statesman somewhat in this manner : " Suppose I et ; ed you $100,000 for which I had given you six or eight years ago my promissory note at 5 per cent , interest . " Let us assume that I was embarrassed financially and had paid nothing . Suppose you were to come to me and offer to reduce the interest by one-half and agree that I need pay neither interest nor principal for a term of ten years . ' " Now If I were to reply ' No. ' it I were to refuse to exchange a note bearing 5 per cent , for one bearing 2 ' per cent . with relief for any payment for , let us say , five years . what would be your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the financial advisers of the Government is understood to be that the United States will never cancel the entire debt . - that it will keep it alive for future use . It is even conceived by one of the important officials of the Government that the United States might have a need- some Years hence of what now is owing to ft by the various European Governments and that It might fees Impelled to press for col-lectionSeine Frenchmen in talking of this ! question ask what is the use of France Promising to pay fixed sums five years hence when her budget does not balance by several billions of Francs , when she must Spend --  another twenty . billions of Cranes on her devastated regions , and When It is yet doubtful how much she , will receive from across the Rhine . The reply of those in favor of accepting a liberal reduction in interest , with i easy terms of payment on the debt . is ! that Frenchcredit throughout the world and at hone would be greatly strength- I ened - by making the debt a regular one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was receiving , or expecting to receiVe , regular payments that - country would have a great financial stake in I this country and e. direct motive for seeng France protected against aggression and the sums owing to it paid- It is rgued that if it should turn out that . France could not meet her stipulations a clew arrangement would place her in a Position no worse than that she now is in.                     