@@690533

txt Having passed through the preliminary stages , the coroner 's inquest and the magistrate 's court , a man accused of murder then faces trial In a high court , which deterniines whether he ghat ' hang , go free ; or . be convicted of some minor otYense such as manslaughter or ull ? lawful wounding . In London this trial takes , place at the central criminal court , known bet . ter as Old Bailey . from the street in which the court Is situated . Formerly this court was attached to Newgate prison , In which the accused was confined while nOalting trial . Newgate was abolished many years ago and the prisoners are now confined In prisons in other parts of London and are brought to court daily during the trial . In the provinces the prisoners are tried before a judge of the assize . In every case the trial is before a judge of the king 's bench . They are not exclusively criminal judges , as all king 's bench judges take turns In criminal and civil cases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and divorce are confined to their own courts . Aided by Crown . The prosecution is conducted by a larrister especially briefed by the di  --  ector of public prosecution . There is fsually a leader who is " king 's counid " and a " junior " who  --  is a member If the outer bar . The difference beween them is that the king 's counsel rears a silk gown and the junior a ; tuff gown . The king 's counsel itlso ! ntitled to charge higher fees . The solicitor 's work , which includes lie preparation of a brief for counsel , the summoning of witnesses , etc. , is done by the director of public prosecu ? lion . The prisoner 's work is done by his solicitor . The form of trial In the English courts is much the same na in Amerlea . The jury is empaneled from a list prepared beforehand . The prisoner has the right to a small number of peremptory challenges . In practice peremptory challenges are seldom exercised and challenges for cause are few . The reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is believed to tend to prejudice a jury against a prisoner . Judge Has More Power . The crown , as the prosecutiOn Is known , has the same right but he also exercises it . The work of emWelling a Mry seldom , even in the most sensational cases , takes more than an hour. , The position of the judge technically is the same as in America , but the British judge in practice exercises much more power and hos much greater control over the development of a case . The judge in an English court often stops a line of extunination which seems to him trivial or time wasting and often , if he thinks the counsel is not doing the best with his case , he intervenes to conduct the examination himself . There is hardly a case tried in a British court where an appeal would not lie in an American court on the ground of the judge 's interference with the counsel or misdirection of th ' 6 jury , but appeals are fev. and they are seldom successfUl . The whole attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is that they are there to find out the truth , not to play a game in which the most skillful side wins . The atti ? tude towards the prisoner is entirely Impersonal . The purpose of the court Is to discover if a crime has been committed and if the person In the dock Is guilty or innocent , and to do so with a minimum expenditure of time and public money , Trials Soon Over . A great majority of the murder trials are finished in one day and even the most involved and technical ones seldom take more than three , This Is due to impatience of judges with what Is known in America as expert evidence . In cases where the defense is insanIty usually one expert is called for each side , but the court really relies on the evidence of the prison doctor who has the accused under direct observation from arrest . Evidence of hereditary insanity , etc. , also are admitted when available , but usually the time occupied by such evidence Is reduced to a minimum . The case is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , states the alleged facts in the case in a speech seldom lasting more than an hour . Then he calls his witnesses . The counsel for the defense then opens his case in a similarly brief fashion and calls his witnesses . Then bath counsels make their final speeches to the jury . Judge Instructs Jury . The judge sums up the evidence for the benefit of the jury , instructs the jury as to the law and then commits the case to it . Often these summings up . would be regarded in America as speeches for the prosecution and they would be sure to result in a successful anneal . The jury is locked up in a room until a verdict is reached and this seldom takes more than an hour or two                     