@@685979

txt Profits taxation has cracked the mechanism of war finance . Deflation has blown so much of January , 1920 , inventor : ) , values out of the warehouse window and from the merchant 's shelf , Commissioner Roper perpends and apprehends that Congress , before December 15 , nay have to come to the relief of the situation now facing the Internal Revenue Department and the taxpayers . Over $1,000,000,000 of income and profits taxes mature in December . This maturity has been anticipated . It was spent long ago . The position of the Government is easy for the balance of the fiscal year at least . It would be no difficult thing to reborrow the whole $700,000,000 of loan certificates about to mature . But the task before the collector and the embarrassment to the taxpayer are not so simple or so relatively unimportant . As everyone knows who knows anything at all about it , the inventory is the foundation of a merchant 's or manufacturer 's financial responsibility . When an official as clear-headed and conscientious as the Collector of internal Revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tax Levi on a profit which has been deflated to anywhere from 15 per cent . to 00 per cent. , would be attended by widespread commercial loss , the subject instantly has a future significance which the next Congress will not fail to study . For the present . a way out is suggested by the collector . But it is a way which leads to the sure conclusion that no system has been proposed , if there is one , whereby the undivided profits of a going concern , unseparated from its other assets , will submit to the same treatment as income . There can be a restatement or OK January , 1920. balance sheets . The deficiency need not he charged off but can be deducted from next year . Or it can be thrown back to 1919 account , and an average ascertained , or forward to 1921 . Or three years may he averaged together . If by 1922 the unseparated profit becomes a large loss , fair and equitable treatment would call for a new average . To such unending readjustments there could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been busily forecasting for the new Congress the exact amount of revenue it must collect in 1921 may now employ their statistical acumen on a calculation of the approximate amount of revenue they can collect before the 1921 year starts . The new Congress itself must gird up its loins for the tremendous task of approximately ascertaining how much of the war basis of the excess ninfits tux- has been blown our 71717 ; January , 1920 , and how much niece of it is likely to abolish itself before the end of 1921.                     