@@694148

txt Price movements ware more orderly in stock market Saturday . bat deem wise munbereas indications that nervousness bad been increased became of sharp decline suffered as Friday afternoon . Short cowering was prominent in mealy dealings and caused recoveries in most Weeks , but after advances had been recorded another wave of moderate selling was met which resulted in reactions from early high levels . Commission houses were sellers on balance . A majority of these firms were advising clients to liquidate part of their holdings on recoveries , so as to be prepared for another decline should one develop . Professional operators and floor traders bought on balance . This element , which bad taken a short position on early strength Friday following reduction in rediscount rate , was covering its commitments . Some traders were milers during early strength and covered again before the close on the recessions . Sentiment around the Street is mixed . Feeling prewafts that market will continue to show considerable irregularity until technical poiition has been strengthened again . Only a few interests who have been bearish for some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some time and market-is likely to be reactionary ' for several weeks . Optimists make the point that important interests are still holding stocks and have not liquidated or distributed . For that reason they consider further recessions as offering favorable opportunities for reaccumulation of stocks sold around recent highs . WT/Or LOSS ORDERS For several weeks attention has been called to the fact that the practice of placing nearby stop loss orders in the market has been spreading as a result of advices coming from leading commission houses . Many of these stops were uncovered early in the week on the decline , but market was still honey-combed with them , and naturally this caused a weakened technical position , so stocks were aided toward lower levels where stops were touched : ff . REDISCOV PM RATE View is held in financial district that reduction in re-discount rate was the result of a conference between officials of Federal Reserve system and representatives of foreign institutions . Private cables have stated that there are indications of a distinct improvement in industrial conditions in England and a much improved situation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is contended that an advance in the Bank of England rate would have been necessary under existing circumstances , if a reduction had not been made here . VIER OF REARS When market becomes reactionary those who have taken a. short position put their own interpretation on developments . Shorts now insist that the reduction in the rediscount rate indicates a slackened demand for money from commercial and industrial concerns , and maintain this action has injected uncertainty into the business situation which may result in buyers holding back their orders . All other factors which probably prompted the rate reduction are being ignored by the bears in their arguments . A TECHNICAL CORRECTION In view of fact that industrial averages recorded an advance of approximately 20 points it is a logical conclusion that sharp reactions are to be expected from time to time . Popular belief among optimists is that nothing more than technical corrections should be looked for in the near future , because there have been no changes in the constructive developments in business and financial affairs to warrant any change in the definite trend of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an optimistic trend . Reference was made to fact that commercial tendencies in past week were chiefly upward . While it was admitted that there were no indications of an immediate general expansion of trade confidence of an extension of gains in some basic idustries was expressed , and outlook for fall was considered promising . at wi NG A CIVICS:3 Buying advices were more numerous Saturday than in revers ' weeks . Many of those who have been keeping out of market were advocating a policy of picking up standard stocks on any further recession . It was believed that another attack would be made against , market in next few days which would present favorable buying opportunities in many issues . SOUTHERN rACIFIC For some time there has been evidence of buying from strong sources in Southern Pacific at various times . Such a demand made its appearance again Saturday and caused a moderate outside following . There has been so much talk of an increase in Southern Pacific dividend and part of this buying probably is based on such expectations . Interests who have been prominent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again recently . They point out that ' Frisco on its dividend if $7 a share annually is out of line with most other rail stocks . Although Bethlehem Steel reacted from its record on Friday 's decline , that stock was under steady accumulation and closed that day with a net advance of a fraction . There was continued steady buying again Saturday which made the issue one of the outstanding features . Some of the strongest houses have been purchasing Bethlehem in petit few weeks , and it is said none of hollings of important interests have come out despite sharp upturn in that period . eonsios.ustas Congoleum has been advancing because of consistent demand from interests who are credited with being well informed on company 's affairs . In these quarters is said demand is based on feet that indications point to considerable improvement in company 's earnings and financial position in current half year . S. M. KRESS S. H. Kress has been ' behind the other store stocks tiering latest advances . It As stated in well-informed circles that nfficials of company anticipate record breaking profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several occasions recently . MEDICINAL STOCKS Action of so-called medicinal stocks during weakness on Friday has resulted in having these ' mica added to list of buying recommendations of various observers . Numerous orders have been put into these stocks under prevailing market quotations , so that any reaction should meet these supports . No explanation was heard in financial district for this move . Limited buying recently has been sufficient to put Cuyamel Fruit into new high ground . Condition of company has been improving slowly , and this has been reflected in slightly better demand for the stock which found offerings smaller than in some time . Favoring public utilities one economist points out that aggregate net income of 14 leading companies in first half of current year was 11.4.7 , greater than in same period of 1926 . Opinion prevails that outlook for these companies is promising , and that they may take a more important position in market in near future . Because employes of United States Steel subscribed for more stock than was offered there has been quiet buying by interests who believe management will come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stock offered to employes is on partial payment plan and management is not compelled immediately to purchase stock .                     