@@694357

txt Only those chained to the five-cent fare , like Prometheus to his rock , will begrudge the $25,000 allowed Controller BERRY to secure an independent transit survey . The result in Mr. SMITH 'S report is a contribution to sanity and understanding worth many times that sum . That is true no matter what the outcome of the controversy . Mr. SMITH is a transit engineer , not a transit politician . He has simply given the city a plain , straightforward engineering analysis of its besetting transit problem . Better service is the goal , and Mr. SMITH never loses sight of it . He is even cheery enough to hold out the hope that there may come a day when crowding in the subways will be but an unpleasant memory . But this presupposes that the city shall first adopt a " sane attitude toward " their development , financing , con " struction and operation . " Unification and a self-sustaining fare are the outstanding needs , in his judgment . More subways will have to be built , but in such a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widening , express highways , incinerators , schools , sewage disposal , and other needed public improvements ; " all are but parts of one stupendous whole . " " There has been considerable loose " and irresponsible discussion linking " an increased fare with better ser " vice , " Mr. UNTERMYER remarked in his report , " but nobody has yet " pointed out in what way an in " creased fare will in fact furnish " an additional seat or less diseom " fort during the rush hours . " Mr. Swan concedes that the subways are now earning their way  --  with present standards of maintenance , equipment and service , and with the city paying $13,000,000 a year out of taxes to carry its investment . But he holds that service could be improved now with an increased fare , and sees only a long vista of deficits for the new subways unless they are made self-sustaining . He prefers negotiation to recapture . If it be said that Mr. SMITH brings not peace but a sword , it is probable that he saw no other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely swayed the city 's transit policy . Mr. UNTERBIYER tlid not set him a very pacific example . And it was Mr. Um:Luna:1 ; who forced the fare issues by proposing to repeal the act recjuiring the new subways to be self-sustaining . That act once had the support of Chairman DELANEY , whose informal comment on the present report would indicate that he is now opposed to a flexible fare . Mr. SMITH prefers to appeal to the Mr. DELANEY who in 1919 argued for a unified System with fares sufficient to cover all costs .                     