@@685112

txt President W. M. Wood of American Woolen , in open letter in reply to letter from . Henry- E. Chamberlain , which intimated that stockholders and public should have been notified more often of recent prosperity , and that " insiders " profited by speculation in the stock , says in part : The speculation in American Woolen Co. shares is of no interest to me , as its chief executive . It is well known , I think , that these speculative movements in the stock market frequently do not represent the actual conditions of our business . They are operated by speculators for their own profit , and undoubtedly cause losses to the speculating public , for which the management can not be held responsible . The directors of our company intend to manage its affairs for those who are truly " investors " , by which term , I mean men who have bought our shares strictly as an I investment , and not for speculation . I have felt that a proper administration required I that no information regarding the affairs of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stockholders as a whole . I have endeavored always faithfully to report to the stockholders at stated intervals the exact condition of their company . I have also endeavored to answer fully and frankly communications from stockholders inquiring regarding the company whenever I felt that the information asked was not to be used for stock market purposes . Your suggestion that " insiders " have profited by advance information I do not believe to be well founded . I have never permitted such information to be given out . If it has been done , it has been without my knowledge , and any such act called to my attention would have my stern disapproval . I do not understand that you have Imowledge of any such act , but that what you express . is a mere suspicion . If you have specific information on the subject and would make it known to me , I should see to it that a Person thus having violated the strict rules of the company , as well as the , proprieties of conduct , had no opportunity to do it again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently shown would justify a lower price of its product . I fear that you have little conception as to how our profits are made . If , at the beginning of the year , we had on hand some thousands of yards of loth ready ' for sale and delivery , the fixing of the price as compared with its cost would be a simple task . But our business is not and can not be thus conducted . We do not make up a lot of goods . compute their cost , and then sell them at a profit . The first of each year the company takes orders from samples shown to our customers , to the capacity of our mills . We enter into contracts with different customers to make and deliver a certain number of yards of cloth in the future , during the next six months or year . When we take these orders we can not , of course , predict with accuracy what the cloth is going to cost us . That evidently will depend upon the cost of our material and labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of materials , a strike or accident which shuts down our mills , will increase our costs . Other things may occur to make our product cost us more than we anticipated . The best we can do is to exercise our business judgment in forecasting conditions under which we are to manufacture our cloth and fill our contracts . If our forecasts come out right , we make a profit . If they come out wrong , we may suffer a loss  --  sometimes a severe one . On the other hand . if the cost of manufacture goes down , the prevailing habit of customers to attempt to cancel their contract , disorganizes our calculations and deprives us of our profits . You will see , therefore , that we are not like a merchandicing concern , paying for its goods a certain price and having only to sell them at a higher price to realize a profit . Our profits are speculative and uncertain . They can not ' be forecast with accuracy . Sometimes they exceed our expectations , and , unhappily , too often they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years we have been unusually fortunate , but even during this time we have suffered unexpected losses . Many of our mills worked a good part of last year in filling contracts which were showing us a loss . You appear to share the prevailing popular impression that the enhanced cost of clothing is due in a substantial measure to the profits of the cloth manufacturer . I wonder if you know or realize to whut a comparatively trifling extent this profit contributes to the increased cost of clothing . It is an actual fact that the profit of our company on the cloth which goes into a suit sold at retail for $60 or $65 will not exceed $1.50 a suit , and in the case of some suits sold at lower prices , our profit will not exceed 30 cents . Suppose our company should sell its cloth without profit . How much do you think the price of a suit of clothes would be thereby reduced ?                     