@@685131

txt The Ebert Government is again in control in Berlin . Vice Chancellor Schiffer , in whose hands the sudden retirement of Dr. Wolfgang Kapp temporarily placed the administrative power , and Gustav Noske , Minister , of Defense , are engaged in bringing about order in the city and restoring activities to their normal basis . The full Ministry is expected back in Berlin tomorrow ( Friday ) . Regular troops , loyal to the Ebert regime , are guarding the streets , and detachments of them spent part of the day in tearing down wire entanglements and barricades which the revolutionary soldiers had erected in profusion . She Baltic troops , leaders of the insurgent bands that marched into Berlin on Saturday morning , took vengeance on the people who hooted and jeered them in Wilhelmstrasse and linter-den-Linden ; They were lined up for their departure out of the city , and after withstanding the jeers for a , time more or less impatiently they ( ) Pined fire , wounding several . The crowd rushed to ' take refuge in the Adlon Hotel , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed ' the Brandenburg Gate they fired a parting volley with machine guns , wounding a score or more , and the terrified mob again rushed to the hotel , the gates of which were torn down In the ensuing panic . Cabinet to be Reconstructed . Dr. Kapp 's descent upon Berlin and his subsequent retreat has precipitated i parliamentary chaos , which promises indefinitely to clog the legislative machine and the activities of the National Assembly . The coalition parties must construct a new Cabinet , which is expected to reveal at leastd half a. dozen new faces , with the prospect of further Ministerial changes II as a result of the June elections . The Assembly . not be dissolved immediately because it must first approve the budget , dispose of further taxation measures and the law decreeing the nationalization of the railways and pass a new election law . No great improvement in the economic situation is to be ? observed as yet . The railway men have resumed , but the organized workers generally are dissatisfied and are continuing the strike . They demand the disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more radical elements . One outcome of Dr. Kapp 's brief reign is a greater tendency toward the Left among the workers , and it is generally believed that the coming elections will return Independents in greater force . Kapp 's coup was the greatest disservice he could have rendered to the Conservatives , who now are discredited and distrusted . The censorship has been lifted ' and the newspapers are allowed to appear . Lord Kilmarnock , the British Charg ? , has taken the first opportunity to publish an emphatic denial that the Allies gave any support or sympathy whatever to the new government . Independents Issue a Protest . The Independents ' Committee has issued a manifesto saying in effect : " " The counter-revolution has been suppressed , but the Bauer-Noske Government is trying to re-establish the old regime by cowardly compromise . Another . Junker , von Seeckt , replaces the Junker , von Ltittwitz . A state of siege is manitained and the Prussian Government has intrusted the protection of Berlin to the Relehswehr and the security guard , which means that a military dictatorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but only a change of persons . The Independents will pot accept this situation . " There were fewer disturbances in Berlin last night than any night since the beginning of the revolution . Several detachments of troops were sent away , but the majority were here this morning . Wilhelmstrasse was crowded with them , all carrying hand grenades . Several squads trundled machine guns and name-throwers . ' When the Baltic troops clear out the work of guarding the city will be undertaken by regular Government troops garrisoned in Berlin and the security police . . During the late hours of the night great excitement prevailed through many of the population remained indoors . Newsboys with single sheet editions of the Morgen Post and Vossische Zeitung were literally mobbed , .. so eager was the desire to obtain news which had been so long denied . In consequence of Dr. Kapp 's abdication Berlin will be under a military dictatorship until the civil Government is re-established . The fact that the Independents and Communists so far have not resorted to the extreme violence characterizing the revolutionary strikes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Says Rebels Will Be Punished . COPENRAGEN . March 18 . ? A dispatch received from Stuttgart dated Wednesday tells of a proclamation issued by President Ebert and his Gove  --  nment . It is signed by Ebert and is similar to the communication ? previously sent put by Vice Premier Schiffer . Among other things the new proclamation says : . " The criminal adventure at Berlin is ended . Irrefutable proof has been given the whole world by the struggle of the last few days that democracy in the German Republic is no deception and that it alone has power and knows how to make short shrift with even an attempted military dictatorship . " The proclamation urges the cessation of the general strike and a resumption of economic life , particularly as regards the production of coal . " Every man to work , " it says . " Traitors to the people who forced you to resort to the general strike will be most severely punished by the Government , which will see that no soldiery again shall be able to interfere with the destiny of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work ! "                     