@@691711

txt The attempt of the Neptune Association of Masters and Mates of Ocean and Coastwise Steamship Vessels , Inc. , to prevent English vessels by injunction from bringing liquor into this port failed yesterday for the second time . On the first occasion the association attacked the liner Berenga , ria of the Cunard Line , but the action was thrown out of court by Federal Judge Knox . The second attempt , begun last September , was an attack on the Cunard Line and seven captains of its ships and Federal officials responsible for the enforcement of the Prohibition law . This suit was dismissed yesterday by Federal Judge Julian W. Mack , It was explained that the purpose of the proceedings was to test the constitutionality of the treaty with Great Britain on the ground that it violated the Eigheenth Amendment and the National Prohibition act . The real purpose of the proceedings , it was frankly explained , was to prevent vessels of foreign registry from unfairly competing with American vessels , through being permitted to sell liquor on the high seas or as soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was agreed that such competition was depriving vessels of American registry of much prosperous traffic . 34 Dismissing the suit yesterday . Federal Judge Mack declined to pass upon the constitutionality of the treaty with Great Britain because he was not compelled to do so . He pointed out that the damage claimed by the plaintiffs did not result from the fact that English ships brought liquor into this port under seal , but from the fact , according to the defendants , that passengers preferred English ships . He held that there was no relation between the damage complained of and ? the acts complained of to create a basis for an injunction against the Cunard Line . One of the grievances alleged by the plaintiffs was that officials responsible for enforcing the law were failing to do it , greatly benefltting foreigners , to the damage of American snipping Interests . So far as the public officials were , concerned , Judge Mack held that " Federal courts are without power to compel the prosecuting officers to enforce the Penal laws , whatever the ground of their // BRITISH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The remedy for inactivity of that kind is with the Executive and ultimately with the people . " Concerning the constitutional phase of the matter , the Court said : " While on the motion to dismiss for want of equity both counsel desire a ruling on the constitutionality of the treaty I find it unnecessary and therefore improper to consider that question , in view of my opinion that even if the treaty were unconstitutional , as to which I intimate no opinion , the bill states no case for equitable relief . " When the decision became known assistants of United States Attorney Buckner , engaged mainly in endeavoring to enforce the prohibition law , discussed it eagerly . It was agreed that the method of the attack upon the lava was wrong because no proof had been submitted in the form of affidavits that the American ships were damaged by the liquor privileges accorded the English . It was pointed out that If the complaint had been accompanied by several hundred affidavits from reputable citizens that they had intended sailing on American ships , but had finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to get plenty to drink , the decision of the Court might have taken a different turn . It also was said that it would be practically impossible to prove that any damage had been inflicted on the American ships because other affidavits might be obtained showing that many persons had preferred traveling on American ships because of the fact that liquor was not dispensed on them . The complaint , when filed last September . named as defendants Harlan P. Stone , then Attorney General : Colonel William Hayward , then United States Attorney of this district ; E. H. Blair , as United States Commissioner- of Internal Revenue ; Charles W. Anderson . United States Collector of Internal Revenue ; the Cunard Company and the ecom=andera a tali oralvastra samba                     