@@692616

txt Wednesday 's stock market session again displayed the influence which adverse news exerts on various stocks . Liquidation of some sugar stocks , credited to Cuban banks . and news of a strike on Cuban railroads brought about weakness in the general list . A disposition to recover fr. = this reaction was dampened by information of laying off of motor employes and a general recession again transpired . Summed up , the opinion of numerous leading houses and some influential bankers is that the market i33 in a position where the will to buy stocks is largely encorriPossed by scale buy orders put in by investors , who are willing to wait for these prices to get the stocks they want , and by shorts who feel satisfied with profits . Public participation is small . Furthermore , aggressive leadership in the market is all on the bear side . One helpful symptom which is discernible is that liquidation of a general character is no longer occurring . Most of the offerings which appear concurrently with any bearish news are generally traceable to those committed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is largely one made up of operations of professionals . There are numerous buy orders in under prevailing prices and when these are approached pivotal stocks show resistance . Attitude of the public is one of indifference , leading houses find , IN bile activities of the bears are directed toward breaking stocks to new lows in an effort to create fresh liquidation . Thus far , the average of 20 industrial stocks used in the DowJones average has been maintained above the low of 135.20 made on March 30 . Wednesday 's close they were at 136.36 which is the nearest they have been to the March 30 low . Discussing the stock market situation and business generally , one of the largest bankers in the financial district said he cou:d find nothing wrong . There were , admittedly , a few market situations which required attention several weeks ago but that these had been taken care of . " We still have cheap money , " he pointed out , " and will continue to have it . This , in time , will have its effect . Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ill absorb the offerings . Then bids will he raised when stocks do n't come easy and the general market will improve . " The senior partner of one of the leading houses finds his loans down 30 , ,  - -  e and stocks down materially from the highs . " I can not stay aggressively bearish in such a situation , " he said . " Stocks have been pretty well liquidated and I rather anticipate a substantial improvement in prices rather than any real decline from these levels . "                     