@@685016

txt Governor Smith announced at Albany yesterday Mitt he had - designated Attorney General Charles D. Newton to investigate charges preferred against certain members of District Attorney Swann 's staff by the Extraordinary Grand Jury in New York County . Coincidentally . charges made by the Extraordinary Grand Jury against Assistant District Attorneys Edwin P. Kilroe , James E. Smith and John T. Pooling of Mr. Swarm 's staff , which were included in the jury 's letter sent to Governor Smith on Tuesday , were made public . The jury charges Mr. Kilroe with neglect of duty . Mr. Smith is alleged to have been guilty of neglect of duty in respect to investigating and prosecuting gambling complaints and charges against keepers of disorderdly resort 's . Mr. Dooling is accused of alleged conspiracy to bring about the Indictment of Gaston B. Means on a charge of murder . Immediately after a report reached him that Mr. Kilroe had been mentioned in the complaint by the jury , District Attorney Swann moved for Investigation before another jury of the charges affecting his aid . A transcript of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The charges were heard by the regular Grand Jury . It will report its presentment today . It was rumored that Mr. Kilroe may be exonerated . Limits Mr. Newton 's Duties . Governor Smith said he has designated the Attorney General in response te repeated demands from Raymond F. , Almirall , foreman of the jury . In making public the communication from Mr. Almirall the Governor asserted that the designation of the Attorney General was solely An connection with the three caeca specified .. The letter from Mr. Almirall reads : lion . Alfred E. Smith . Governor , the Capital , Albany , N. Y. " Excellency : " Let me acknowledge receipt of your Excellency 's letter of the 14th instant . " For the purposes of securing the services of the Attorney General as legal adviser to the Extraordinary Grand Jury and without acquiescing in your Excellency 's apparent conception of the necessity of specifying charges , the Extraordinary Grand Jury defers to your Excellency 's requirement " The Extraordinary Grand Jury highly appreciated your Excellency 's expression of willingness to do all in your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your Excellency 's promise to designate the Attorney General on receipt of the specifications your Excellency is pleased to require . " Because of the preference of the Grand Jury not to link together the name of a person and the charge of an uninvestigated crime , the Grand Jury takes the great liberty of enclosing herewith a memorandum of the names of three members of the District Attorney 's staff particularly referred to in the Grand Jury 's letter dated Jan. 22 , 1620 , with a statement of the crimes with which such members are charged . " With expressions of esteem . I am , " Very respectfully , " RAYMOND F. ALMIRALL , Foreman . " Chargers In Detail . The specific charges , which were enclosed in the letter , but as a separate memorandum , are set forth as follows : " 1 . John T. Dooling charged in connection with Alexander F. Richman with a. conspiracy to falsely and maliciously indict one Gaston B. Means for the crime of murder and procure said Means to be complained of and arrested for such crime in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Law . In connection with the investigation . thus far made of said alleged crime , some evidence has been presented indicating that crimes in violation of Section 380 , sub-division 6 , Section 1846 and also - Section 376 of the Penal Law have also been committed by said Pooling . - .2 . James E. Smith , charged with various violations of Section 372 of the Penal Law , and with neglect of duty In violation of Sections 1.541 and MCI of the Penal Law . in respect of the inves- tigation and presentation of gambling and disorderly houses " 3 . Edwin P. Kilroe. charged with neglect and omission of duty in violation of Sections 1,841 and 1.857 of the Penal Law in fatting to present and prosecute charges of larceny made by Thomas B. Donaldson , Insurance Commissioner of the State of Pennsylvania . against George F. Montgomery . " ? It was said the charges against Mr. Kilroe , and the complaint from which they originated , which Mr. Swann placed ' before another Grand Jury for consideration , were based on the alleved refusal of Mr. Kilroe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Montgomery , i who was alleged to have been implicated in the affairs of the Pittsburgh Life In. surance and Trust Company , which I failed . At the time of the complaint . it was said , there was a civil action pending here in the Supreme Court relative to the same matter on which an indictment was sought . This civil action was settled yesterday in Justice Cohalan 's part of the Supreme Court . Commissioner Donaldson and his attorney , James E. Finegan , were witnesses , subpoenaed by Mr. Swann yesterday . It was intimated that the testimony had exonerated Mr. Kilroe of neglect of duty and that Governor Smith would be advised to that effect When this was called to the attention of Mr. Almirall he said ? ? Commissioner Donaldson told me late this afternoon that he had no intention of withdrawing or modifying his facts as recited in his statement to the Extraordinary Grand Jury . " Following this special inquiry , Mr. Swann made the declaration that the charges flied by the Extraordinary Grand Jury were merely a pretext to get legal aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal adviser of the jury 's proceedings , for the purpose of trying to " find something against Mayor John F. Hylan and William Randolph Hearst . " Mr. Swann said : " They ( the jury ) do n't want to investigate any Assistant District Attorneys . That is not even their secondary purpose . They merely want to get the Attorney General appointed so they can have as their adviser ex-Special Deputy Attorney General Alfred L. Becker . The matter has already been discussed over and over between Mr. Becker and Raymond F. Almirall. foreman of the Ex ' traordinary Grand Jury . Raises Eight-Cent Fare Issue . " The Grand Jury , presided over by Mr. Almirall , has two main objects . The first is to find something on the Mayor , or a pretext on which he may be removed and another appointed in ? his place , with a lively hope that the other may consent to an eight-cent fare . The other purpose is that they hope Mr. Becker will enable them to find something on William Randolph Hearst . who has been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the traction combination for years and the man whom they consider to be the chief opponent of the granting of an eight-cent fare ' More than three-quarters of the members of the Extraordinary Grand Jury have assured me individually and personally that they have no desire to injure the District Attorney or his office . but that their quest is elsewhere . I have refused to allow the District Attorney 's office to further the ends of the traction interests in this city and refuse to be a party to the design- to use the . machinery of the criminal law for the purpose of bludgeoning the city officials into obeying the commands of the traction interests . ' Mr. Swann asserted that from the day the District Attorney announced to the Extraordinary Grand Jury that he was investigating the " falsity of the written financial statement published by the Interborough officials and by J. P. Morgan &; Co .. the jury had started a search to find something against the Mayor and the District Attorney . " James E. Smith Replies . Assistant District Attorney James E. Smith said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connected with the work of the District - Attorney 's Office I have tried to do my duty in all investigations and prosecutions of gamblers and the keepers of disorderly resorts , and in the course of my activities in these matters I have made many enemies . In all cases the evidence I obtained . as well as the evidence which was presented to me by others , has been submitted to the Grand Jury or to the courts . " This statement was made by Mr. Dool in g : " I am not conscious of having exceeded my duty or of having done anything improper in the case of the people against Means , or in any other case . I ll gladly waive immunity in return for the opportunity to go before the Extraordinary Grand Jury and disclose a hat I did as an Assistant District Attorney of New York in disposing of that case . I feel satisfied that when the facts are disclosed the jury will come to the conclusion that I performed my ' duty . " I have received no notice of my appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when asked here last night what procedure he contemplated in connection with his designation by Governor Smith . " I left Albany only this afternoon , and I expect the Governor 's letter will not reach me until tomorrow . I shall make no statement until I receive my instructions . Undoubtedly I shall require assistants to handle the details of the investigation . for I have other duties which will prevent my giving my entire time to the Grand Jury . It will be several days , I expect , before I can complete a study of the case and become familiar with its magnitude . "                     