@@691169

txt A drive was started yesterday to pre .. et a vote on the municipal railway ordinance on Feb. 26 , the date of the rtext council meeting . Then Chairman Schwartz 4 of the local transportation committee publicly has announced be will call up the ordinance for consideration and passage . The propaganda far delay probabi3 was started by opponents of the ordi . Hance . It is certain these opponents spread the scheme and urged real objective is to postpone a vol. until after March 7 , because the at present is that the ordinance r , be passed thirty days before the see , a14 alderma.nie election April 7 in order 1 , ; insure a referendum on it on that day . If the obstructionists can get enoug : / votes to force a delay beyond March they will have caused more trouble for the ordinance . Aldermen Talk More Freely . Aldermen talked more freely about the ordinance yesterday than at any ? time in the last sixty days . This attiLode probably was the result of male . ing certain that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 24 . A large majority of those questioned favored the plan on no vote on Feb. 26 , but only two could be found who said they would support a delay beyond March 7 . . Mayor Dever said frank/3 , he believes a vote on the ordinance will be taken at the net council meeting . Ile certain that the vote will be favorable . The argument for delay beyond Feb. 26 is this : ' file aldermen have not read the ordinance : in tact , they have paid little attention to it . Consequently they do not know , except in a general way , what it provides . They are busy with their campaigns for reiiieetion . They will not have an opportunity to become acquainted with the ordinance before election , Feb. 24 . Many of them will sleep most of the following day nod probably will be still tired on the 20th . Council May Lark Queram. it is possible that there will not be a quorum present on the date set for the meeting . Whether the argument is good , bad , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some of them suggested that consideration of the ordinance be put off until the following Monday , April 2 , suggesting that five days would be sum . dent in which to permit every one to talk himself out and get ready to cast a ballot Of coarse , after election some of the aldermen probably will change their views . They then may be willing to rote at onto on ? any ordinance presented . The aldermen are human , like most persons , and like a little attention , and not one of them was found who would admit that he had been requested to vote for the ordinance . On the other hand , there has been unusually little criticism of the ordinance , considering its Importance , to the present time . The alderman could not be found who said ho had been Personally asked to vote against the measure . Many new candidates for aldermen are reported to have made speeches against the ordinance , They have attempted to make it an Issue in the council ca.mpaign ; but it is reasonably certain that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ termers have a chance to vote in ? the city council . They will not take their seats until after the second aidermanic election , April 7. except in the ease of vacanel.es caused by three resignations . Urge Wide Publleity . The council local transportation committee and the mayor favor a wide dissemination of information regarding the ordinance . Tho committee has asked , tbht 25,000 copies of the ordinance he printed and distributed , and a synopsis of the ordinance has been Prepared with maps . How many copies of this will be printed has not been decided . . Copies of the completed ordinance have been promised tomorrow .                     