@@685194

txt In the annual report for its thirtyseventh year , ended Sept. 30 last , made public yesterday , the Charity Organization Society argues against a too liberal official policy in allowing the conversion of old houses into tenements and dwell= inga in the hope of lowering rents for the poor . The poor " always have ve been condemned to live in old houses , " the report says , and , though new houses still are beyond their purses. despite wage increases , " we should prevent the . erection of houses that are unsafe , insanitary , lacking the decencies of life ; but preventive measures alone do not increase the number of rooms for rent . The society 's Tenement House Committee is considering the problem presented by old dwellings , the report says , and " the fact that there is no adequate supervision of houses not classed by the law as tenement houses . " After telling of resistance in the last session of the Legislature , without any attempt to be technical , of efforts to cheapen the alteration of old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength by the scarcity of rentable space , " and the final passage of a bill which made such adaptations somewhat cheaper withOut abandoning the maintenance of suitable standards , the report continues : " Out of the discussion of these measures there came a clear knowledge of the very great need of better control of old dwelling houses , designed for occupancy by a single family , now used as boarding houses and lodging houses , or after alteration used as alleged nonhousekeeping apartments . Recently more than 2,000 old dwelling houses in Manhattan alone have been converted into eight suites of rooms for occupancy by eight families . The plans show no kitchen and the houses are therefore passed upon by the Superintendent of Buildings and are not submitted to the Tenement House Department . It is common knowledge that many of these families do , in fact , cook upon the premises ari 'd that , in fact , the houses are within the jurisdiction of the Tenement House Department . So far it has been impracticable for the Tenement House Department to assume and exercise that jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congestion to avoid high rent . Nothing could be further from the truth . There are various ways in which congestion can be preveuted . The zoning ordinance might be amended so as to limit the cubical contents of buildings per square foot of area of ground . In at least three-quarters of the area of the City of New York no building for human . habitation should be allowed to cover " more than 45 per cent . of the land . " Holds Gasoline a Sunday Necessity , HUNTINGTON , W. Va. , April ti.  - -  Gasoline is as necessary for an automobile as feed for a horse . ruled Magistrate I Samuel Wright , in discharging two Huntington garage owners who were charged with having violated the Sunday closing law . The defendants were arrested Sunday on orders of Mayor C. W. Campbell . who charged that they had sold gasoline to motorists in violation of the " blue law . " ? ' ?                     