@@687765

txt By engagin ; lawyers and former members of the House of Representatives familiar with previous war 4ontract investigations , Attorney General Daugherty announced tonight that the work of organization of the War Contracts Division of the Department of Justice has progressed ' to such an extent that it would be ready Monday to present war fraud cases to the extra Federal Grand Jury of the District of Columbia , created by a special act of Congress this week. , " Faith , hope and charity are three great virtues , but the greatest of all is patience , " the Attorney General said this morning in response to questions whether the recent attacks in Congress upon the Department of Justice were discussed at today 's Cabinet meeting . Organization of the War Contracts Division will follow the lines . of the Graham Congressional Committee that investigated the war-time Government contracts two years ago . The selection was announced tonight of Meier Steinbrink , of New York , assistant to Charles Evans Hughes in the aircraft inquiry , to have . charge of the aircraft branch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representatiye -c Roy . Reavia , whose appointment was announced yesterday , will have charge " of Government cases involving , Quartermaster Corps contracts , while former Representative 1oseoe C. liacCulloch Will be in clia.rge'of cases connected with camps and cantonments , it is understood . Mr.- Daugherty stated that the heads of each department would haVe  --  Compiete direction of their field , while the Attorney General and ( guy D. Goff , assistant to the Attorney General , would be in direct charge of the war contracts division . By Wednesday , Mr. Daugherty said , the appointments of twenty other lawyers will be announced . Statement Prom Department , The following statement was issued at the Department of Justice tonight : Attbrney : General Harry ? M. Daugh , erty announced today his views in connection with the prosecution of the war contracts cases . He stated  --  in this connection that he had asked Meier Steinbrink , ohe . of the most prominent lawyers of New York City , to become one of the principal assistants to the Attorney General in the prosecution of these cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steinbrink is an able lawyer , and . assisted Charles E. Hughes in the aircraft inquiry conducted in 1918 . Mr. Hughes has just expressed his complete confidence in him . He was selected by the Attorney General because of his exceptional ability and his complete familiarity with the whole subject of aviation contracts during the war . He was afterward employed as special counsel for the sub-committee of the Graham committee , of which James A. Freer of Wisconsin was Chairman , which was in charge of the'aircraft investigation made by the House of Representatives . He assisted in the preparation of this phase of the investigation . When John D. Ryan was on the witness stand he participated in the conduct of the examination . - ) When the force which , the Attorney General is organizing has been completed he will have under his direction one of the most notable law firms ever created in the United- States , composed of the best-legal talent.obtainable . Virtually all the men have particular ex- perience in the precise work upon which they will now engage as special counsel for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Justice that the entire force of lawyers will co-operate . with a view to the coordination of their activities , in conferences to be held from time to time as may be necessary . Each group will have the benefit of the counsel and - advice of all the other groups and there will be constant and helpful liaison between the Department of Justice as the cases are perfected and carried to their conclusion . How Work Will Be Divided . " The new war contracts division , organized under the personal direction , of the Attorney General , will probably ' be ready to function on Monday . Although the personnel has not yet been completed , the Attorney General now has in mind quite definitely the names of all principal assistants and many of the other assistants who will help these in the preparation of the Government 's cases . Five lawyers of recognized standing and exceptional ability will be given full charge under the direction of the Attorney General of all cases growing out of war contracts . The work will be divided practically as it was by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division was a logical one . It resulted in an orderly examination into the evidence along certain definite lines and for this reason the testimony taken by the five subcommittees of the House committee has been most helpful in the investigating work already done by the department . Thus the basis of the labor which the department is now called upon to perform has already been firmly established , and this will greatly facilitate the work of the trial lawyers in making ready the cases for Grand Jury presentation . " The work of the ' war contracts division will naturally fall under the headings , aviation , camps and cantonments , foreign expenditure , quartermaster corps and ordnance . The special attorney best qualified to deal with each particular branch of this work will be placed in direct charge of the particular sub-division to which he may be assigned . There will be five of these principal attorneys , each having an assistant of special ability and fitness fere the work . Under this system there Will be a direct centralization of , authority and the Attorney General *ill be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every development in every division . " In announcing this plan , Attorney General Daugherty said : " In addition to the force that has been operating in connection ' with socalled war contract cases , as disclosed by the communication of the Attorney General addressed to the President , dated May 9 , 1922 , it is proposed to carry out the following plan : There will be organized a separate division , known as the War Contracts Division , under the personal direction of the Attorney General and the Assistant to the Attorney General . Guy D. Goff . This division is the  --  outgrowth of the existing organization within the Department of Justice which has been investigating and ' - carrying on the war contracts work . It is now necessary , due to the expansion of the existing force , to find independent quarters where these special counsel can carry on their work independently of the Department of Justice routine . It has been my endeavor to obtain quarters for these gentlemen in the War Risk Insurance Bureau Building , where they may be free ' to- devote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Five lawyers of recognized ability p.m to be given full charge under the direction of the Attorney General of all - cases growing ' out of war contracts . " ' The work will be divided practically as it was by the Select Commitfee on Expenditures in the - War Department of the House of Representatives . That division was a logical one and . is now regarded as feasible for this ' work for the reason that the testimony taken by the five subcommittees has been used as -5 . basis of much of their investigating work already done by the department . " The jurisdiction of these several subcommittees. was .. as- follows : No ; 1 . Aviation ; - - No. 2 , Caning and Cantonments ? No. 3 , Foreign Expenditures ; No. 4 , Quartermaster Corps ; No. 5 , Ordnance . Each of , the five lawyers in direct charge will also have an associate of special ability and fitness for this work , and in addition thereto will be given such other assistance as is deemed necessary , including attorneys , investigators and accountants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have charge of a particular part of the work as stated , it is proposed that the entire force of lawyers shall co-operate and work " together as a body . To this end , general conferences will be held from time to time , so that the opinions of the entire force can be secured upon doubtful and difficult questions as they arise . In this manner each group will have the benefit of the counsel and advice of the others whenever de , sired . " A point of Contact on the war fraud cases will be established between the Department of Justice and Senators and members of the House of Representatives and such other persons as may have facts to bring to the attention of this division , so that all complaints and all cases where fraud is alleged to have been perpetrated , or in which the Government is claimed to be entitled to recovery will be given consideration . ? - It is the purpose of the department that these war fraud cases be cleaned up just as speedily as possible , consistent with the interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Though always having in mind the necessity of protecting the innocent , as well as punishing the guilty , action will be taken by the department in all cases , where upon the evidence there appears to be reasonable ground for conviction ' in criminal cases or recovery of money in civil cases . In all such cases the Grand Jury investigations or the prosecution of civil suits for recovery will be pressed with all speed ; where cases appear hopeless , and do not present likelihood of conviction or recovery , opinions will be filed and such cases terminated promptly . " ' In addition to the five principal attorneys above mentioned , the scope of whose work will correspond with the subdivisions of the Graham committee , there will be other principal attorneys , just as eminent and well known , who will have charge of other matters just as important as those mentioned . This number may reach twenty or more . I am in hopes of being about to make an important announcement on Wednesday on a very distinguished man whose services I am hopeful of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who announced his decision to resign in i order to become associated with the Department of Justice in the prosecution of war fraud cases , discussing his plans today , said : " My decision to resign from Congress and accept the position of Special-Assistant Attorney General to assist in the prosecution of war frauds was not impulsive , nor was it reached without due consideration . My interest in these prosecutions dates back to the two years I was engaged in investigating expenditures in the War Department and the disclosures then made . " The matter has been the subject of discussion between the Attorney General end myself in many conferences during the.past six weeks , . and I have accepted the place at the solicitation of . Mr. Daugherty. who is good enough to believe that I am equinped to be of some service in the effort about to be made to bring these malefactors to justice . I have no illusions regarding the difficulties to be encountered . No crook outside ever robbed the Government without tive assistance of some crook on the inside . Consequently , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the trail of the serpent both devious and difficult . Any incidental , criticism directed at those responsible for the prosecution should be accepted by an impatient public with full knowledge of the obstacles which must be overcome . "                     