@@690481

txt Transit and Public Service Commissions Adjourn Until Sept. 10 Despite Protests . DELAY OPPOSED  - -  BY CITY ; : ; " Time Is Needed to Study the Exhibits Already Entered , Says Chairman Prendergast . Despite the vigorous protests of As , sistant Corporation Counsel Vincent Victory , representing the city , and other attorneys representing the army of Long Island commuters , the joint hearing ha ' gun by the Transit Commission and the Public Service Commission on the railroad 's proposed 20 per cent . Inciease in fares was adjourned yesterday until Sept. 10 next . The entire morning session was taken up by Alfred Gardner , counsel for the road , in putting into the record certain schedules showing operating costs , revenues and other financial details of ad ' ministration , the accuracy of ' which was challenged by opposing counsel . Attorneys for the commuters also continuel to emphasize their protests against , tho admission in evidence of the valuation placed upon the road 's property by the Interstate Commerce Commission as a basis for its statistical deductions , tile issue which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Immediately following the noon recess , Chairman William A. Prendergast , who had been in conference with the members of the two commissions , announced that they must refuse to accept this valuation unless the corporation should fortify it with further proof . Mr. Prendergast said , in part : " The commissions have considered a number of questions which have arisen in this case , particularly the questions of the valuation submitted yesterday by the company and the question of adjournment for the purpose of affording all interested a chance to examine the exhibits and investigate them . I desire to announce on behalf of the commissions that , as far as this valuation is concerned , it is their decision that the commissiond will not be prepared to accept this valuation unless the company will offer proof of it . We are desirious of giving the company an opportunity to do that , and , with that end in view , awl also with the idea of giving the commuters and the commissions ' staffs a chance to examine the exhibits put in today and investigate them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sept. 10 . " At that time they , will expect that the company will be prepared to put on its witnesses , proving the valuation thal it is offering in this case , and they win expect that the representatives of the commuters and the City of New York and the commissions ' representatives will be prepared to cross-examine the witness so far put on by the company . Mr. Rawson , and to offer any testimony that they may desire to offer on these subjects , on all matters except valuation , because , of course , until the cowpany puts in proof the question of valuation is held in the air . " I am authorized to say I am sure that if in respect to any important points that may develop the represents= Lives of the commissions or the city 0.1-sire further time , and it seems reasonable to grant it , the commissions , of course , will be entirely prepared to meet that situation in a way to serve the interests of all concerned . " George - Chairman of the Transit Commission , announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Long Island Railroa.1 at the Pennsylvania Station would be resumed on Sept. 3 in the offices of the Transit Commission , at 270 Madison Avenue . This hearing was in progress when the Long Island Railroad made application for its 20 per cent . rate increase . Commissioner said the receipt of the latter application had delayed the termination of the rental hearing , anti , . though the rental question entered into the proposed Increase , the commission deemed it best that separate hearings be held . PRAISES THE DAWES PLAN . Dr. Jenks Says It Would Help Europe Out of a Hole . Dr. Jeremiah W. Jenks , a research professor in New York University , praised the Dawes plan in a talk which he gave yesterday at a luncheon held by the Kiwanis Club at the Hotel . " Here is our opportunity , " he stated , " to go in there with our capital , intelligence and unselfish spirit to help pull Europe out of the hole and profit by it . " Dr. Jenks has spent much of his time during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Europe , and was in Berlin and Paris while the Dawes committee was at work . He emphasized the fact that Europe trusted America because this country had no political motives , and he related how he had been told during his last visit in Europe that the Europeans much preferred American credits because the American business men and the bankers were square and the Government would not take any political advantage , He said the American business men could do their part In bringing peace to the world not only by buying the bonds , as the security lie said would be good , but by buying stock in European business and taking an active part . He asserted he had talked over this method with a well-known Wall Street banker , whom he quoted as saying that in this respect this country had followed England and the Dutch lead . whereas much larger profits could be made by getting ' into the actual business as a stockholder . He described the German industrial , . plants and the railroads as in excellent condition , but short on working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the franc . He spoke of the bitter feeling he found in Germany against France , and yet to his surprise he said he found that the Germans would rather be with France than with England . He said the Germans told him they knew where France stood , but they were not so sure of England . Raymond J. Comyns introduced Dr. Jenks , and L. A. Coleman , Vice President of the club , presided . YONKERS FIGHTS SOFT COAL Smoke Nuisance Cause : the Health Commissioner to Act . Complaints that the soft coal smoke nuisance is making Yonkers resemble Pittsburgh , " e-specially the Glenwood residential section , impelled Health Commissioner Clarence Buckmaster to start a crusade yesterday to enforce the law . The remonstrants felt the limit was reached when a contractor on the new telephone building in the heart of the . business section planted ? a hoisting engine in the centre of Main . Street and flooded the neighborhood with dense smoke . Commissioner Buckmaster ordered health inspectors and the police to proceed against the cqntractor and engineer . Glenwood residents are starting petitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central 's switching engines from burning soft coal . T1i. smoke compels them to keep windOWA closed in the hot weather .                     