@@688568

txt Informal announcement was made at the White House today that " President Harding had taken up personally the question of reinstating the division and section chiefs of the Bureau of Engraving ana Printing , who were dismissed last March " for the good of the service " under circumstances of much mystery . ' In connection with the announcement it was disclosed that while the President thought there might have been some petty dishonesty in the bureau , he was now convinced that there had been no conspiracy to defraud the Government through the duplication of war bonds . The President , it was said , had reached the conclusion , as a result of an investigation , that the durdicatione were clue mainly to mechanical errors and carelessness . Some of the dismissed employes have already been reinstated in the Government service . bu tat salaries lower than they were receiving in the Bureaul of Engraving and Printing . Of the 29 employes dismissed . all but one are expected to obtain reinstatement . A sensation was created when the dismissals were announced on March 31 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bureau . James L. Wilmeth. and the heads of nearly all the mechanical divisions and sections of the establishment , where the Government prints its paper money , bonds , postage ' and internal revenue stamps , and liquor permits . Attacks Made in Congress . No explanation was given at the time of this action . The most that was made known officially was that a serious condition of affairs had been discovered which the Government could not disclose for important reasons . Charges were made in Congress at the time that the dismissals were due to partisan considerations . It was alleged that the Administration had made the dismissals in order to provide more places for Republicans . Administration officials answered this with the statement that twenty of the twenty-nine persons dismissed were Republicans . It came out subsequently that the dismissals were the result of the discovery that there had been a wholesale duplication of Government bonds printed by the bureau . The supposition of the Government was that these duplicates were taken from the bureau and sold for private gain . In refusing to give any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if their suspicions became known there would be a panic in the bond market and Government securities would suffer . The discovery that there had been bond duplications came about through the return of ieterest coupons for redemption . It was apparent that the duplications were considerable . When the facts were laid before President Harding he ordered an investigation by the Department of Justice . The circumstances were held to indicate a conspiracy in the bureau , and , with the object of conducting the investigation better , a clean sweep of all the chiefs of mechanical divisions and sections was determined upon . Since the wholesale dismissals were made in March the investigation has been going on . It is still in progress , but the evidence so far obtained convinced the President that an injustice had been done . Hundreds of Sonde Duplicated . The evidence shows that there were hundreds of duplications of bonds with the attached interest coupons . What appears to have been shown by the investigation is that ignorance in operating numbering machines on the part of new employes , with some carelessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was explained today at the White House that there had been instances where through the careless arrangement of a numbering machine two sets of bonds bearing the same numbers had been issued , while the surplus was reduced by instances of the machines not recording the numbers of certain series . So far , , it was said , there was nothing to indicate that the Government had suffered any loss . Where there has been a duplicate of a bond the coupons of both the original and the duplicate have been redeemed . The interest payments thus far have , indicated that there has been no excess of interest called for , which would go to show that while there have been hundreds of dpulications. the Government has received payment for all bonds on which interest has been paid . The Government is not yet ready to tell the whole story of what happened in the Bureau of Engraving and Printin but there was a promise at the Ite House today that the details would be made known shortly . News that some of the dismissed employes had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which Senator Caraway took a leading part . He accused officials of the Harding Administration of having deceived the President into believing that there was wholesale corruption in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing , in order that their party henchmen would be appointed ' to fill the places of dismissed employes . Today at the White House it was acknowledged that President Harding had been responsible for the reinstatement of some of the dismissed employes and that he expected within a few days to have evidence upon which to base orders for the ' reinstatement of most of the others . Harding Wants to Eight Wrong . According to a . White House spokesman , the President had geen greatly alarmed over the situation in the bureau as it was reported to him last March , when he ordered the wholesale discharge of the bureau 's principal officers . He was now anxious , it was said , to right any wrong that had been done to the discharged employes , and was making a personal matter of the arrangements to bring them back into the Government service and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil service laws which they had lost- through the dismissOs . Some of the dismissed officials have obtained positions at large salaries with private concerns engaged in expert engraving and printing . Those who have been restored to the Government service so far are Miss Elizabeth Scott , who was chief of the packing division ; Mrs. Margaret S. Kerfoot . who was chief of the numbering division , and Miss Nellie Wilding , who was ... thief of the stamp perforating division . Mrs. Kerfoot had been in the Treasury service for thirty-nine years at the time of her dismissal and was receiving $2,500 salary . She is now receiving $1,200 and a bonus . Miss Scot , and Miss Wilding received each $2,000 salary in the Bureau of Engraving and Printirng . Each is now receiving $1,100 salary and a bonus .                     