@@696103

txt The test of the Hoover Administration will come in the extra session of the new Congress , which will begin tomorrow , at the President 's call . On the eve of its assembling , it is evident that the Democrats are prepared to adopt a vigorous attitude of opposition toward the President 's desire to confine legislation to farm relief and limited tariff revision and a few less important matters . The general impression is that the prohibition question will have very thorough discussion . There is no evidence , however , of the adoption of any concerted program or policy of procedure by the Democrats such as Alfred E. Smith advised his partisans in Congress to frame and prosecute as a foundation for a platform of principles . In this apparent lack of concert among the opposition , President Hoover and the Republican majority contingents in the Senate and House have an advantage in pressing for action on the measures they will bring forward . No doubt exists , however , that as the extra session progresses , Democratic party lines will be stiffer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a party organization designed to appeal to the country in the Congressional elections of 1930 . Hoover 's Attitude Has Won Favor . In one thing the President has disappointed his critics and thereby won a good standing throughout Congress as the extra session is about to start . It has been made clear by him to the Republican Party leaders that he has no intention of using the " big stick . " He is not to take advantage of the power conferred on him by the tremendous vote he received last November to seek to impose his will on the Congress . On the contrary , his expressed purpose is to draw a distinct line between the functions of the executive and legislative branches of the government , holding himself to the constitutional limitations imposed on the President , and leaving Congress to carry on the functions accorded to it by the Constitution . During last year 's spirited political campaign , Mr. Hoover was subjected to the criticism that he was a man who insisted always in having his own way and would not be inclined to telerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place in the six weeks since he has lived in the White House , and the evidence furnished by the expressions of himself and those who are acquainted with his views , would go to show that his demeanor will be to the contrary . He intends to deal with the majority leaders in Congress and chairmen of the Senate and House committees whenever problems growing out of Executive recommendation and Congressional reaction are preeented ; but from what is known of his attitude , the initiative must be tal:en by those in a position to epeea for the legislative branch if the Preside : t is to be brought into I he picture . Assurance is plentiful that he has no thought of cracking oe whip over the heads of Congress in. order to persuade it to do his bidTo Let Congress Handle Itself . It is apparent that the President cis , Lires to be on the best of terms with Congress and that he subscribes fully to its right to transact its business ill its own way . Judging by what is known of the President 's frame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to investigate freely . and he has no deeire to interfere with that right in applieetion to the conduct o , his own branch of the government . The critical appraisement of the President with reference to his aileg:ed insistence on having bis own ? ? ay in carrying forward policies favored by him does not appear to he borne out by the history of his relations with Congress during the period of more than seven years in which he served as Secretary of Commerce . He was rather successful . it is asserted in his behalf . in obtainino the enactment of legislation in which he was interested . One of the reasons being assigned ( or this success is that he never : : ought to advance his own political fortunes by endeavoring to have his : , ; Wirt : att. , - .. clled to executive meas. - oreg on this assumption . It was Mr. Hoover 's practice , according to what is being said , to let the Senator or Representative who sponsored one of his legislative proposals get full credit for its successful adoption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were no " Hoover bills " or " Hoover resolutions . " Knowledge a the psychology of Congress makes it clear that this was an excellent course to follow . Congress Must Consult President . As President , Mr. Hoover will be obliged to make a more public disclosure of his recommendations ; but everything that has come to light in the past six weeks tends to show that if Congress gets into a jam through opposition to his wishes , its spokesmen must come to him with proposals that he help straighten out the trouble and not expect him to take a militant attitude in behalf of his desire . For that matter , his plan is to confine his participation , when invited to participate , to consulting with the recognized spokesmen of the Senate and House , such as committee chairmen ; not to send any admonitory word or resort to an ultimatum to the whole Congress or to the opposing contingent , but to seek to help work out the particular problem through a procedure based on mutual respect for the views of all concerned . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his term with the chances of success distinctly in his favor . He has another marked advantage in the prestige of the overwhelming victory he received at the polls , which advantage affects not only those of his own party but many of the opposition party . As for the ingrained opposition of the Republican insurgent element . he is in much better position than his predecessor . In spite of the powerful influence of Senator Norris of Nebraska , recognized leader of the insurgent group in the Senate , who declared for the election of former Governor Smith as President , Mr. Hoover carried the Senator 's State . Much the carne thing happened in Wisconsin . horns of Republican insurgency . senator Blaine came out for Smith and assisted in the organization of " Smith Progressive Republican " clubs . Young Senator La Follette , Mr. Elaine 's colleague , while he did not openly espouse Governor Smith 's cause , made it apparent that he preferred Smith to hoover . Eat Wisconsin gave its electorial vote to Hoover . Some of ' First Extra Session Since 1922 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Seventy-first Congress , elected last November , will convene tomorrow at the call of President Hoover . It will be the first extraordinary session of Congress since 1922 , and it was called in compliance with a promise made by Mr. Hoover in the closing days of the national campaign . Tomorrow and Tuesday will be devoted to the usual opening formalities and it will be Wednesday before actual business gets under way . I After the induction of sixty-eight new members in the House and nine in the Senate , mostly Republicans , Congress tomorrow will quit with the appointment of committees to notify the President that it is in session . On Tuesday the first message of Mr. Hoover to Congress will be read . The farm relief bill will receive first call in both the Senate and House . ? Leaders hope to get this legislation on the statute books by June 1 , and full attention then will be given to the controversial tariff problem , the first time this subject has come forward since the present act was written in 1922 . Unlike the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either branch over organization . The Senate already has completed its election of officers , but its committees remain to be filled . There is considerable rivalry for some of the places on the major committees and these posts will be assigned probably by Wednesday . The only pending investigation in the Senate comes under the jurisdiction of the Judiciary Committee . In response to the resolution of Senator , Democrat , of Tennessee , adopted by the Senate on March 5 , the committee will convene immediately to consider the right of Secretary Mellon to continue in office . The resolution , adopted without much debate and without a rollcall , asks the committee to determine whether a Cabinet officer may carry on from one administration to another without reconsidera , tiou. of his nomination by the Senate , and also whether Mr. Mellon has a right to hold office in the face of an old statute forbidding the Secretary of the Treasury to be interested in trade or commerce .. the most pronounced Republican insurgents now in the Senate supported his candidacy for President . In the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For the first time in years , the Senate has a clear majority of Republican regulars . Few Presidents have started their terms with better support in Congress .                     