@@688964

txt MAXIM GORECY Ought An Optimistic to know a lot about View Russia and the Rusof Bolshevism. slans . When , therefore , he says that " Bolshevism is only a skin disease , " the statement deserves consideration , although for distant diagnosticians the Bolshevist infection does Seem " to be something more than superficial . Gossv used to be more than a little " red " himself , and the probability is that even now he has not been bleached quite white by his ' hard experiences , but he has had enough of a regime that makes no provision for the support of " intellectuals " like himself , and no doubt that failure is what has forced him to give up the cause of communism as hopeless and to seek relief from it by flight into exile . We have heard , however , too many prophecies of a speedy , an immediate . end of the Soviet Government to put much confidence ki his addition to the number . Such predictions are usually little more than the expression of wishes . and those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a communistic basis ignore the fact that what is impossible for Occidentals may be practicable with Orientals , which , in a way , the mass of the Russians are . A correspondent of This Outrage The Evening Post Must calls attention to a . Stoppedshocking violation of Be Connecticut law ? a violation which the prosecuting officials of that State as yet have made no attempt to prevent , though their duty to take vigorous and stern action is obvious . As everybody in this Part of the country knows , the lawmakers of Connecticut , in their wisdom , not only refused to approve of-daylight saving this year , but manifested a vehement disapproval of it by passing a statute penalizing by heavy fine anybody who in a public place exhibits a ' clock running ' on any other than Eastern standard . time . This noble decree has been obeyed by the great majority of the State 's residents , but the correspondent , patting in the form of a  --  guestion what evidently is knowledge , asks if ' Yale University , in its astronomical department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admirable science a display both vicious and Icriminal of clocks that keep Greenwich or siderial time . if such defiance of law as that is going on at Yale , it immediately should be called to the attention of BRYAN as illustrating anew and strikingly the truth of what he has been saying about I colleges as demoralizers and corrupters of our youth . Setting clocks illegally has close relation to the evil doctrine of evolution . and he need not hesitate for a moment to say  --  if he ever hesi - ta.ted to say anything  --  that the teachers of . science . falsely so called , are just those who would be expected to attempt the improvement of " Gon 's time . " Keen pain , seems to He Simply have been Inflicted on Wo n't Be the editor of The Patronized . Jackson ( miss . ) News by his recent discovery in TI-TE TIMES of an account of the meeting here of an organization calling itself the Southern Woman 's Educational Alliance and planning to raise money for use in " popularizing higher education among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been a mild way of expressing the emotions felt by the Mississippi man as he read this piece of news , and naturally , being a Mississippi man , he proceeded to express the emotions in ways not mild . No " campaign " was needed , he declared , to create among Southern women appreciation of higher education or opportunities for gaining it . They were getting such education long before institutions for this purpose existed in the North , and " our mothers and grandmothers were ' being educated in splendid ante-bellum colleges when the mothers and grandmothers of some who seek to patronize us were taking in washing for a living . " Worse was to follow : ihe plain truth of the matter is that we are getting dog-goned tired of - being exploited as objects of charity . of being Isolated like germs in a laboratory , and our so-called special needs and characteristics studied ? and catalogued for the amusement and diversion of the Idle rich in the North who do not know what to do with their money . One of these days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raising a fund of a million or so to conduct a propaganda campaign against cigarette smoking , gin drinking , gambling and Jazz dancing among the women who reside on Fifth and Madison Avenues in New York . Probably the SouthNortherners ern editor is not Are quite so angry as he Not So Proud . pretends to be . Perhaps the announced purposes of the organization whose existence irritates him could have been put more tactfully , but he should have seen that there are a good many Southern women among its members , and should have realized that they did not intend to be offensive or even " superior . " In his heart he knows that none of these kind women is in. need of the reformations he suggests , and since when has it become necessary . or even expedient , for any part of the country to resent or reject anybody 's assistance in the matter of providing educational facilities ? There is nat . one Northern State that feels humiliated by having accepted aid of that sort  --  as every one of them has  --  or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can get . By this time the Mississippi man probably has come to view his effusion , as funny . rather than fierce , and , not improbably , he has notified the objects of his hasty denunciations that he did n't mean more than half of what he wrote about them . It is a peculiarity of educational gifts that they are of general , nation ' - wide advantage , and not merely for the benefit of those whom they enable to go to school or college . That Is why the young men and women in such institutions do not feel themselves " objects of charity , " though not one of them , even in the mbst expensive , fully pays his way or hers while there .                     