@@695178

txt TO SUCCEED GOV . SMITH . Justice Crain Suggested as Candidate for Gubernatorial Honors . To the Editor of The New York Times : Now that Governor Smith has been nominated the question of his successor at Albany naturally engages attention . ' I would venture to suggest the name of Justice T. C. T. Crain as an excellent candidate . At the expiration of his term of office as Judge of the Court of General Sessions , ' to which he was elected in 1906 , Judge Crain was unanimously renominated by both the Republican and Democratic Parties and served his second term till appointed by Governor Smith as commissioner for the revision and codification of the laws of this State . It was while acting in this capacity that he was appointed a Justice of the Supreme Court , and in the following election he ran ahead of his ticket by several thousand . As Judge of General Sessions he showed a humane and modern spirit , giving to the cases the careful and personal consideration which one hopes for on the bench but does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor McClellan , his first , act was to gather around him a group of advisers ' thoroughly acquainted with tenement conditions . This is typical of his mental attitude , which is to study every problem presented to him in the light of available knowledge and experience . This temper is the most valuable any executive can have . Of an old and well-known up-State family , with cordial relations with Roman Catholics , Jews and Protestants  --  himself a vestryman in an Episcopal church  --  with an unusually wide acquaintanceship among public school . teachers and pupils , in fact all classes and groups of this city and other parts of the State , Justice Crain has undoubtedly a phenomenal popularity . His European education , which enables him to address German , Italian and French speaking groups , has endeared him to an unusually large body of voters in this cosmopolitan city . It is as honorary President and as one of the organizers of the United Neighborhood Houses of New York City , the largest group of settlements in the city , that many of us have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been most valuable . He understands these neighborhood problems and has sound common sense in dealing with them . The Judge would make a good Governor . ? In sympathy with the intelligent and masterly plans of our present gifted Governor , he would carry out these policies . And that 's what we need  --  another two years to carry into effect the present program . From the point of view of efficiency , change at this juncture would mean disorganization . MARY KINGSBURY SINIKHOVITCH . New York , June 28 , 1928 . SIR CHARLES STANDS FIRM . Believes What He Said of Us and Did n't Try to " Make Front Pane . " To the Editor of The New York Times : I was very much surprised to note in the Sunday edition of your paper , June 10 issue , that you have inserted a letter by my good friend William H. Rankin with a heading , " Sir Charles Higham Takes Steps to Make Front Page . " Obviously , this hearing will create in the minds of the great public who read your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicity for its own sake , and that the statements which I make are done with an ulterior motive  --  which is quite untrue . The article which I contributed to The Daily Mirror in London was not only the result of my own observations in the United States , but was justified by practically every American I spoke to during my visit there . I did not write the article with any idea of it gaining front-page publicity in The Daily Mirror or anywhere else , but solely because I believe the statements which I made , and that they should be said . Apparently the editor of The Daily Mirror agreed with me and he inserted them . I have never at any time sought front cage or any other publicity , on the editorial side of newspapers , either in your country or my own , or anywhere else for that matter . I say what I think , and if as a result of that it is considered of sufficient news value to appear on the front page , or anywhere else , that must be obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have not one word to withdraw of what I have said , and I am more satisfied than ever , as I write this , that I was correct in my point of view . The article was not written with malice , but with the belief that it does not always pay to flatter one 's friends ; sometimes to tell them the truth is the greatest indication of your good-will . CHARLES F. HIGHAM . London , June 21 , 1928 . Curina the Ill That We Know . To the Editor of The New York Times : The surgeon in removing a malignant growth from , the human body must of necessity cut away soma sound flesh . If the Eighteenth Amendment is ever removed from the body politic , those who desire that result must support candidates who In other respects may stand for things they do not like . People must for the time forget minor evils and unite to cure the prime evil . Ammunition should not be wasted on a fox that occasionally kills a chicken while a man-eating tiger is abroad in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted for fourteen Republican candidates for President will support Governor Smith if he should run on a platform that favors the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . E. Kokomo . Ind. , June 21 , 1028 . J. L. Darrouzet Corrects an Error . To the Editor of The New York Times : My attention has just been called to a dispatch in your paper of June 19 which says that I am a Republican leader in Galveston . There is no question that you refer to me. as I am the only man by that name in Galveston . I have never voted the Republican ticket in my life . I am a Democrat and have been for Alfred E. Smith for President for the last eight years . Every ; body in Texas and in New York who . knows me knows that I sin a Democrat . JOHN DARROUZET . Galveston , Texas , June 30 , 1a : s.                     