@@694212

txt A suit for $100,000 for libel against The Truth Seeker , a New York agnostic and free-thinker weekly , by the Rev. Grant W. Speer , pastor of the Central Christian Church of Toledo , Ohio , and one of the leading clergymen of the denomination in that section , was disclosed in the Supreme Court yesterday when counsel for the clergyman applied to strike out most of the answer of the periodical on the ground that it was not a sufficient defense . The suit is also brought against George E. Macdonald , President and editor of the publication , at 49 Vesey Street . The complaint alleges that the Rev , Mr. Speer has been a clergyman of the Disciples of Christ , or Christian Church , for thirty-six years and for nineteen years has been pastor of the Toledo church , where it is said he has been popular , and has increased the membership from 150 to 700 . He alleges that on Oct. 31 , 1925 , The Truth Seeker published an article referring to the plaintiff in connection with " what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " mentioned him as a " handsome parson , " and said that if a free thinker had acted as the Toledo clergyman did " he would have been denounced . " The plaintiff was also referred to as a " Don Juan . " It is alleged The Truth Seeker also said that persons who wished to assume this role should " join the ranks of our self-appointed moral leaders , the Christian clergymen . " Harmed by Article , He Says . The Rev. Mr. Speer says that he was well and favorably known throughout the brotherhood of the Christian Church in Ohio , New York I and Western Pennsylvania , and that the publication of the article in question was circulated among the persons who knew him and caused them to " shun and avoid the plaintiff as an unworthy character . " The answer which the plaintiff asks the Court to strike out alleges that The Truth Seeker " has an exceedingly small total circulation , and In Ohio and elsewhere it is extremely limited and restricted and confined to non-church members , agnostics , atheists or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be read by any one interested in the plaintiff or any other clergymen . The answer fully denies that Mr. Macdonald had anything to do with the article and says he knew nothing of it until it was called to his attention by the plaintiff 's attorney . The answer alleges that it was composed by Charles Smith , a member of the staff , who got his information from a clipping concerning the clergyman in a Cleveland newspaper based upon a Toledo dispatch . The answer denied that it was published with any malice and said that the defendants would gladly print a retraction if the plaintiff would accept it . It also avers that The Truth Seeker is " dedicated to the pursuit of teaching and spreading light , truth and education ; that it wages                     