@@686643

txt The common stock of the American Stores Co. is one of the few issues on the local Exchange in which a firm tone has been maintained in recent weeks . A short time ago the shares sold . up to GO , the highest figure at which they had ever been traded and 20 points above the price at which they were brought out when the company was organized . They are now selling within a fractional point of this high level . Since the annual report was issued Showing $12.78 a share earned on the common stock in MO the company has furnished no information as to the volume of its business or the amount of profit . It is understood , however , that in the present year to date the quantity of merchandise sold has been running well ahead fo that reported in the correspodning period of 1920 . Last year the company followed the plan of issuing monthly statements of sales . No such Statements have been issued in the present year and it is believed to be the intention of the management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to the fact that the volume of sales expressed in term of dollars in the present year could not furnish a proper basis for comparison with those of 1920 because of the wide reductions in price of food products in the course of the year . It is estimated that the company has cut its prices on an average of approximately 33% . In many instances the reduction has been considerable greater and in some cases not so large but the average for all goods sold is about 33% . The larger volume of merchandise now being handled is due partly to the fact that the company has opened a number of new stores since the first of the year , ' some of these in territories not covered before . Its business is in staple groceries and similar commodities . Thd large volante of goods handled by the company permits it to undersell the smaller storekeeper usually , while a quick turnover of merchandise makes it possible to take full advantage of declining prices in the wholesale market . With a strong corporate organization it has been able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the course of the past year there have been reports of the possibility of an increase in the amount of dividends oil the common stock , Payments are now being made at the rate of $4 a year , the stock having no par value . Payment for the present quarter has been provided for on this basis so that it will be another three months before the question again comes up . According to last year 's report the compnny earned common dividends three times over , but the conservative management is not sympathetic to any too hasty increase in distribution of earnings . If the common dividend is to he increased it is not expected that such increase will he made until next Fall or until business has adjusted itself to lower price levels and more stable conditions .                     