@@693961

txt Berlin is planning with skill and already with some success to make for Germany a great diplomatic opportunity out of the break between London and Moscow . Unquestionably Foreign Minister Stresemann sees for the Reich an important role as gobetween in relations of Russia with the res ' of Europe and such a role would carry large influence and would greatly increase the diplomatic position and prestige of the Wilhelmstrasse . London is no longer in position to have influence at Moscow . Neither France nor Italy desires , if either could , to assume the task of standing between the Soviet Union and the other European powers . But there is Germany , bound to Russia on the one hand by two treaties , and bound on the other hand to England , France , Italy and Belgium by the treaties of Locarno . Hers is a chance to play both ends for the benefit of the middle . This week 's developments at Geneva tend to show that Germany can easily have that task if indeed she has not got it already . Everybody knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ items on the agenda of the meeting of the Council of the League of Nations go . But little has become public of what transpired in the more important private conversations among the foreign ministers there present . Now all informed observers know that for months before London broke suddenly with Moscow there had been , going , on more or less concerted activities on the part of the Gov- ernment of European powers to obtain a better hold on the Communist activities of their countries . and in the back of the minds of Europe 's statesmen there was going'on a consideration of the possibilities of concerted action . - Sir Austen Chamberlain 's hand was forced in London , and the Cabinet1 sent the Russians home somewhat before Sir Austen would have done so had he been the complete master of the situation . Found Concerted Action Impossible . Therefore , at Geneva Sir Austen looked at the possibility of concerted action , or rather of a common position vis-a-vis Moscow . He found he could not get far this time . He found the sentiment in Paris , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 getting stiffer with regard to the Soviet Government ; but he also found that they were not ready to go the lengths London went . In the meanwhile , what should be done ? Naturally London has put its prestige at stake in a fashion which means that Great Britain will be fully justified only by the fail of the Soviet regime or a radical change in its attitude and activities . Therefore , London has a great deal at stake and , incidentally , Iess than ever could London recover a Soviet success against Poland or Rumania . It is quite evident that if Germany could be brought somewhat away from Soviet Russia and somewhere nearer to the attitude of her other associates in the Locarno system , if not to the attitude of England itself , London 's position would be strengthened . Therefore , Sir Austen Chamberlain suggested to Dr. Stresemann that for Us promotion of international quietude Germany had an opportunity to use a modifying influence on Moscow . Germany was ' told that with the treaty of RapaHo and the subsequent facts she was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears that Dr. Stresemann liked the suggestion , for the next day after it was made Count Brockdorff Bautzen , the German Ambassador to Moscow , who was in Berlin , found himself charged t ... tell M. Tchitcherin. who was also in the German capital , that Germany found no pleasure in Moscow 's reprisals for the murder of her envoy at Warsaw , and furthermore , looked askance at the continuance of Communist propaganda on German soil . Stresemann Keeps on the Fence . Then , to keep balanced on the fence , the German diplomat Is said to have reminded the Soviet Foreign Minister of Germany 's pledge to remain neutral in case of a war in which Russia was involved . One . indeed , is reminded by analogy of the role Bismarck used to play between St. Petersburg and Vienna . ' One does not know just what Dr. Stresemann was promised for slightly disassociating himself from M. Tchitcherin . Premier Poincares power in the French Cabinet prevented M. ' Briand 's agreeing to an immediate reduction of forces in the occupied territory . . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But one of the pillars of Germany 's diplomatic program is the regaining of some of her colonies . It is believed that the German Foreign Minister received fair assurances that next September the Reich will be given a member on the Mandates Commission , and certainly , indirectly if not directly , this may be construed as at least a small step toward Germany obtaining a League mandate at some future date . Surely the position is not very clear and the Foreign Ministers have not made public what combinations they sit upon . But it is new , whether be refreshing or not , to observe the representatives of England , France and Italy asking diplomatic favors of Germany . It means that one more step has been taken in Germany 's march , eward diplomatic rehabilitation .                     