@@689680

txt Factional fights prevented both the Senate and the House from making any progress to , day toward the consideration of legisla1 tion . In the Senate the deadlock over the election of a Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Committee continued and in the House business was tied up by a row over the make-up of the Combmittee on Rules . The Senate situation was still further muddled when the Radical-Progressives announced that on Monday they would vote for Senator Howell of Nebraska for Chairman of the Commerce Committee , in the hope that the organization ( or Administration ) Republicans would I join them and thus put an end to the I deadlock . In the event that Mr. Howell is not satisfactory to the organization , it I was said by Senator Norris as spokes ' man for the insurgents , they would be I glad to unite on Senator Couzens of Michigan . Both Howell and Couzens are listed as Radical so far as the railroads are concerned . Howell has voted for La Follette from the first , while Couzens , who has voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was about ready to desert the organization and vote for Senator Smith , the Democratic candidate . Following the announcement of the Radical program the Administration floor leaders said that they would not take the " bait , " but would remain loyal to . Senator Cummins until the end . This program , if adhered to . may , in the event that the Democratic lines hold , bring about the election of Smith ; or , if other Democratic Senators , as is rumored , follow Bruce of Maryland . may elect Cummins . Old Guard in Fighting Mood . Senators Curtis of Kansas and Vatson of Indiana declared that the regu-ii Republicans would stand fast . The Old Guard will never surrender to the ' La Follette men , is the gist of the ** tonight . The Administration Senators , while frankly admitting the seriousness of the situation , still believe that they have a chance to win . This hope is based on the possibility that two or three Democratic Senators may switch to Cummins rather than permit a La Follette victory , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact a victory for La Follette . The program of the Radical-Progressives is to vote for Howell . and in the event that he . fails to make any gains from the Republican ranks , to switch to Senator Couzens ; then , it Couzens also fails to draw recruits , to vote as a unit for Sibith , which will elect the Carolinian , provided that " all the Democrats but Bruce stand hitched , " as one of the Radicals expressed it . It Is the general opinion that on Monday Couzens will definitely align himself with the rebels . If any more Democrats switch to Cummins. it is the belief that Wheeler and Dill , the Radical leaders on the Democratic side . will desert the Democrats and vote with their Republican brothers of the same persuasion . Norris Announces program " It has been universally admitted , both in the Senate and out , " said Senator Norris , " that when the President pro tem. of the Senate is called upon to perform the additional duties of Vice President he should not at the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate . It is an impossibility for one person to hold these two offices under existing conditions and to do justice . to both . -A small group of Senators , therefore , decided that under such conditions they could not support Senator Cummins for Chairman of the Committee on Inter- state Commerce while he was holding the position of President pro tern . In addition to this , another reason , which some Senators consider of greater linportapce still , is that the Esch-Cummins Railroad law has received universal condemnation wherever the question has been an issue before the American pee- , pie , and it is felt that the author and principal defender of that law should not be Chairman of the committee that will hatre the consideration of any prop , osition to repeal or amend it . " The next member on the Interstate Commerce Committee is Senator La Follette. and following the unbroken line of Senatorial precedents , this group therefore voted for Senator La Follette as Chairman of that committee , We homed that the wisdom of our course would be apparent , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans and Democrats . We followed this course until it became apparent that there was no hope of securing other Republican votes , and Progressive Democrats could not vote with us without danger of driving other Democrats into the Cummins camp . " On Wednesday enough of this group voted for Senator Smith , the ranking Democratic member of the Interstate Commerce Committee , to elect him , but as soon as this occurred it was discovered that party regularity had no force in fact when it became necessary to block an attempt to overthrow the control of the Old Guard . Up to this time this small group of Senators had strictly adhered to the unbroken rule that in selecting Chairmen of committees seniority of service should prevail . Regulars Send an Emissary . " Since the balloting of Wednesday we have been approached by an emissary of the so-called regular Republicans , and the proposition has been made to tie that in selecting the Chairman of this committee the rule of seniority should be overthrown and a selection for Chairman be made from other members of the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate or on the committee . " In order to break the deadlock , therefore . we have decided to follow this suggestion , end when the balloting is resumed next Monday we expect to cast our votes for Senator Howell , a member of the Interstate Commerce Committee . with the hope that our effort of compromise will be accepted by our associates . U Senator Couzetts is more satisfactory than Senator Howell we will be glad to unite on him . " The emissary of the organization Republicans referred to by Senator Norris is said to have been Senator Gooding of Idaho , who in the last Congress was the spokesman of the so-called farm high ? tariff bloc . The names salt ) . mitted to the Radicals as candidates who might prove aecepiable as substitutes for Crimmins were : of Connecticut . Watson of Indiana . Fernald of Maine and aakina of West ' Virginia , or perhaps Gooding himself , wha is also a member of the cc:ninnies . The reply of the Radicals was to put forward Howell as first and Couzens as second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold for Smith . However . there are unmistakable signs of nervousness in the Democratic ranks . and the report persists that at least two Democratic Senators , one from the Northeast and the other from the south . may join Bruce and thus save the Chairhianehip for Cummins . " We shall see what happens on Monday , " said Senator Wheeler tonight . " and until then I shall have nothing more to say . "                     