@@691438

txt A program which its sponsors contend would enable the United States to take a measurable part in the activities of the League of Nations without the express authority of the Senate was submitted to Secretary Kellogg today in behalf of the League of Nations Non-Partisan Association . Regular American membership on a number of-the committees and commis'sions of the League was strongly urged on the Secretary of State , with the suggestion that such participation would not bind thisoGovernment " and does not seem to call for legislation by Congress . " The program offered at today 's conference in the State Department comprises a group of recommendations presented in connection with the association 's work this year . The outstanding recommendations brought to Mr. Kellogg 's attention were : American adherence to the Permanent Court of International Justice . Registration of United States treaties with the Secretariat of the League of Nations . Permanent membership on certain League committees and commissions . American ratification of certain draft treaties vital to this country . Re , fticipation in the efforts to outlaw war . The recommendations were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 . Hudson , Professor of In ? t " rnational Law at Harvard . With Professor Hudson were these members of the association 's committee : Charles H. Strong , Secretary of the Bar Association of New YorX City , and acting President of the Council of the association in the absence of George W. Wickersham ; Bishop Wi:liarn of the Methodist Episcopal Church ; Major General Henry T. Alien ; Mrs. Kate Trenholm Abrams ; Mrs. Philip North Moore , President of the National Council of Women ; Theodore Marburg , former Minister to Belgium ; Mrs. Frank Day Tuttle . Chairman of the Greater New York Branch , League of Nations Non-Partisan Association ; Everett Colby , Chairman of the Executivo Committee of the association , and Charles C. Bauer . Executive Director of the association . No Substitute for the One League . The memorial presented to Secretary Kellogg by Professor Hudson in behalf of the association stated that " there is and can be but one League of Nations , " and continued : " The growth of the League 's membership from forty-two nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world-wide support which is being given to the League today . It seems possible to hope that further approaches to universality of membership will be made during the current year . " Nowhere in the world , we believe , is any substitute being talked about today . and nowhere is there any talk of abandoning the experiment which has been begun . The record of the past five years  --  a record which is an open book for all to read who will  --  serves today as the basis of the League 's certain future . .4 " With so many States of the world following this method of cooperation which we call the League of Nations . and maintaining machinery to make that cooperation continuous and effective , we think that no nation can hold aloof without serious loss to itself and without neglect of Its opportunity to safeguard the future peace . " Cites World Court Achievements . In his plea for American adherence to the World Court , Professor Hudson said : " This association supports the proposal of President Coolidge that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Justice on the conditions and understandings suggested by Secretary Hughes and added to by President Cool , idge . That Court now has a record of three years ' achievement . It has handed down five judgments and ten advisory opinions , and two cases are now pending before it . " In time its work should rejuvenate I our existing international law , and this association deems it inevitable that . in line with a policy which has been pursued by our Government for a generation , the United States will give its support to maintaining this established court . " Professor Hudson explained that the Non-Partisan Association is organized " for the purpose of an independent , nonpartisan cultivation of such a public opinion as will induce the present Administration , or if not this the next one , to enter the League of Nations on such terms as to such Administration may seem wise , provided only that they be consistent with our Constitution and consonant with the dignity and honor , the moral resposibility and power of our Republic . " He declared that the association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the belief that it is " inevitable that the United States will eventually find a Way sir taking her place in the organized world for the maintenance of peace and for the oreering of the common life of the peoples of the World . " Professor Hudson endorsed the meastires which Presidents Harding and Coolidge have taken to cooperate with ether nations through the machinery of the League of Nations . Urges Further Participation . Two Americans are now members of She Permanent Health Committee , Professor Hudson pointed out , and the United States has participated in the work of the Opium Committee and the Committee on Traffic in Women and Children . In recommending that the United States also - obtain membership ' n the Permanent Mandates Commission . " vital to the protection of American interests , and on the Economic and Financial Committee , which has been of great significance to American business men and to American trade , Professor Hud-1 son said : " Such participation will not bind the United States and does not seem to call for legislation by Congress . " Expressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the League 's Conference on Arne : Tra f fie . " he said : ? ? We urge the extension of this cooperation for the purpose of meeting specific problems which are created by our contracts with other nations . " Professor Hudson declared that the association believed it of great moment for the United States to take part in the work of the Coordination Commission on Reduction of Armaments , and further urged that the Secretary of State " give all possible aid to American individuals who act as members of such League committees as the Committee on Intellectual Cooperation and the ComMitt. ? on l'rugressive Codification of international Law and to take all possible measures for enabling the American public to be informed concerning the pr ogress of this work . " Professor Hudson presented to Mr. Rellogg summaries of those treaties for which American ratification is urged These treaties are : Labor conventions ( minimum age for admission of children in employment at sea ; unemployment indemnity in case of loss or foundering of ship and minimum age for the admission of young persons to employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Slavery , Traffic in Obscene Publications and Commercial Arbitration . Advocates Treaty Registration . Professor Hudson advocated protection against secret treaties in urging that this Government communicate all American treaties to the Secretary General of the League of Nations for registration . He pointed out that fifty-five members of the League , together with Germany and Equador. non-members . now register their treaties : and continued : " A treaty made by the United States with any one of these fifty-seven States will now be registered anti published in the treaty series . The . , 5() treaties which have been registered and published during the last five years include many to which the United States is a party . - We can sec no reason why all American treaties should not be registered , including those which are made with States like Mexico and Turkey , which do not register - now . This v:auld not require any legislation by Congress . " It would have the great advantage of causing them to be published in the treaty series , which is the only general compendium of tile world 's treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in common use among lawyers throughout the world . " Professor Hudson then took up the question of the outlawry of war and called attention to the Protocol of Geneva of Oct. 2. 1924 , which , he said , represented a sincere attempt by members of the League of Nations " to make some progress toward the outlawry of war , an ideal near to Americans ' hearts . " Would Enter Protocol Parley-s. - " Seventeen nations signed the Protocol , providing for a larger measure of compulsory peaceful settlement than was ever attempted by so many nations , " he continued . " But it is now clear that this Protocol will not come into effect in its present form . " The present temper of the world , the lessons burned into our minds by the war , will not allow this question to be dropped , however . The negotiations will go on and we deem it essential that the United States have some part In them . " We venture to express the hope that such negotiations will not be left to proceed without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of collaborating with the various members of the League and of joining in a suitable treaty tor the outlawry of war which will be acceptable to all the peoples of the world . " The discussions in England have shown that the United States is Inevitably a factor in any attempt to rid the world of war , and we beg you to take cognizance of this fart before and not after another attempt is launched . " The League of Nations Nun-Partisan Association respectfully asks that the Government of the- United States participate in the negotiations with reference to a general protocol for the outlawing of war , and use its best efforts to secure a treaty to this end which will be satisfactory to the peoples of all countries . " In conclusion , Professor Hudson said : " Mr. Secretary , we have the honor to present to you this Immediate program of our association and to assure you of our full support in any effort you may make to find a way for the United States to cooperate In the organization of the world for peace on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dignity and honor , the moral responsibility and power of our Republic . '                     