@@690276

txt The Revenue bill reducing income taxes for 1924 by 25 per cent . and making other revision in the War Revenue Tax law , was signed by President Coolidge this afternoon at the same time he issued a statement in which he declared his opposition to many features of the bill , and called upon Congress in another session to correct the evils and enact a scientific and more equitable revision of the law . The bill was signed in the presence of C. Bascom Slemp , Secretary to the President . and the statement prepared by the President on his week-end cruise . setting forth why he felt compelled to approve a bill , denounced by him as unfair and improper in many respects , was made public but not sent to Congress . Congress will not be informed of tile President's. action until , under the law , he sends nominations and bilis approved to that body . The President 's statement followed the argument employed by him in his approval of the Immigration bill . He stated that he approved the tax bill because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only a 25 per cent . reduction in the income taxes for 1923 , payable in 1924. and reducing excise taxes , but providing for independent reforms in the administration of the tax law . The President 's Objections . After summarizing the advantages and the evil which , he says , should be corrected in another Congress . the President gives these concrete reasons for signing the measure in its present shape : " The bill comes to me for consideration less than two Weeks before the contemplated adjournment of Congress . and provides for a credit on 1924 taxes which should become effective before June 15 next . No different bill can be passed before adjournment . The question before me is the present law or bill in the shape it has passed the Congress . As it stands . In its administrative features generally , it is an improvement on the exsting law . " It will meet the needs of revenue through the fiscal year 1925 and probably be sufficient for sometime if no unforeseen expenses arise.s The immediate relief by credit on 1924 taxes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people and should be promptly given , and the determination of the taxes to which 1924 incomes will be subjectshould be made certain while the income is still being received . " As I have said , the bill does not represent a sound permanent tax policy , and in its passage has been subject to unfortunate influence which ought not to control fiscal questions . Still , in spite of its obvious defects , its advantages as a temporary relief and a temporary adjustment of business conditions , in view of the uncertainty of a better law within a reasonable time , leads me to believe that the best interests of the country would be subserved if this bill became a law . A ? correction of its defects may be left to the next session of the Congress . I trust a bill less political and more truly economic may be passed at that time . To that end I shall bend all my energies . " The President asserted that the bill ' was lacking in real tax reforms and that it actually added some undesirable features @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government fiscal policy this bill contains provisions which , in my opinion , are not only unsatisfactory but are harmful to the future of the country , " he said . Treasury Foresees No Deficit . The President found himself in a position to approve the bill because of the tax reductions , and also because the Treasury experts had assured him that there would be no deficit for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1925. provided there were no further commitments by Congress in large amounts . There will be no deficit , the statements declare , after paying the bonus next year , althouich in the next fiscal year the possibility of a deficit depends on economies , the revision of taxation and the finding of new sources of taxation to take the place of returns a.cruing from war profits and income taxes . Briefly summarized , the objections and recommendations made by the President in his statement are : The reduction in the surtaxes from 50 to 40 per cent . is not a real improvement in the present law . Congress is criticized for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how amount to $12,000,000,000 , and are Issued at the rate of $1.000,000,000 gearly , making it possible for the rich to Invest in these securities and legally avoid taxation , The experience in past years has - Shown that more money is being placed annually in tax-exempt securities , and this is working to the ultimate harm of the country . The remedy for this condition is a reduction in the high surtaxes sufficient ta attract capital to new enterprises , SW under such a system alone " can high living costs , the indirect tax paid by all people , be reduced , and the productivity of a graduated income tax be Maintained . " Doubts Legality of Gift Tax . OPPosition , to the 40 per cent . inheritance tax and the gift tax . The latter Is characterized as an invasion of the rights of citizens and of " doubtful legality . " Inheritance tax collections by the Federal Government have heretofore been considered as emergency taxes , and now it is proposed to use these " reserves in times of peace . " The imposition of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the States , and It is suggested that there shall be a conference of the States and the Treasury , before the next session of Congress , to give consideration to a comprehensive plan of division of this field of taxation . The publicity feature of the bill is objectionable in that it has the means of making public not only the taxes paid but furnishes information of one taxpayer to his competitor . Such a provision , it is pointed out . may lead to " a concealment of millions of dollars of income which would otherwise be reported . This means a change In the fundamental policy of our law , violative of private rights and harmful to Government revenues . " The creation of the Board of Tax Appeals , with twgn.tywho are required to court proce ure , Will result in greater delay in the final settlement of tax cases , " and may ultimately result in the complete breakdown of the administrative machinery for the collection of taxes . " Unless there are other extraordinary demands on the Treasury the bonus and all demands already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fiscal year ending June 20. 1925 . After that new forms of taxation must be found or the law revised so as to 1-educe surtaxes and encourage the creation of income subject to taxation . The present bill is denounced as a political rather than an economic adjustment . The opinions expressed by the President are supported by the Treasury , the president asserts .                     