@@695244

txt Apprehension has been expressed by two officers of the Actors ' Equity and by the President of the American Federation of Musicians , speaking unofficially , about the effects of the imminent " talkies " on the legitimate and vaudeville stage . The fear is expressed that the destructive influence of the films on vaudeville and the non-metropolitan drama will be accentuated ; when the films begin to talk , not even Broadway may be safe . The question is whether the viewers-with-alarm are thinking of the stage as a trade or an art . In the former sense it is not impossible that the vocal shadow play will throw actors out of work in the provinces . It is quite true that the progress of the movies has harmed the spoken drama in the open country . If vaudeville performers can now be heard as well as seen in the films , the immediate result may be unemployment among members of the N. V. A. That the stage as an art will suffer does not at all follow . The movies have restricted the American audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same period that the American theatre has made notable strides . The connection between such an advance and the disappearance of " the road " is probably close . Formerly plays were written and produced with an eye on out-of-town profits . It was a tradition that a manager could run his play at a loss in New York and recoup himself in the provinces with the prestige of " a year on Broadway . " Today the profits are made on Broadway , and consequently plays are written for metropolitan taste . There is a good deal about this new " adult " and " sophisticated " city outlook that might easily be spared ; nevertheless , in the long run it is not to be denied that the city influence has contributed to the maturing of the American spoken drama . To some extent the urban influence would be reduced as managers began to think once more of a nation-wide audience , this time for talking films . But Broadway will not give up without a struggle the position it has conquered on a level with European centres of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is by no means certain that the talking films will cause permanent unemployment . Ultimately it may be as with other inventions , vast new fields of consumption being opened up for the craftsmen . The movies have brought an enormous expansion in the demand for amusement . The legitimate theatre or vaudeville was , for the individual customer , a once-a-week recreation . The movie fans who attend several times a week are numbered by the millions . The demand for talking vaudeville is bound to be several times greater than for the present spoken entertainment , with a corresponding increase in employment for vaudeville artists in the studios . Actually , the addition of sound to shadow in the films may work an improvement over present conditions . At Hollywood apprehension is reported among the owners of pretty faces without voices to match . The speaking actor will now have a better chance in competition with the beautiful but dumb .                     