@@693678

txt Although receiving with expressions of thankfulness the good news that all those Americans at Nanking whose fate was uncertain for several days had been safely removed from that hotbed of terror , President Coolidge and his ad. visers found today that the Chinese situation was still full of anxiety for them . A conference participated in by three Cabinet members and high ranking officers of the army and navy , in which the situation was considered in all its aspects , including possible eventualities of political or military portent , brought no decision as to a change of policy and nothing developed to show that this Government is considering any joint intervention in China in collaboration with the British and Japanese . At the same time the conferees reached conclusions which resulted in orders for the assembling of 1 , r , 00 additional marines for service in China . These marines , now scattered at stations on the Atlantic Coast , will be sent to China as a precautionary measure , it was explained . The conferees also discussed the advisability of sending troops of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief among them that such troops suggest permanent occupation or a state of war , which the Government is anxious to avoid , it was determined that no steps should be taken , even of a preparatory nature , along that line . Marines Asked ' or by Admiral . It was at the suggestion of Admiral C. s . Williams , Commander-in-Chief of the Asiatic Fleet , who is now at Shanghai , that the decision to send 1,500 additional marines was reached . " 1 infer from Admiral Williams , " said Mr. Wilbur , Secretary of the Navy . " that he expects this to be a long-drawn-out affair . " That appraisement of the situation gives an inkling of its seriousness . There are now 1.500 marines in China available tor landing purposes . Thus . with the arrival of those to be assembled in this country for Chinese service under orders issued today , the marine landing force will be doubled . Three cruisers and nine destroyers now en route to China carry bluejackets available tor shore duty . The Navy Department estimates that 1,750 bluejackets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach Chinese ports . But as fairly satisfactory as the Chinese situation appeared to be on the surface , it was evident that the relief shown by officials was produced almost entirely by the news that with the exception of Dr. Williams , Vice President of Nanking University , who was killed , all Americans imperiled at Nanking had been evacuated to places of safety . " We are very happy , " Secretary Wilbur said , " to get our people out of Nanking . Admiral Hough deserves great credit in getting them out without a fight and a lot of people killed on both sides . " This is worthy of comment , for here is a man who had the responsibility and the power . He acted tactfully and well when all the indications were for the chances of a massacre . " Admiral Williams is acting with the utmost wisdom , so far as we can judge , in meeting conditions as they arise . " International Angle Causes Concern . While Government officials insisted today and tonight that the sole effort of the United States in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and property of Americans , it Is evident that the situation has an international political angle that causes much concern . Details of dispatches from Admiral C. S. Williams , commander-In-chief of the American naval forces in China , who is at Shanghai , have not been disclosed , but hints of their contents , pieced together go to show that the disorders which have caused such grave anxiety for several weeks on account of the perils in which Americans and other foreigners were placed , are only in their initial stages . It is known that the Washington Government 's policy is to observe a course of strict neutrality and avoid becoming involved in any international entanglements . The understanding of THE NEW Unix TIMES correspondent is that the Administration desires to remove all American citizens from the danger zones and thus avoid the possibility of having the United States drawn into a clash with the Cantonese Government which might compel the adoption of strong measures . This Govrnment , while its naval commanders in China are cooperating with the commanders of the British and Japanece naval forces there solely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest care to avoid any joint action that might be construed as political . Its policy ? is to steer an independent course such as was followed in the Boxer troubles of 1900 , when the United States gunboat Monocacy refused to participate in the allied attack on the Taku forts at the mouth of the Pei-Ho . Subsequently American soldiers , bluejackets and marines under Major General Adna R. Chaffee joined with an allied armed force of British , Japanese , Russians , Germans , French Italians and Spanish under the supreme command of Field Marshal Count von Waldersee of Germany for the purpose of rescuing the foreigners besieged in the legations in Pekin but the United States Government always insisted that while it ' was cooperating with the others its troops had an independent status . Borah Also Causes Worry . Coincident with their realization that the situation in China was likely to have more far-reaching effects than the developments due to the capture of Shanghai and Nanking by the Cantonese or Nationalist forces , officials of the Administration found additional cause for worry in the knowledge thatl Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was endeaxoring to arrange for hearings of that committee with a view to an inquiry into the foreign policies of the United States . In his original effort , undertaken when Congress was in session . Senator Borah sought to have the Foreign Relations Committee visit Mexico and Nicaragua during the current Congressional recess . In that he was frustrated by a majority of the committee Itself , but managed to obtain the adoption of a committee recommendation to the Senate that its members be authorized to sit in Washington during the recess to make the inquiry he desired . Seeks to Extend Inquiry . The resolution containing that recommendation was lost in the legislative chaos produced by the eleventhhour filibuster in the Senate . But Senator Borah has now undertaken to show that the committee has the right to sit when the Senate is not in session , with a view on his part to having extended hearings . It is suspected that Senator Borah intends that the participation of the United States in the Chinese situation shall be made the subject of inquiry if the Foreign Relations Committee is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not shown an unfriendly disposition to what the Government is doing in China , however , and in a speech here last night at a dinner given by the National Good Housekeeping Conference he commended the use of bluejackets and marines in protecting American lives and property in the disturbed Chinese areas . But in that speech Mr. Borah upheld ' the ideals for which the Cantonese I Government is contending , and there was evidence in Administration circles today of a critical disposition to accuse Mr. Borah of having chosen a poor time to utter these sentiments , when Americans and other foreigners were in grave danger from the forces of the Cantonese authority . The close association between the Cantonese leaders and agents of the Russian Soviet Government is not pleasing to the generality of officials of the Washington Administration . News of Senator Borah 's renewed effort to bring the Foreign Relations Committee into session in order to investigate the Administration 's foreign policies reached Secretary Kellogg and at his request Senator Moses of New Hampshire , a member of the committee , an expert parliamentarian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee to sit without specific authority while the Senate is in recess . Senator Moses is out of step with Senator Borah 's opposition to the Administration 's policies with regard to Mexico and Nicaragua . In his memorandum Mr. Moses takes the position that as the Senate is a continuing body , the Foreign Relations Committee has authority to hold hearings during the recess , but he has found additional support for that conclusion in a resolution adopted by the Senate in December , 1925 , at the beginning of the first session of the Congress just ended authorizing the committee to sit while the Senate was in recess and to employ stenographers to report its hearings . Money for the expenses of these hearings was allowed by the Senate . Doubt Quorum Can Be Assembled . Doubt was expressed today that a quorum of the committee could be assembled in the near future . Some corn ' mitteemen are abroad . Owing to the fact that three of Its former members , Messrs . Underwood of Alabama , Democrat , and Lenroot of Wisconsin , and Pepper of Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13 Incomplete . Senator Moses consulted with Senator Watson of Indiana , Chairman of the Committee on Committees , to =-certain if there was a method be ' which these vacancies could be filled without the authority of the Senate , and while no conclusion was reached it was the gossip at the Senate end of the Capitol today that the Senators likely to be chosen to fill the vacancies on the committee might be designated an " unofficial observer " to sit with the committee in the event that it undertook an inquiry into the Government 's foreign policies during the Congressional recess . Today 's conference over the situation in China was attended by Secretary of State Kellogg , Secretary of War Davis , Secretary of the Navy Wilbur , Admiral Eberle , Chief of Naval Operations , and Major Gen. Summerall , Chief of the Army General Staff . A dispatch from Admiral Williams asking for additional marines was read and discussed . Admiral Williams set forth that the inability of the Cantonese commander at Nanking to control his troops led to the belief that notwithstanding the reputed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there and at other places in China controlled by the Nationalist forces . In these circumstances it was deemed to be the part of wisdom to have additional armed forces of Americans available . In consequence of this it was deter ? mined that 1,500 marines should be assembled and sent to China on the Transport Henderson , which is now at Corinto on the Pacific coast of Nicaragua and which is to be released by Rear Admiral Julian Latimer. commanding the American naval force in Nicaraguan waters . The Henderson will go to San Diego . Cal. , to await the arrival of the marines from various Atlantic coast stations . In discussing sending regular troops to China the conferees had in mind taking them from the Philippines . The decision not to designate any army units for Chinese service was due in large part to the realization that to send armed forces other than marines and bluejackets into a foreign country would give an entirely different aspect to the participation of the United States in the Chinese situation . prom the standpoint of international law , marines and bluejackets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are employed merely to meet a temporary emergency , while if troops were taken from the army for this service their presence in China would suggest a long period of occupation . President Told of Nanking Rescues . Secretary Wilbur went to the White House to acquaint President Coolidge with the outcome of the conference , and while he was with the President a telephone message from the Navy Department informed them that all the Americans who were in danger in Nanking had been rescued . The President had called the watch officer on duty at the Navy Department before 8 o'clock this morning to inquire if there was any news from Nanking as to the Americans entrapped at that place . He had telephoned personally last night on the same subject . One great fear of the Government , it became known today , is that distorted reports of what has happened at Nanking that are being published throughout China in native newspapers and by word of mouth , may bring a renewal of outbreaks against foreigners at places along the South China coast . where trouble occurred recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interior towns , especially places on rivers . This anxiety explains the sending of destroyers from Manila to Amoy , Swatow and Foochow , and also the action of British Marines In landing at Canton to erect wire entanglements around the British and French cone cessions at Sham een , the foreign settlement of Canton . The American destroyers will be held at the ports named to take Americans and other foreigners aboard in the event of attacks on them .                     