@@694530

txt Barriers which were cleared away yesterday at a meeting of park , railroad . and city officials may make it possible for Chicago to begin next spring a great improvement program destined to connect the lake front park and boulevard systems , solve the Michigan boulevard Vane tangle , and secure a new railroad station at Bandolph street . Under an agreement signed by all the representatives present , immediate action was promised on the outer link bridge , the East Randolph street viaduct , extension of Wacker drive east to McClurg court , and the new Illinois Central Randolph street station . Realization of these projects was made contingent only upon a ratification by the city council of a proposed amendment to the lake front ordinance of 1919 . Meet in Park Board Office . The meeting was held in the office . of Edward J. Kelly , president of the south park commissioners . Those present were Mr. Kelly , P. L. Thompson , vice " president of the /Ulnas Cert. : , tral railroad ; 0 . J. Brumley , engineer for the Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Richard Wolfe , commissioner of public works ; John 0 . Drennan , assistant corporation counsel ; Aid . D , A. Moran , chairman of the city council 's committee on Mail industries ; William Acting ? stall , city engineer , and Eugene S. Taylor of the Chicago Plan commis. slon . The lake front ordinance calls for a viaduct 74 feet wide to he built in Randolph street east of Michigan boulevard by the Illinois Central railroad . It was agreed yesterday to ask the city council to amend the ordinance so that the vioduct may be built 120 feet wide , the south park board to pay for the added 46 feet , Railway Ready to Go Ahead . Although the Illinois Central Railroad company Is not required by law to construct the viaduct until Hs suburban electrification has been completed , ' Pico President Thompson said the railroad was ready now to go ahead with the viaduct . President Kelly stated he believed it wise to delay work on the viaduct until the outer link bridge was under way . Pouring additional traffic into Alichigan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only Increase the congestion . : 3ugens S. Taylor then stated that satisfactory progress had been made by the plan commission in Its efforts to get river front owners to come to terms so that the outer bridge could be constructed across the river on a direct line with Lake Shore drive at Ohio street . " We expect the bridge to be started in the spring , " Mr. Taylor said . ' According to the present plan It will be built seven or eight hundred feet east of McClurg court . On the south bank of the river the bridge would meet the east end of Wacker drive extended . The outer drive south would meet East Wacker drive at McClurg court . " Double Deck Proposed . ; The resolution forwarded to the city council , in addition to proposing a wider Randolph street viaduct , also requests permission to double deck Beauhien court from Randolph street to South Water street . Meanwhile the city council yesterday was considering the advisability of turning over to the south park board control of the strip of Mich ; igan avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boulevard north of the river is under the supervision of the Lincoln park board , and south of IRandolph street St is under the south park board , with unecitirdinated traffic lights and separate ? maintenance and repair systems .                     