@@690120

txt In transmitting to Congress the report of the special advisory Commission on Reclamation , the President urges that relief measures be promptly voted for the farmers on irrigation projects . Aside from temporary special credits , the President urges a reorganization of the Government 's reclamation policy with particular regard to the methods of repaying the Government for the costs of reclaiming the land . Under the present plan several million acres of land have been transformed from desert into farms , the initial expense of constructing the reservoirs and principal irrigation canals being borne by the Govern-1 ment , as well as the actual operation and maintenance costs , although the settler is expected to pay a sum sufficient to refund his share of the'tost of the original project , as well as a fair portion of the maintenance costs . In the past the farmer 's payments have been computed on the cost of construction . Experience has shown , however , that in a number of projects the crop returns from the irrigated lands do not warrant the burdens thus placed on the farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the special advisory commission that for this system be substituted the policy of assessing payments in accordance with the crop-producing qualities of the soil . In other words , allowance is to be made for the fat and lean years , and for the relative productive capacity of the different lands . In an analysis of the reclamation ' projects published in December by the Bureau of Reclamation a number of Interesting facts come to light . In most of the projects the land available for irrigation is below the original estimate , and the acreage actually settled is less than the amount available . This is due in part to incomplete projects , but also in part to the unattractive nature of some of the lands . ' Moreover , the cost of construe-1 tion in most instances has been much above the original estimate , running in some cases as high as- four times the expected sum . , The average estimated cost per acre of all the , . projects is $30.57 . The actual cost based on the acreage available for water during 1922 is , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be reduced . Its principal significance at present is to show the high cost d the projects to the Government and the necessarily heavy charge to the individual . farmer if he is to be taxed on the cost alone , rather than on the earning capacity of his land . In his special message Mr. COOLIDGE points out that " the probable " loss and the temporary difficulties of " some of the settlers on projects does " not mean that reclamation is a fail " ure . The sum total of beneficial re ' sults has been large in the building qwq " to the agricultural production and " wealth of the country . " This is all the more reason for doing everything possible to recast the country 's reclamation policy with a view not only to afford present relief but - to assure greater future developments .                     