@@696681

txt There seems to be no much concern lest the American navy should retain means for what is glibly called aggressive action that an unofficial observer from Mars ' would assume that the his ' tory of American naval power has been one of frequent aggression . In this assumption the ob . server would be encouraged by our apologetic citizens and pacifists , but the normal American , reviewing our history , will find little support for It . The American navy made a gallant but mod. tot entry upon the wort stage in 1812 , fighting some brilliant duels but no battles , and , though our merchant shipping grew rapidly and our flag 2 was on every sea , we did not build up a navy of any consequence until the civil war . At the time of the Mexican war conditions in the navy were deplorable , although our clipper - ships were exhibiting the American genius for the sea In a glorious page of maritime history . When the southern states seceded the government reeograzed that sea power was essential to victory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the greatest in the world . There was no question of parity then . But the American people were not ambitious to rule the sea They were then , as at the ffiunding of the colonies , . a people or peaceful workers , and they " were too preoccupied with setting their house In order and in exploiting their rich heritage to bother about the sea . Our great marine rapidly dwindled and our navy disappeared even sooner . In the eighties we were one of the minor naval powers , when a Democratic secretary of the navy , Jacksonian rather than Jeffersonlan , began to build a modern fleet . That was called with ingenuous pride the White Fleet , but it was no threat to Britannia .. In the Spanish war it acquitted itself with credit and , as that event had suddenly directed American eyes to the world horizon , the navy was gradually built up until it weighed substantially in the scales of world power . But the American nation has never sought for naval power as an instrument of aggrandisement . It has never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the history of our sea policy or in the character of the American people to give cause for fear that the American navy will be used for aggression or domination . Persistent efforts to diminish Art:erica:a naval strength and to pledge us to subordination have no Justification In American history or in American national character or policy . A weak America will not make for the peace of the world , though the pacifists and apologetic Americans would have as think so . THE CASE OF SENATOR BINGHAM . There is great to-do in the senate because Senator Bingham of Connecticut retained an-employe Of the Connecticut Manufacturers ' association to advise him upon tariff matters . Mr. Bingham , a new member of the finance committee of the senate , was relatively unfamiliar with tariff matters . tie Justifies the employment of the manufacturers ' man on the ground that there was no better way of learning Connecticut 's tariff , requirements , which tt was Ms duty , as Connecticut 's senator , 1:o meet . The expianation is forthright and it serves to illustrate the method of tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has produced every tariff bill enacted since Alexander Hamilton first induced congress to impose import duties . That method be known as logrolling . The representstIve.s of Pennsylvania support the tariff proposals of the members from Lottisbna in exchange for similar favors to Pennsylvania . And so on . Under this systeni , the more familiar a congressman is with the needs of his section the more he is likely to ask and the more he is likely to Set if he is a good trader . Logrolling is , perhaps , not the beat method of writing tariff legislation , but It has , at least , the respectability conferred by long usage . So far as the record now shows , Senator Gingham 's offense , in the eyes of the Democrats and the Republican insurgents , must lie largely in the frankness of his espousal of the recognized method of doing business in congress . There . Is an alternative method of making tariffs That is the method favored by President Hoover , in which the tariff commission plays a part . The commission does not wholly determine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action in ' modifying then , within specified limits , as the intensity of foreign competition modifies . The flexible tariff is an expedient about the value of which It Is possible to have doubts ; but if it in the purpose of congress to get away from logrolthig methods of tariff making , the tariff commission offers the only alternative yet discovered . It is therefore a maftor for astonishment that the same senators who are enlisted against tariff commission are also pretending to ' be raged by the disclosure that ' Mr. Bingham toe the best advice he could get'on  --  the roquiremen of his state . They oppose logrolling and tht oppose the only known alternative to logrollin What they favor as a substitute is sornethir they say nothing about , and the reason for the anent ? is not difficult to guess                     