@@695323

txt The question of a dividend on the Radio Corp . of America 's common shares has been the subject of discussion among the directors before this and undoubtedly a dividend will be declared before long provided earnings keep up to expectations . That the dividend will be a smaller one than many expect undoubtedly will be the case as it is the intention of the management to continue its conservative financial policy and make the dividend permanent . Furthermore it should be recollected that the company is embarking on new ventures in television , talkingmovies and keeping up its far flung communications services so that much cash must be poured into these developments soon . It also should be recollected that the radio industry has to do much solid writing off regularly . In an infant industry like radio , particularly the broadcasting and international communications development , an expensive plant rapidly becomes obsolete and the Radio Corp has had to do considerable permanent writing off in this direction . Lumber Movement Declines For the week ended August 11 , the National Lumber Manufacturers Association reports declines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 73e hardwood and softwood mills . The fact that there were nine fewer mills reporting than on the previous week partly accounts for the decline . The 453 reporting softwood mills had shipments 102e , and orders 101e , - of actual production The association regards the decline as temporary . and says that reports from regional ASSOC . atIons growing strength in the position of the industry Kennecott Although it was apparent before Kennecott Copper went on a $6 basis that the stock had discounted to a large extent an increase in the rate , investment buyers are disinclined to sell their stock . They point out that as one of the recognized leaders in the industry , Kennecott is entitled to sell on a 6 , , ba.sis , at the lowest . The company is earning at the rate of between $S and Se a share and selling below other copper stocks on a yield basis . Whereas Kennecott at 96 yields 6 25 ' , Magma , at 50 yieds 6e , , Anaconda at 67 yields 5.9 ? , Calumet and Arizona at 95 returns 6.1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevada Consolidated at 24 yields 5.9 " and Chile at 44 yields 5.68 ' , . " How 's Money ? " " How 's money ? " is probably the most used query Ir . Wall Street today . If the powers that he have wanted to make everybody think and live money an Wall Street they have succeeded beyond their most optimistic expectations . A whisper goes round the Street that a few millions of loans are to be called and money may go up r and clients rusn In sell stocks which , only a few minutes before , they were discussing as securities with solid hacking , big earnings and tremendous prosper ts . It matters not want companies may he doing tomorrow in the way of earnings , the banks are going to call a few paltry million loans today which in the vast total of money employed in the market is a flea-bite but it is sufficient to alter the landscape of the happy bull into a woods full of hears . More and better row silk is being produced in China every year as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing financial Resistance for agricultural activities and , of the extensive reconstruction program of the Nationalist government . In melring this comment , R representative in China of the Sulk Assn:tat:or , pmeted out that the Nationalist government has set as its goal the doubling of raw silk expo/Ls in five years end now is engaged in the expansion and improvement of the silk industry by the establishment of bureaus in the provinces . by the revision of eovernment regulations , by the establishment of experiment stations and by the con ( hating of demonstrations among farmers . Buying for the ' Future " Have you noticed . ' remarked the head of one of our largest corporations recently . " the change in the attitude of investors since the war regarding yields on their stock ' " In the old days most investors paid attention almost exclusively to dividend return Today they seem to care little about the dividend yield . but base their purchases on earning yield " Apparently the prererit day investor is better able to accept a temporarily small dividend retur a on his holdings He buys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and to share the eventually large dividends which present retention of surplus for expansion means This at titude is also due to a certain extent to taxation . " American ( ' an Every department of American Can 's general line business is showing good sales this year . The significance of this can hardly he overestimated , as it gives a line on general business conditions . American Can makes containers for products of hosts of industries , and its sales of general line cans may be taken as a fairly accurate measure of the country 's business . Whittling Down Rail enues The Atlantic Coast Line Railroad points out that since the railroads of the country have been released from government control they have failed by about $2 , - 750,000 to earn a fair return upon the value of their property . This has been brought about by what the line calls a steady " whittling down " of railroad revenues by reducing freight rates , and the total of this ? ? whittling " amounted to $4.000 , e00,000 over the period since the ending of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the freight rate reductions have been cutting seriously into revenue . still they have not been sufficient to reduce the price to the consumer of articles affected by such rate red:lei Lion . The freight charge is so small a part of the Iota ? cost of most articles , that as much as a 15e , reduction in freight charges will result in less than a 1 " , reduction in retail price , as pointed out by Charles E. Spencer , vice president of the First National Bank of Boston , in a recent address . In fact , as the A. C. L states , the reduction in freight rate is absorbed in dealers ' profits , and the consuming public gains little , if anything . The railroads thus arc seen in the position of turning their legitimate profits over to the middleman . The present condition of the railroad equipment industry is sufficient to show that the railroads are using the greatest possible economy in every line , and are not replacing their equipment as rapidly as formerly , but arc rather getting the last bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are thus harmful to the proper working of the railroads , and may ultimately force them to lower the standard of quality of service , which will be harmful to business in general . The equipment companies might enjoy better business if the roads had more money to effect replacements . The recent raise in mail carrying rates by the post office is so far the only step taken in this direction . Heard on the Street Eighteen ships will arrive from the East to various ports of the United States . during September . laden with silk . How times change  --  minutes often  --  a week ago wiDa 8 ? - ? - money the rediscount was to be raised  --  with 41-2e1-rate the gossips will have it that the rediscount is to be lowered .. Looks like a standoff . Allied Chemical is to retire its preferred , says the morning newspaper for the thousandth time in the past three years  --  maybe , and maybe not . Credit conditions caused considerable irregularity in what otherwise might have been a continuation of Thursday 's bull market . Calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 ' ; from a 5 ' , renewal . Early confidence was dulled by this development , and profit taking forced many issues lower for a time . Toward the close many stocks turned stronger , the market closing irregular . Allied Chemical . Smelters . Ta S. Steel and General Electric continued their advances , while Westinghouse was a feature of late trading with a 41a-point gain over Thursday 's close . Chrysler again was heavily traded in , and though at one time it was 2-L points off from the previous close , it recovered to 942e. only'Ita points off . Packard , Nash , Montgomery Ward and Consolidated Gas lost fractionally on the day .                     