@@685926

txt THE REPUBLICAN TRIUMPH . Victory of Fear Over Courage -- A Call to Carry On . To the Editor of The New York Times : The American public has rendered a verdict which , if not altogether unexpected , is certainly to be deplored and which will give thoughtful Americans occasion for sober reflection . At no other time in her history has our nation had such a chance to show that the high ideals which she has hitherto cherished were still hers . The fear instilled by the Lodges and Borahs and Johnsons has won over the straightforward , courageous and unselfish stand of the President . But although the League seems surely defeated , the name of its author and greatest advocate will never be obscured . The wisdom , courage and altruism of Woodrow Wilson , who fought a losing fight for a new order in the world 's affairs , has won for him the respect of his countrymen for all future time . In the great crisis of the World War we had a great leader . In the solving of the problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statesmanship . But real Americans will respect our President for steadfastness in a great fight for an ideal , and unswerving loyalty to the right . JOHN J. MARR . Mount Vernon , Nov. 3 , 1920 . To the Editor of The New York Times : May I please to be permitted to congratulate you on the splendid campaign you made in behalf of a great moral issue , the League of Nations ? We have not been defeated . Party lines were broken and the intellectually honest were standing solidly behind the Democratic candidate . I feel that our flag , figuratively speaking , is flying at half mast . The reactionary interests , together with the un-American elements , the deluded Irish and bitter Germans , have momentarily triumphed . The two latter . groups will come to regard the League as the safeguard of the peace of the world , for all peoples . The fight has just begun and it behooves those of us who have the faith to carry on . RITA C. FRUCIIT . Riverdale , Md. , Nov. 4 , 1920 . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is all over good Democrats ought to try to discover what led to the disaster . Wo can not accuse the Republicans of it , for surely in their nominee and in his wabbling they did everything possible to hand us a victory . Tile fault must be our own  --  and I believe it is . If ever there were a time when the party should have put its best men to the fore It was in this campaign . After the nomination at Chicago there wits very perceptible all over the country a most decided feeling of disappointment . Instead of profiting by thig our delegates to San Francisco honestly tried to make a worse mesa of it and they succeeded admirably . Neither nominee nor managers seemed to have the least idea of what people were thinking about . The League did appeal to the few . But to the average man , and 1 asked over a thousand of them , the thing foremost in his mind was that clothing and shoes and food costs too much money ; that taxes were high , ' and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or other the Government at Washington was an arbitrary one . I saw very i lttle in the whole campaign to explain or dispel this . True , the League did make an appeal to a certain group and , in fairness , it must he said that that group was the most intelligent in the country , but it is small and even among thou ' , sands of those who wanted the League there wive a feeling that Cox could do nothing . diag ? If this is in any way a correct nosis , what is the remedy ? It is to my j mind to clean house and get at the head of affairs some one who knows an Issue when he sees one , to put away the petty jealousies and select for office men of standing and fitness . A DEMOCRAT STILL . New York , Nov. 4 , 1920 . To the Editor of The New York Times : Why not be a good loser and admit that the American people showed very conclusively their desire to get rid of not only the Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . G. E. RENNA . Brooklyn , Nov. 4 , 1920 . To the Editor of The New York Times : Two years from now when the people see how things are going under reactionary Republicanism , and they reflect on the achievements of Mr. Wilson and the success of America in the war , they will realize what a great mistake they made in electing Harding . Then they will turn to 1924 and , in my humble opinion , William Gibbs , who by that time will have ammunition enough to blast the Special Interests , who will dominate the Presidency for the ? next four years , from the face of the earth . WAR VETERAN . Brooklyn , Nov. 4 , 1920.                     