@@696331

txt The House has recessed until September 23 and Senate until August 19. in accordance with the resolution adopted Tuesday . Tariff remains as the one uncompleted task of the special session of the Seventy-First Congress . When the mid-summer recess , which is to run two months for the Senate and three for the House . began on Wednesday . the final outcome on that measure was uncertain . What it will look like when Congress finishes with it and when Congress will finish is anybody 's guess . There is even a possibility that there will be no tariff . Whether tariff shall be limited to agricultural products is the main point of division on the tariff . Despite the fact that the Senate . by a narrow margin of one vote , refused to go on record to this effect , the battle will go on with considerable chance of success . Limited revisionists believe they have the support of the White House . The schedule laid put for the special session included farm relief . the tariff , passage of a census and reapportionment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Farm relief has been enacted and the machinery it provided is being rapidly set up . Census bill was passed and has been signed by President Hoover . Advocates of repeal of the national origins law have been beaten and the new quota basis is set to go into effect July 1 . One enactment not on the congressional program at the beginning . but which was passed , was the authorization for postponement of the payment of the debt for the French war supplies , if France should ratify the Mellon-Berenger agreement before August 1 , when the debt is due . Presidents Tariff %ley ' ? ' Unchanged In his message to Congress . President Hoover asked tariff revision limited to aid agriculture and such industries as had been adversely affected by foreign competition , as result of changed economic conditions since the passage of the Fordney-McCumber Act . The President did not specify what industries he had in mind . It is known , however , that the textile industry was one and the lacquer industry is understood lo be the other . House Ways and Means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover had asked . During consideration in the House scope of the measure was still further broadened and what was passed came near being a wholesale tariff revision . The bill was sent to the Senate and Senator Borah proposed a resolution instructing Senate Finance Committee to limit revision to agriculture and related products . That resolution was beaten by the narrow margin of one vote . Some senators , who voted against the resolution . di I ao because they were unwilling to tie the bands of the Finance Committee and not because they are unwilling to limit revision . Senator Smoot. chairman of the committee . is understood to believe that the House bill was too broad in scope . With a little added strength the limited revisionists would be in unquestioned control in the Senate . President Hoover has notified Congressional leaders that he has not changed his original tariff views . The administration is still confi- dent that the bill will lineally come from Congress much closer to what the President asked than w-as the bill which passed the House . Farm Bill a Victory for Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure much less general than the House passed . After that , the outcome will be in the hands of conference committee , where it may be possible to exert administration pressure . Another point of battle on the tariff is the proposal of Senator Norris to include . as an amendment , the farm debenture scheme , which wan rejected as part of the Farm Relief bill . The Norris proposal will win in the Senate . The House has already beaten it by decisive majority and probably will do so again . Its fate will then be threshed out in conference and House conferees may have to give the Senate considerable concessions on other matters to get rid of the debenture provision . Other amendments proposed at this time include one by Senator Glass to tax stock transactions where the security sold has been held less than 60 days . Congressional leaders believe this will not pass . Farm Relief Bill , as it passed , was a victory for President Hoover . for the measure was practically identical with the one he endorsed . On the national origins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although this is not regarded as a major reverse . If Mr. Hoover can get a tariff bill of the type he wants he will have fared very well at the hands of his first Congress . Money for operation of farm relief has been appropriated . In the next few days the farm board of nine , for which the bill provides , will be appointed . Its first problem will be a consideration of the wheat situation . Negotiations are now in progress in Washington to form a wheat stabilization corporation , which would ask a $50,000,000 loan from the farm board to carry on operations which would halt the downward trend in wheat prices . The success of these efforts and the attitude of the new board toward them can not be foretold . Tariff Rate. , Uncertain The farm bill also provides loans to cooperatives and a number of applications of this character arc expected to confront it soon after it is appointed . The census and reapportionment bill provides for a census of 1930 and it also provides automatic reapportionment of the members of the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since 1910 , although the Constitution contemplated that it should take place each ten years . As a result , the membership of the House was mal-dastributed , with some states having more representatives than they were entitled to on a population basis and the rapidly growing states having far less . The passage of the bill marks the end of a fight of ten years . The French debt enactment in no way changes the Mellon-Berenger agreements . It merely makes one point in that agreement effective . The agreement itself provided that the war stock debt should be funded Into general payments . Congress has said that if the French ratify the agreement this one section of it will stand , pending final Congressional action on the pact itself . It is now practically certain that Congress will not undertake any new major legislation during the rest of its session . but will content itself with action on the tariff . It will be late Fall before this can be had There arc good chances that the special session will merge itself into the regular session scheduled to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . to judgs what rates will be in the bill . Principal interest centers on the rate for sugar , which was set by the House at flat three cents , with a 20 ' 4- differential for Cuba . The Senate is considering a sliding scale . Uncertainty as to sugar is true of other rates . What the Senate will do about tobacco . cement , brick and a hundred other items , can not be guessed with any degree of accuracy . Like all tariffs , this one is a matter of trade and not even the traders know what they are going to get out of the negotiations .                     