@@693074

txt Industrial Conference Board Head , Back , Says Industrial Achievements Are Admired . PRAISES FARM CREDIT PLAN Is Gratified at Interest of East In Agriculture  --  Sees Good in Lack of Government Paternalism . Magnus W. Alexander , President of the National Industrial Conference Board , who returned from Europe yesterday on the Hamburg-American liner Albert Bailin , gave out the following statement to the press : " The most impressive thing about life in European countries today is the pervading influence of America , and everything American . I refer not only to the more obvious surface things , such as American tourists may be responsible for , or American movies , or American jazz . Nor to the all-Important subject of American loans , which are so immense a factor in European finance and rehabilitation and politics . I am referring to the conviction that has come to the thinking men of affairs of Europe since the war , namely , that we in America are doing not only spectacular and outlandish things , which was the thing that was generally expected of us before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things in America that mark an advance and improvement over the methods and achievements of Europe , so old in experience and rich in culture . ' Perhaps in no field is this growing respect for American achievement as marked as in that of industrial economics . While there has been , and to some extent still is. among many European people a feeling that America owes much of its present prestige and financial strength to the fortunes of war , American industrial achievements during the past five years have opened the eyes of industrialists abroad to a different view . Our ability to pay the highest wages in the world and at the same time to be able successfully to compete with foreign makers in their home markets as well as neutral fields has caused European industrialists and economists to pay us the compliment of studying our methods to ascertain the secret of hots the thing is done . " Pending consideration of the proposal by President Coolidge of the $100,000,000 credit plan for the rebel of farmers , Mr. Alexander would not discuss the advisability of the plan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural problem in the United States is the result of many interdependent elements , and that there can be no one panacea for its solution . " I blieve that it vrill take the sympathetic and active cooperation of all branches of our business life to clear the path for the recovery of agriculture , so necessary to our national life , prosperity and our continued economic independence . " From this point of view , it is gratifying to see that such a proposal as the $100,000,000 credit for farmers has been advanced , inasmuch as it indicates a broadening of active interest on part of the East in the agricultural situation . " Recent agitation in the United States for added governmental supervision of interstate business brings to mind the strong contrast of the comparative business prosperity enjoyed by the United States as against the trying times being experienced by industry and commerce in European countries where governmental supervision , governmental direction and paternalism is the outstanding policy , and in some countries is being carried to such extremes . " Without going into the merits of different governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America 's industrial and commercial greatness Is the concomitant phenomenon of a governmental system whose cardinal principle is to guarantee to all the free pursuit of life , liberty and happiness , and to respect the privacy of their business affairs . I do not think that our conditions warrant any change of policy , nor that the authority of our Government Is in need of strengthening . "                     