@@691202

txt Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller Jr . tonight announced the engagement of their only daughter , Abby , to David Merriweth ? or Milton Jr. , a young New York attorney , who has known Miss Rockefeller since childhood . The wedding , it was said , will take place in May , although the date has not been set . The couple plan to take small apartment in keeping with hIc . 1111 tan 's salary . The Miltons have been neighbors 21 the Rockefeller family at Pocantleo Hills for years , and they have also ccmpied adjacent summer homes at Seal Harbor , on the Maine coast . Mr. Milton , who is 25 years old , is graduate of Williams college and of Columbia university law school . In the world war he served in the naval reserve unit at Yale . He was admitted to the bar a few months ago and now Is associated with the New York law arm of Satterlee &; Canfield . Miss Rockefeller , heiress to what is probably the largest family fortune in the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first to marry . She is 21 years old . She has three brothers , John D. Rockefeller Iii. , Nelson A. Rockefeller , and . Laurence S.11 : - , ckefeller . She was formally introduced to society on Nov. 22 , 1922 . Miss Rockefeller was born in New York City and educated at a private school here . Her name entered the newspapers last summer after she had received a suspended sentence in trallic court on a charge of speeding . An Investigation , ordered by Mayor Dylan , disclosed that it was her second offense , but that the record , had been changed so as to list her as a frst offender . The police officers held responsible for suspending the second sentence were disciplined . Mr. Milton , friends said tonight , was with Miss-Rockefeller when she was arrested , and represented her in court . The ear she was driving was his . Mr. Milton is a descendant of Mem ' ? wether Lewis , who explored the west with Clark early in the last century . His mother was Ellen . Hunt Fink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventor and railroad executive . 1Iis father was an attorney . He died in 1913 . Washington Educator Heads National Group Cincinnati , 0 . , Feb. 25 . ? F. W. Ration of Washington , D. C. , was elected president of the department of superintendence of the National Education association at the closing session here today . E. E. Lewis of Flint , Mich. , was elected second vice president . Norman R. Crozier of Dallas , Tex. , was elected member of the executive committee .                     