@@690526

txt " The European atmosphere is less charged with national and racial hatred than at any time since the war . " . , aid L. Vogelstein , chairman of the American Meta/ Co .. upon his return from Europe , " and more is being heard of the necessity of economic cooperation . I am. thetrorc. optimistic about the situation abroad and consider the outlook for the non-ferrous metals better than at any time in the last 17 years . " This is the fifth extended trip that Mr. Vogelstein has made to Europe since the war . New problems , he said , loom up each time , and upon each successive trip he has had distinct feeling that progress is being made in getting conditions righted . This trip , however , he found greatest actual improvement . " Business is excellent in France , . good in Italy , improving in England , slowly emerging from the deflation crisis in Czechoslovakia and Austria , and extremely had in Germany . In the latter country stabilization of the currency is a severe test of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dear . Competition is keen and the process of eliminating the weaker concerns which owe their Mushroom growth to artificial conditions does not seem quite ended . All countries nre preparing for the great peaceful struggle of commercial and industrial supremacy . " The severe test of efficiency , which is bound to eliminate the poorly equipped concerns , will necessitate a lavish outlay of money in the course of modernization of plants and methods and is bound to be felt on this side in a constant demand for capital and raw materials . " Discussing the non-ferrous metals , Mr. Vogelstein continued : " While there may be , and no doubt will be , setbacks and periods of hesitation , the outlook broadly speaking is brighter than it has been at any time since 1907 . Europe has to make up for lost time . We in this country have expended in the consumption of metals about Europe 's requirements , broadly speaking , are less than before the war . An approach to relative equalization is bound to occur . " Electrical super-stations utilizing water power or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I and telegraph equipment to ameliorate the prCsCnt most unsatisfactory service , better and more facilities for con ) - fortable and quick travel and transportation are some of the most urgent needs of Europe . and for all of these purposes they will need our metals . " Copper should benefit particularly from the growth of the European market . The war , the depression shortly before its outbreak and low prices following its close ' have discouraged exploration work . Our supply is limited by the product of the old mines whose output was brought to its maximum by the introduction of the flotation process . The time may not be far off , after the resumption ' of peaceful business relations in Europe , when the world 's demand for copper is going to outrun present producing capacity as has happened before after prolonged depression in the development of new mines . " The same conditions apply more or less to zinc and lead . It . is even more remarkable for zinc . Before the war European production dominated the zinc situation . Since the war the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consumption of tin in Europe stands in contrast to the slack demand in this country . " The silver market has been and will continue to be benefited bra steady demand for coinage purposes . The urgent clamoring of the public for hard money on one ' hand . and the great coining profits to the government on the other hand , assure us of a good market for our production . " As to the general situation . Mr. Vogelstein said that while for many years the skies have not been as bright as many wished . he is looking ahead to an era of trade expansion which means for this country employment of labor at good wages , a good market for our products and prosperity .                     