@@692261

txt Governor SMITH 'S message to the Legislature is undeniably long . Parts of it seem to be included on the theory of the medieval writer who explained : " This I say lest anything be left unsaid . " The Governor appears to think of his message less as an address to the legislators , less a communication to the people of New York , which they will read to the very last word , than as a public document in which his views on a great variety of topics will be found permanently on record . This is not to say that the Governor falls into surplusage or irrelevancies . It is because he knows so intimately the business of the State , and follows with such close and intelligent interest the work of its welfare agencies , that he writes at considerable length . When a man knows absolutely what he is talking about it is easy to distinguish between a full mind and mere verbosity . The main recommendations and hopes of Governor SMITH are readily distinguishable in what he says to the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself as the head of a corporation reporting to his directors and stockholders . First of all , he makes a survey of the finances of the State . and does it in such clear and simple terms that the wayfaring man can understand . The net result is that there will be a clear and unencumbered surplus in the State Treasury on July 1 , 1026 , of more than $27,000,000 . The Governor declares that with anything like care and economy in the appropriations made by the Legislature , " we can continue " this year the relief we gave to in .. come tax payers and real property ? ? tax payers at the last two sessions s ' of the Legislature . " In close connection with this question the Governor renews his argument for a Constitutional Executive Budget . He maintains that this is really part and parcel of the whole plan for reorganizing the Government of the State . But into that matter he does not go pending the report of the unofficial commission of which Mr. HUGHES is Chairman  --  a report which Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Referring with pardonable satisfaction to the adoption by the people of the constitutional amendments which he had advocated , the Governor urges the Legislature to see to it that the popular mandate be carried out without partisanship and without regard to the selfish demands of cliques or localities . He indicates the natural agencies for making effective the will of the people in regard to the abolition of grade crossings . The program for this work would naturally be prepared by the Public Service Commission in cooperation with the Department of Highways . Turning to the bond issue , approved at the last election , for the expenditure of $10,000,000 a year on public works , Governor SalITH reports a schedule for the first year already prepared by the heads of the State departments . It covers what seems to be a Judicious mixture of urgent projects for bridges , hospitals , education , prisons and a State office building at Albany . On all these points the Governor 's message shows that he is Vigilant and fore-handed . It is needless to follow Governor SMITH over the whole range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Legislature . Those interested in any particular one of them will find each set down In its place . Seldom can there have been a Governor of New York who displayed so comprehensive a knowledge of all the institutions working for the unfortunate , the crippled , the diseased , the mentally afflicted , the struggling poor . Rural schools , hospitals , prisons , rent laws , wort:meal compensation ? these are but samples of the subjects close to the needs of many people which the Governor touches in passing , but always with a sympathetic band . All told , It is an extraordinary review of the State 's knanifold activities , both business and humane , which Governor SMITH manages to pack Into his message to the Legislature . At the end he asks for cooperation from the Republican majority . He will be pleased to confer with any member of it , or with any committee of the Legislature , at any time . Moreover , with a glint in his eye which some foolhardy Republicans ought to understand by this time , Governor SMITH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitation " from either or both of your Honor " able Bodies to address you in person " or to be publicly questioned by you " at any time during the session on " any recommendation which I have " made or may hereafter make . " if that is a gauntlet thrown down , the chances are that it will not be picked up .                     