@@694717

txt A great deal of publicity has been given recently to the " ambulancechasing " evil . It is gratifying to note that definite and decisive steps are now being taken by the Bar Associatioi and the Appellate Division of the First Department to eradicate this blot upon the reputation of the legal profession as a whole . Permit me to call attention to a similar practice upon the part of some insurance companies which is just as unjustifiable and just as pernicious as ambulance chasing . I refer to the practice of adjusting or attempting to adjust cases direct with a claimant , although they know that there is an attorney in the case . Several weeks ago I commenced an action on behalf of a client for personal injuries sustained as the result of a falling ceiling . On the very day on which the summons and complaint were served upon the defendant my client informed me that he had been visited by a man who offered him a check and a certain paper for him to sign . This I presume was a general release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorney first he was told that his attorney would be taken care of , and that he need not be concerned about him . Fortunately , my client was intelligent enough to refuse to ' either take the check or to sign the paper . This company , however , believes in persistency After I had granted to the attorney for the defendant two extensions of time within which to serve his answer , I finally received the answer and noticed the case for trial . Much to my surprise my courtesy was rewarded by another visit to my client by the same visitor , who this - time came with a slightly increased Offer of settlement . Again the same story about taking care of the attorney and the same request for a signature , which was again refused . Other attorneys with whom I am acquainted were not quite as fortunate . In their cases the insurance company adjusters succeeded in settling the cases without their knowledge or consent , with the result that they lost a fee and all the work and time spent on the cases were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorney may have redress in an action against the insurance company or his client , or both . But that makes the practice no less pernicious . In the great majority of these cases the litigant is fooled into accepting a ridiculously small sum in settlement of his claim , with the result that he suffers even more than the attorney . It may be that the companies who practice these tactics take the view that they are made to suffer by " ambulance chasers , " and that this is their method of retaliation. ? Unfortunately , however , two wrongs do not make a right , and it is the - innocent ones who usually suffer . It is some gratification to know that just as no reputable attorney resorts to ambulance chasing , neither do any of the better class of insurance companies resort to the methods about which I am complaining . 1 hope that with the extinction of the ambulance-chasing evil we will also see the end of underhand settlements . SAMUEL SWEET . New York , Jan. 18 , 1928 . Hunting Machines . To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES editorial , " A Menace to Hunting . " " it is said that ' something drastic ' must be done to protect hunting or the sport will disappear . " Those who regret the possibility of the end of so cruel a diversion  --  so peculiarly classified as sport , when its very aim is the infliction of terror , pain and death  --  are greatly to be censured . One poor , panting , tortured animal striving for life against several huntsmen equipped with fleet horses and a pack of trained dogs ! Even one huntsman holds overwhelming odds  --  and still we are told that " fair play " is one of the essential characteristics of the true sportsinani The spirit of rivalry , the pleasure of triumph and supremacy , the satisfaction of winning stakes can be as keen without the necessity of vicious killing . Let the ' advent of mechanical appliances in the field be welcomed and every effort made to hasten their Increasing use . M. A. OLIVER . New York , Jan. 38. 1928 . Help for Bowery Mission . Po the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of several patriotic and welfare organizations it has been my priviege to be in touch with a great institution n New York City which has won my admiration and respect because of the splenlid work it is doing . For several years I have been visiting the 3owery Mission , at 227 Bowery , and have lever ceased to wonder at the happy way t handles some of our less fortunate trethren . The demands made upon the mission are very great . I understand that it fed over * , 000 men last year , and I see from the Ldditional luncheon line added this Winter hat it is feeding 600 more men a day than ast year . It needs financial help , and at once . And am sure that the generous New York lublic will not allow its work to deteriorate lecause of the lack of necessary funds . DAISY ALLEN STORY . New Rochelle , N. Y .. Jan. 16 , 1028 . The Humor of Ignorance . ' o the Minor of The New York Times : THE TIMES of Jan. 16 publishes Assistant secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Women 's Conrention on the Cause and Cure of War , that ome enthusiast for peace pacts had poured ? ut his ardor for the Briand proposal and tad then asked what that proposal is . Would Mr. Castle entertain the question , whether the voters against the membership , f the United States in the League of Naions who acknowledge ' ignorance of the ovenant of the League should not equally re regarded as a jest ? MARY L. HINSDALE . Grand Rapids , Mich. , Jan. 20 , 1928.                     