@@686438

txt The future of America 's foreign trade has /levee ; been such a serious factor in our industrial life as , it . is today , according to bankers and industrial heads : ? International trade is receiving more thought , and Wail-. and means are being devised for broadening its activities Bankers feel that the stimulus to our foreign tradOi. lies in the establishment of a comprehensive , workable credit system , and many are inclined to the belief that ' ' the proposed Foreign Trade Financing Corporation will fill a long-felt want in remedying a situation that bears every indication of becoming acute . It is said that the increasing army of unemployed in all countries of the world would soon be put to work if international trade relations were revived . ? While bankers , in promoting such ventures , constantly point out that , irrespective of the fact that Europe owes us approximately $10,000,000,000 , some $4,000,000,000 of which is for private account , the establishment of flexible credit facilities would more speedily place the borrowing ' countries of Europe in a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diminished foreign trade , bankers ? thoughtful business men are not pessimists . They SA preciate the soundness of America 's banking position , and are hoping that sooner or later industry the country over will awaken to the necessity for co-operating in every way possible to encourage and increase our relations industrially with the world . Hon. William C. Redfield , former Secretary of Commerce and now president of the American Manufacturers ' Export Association , in touching on this subject last night at Des Moines , said , in part : " The mass of foreign debt is an embarrassment that indeed hardly needs to he explained . In some way or another it has to be paid , and that means that the men who owe it have got to be provided with the means of earning enough to pay it . You and I do not know enough cbout Europe 's affairs to buy her securities or loan them money . Banks can not do it , because the money must be loaned for a long enough time to permit these people who owe us , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their feet , and the banks have demand liabilities they must meet . " Our banking system and our commercial and agricultural system needs to be supplemented by something that does not now exist , and that is by a foreign trade financing corporation which shall not have demand liabilities to keep it anxious and to restrict its power , which shall begin where other banks leave off , and shall not be a competitor to them . " We need , " he added , " to place American otr .. throughout the world on a permanent basis arisinefrom American ownership and management of going industries everywhere . "                     