@@686615

txt THE " WELFARE BILLS . " Called an Attempt to Russianize American Methods . To the Editor of The New York Times : Mr. Rosenthal 's " answer " to my letter seems to Me ample proof . of the very Ideas that was trying to bring before the public . He shows what we all know , the need of the maternity work in which we are already engaged and the ' excellent results of such work done locally . He knows as well as I that the other members of the associations that he quotes- were no more consulted about their support of these bills than I was . Such endorsement is made by the people with time to attend conventions , and they are the abnormally situated , who always do follow the radical leaders to whom I alluded , largely , I believe , because they are misled into believing legislation a short-cut to reform  --  the worst of fallaoies . Nowhere does he . indicate any reason why Federal , Government should make " welfare work " one of its functions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrown into politics . As to extravagance , is there really any one left to deny the extravagance of State management of anything ? It was notable that there was tremendous opposition among our radical friends to the Moses amendment , which provided that part of the appropriation should aid the counties to build hospitals . All of it was needed for salaries for the " nontechnical advisers . " If public health and education were not my lifelong interest , besides my own children , I should not lift a voice against the Russlanizing of our American method of dealing with these problems . The move to make a Welfare Department , now before Congress , would put even more patronage and power into the hands ( which I notice Mr. Rosenthal in no way disowns ) that are pushing the Maternity and Education bills . The greater includes the less . Education and maternity are sure of the interest of the right kind of women for all time . Those who loudly claim to be " the ' women of America " when they talk to Congress and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , do the rest of us women an ill turn when they would make us the plaything of politics . In the name of our American institutions , it is time to decide what sort of an America we are preparing for these children in whose name each of us is daring to speak . America or Russia ? I ask in the name of my children and all children . MARGARET D.- FAYERWEATHERR , New Lebanon , N. Y. , May 28 , 1921 . Colonel Harvey 's Context . To the Editor of The New York Times : In the discussion by numerous contributors to your valued columns of Mr. Harvey 's London address , may I in fairness not point out that in no instance does one find any consideration given to the context in interpreting the saying , " We were afraid not to fight . " The Ambassador 's remark in toto was : " We were not too proud to fight ; we were afraid not to fight . " Obviously , it is the Wilson Administration ' that was afraid not to fight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , surely every shade of patriotic sentiment , of pride and of chivalry was involved  --  but certainly no altruistic motives moved the Wilson Cabinet to action . W. B. CALDER . Charleston , W. Va. , May 28 , 1921 . To the Editor of The New York Times : ? I read with regret your report of two recent sermons which touched on Ambassador Harvey 's speech on the great war . These sermons failed to distinguish between two such entirely different objects as the action of our rulers in bringing the United States into the war ( which was . correctly and courageously characterized by Colonel Harvey ) and the devotion , bravery and high ideals of our army during the war . VIATOR . New York , May 31 , 1921 . Taxes on Rich and Poor . To the Editor of The Sew York TiMCS The solo objection by the Federation of Labor and the farmers to the proposed 1 per cent . sales tax on consumable commodities is that it taxes the so-called " poor " for the benefit of the so-called " rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 per cent . on their commodity expenditures . Customs duties are a sales tax on , commodities ; N. ) one kicks . Would a flat 1 per cent . income tax without exemptions be taxing the socalled ' " Door " for the benefit of the socalled " rich " ? Politicians have believed and have ' taught the masses to believe that all our present system of taxation was to tax the so-called " ' rich for the benefit of the so-called " poor , " when the - actual truth is that all taxes ( except probably the inheritance tax and tax on lazy incomes ) are shifted onto and paid by the ultimate consumer  --  who is now paying indirectly his share of the excess profits tax and surtax on income in the shape of a sales tax on commodities many times that of 1 per cent . which taxes are to be repealed , and the ultimate consumer will thereby be saved the difference . What is wanted is a course of instruction that will drive into the " pocket-understanding " of the people as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that the cost of production , ' including taxation , comes out of their pockets , whether they be millionaires or beggars . STEWART BROWNE . New York . May 24 , 1921 . Unemployed In Ireland . To the Editor of The New York Times : I notice in your Saturday 's issue that a message signed by 1,000 Irish Protestants said that " 100,000 persons are unemployed and that there is much personal distress . " The Irish seem to be working hard to remedy the evils of this situation , judging by the telegram in the next column to the foregoing , which reads : " While on . the way to work this morning three men were kidnapped in Cork and marched along to an abandoned quarry , where they were shot . " C. E. s . Boston , May 23 , 1921.                     