@@694754

txt This city 's most disastrous fire which started at 7 o'clock last evening , was definitely checked this morning after sweeping eastward over au area of live MOCKS HIM leveling at least twenty-five buildings , includin ; many of the most important business structures in the city . Estimates of the damage run as high as $35,000,000 . Four banks , three theatres and three hotels were destroyed by the fire as well as the court house and a large number of downtown office buildings . The list of buildings wholly or partly destroyed is as follows : L'Independant , French language newspaper ; . Old Fall River HeraldNews Building , Rialto , Wilbur . and Premier Theatres , Mohican , Wilbur and Bay State Hotels , Orth Main Street Bank , Union Bank , Citizens ' Bank and Metacomet Bank , District Court House and part of the police station , Bennett Building , Ye Tavern Building , N. P. - Tessier Building , Astor Lunch , Crystal Lunch , Fawcett Building , Nathan Miller Building , Berg Building , Coughlin Building , Buffington Building , Waring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Building , Eagle Building and six houses on Seventh Street . The new building of The Fall River Herald-News , recently completed , was badly damaged but escaped destruction . Aid Came From Many Places . Special to The New York Times . FALL RIVER , Mass. , Friday , Feb. 3 . ? To fight the flames that menaced Fall River 's business section , half a dozen cities , including Boston , Providence and New Bedford , rushed fire apparatus . Several hours after the fire started the regular telephone service in the city was abandoned and the telegraph services were badly crippled . It was with great difficulty that emergency wires were being kept in commission . It was feared that there was loss of life , and there were reports of several firemen having been buried in a collapse of one building . At least five injured firemen are in the hospital . Scenes of Great Confusion . At the height of the blaze the city was a scene of pandemonium . Firemen were running helter skelter , bearing lines and ladders . Police , literally with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surging throngs of inquisitive or concerned persons . Clerks in business establishments scurried through the streets , bearing typewriters , cash registers , records and other paraphernalia from the offices which flames were destroying . The flames were then roaring eastward , driven by a brisk northwest breeze . They were headed from the business district toward one of the thickly settled residential sections of the city . The glow over the city was seen for miles around and streams of sightseers came pouring toward the city in automobiles , carriages and every conceivable conveyance . Flames Started in a Mill . The blaze started last evening at 7 o'clock in the southwest corner of Pocasset Mill No. 2 . It was discovered by Patrolmen Bugara and Boynton who , with a taxicab driver named Sawyer . sounded the first alarm . Subsequent alarms came thick and fast , and calls for help from other communities were very soon sent through . The flames spread in some cases almost as fast as a man could walk . In a short time the whole four units of the Pocasset Mills , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the five-story structures were caving in with crashes that detonated for blocks around . The mills had been in process of demolition by the management before the blaze . There was very little machinery in them and all that there was , principally in Mill No. 4 , was destroyed . Leaping across Central Street , the flames attacked the Mohican Hotel , a five-story structure containing 400 rooms . Patrons of this establishment dashed hastily for safety taking as much of their belongings as they were able to collect in the short time permitting them . Quickly the big building was destroyed . Deputy Fire Chief Holmes ordered the management of the Rialto Theatre to clear the house of its patrons , who filed out without panic . The building in which the theatre was housed , a four-story office structure , was quickly razed by the roaring flames . Across North Main Street the fourstory Wilbur Hotel was soon envelopened in flames , its patrons , like those of the Mohican Hotel , having fled before the advancing peril . The four-story granite block , between the Pocasset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to crash . Another office building , three stories high , at Bedford and North Main Streets , was then attacked . Battery Held in Readiness . At 9 o'clock the entire district bordered by Central , North Main , Bank and Durfee Streets was practically in ruins . In the armory , across the street from the blaze , a battery of coast artillery was being held in readiness for emergency duty . The forty-foot high wooden structure on Rock Street , in which had been housed the Premier Theatre , was the next building to go . The threestory office building on Purchase Street , in which the Fall River branch of The Providence Journal was located , was reached by the fire , and at 10 o'clock had to be evacuated . The facade of the Fall River Herald Building , four stories high , on Pocasset Street , at this time had been badly damaged , but the interior had been saved so far by the sprinkler system . which was working efficiently . The flames had leaped across the 125-foot wide thoroughfare to ignite this structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchange became so menacing that it was not deemed safe to permit the girls to remain on duty any longer . At 11:10 regular telephone communication was severed . Girls Stick to Their Posts . The telephone exchange at that time was surrounded by flames . The staff of 160 girls stuck valiantly to their posts answering the avalanche of inquiries , putting through emergency calls for more fire apparatus from places further and further away and helping newspaper men get reports of the disaster to the outside world . Except for emergency railroad telegraph the city was isolated from the outside as Western Union and Postal Telegraph offices had been burned out early in the evening . New York headquarters of the Western Union reported that all lines as far East as New Bedford were out of order in Southeastern Massachusetts . The Boys ' Club building , the Vermont block and the R. A. Department Store were swept over by the onrushing fire . Water was freezing in the streets , through which tangled lines of hose ran in a snake-line maze and was impeding the efforts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had gained a full start , were directing their efforts to wetting roofs and walls in the path of the fire . Police raised ropes around the danger district to keep out the crowds of curious and anxious who gathered at the scene . By 11 o'clock apparatus had reached Fall River from Newport , New Bedford , Taunton , Assonet , Swansea , Somerset , Warren , Providence , Brockton , Central Falls and Boston . The Providence apparatus was in charge of Battalion Chief David I. Bigney . The conflagration was beyond control of all these forces combined . The Union Mills on Pleasant Street and the Woolworth Building were in flames . Dwellings on Pleasant Street had been ignited , and the occupants were fleeing with only a few easily moved effects . The Troy mills on Bedford Sreet , opposite Police Headquarters were doomed . People were evacuating their homes and the streets were littered with furniture . Hundreds were aiding in the task of salvaging household effects . A Noted Industrial City . Fall River , a city of about 150,000 population , is situated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River , on the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad , forty-nine miles south of Boston . It is the largest cotton-milling city in the United States , and has more than eight hundred manufacturing establishments , of which over a hundred are cotton mills . It is one of the few cities in the United States where the American inhabitants are outnumbered by those coming from other countries , many of the foreigners being employed in the mills . Among the principal firms having establishments are the American Linen Company , the Chase Mills , the Durfee Mills , the Merchants Manufacturing Company , Pocassett Manufacturing Company , Sagamore Manufacturing Company , Tecumseh Mills , the Union Cotton Manufacturing Company and the American Print Works . There are also other large manufacturing establishments where hats , pianos and other commodities are made . The New England Oil Company has a large refinery there . In 1843 the city was swept by fire and about 280 buildings were destroyed . Again in 1916 two blocks in the heart of the city were wiped out by fire .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         