@@694062

txt Today 's public plenary session of the Tri-Power Naval Conference , according to opinion in Geneva tonight , changed the deadlock among the delegates on the cruiser problem not one iota and made it cleare- that the chance of any treaty of Geneva spelling real limitatice. of naval armaments is still extremely slight . Ambassador Hugh S. Gibson , head of the American delegation ; W. C. Bridgeman , First Lord of the Admiralty and head of the British delegation , and his colleague , Admiral Earl Jellicoe , and Viscount Ishii of Japan presented the viewpoints of their respective nations . All the speakers said many comp ! imentary things of the others and all agreed that the supreme object of armaments limitation is main tenunce and promotion of peace on earth . All professed horror of the possible disasters to be courted if the three great nations did not come to some agreement . Little Yielding Is Seen . But at the same time all four proceeded to stand pat on practically the same ground that each assumed when the conference began more than three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement , although still well concealed , might still be found . While ranging himself more toward the side of Japan , Mr. Gibson , as many here see it , placed responsibility for finding an agreement upon both Japan and England . " He has passed the baby on for us to hold , " was Mr. Bridgeman 's sotto voce comment overheard by a near-by member of the American delegation as Mr. Gibson finished . Mr. Bridgeman , who insisted upon having today 's plenary session , was the first on the program after the condolences of the conference had been expressed to the Irish Free State in the assassination of Kevin O'Higgins , Vice President of the Executive Council of the Irish Free State , who was also a member of the British Empire delegation . Bridgeman Charges Distortion . Mr. Bridgeman charged that the " conference atmosphere is being vitiated by gross misrepresentation of the British case . " The First Lord admitted that in the conference differences had been I expressed in " blunt , plain language , " but he contended , not once but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial information has been dragged from its context in order to create friction and ill-will . " I Mr. Bridgeman 's argument was basically the same as he made on the opening day and has repeated many times since , namely , that while admitting parity with the United States , Great Britain insists on fix , ing cruiser units before taking global tonnage into consideration . According to the American delegation , he made a tactical error in his declaration concerning American demands for cruisers of 10,000 tons . " We were alarmed , " said he , " when at one time the figure of twenty-five large 10,000-ton cruisers with 8-inch guns was suggested as a possible requirement for America , with the possibility of a further number of smaller cruisers with flinch guns . At the same time we understood that we should have to agree in advance to a total tonnage of 400,000 . " What would this mean for us ? That we would have to agree to an arbitrary figure to represent the force necessary for our security without even knowing the character of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Case . Mr. Gibson responded to this argument later and . in the opinion of most of those who heard him , successfully absolved the United States of the charge of having forced big cruisers on a " reluctant world . " But in the meantime Admiral Jellicoe , Commander-in-Chief of the Grand Fleet at the Battle of Jutland , sought to make out a case showing that Great : Britain needed at least seventy cruisers for the protection of herself , her dominions and colonies and far-flung sea communications . In support of his argument he told how many cruisers had patroled the North Sna night and day seam:tin : , f rl-Tman raiders . After outlining the difficulties keeping the Germans from breaking out into the North Sea through the territorial waters of Norway , Admiral Jellicoe declared : " I often wish that Providence , when creating the world , had given the British Isles a more northeasterly trend so as to shorten the distance between the Shetland Islands and the coast of Norway . " The Admiral went on to say that at the outbreak of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlining Great Britain 's early trou- , bles with the German raiders , he asked : Bares Story of German Raider . " If , under these conditions , 114 proved inadequate , can it be said that seventy is now excessive ? " Next he took up the cruiser problem as it applied to the fleet . " By 1916 , " - he said , " my force consisted of twenty-four armed merchant vessels outside the North Sea , eight armored cruisers and twentytwo light cruisers . " It is realized , of course , that only a portion of the cruiser force could be at sea at any one time . These numbers were found inadequate . " Toward the close of his speech Admiral Jellicoe gave a graphic recital of the exploits of the German raider Berlin , which correspondents tried to tell many times during the war , but their stories were always censored . The Berlin , according to Admiral Jellicoe , ducked through eight battle squadrons of the Grand Fleet , passing within eight miles of his own flagship , the Iron Duke , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle cruiser Audacious off the north of Ireland . After describing some of his other troubles as Commander of the Grand Fleet , Admiral Jellicoe came to this climax : " The fact remains that with the single exception of war with a Mei iterranean power , the difficulties of the British Navy in preventing the exit of raiders from the ports of any other nation would be multiplied a thousand fold . " The result must inevitably be that we should have to deal with raiders in far greater numbers than in the late war , and this fact alone makes it all the more imperative that the number of cruisers should be adequate . Gibson Replies to Jellicoe . To this Mr. Gibson replied , in part , as follows : " We have listened with interest to the views of the British delegation as to their special needs for numbers of light cruisers . We have heard the striking statement of Admiral Jellicoe as to the strength of forces needed tea hunt commerce raiders . " I confess , however , that the American delegation entertains serious misgivings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all possible contingencies of this character in time of war . " It seems clear to us that this same duty of hunting commerce raiders may fall upon any one of our navies in time of war , but that If in time of peace we are building up forces to perform this duty , it effectively shuts the door to any real limitation of naval strength . " Full text of Mr. Gibson 's speech is printed in adjoining columns . Gibson Sums Up Stand . Mr. Gibson summed up the American position by saying : " We feel that we are in such close agreement with the Japanese delegation with respect to total tonnage limitation and types of the cruiser class that we could easily find a basis of agreement with them . But that is not enough . All ' three of us must be in agreement . If some basis can be found which is mutually acceptable to the British and Japanese delegations we feel sure that it will be possible for the American delegation to make the agreement complete . " Meanwhile , the urbane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had been declaring that Japan had come to Geneva to get real limitation of armament on the basis of the status quo with a ratio slightly above 5-5-3 ? almost the same words spoken by Admiral Saito , the head of the Japanese delegation on June 20 . Thus as a result of today 's plenary session the conviction is growing that Japan is really ready to go home without a treaty unless it provides limitation at a low figure , and that the delegation representing the United States is ready to do likewise . Air of Acute Tension in Geneva . GENEVA , July 14 ** atmosphere of the naval conference tonight , after the public session , Is one of acute tension . The pessimists insist that today 's meeting , which got nowhere , marks the end of the conference , but the optimists insist that there still is some hope of an agreement . It is certain that all three delegations maintained their divergent viewpoints and that no agreement seems immediately in sight . But all the plenipotentiaries committed themselves to renewed effort . Probably the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to predict what will happen , but with the same majority simultaneously voicing its opinion that a solution for the cruiser problem must be found soon , or otherwise the conference will inevitably be doomed to disintegration . Considerable attention was given tonight to a passage in Viscount Ishii 's speech at the public session in which he declared that should any limitation be of such a nature as to leave the nations in possession of enormous armaments , the cause of limitation would suffer a serious blow ; for , he added : ' ' It can not be supposed that the existence side by side of such tremendous engines of battle would Make peace any the more secure . " Japan 's New Cruiser Plan . At today 's session , which adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary . Mr. Bridgeman and Admiral JeUicoe spoke for Great Britain . Mr. Gibson set forth the attitude of the United States , while Viscount Ishii made the specific proposal that the number of 10,000-ton cruisers for the United States and Great Britain be limited to ten , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less . Mr. Gibson gave assurances that if the proposals of Great Britain and Japan could be reconciled , American acceptance would be certain . An agreement among the three powers on the ground of mutual confidence and the feeling of security to be derived from an agreement would have more value than guns and ships , he said . Expressing confidence that there was no thought on conflict between them , Mr. Gibson believed that each country could be left free , within a carefully restricted tonnage limitation . to build in each class as it might see fit . " For our part , " he said , " we have no desire to question this right of others to chose the type of vessels that ' they desire within the general limitation fixed by the treaty . " Tonnage Compared to a Pie . Mr. Gibson indicated that the American delegation was prepared to consider in a preliminary way the Wegat British proposal after an agreement had been reached on the other problems , and was prepared also to suggest that the conference to be held at Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Aug. 17 . It was on the initiative of the First Lord of the British Admiralty that the plenary session was held , and Mr. Bridgeman complained bitterly of alleged gross misrepresentations of the British case " in certain quarters . " He repeated his argument that the best way to prevent competition in offensive armament was to get the individual size of warships as low as possible . " Total tonnage is like a pie , " he said , " it may be a very good thing , but all depends on what is inside of it . There is no way of preventing competition except by agreeing on a maximum size in each type , and the mere fixation of total tonnage or ratios is perfectly useless unless it is accompanied by individual limits in every class . " Mr. Bridgeman attributed to the United States and Japan responsibility for the difficulty in reaching an accord on the cruiser question , because , he said , these two countries had declined to agree to limit the size of ships and the size of the guns of smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Insists Use of Tonnage Be Known . He assured the conference that Great Britain had no intrinsic objection to the idea of total tonnage , provided Great Britain knew how other coutries were going to use that tonnage . " If we were to agree to a total tonnage of 400,000 for cruisers , " he said , " it would be without even knowing the character of the cruiser fleets of other nations . We must know how many large cruisers other nations propose to construct . " He feared that Great Britain would be put in a position of inferiority in offensive power unless all the characteristics of all cruisers were known in advance . Alluding to a statement of denial which he recently made to The Associated Press , the First Lord declared that the British had been accused of an arrogant desire for superiority and as having refused parity to the United States . But , he added , this had already been formally contradicted in these words : " We do not dispute the right of the United States to build cruisers in numbers sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right for ourselves . " Jellicoe Visions Perils to Britain . Basing his contention on his remarkable war experience , he painted a picture of Great Britain absolutely dependent for her life and security on her lines of communication , and , revealing episodes of the- great war as justification , he pictured the British Empire as at the mercy of hostile raiders in the event of another great conflagration . This certainly , he said , made it imperative for Great Britain to demand at least seventy cruisers . Admiral Jellicoe recalled the operations of the German raiders Wolf and Sea Adler in the Pacific and Indian Oceans and other seas many thousands of miles distant from German ports as ** great majority of the many thousands of miles of communication are open to attack in case of war . After relating the terrific havoc caused by raiders in the war , especially by the Emden and the Karlsruhe , Admiral Jellicoe , referring to his experience as Commander-inChief , declared that the problem of effectively watching the big North Sea areas required many more cruisers than were available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of the world had given the British Isles a more northeasterly trend in order to shorten the distance between the Shetland Islands and the coast of Norway . The best proof of the inadequacy of the British cruiser strength in the North Sea , he argued , was that despite the excellence of the naval intelligence service more than- 50 per cent . of the German raiders succeeded in evading the watching cruisers , and two German light cruisers succeeded in attacking and destroying a convoy of merchant ships between Norway and the Orkneys in 1917 . He emphasized the necessity of having a sufficiency of cruisers in every danger area . Japan for Cut in Big Cruisers . A new development was revealed at today 's session with Japan 's announcement that she favors keeping down the number of 10,000-ton cruisers to ten , or fewer , for Great Britain and the United States and about seven for Japan , which means that Japan sides with Great Britain in its effort to induce the United States to agree to the minimum number of this type of warcraft authorized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would want the right to maintain at least fifteen of this type of cruiser , but Mr. Gibson assured his fellow-delegates that this entirely depended upon the amount of total tonnage . Fie denied the contention emanating recently from the British side that Americans at Washington had forced big cruisers upon a " reluctant world , " and declared that other navies than the American had begun their construction and that the building was authorized by common agreement at the Washington conference .                     