@@689028

txt There is nothing at present to show that the stock market averages indicate that the major bull movement which developed from August , 1921 , has spent its force . There has been a long , but by no means unprecedented secondary reaction in one of the slowest bull markets recorded , and it is to be remarked here that speed has a good deal to do with the question . Major bull and bear movements vary in lenrth. but when they are violent they I are usually relatively short , as all past experience shows . The present secondary reaction has been long and slow but is in neither respect unprecedented . There was a like secondary reaction in 1906 , but what is there taken as the top ' of a long bull movement came at the end of that year , conspicuously in the case of the railroads . Probably what has given rise to a number of uneasy letters from students of the averages is that the present secondary reaction in a way seems to have repeated itself . On May 21 both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point , gave an indication of breaking through the ! last ! last low point of November 27 , 1922 , when the industrials touched 92.03 and the railroads 82.17 . Only one of the averages , in this case that of the twenty active railroads , went through the November low and a bear point by one not confirmed by the other has constantly proved misleading . In this case the inference was additionally doubtful from the fact that when the low point of the railroads was reached it was because the Louisville &; Nashville stock dividend accounted for a loss in the railroad average of i 2,68 . Without this The figure would have been above the 1November low . This is not to say that stock dividends or other large distributions affecting price value should not be remorselessly deducted , for the average would become meaningless ! unless it were established on a basis firm enough to meet any blow of fate . Obviously , if Louisville &; Nashville distributes something of value , that something is no longer in the price of the stock or in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be de ? vised to allow for extraordinary , and occasionally deceptive , influences such as this . The matter is extremely complicated and for the present , at least , is of somewhat academic interest . As the averages stand now , the railroads are nearly two points above the November low and the industrials nearly four points better than that figure . To indicate definitely a resumption of the major bull movement , the ' latter would need to sell above the price of 103.43 , the , 1 high of October 14 , 1922 , rather than 105.38 , the high paint of last March , unconfirmed by the railroad average . The railroads would need to cross 93.99 , the high of September 11 , 1022 , and would at present prices have rather more than ten points to travel . Both movements are well within the scope of a market which seems to have been slowly gathering strength in the face of heavy realizing of a character seldom or never encountered at the top of a major bull swing . It has often been said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's work on " The Stock Market Barometer , " that the task of calling the exact top to a major movement is beyond the scope of any barometer . It is additionally difficult where there has been no inflated speculation . If the present bull movement terminates without such a development It will be for the efirst time in the history of the averages . Buying automobiles under a " 85 a week plan " has the advantage of leaving the buyer something with which to operate the car after he gets it .                     