@@691893

txt he latest French security note to Germany , made public this evening , quite clearly puts it up to the Reich whether there is to be in the near future a conference for an elaboration of the Rhineland Treaty . In remitting the French answer to the German Government , M. Margerie , the French Ambassador at Berlin , indicated that the French Government would lose no time in appointing the commission of jurists to draw up the treaty projects which will serve as a basis of discussion . Though cordial in tone , Foreign Minister . Briand 's communication calls attention to the delays of note exchanges and says : " The French Government is in accord with its allies and invites the German Government to begin negotiation on these bases with the desire to evolve the treaty , of which , as far as she is concerned , France sincerely desires the conclusion . " The French note , which , it will be recalled , haiFtlie:approval of the British , Italian and ' Belgian . Governments , repeateAlfilt ethe entry of Germany into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed arrangement , and- repeats the decision of the League Council that no special CODdit4oal may be . attached to . the , apPlication of- Berlin for ? meinberShiP . This part of the note is of immediate interest because of the opening of the League Asser.bly at Geneva on Sept. 7 . Bone Germany Will Apply to League . While it is frankly expected that Ger-. , many . will use her application for League membership as a card in the treaty negotiations , it is said here that the Reich would be giving evidence of good faith in making an application next month , and it is said that the allied Foreign Ministers are perfectly willing to meet Dr. Stresemann and his colleagues at Geneva or near by at any time next month to carry matters ahead if Germany wishes to join the League at the coming session of the Assembly . After pointing out that the Allies consider German membership in the League as an essential part of the general European settlement , M. Briand contends that the Germans , so far as their interests go , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the mooted point of a French guarantee of arbitration treaties between Germany and France 's smaller allies , notably Poland and Czechoslovakia , the French note-not only disclaims any intention to elevate France to the pedestal of a judge of who is the aggressor in a possible conflict , saying it would be arranged to have this determined automatically , but also clearly indicates willingness to negotiate this point with Berlin . In fact . M. Briand 's note openly asks for a cross-table discussion of all points at issue . He says it is because of this belief that he confines his present obser  --  ations to general statements of principles . - waiting for the conference to Work out the delicate Points . In connection with the possibility of the security conference being held during the next month 's session of the 1 .. , gue Assembly , it is interesting to note that both Premier Painleve and M. Briand will be at Geneva as members of the French delegation , while Foreign Secretary Austen Chamberlain will head the British delegation and Prime Minister Baldwin will be only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Note to Germany . Copyright , 1925 , by The New York Times Company . By Wireless to TI1D Nsw Toss . LONDON , Aug. ** official English translation of the French note to Germany , given out here tonight , reads as follows : The French Government have given careful consideration to the German note of the 20th of July , 19 ? .. 5 . They are glad to observe the community of views which exists between the two Governments and to realize that the German Government arc as anxious as they are themselves to see the peace of Europe based upon an understanding which will insure to the several countries supplementary guarantees of security . They note with satisfaction that the German Government , atfer a careful study of the French note of the 36th of June , express their conviction that agreement is possible . The French Government . desirous of not delaying such an agreement , will confine themselves to such observations as the examination of the three essential points of the German note has suggested to them in common with their allies . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised by the French reply of the 111th of June , desire apparently to intimate that they see no objection on principle thereto , but wish only to reserve their right to discuss the points of details . The French Government are happy to note that the German Government el " 2 not seek to subordinate the conclusion of a pact of security to a modification of the provisions of the treaty of peace . The German Government , however , twice draw attention to the eventual possibility of concluding agreements under which the existing treaties might be adapted to changed circumstances and invoke , moreover , certain provisions of the covenant . They also suggest a hypothesis of modification of the conditions of the Rhineland occupation . Insist on Adherence to Treaty . The French Government are well aware of the provisions of the treaty to which the German note makes reference . Nor , in their respect for international undertakings , have they any intention of evading any provisions of the covenant . They would , however . remind the German Government that the covenant is itself primarily founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public law in Europe , and it defines as the first condition of the entry of  --  a State into the League of Nations the sincere intention on the part of that State to observe its international obligations . In agreement with their allies , the French Government consider the Treaty of Peace and the rights which Germany as well as the Allies possess thereunder must not be impaired , nor can the guarantees of its execution and the provisions which govern the application of these ' guarantees and in certain cases contemplate . their alleviation be modified by proposed agreements any more than the treaty itself can he modified . However liberal the spirit , however pacific the intentions with which France is ready to guide the present negotiations , she can not surrender her rights , and it is for this reason that the French note of the sixteenth of June specified that the security pact could not " affect the provisions of the treaty relative to the occupation of the Rhineland nor the Execution of the conditions laid down in relation thereto in the Rhineland Agreement . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as they are concerned . the declaration already made by them to the effect that they intend scrupulously to observe their obligations . Germany in League the Only Basis . The Allies are convinced that membership in the ** of Nations would provide Germany , once she entered the League , with the most efficacious method of establishing her requirements as other States have done in regard to their own interests . The entry of Germany into the League of Nations is the only solid basis of a mutual guarantee and a European agreement . It is not , in fact from the outside that a State can properly express the reservations , which would thus assume the character of conditions . It is from ' within that it can submit its wishes to the Council in exercise of - the right common to all States that are members of . the League . It is thus with regret that we have read the reservation in the German note declaring the question of Germany 's entry into the League Of Nations required to be further elucidated on the ground that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council of the League of Nations had not , according to the German Government , removed their objections . The French Government are not qualified to speak in the name of the League of Nations . The Council , having had before them the reservations formulated by Germany , have acquainted the German Government with their decision . This decision was based on the principle of the equality be'tween nations , the equality which implies that neither exception nor privilege favor any one of them . So far as they are concerned the alliedGovernmentscan oniy adhere to their former statements and repeat that the ' entry of Germany into the League of Nations under the same conditions as are prescribed for everybody remains in their opinion the basis of any understanding on security . St is precisely the absence of such security which has hitherto blocked the initiation of that process of general disarmament which was provided for in the Covenant and to which the German note alludes . Object to Treaty Reservations , The German Government have formulated certain reservations regarding the scope and character of the arbitral conventions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , on the other , either France or Belgium , the signatories of the Rhineland pact , or Germany 's other neighbors , signatories of the Treaty of ' Versailles . These reservations are of such a nature as to limit the obligatory charMiter - of these conventions by conforming them to the treaties arbitration which Germany has already concluded with some of her neighbors . These treaties imply resort in all cases to a permanent conciliation board , , but the actual arbitral settlement pro1 vided for thereunder , while applying to the generality of cases , does not cover the most important , that is , those of a political nature , which are precisely those most liable to lead to war . By such a procedure the provisions of the original German memorandum of the ninth of February , 1925 , which contemplated the conclusion of the arbitration treaties which would guarantee the peaceful solution of political as well as juridical disputes , would be dangerously restricted . In the opinion of the Allies the arbitration convention thus limited In that it would not apply to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value as a guarantee of peace , as it would still leave open certain opportunities for war . Our primary object is to render impossible , under the conditions formulated on the sixteenth of June , any fresh resort to force . We feel that this object can only be attained by means of some obligatory pacific settlement applying to all issues " which may ? arise . In our opinion the principle of compulsory arbitration , thus conceived , is an indispensable condition for any pact of the nature proposed by the German Government in the note of the ninth of February . As to Guarantee of Arbitration . The apprehensions which the German Government betrays on the subject of the guarantee of the Arbitration Convention will scarcely ? withstand objective criticism , tinder the system contemplated , the guarantor does not decide autocratically and unilaterally who is the aggressor . The aggressor defines himself by the very fact that instead of submitting it to pacific solution lie resorts to arms or violates either a frontier , Or . ' in the case of the Rhine , the demilitarized zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the greatest interest in preventing such violations from whichever side they come will at the first sign of danger be ' sure to exercise all his influence for that purpose . Moreover , it will be the business the limitrophe States themselves to see to it that this system of guarantee , conceived for their mutual Oratection , does not Work-to their disadvantage . As for the system of guaranteeing the Arbitration Convention , it proceeds directly from the idea which was pronounced consistent with the - spirit of the covenant by the Assembly of the League of Nations , at its last session In Geneva . It would not seem impossible to establish provisions adapting the operation of the guarantee whoever be the guarantor and whether the guarantee applies to frontiers or to arbitration to the nature of the violation and to the circumstenees and the degree of urgency which might necessitate the immediate execution of this guarantee . In this connection , an examination might be made whether some means could not be found safeguarding the impartiality of decisions come to without diminishing the Immediate and efficacious operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To sum Zito on the three essential points of the German note of the 20th of July , 1925. the French Government , in- agreement with . their allies , and without claiming to evade the legitimate application of any of the provisions of the Covenant of the League of Nations , can only confirm their earlier remarks on the need for scrupulous respect of the treaties . They are not qualified to discuss the questions concerning the admission of Germany . into the League of Nations , on which the Council of the League will have to come to a decision . Finally , they trust that the proposed guarantees are capable of being laid clown in terms both just and reasonable and as such will not expose them to interpretations ' and applications which may be improper and unJustilieThe French Government , in agreement with ? their allies , are conscious of the difficulties and of the delays involved in ' the continuation by the exchange of notes of the negotiations on such delicate questions . It is for this reason , while again drawing attention to their note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to these general observations without going into further details . Such , are the preliminary explanations Which the French Government have to offer . They are tendered in all sincerity and their purpose is- to remove all possibility of mistni'd'erstanding . The French Government ' in agreement with their allies , have now the honor to invite the German Government to enter into negotiations on this basis  --  negotiations which they for their part earnestly trust will result in the conclusion of a definitive treaty . Overshadowed by Debt Decisien , When the French reply to the German note on security Was given out this afternoon here , with M. caillaux and Winston Churchill reaching their unexpected conclusion on the debt question , it attracted little attention . The Daily News , however , thinks much the best feature of the note id its invitation to oral discussion . It has long been delayed , it says , and half of the difficulties and misunderstandings . of late years have been due to the futile attempts to discuss delicate controversial points in intermittent diplomatic correspondence . The Daily News approves of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German objections to entering the League of Nations were skated round rather than answered , and - adds : " The wisest course for Germany under the present circumstances undoubtedly is to accept the invitation extended to her and join the League . "                     