@@695929

txt A recent picture of King Alfonso of Spain showing him broken-hearted at the death of his mother , the dowager Queen Maria Christina , but striving heroically against heavy odds to restore tranquillity to a country openly divided against the dictatorship but loyal to the throne , is supplied to The Daily Mail today by a correspondent who , it is said , moves intimately in European diplomatic and political circles . The King is said to be passing through one of the greatest moral crises of his life . According to the correspondent , he was profoundly affected by the death of the Queen Mother on Feb. 6 , when he reached her side only to find her dead . That seemed to unnerve the King for the first time in his life . He insisted , says The Daily Mail 's informant , on observance of the ancient custom that members of the royal family should themselves prepare the body for burial , though this was a great trial for Princess Maria Christina , his 16-year-old daughter . He remained alone with the body , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preceding the funeral and refused to allow the body to be photographed or embalmed . The dead Queen was taken to her tomb in a hearse instead of on a gun carriage because the artillery had revolted and use of a gun carriage might have given rise to unpleasant incidents at the funeral . This , it is stated , was the culmination of the King 's grief , and for nine days he shut himself up in the palace out of which none of the royal family was allowed to move . " As a result of much self-communing , the King became morose , and his entourage began to fear that the acute neurasthenia that affected other Bourbon Kings , his ancestors , had descended on him , " says the correspondent . " Primo de Rivera , being uneasy , visited him several times and finally His Majesty told the Dictator that he desired to grant amnesty to the politicians and military concerned in the recent movement and that it might , perhaps , be well to consider the advisability of reducing the dictatorship . " The King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect these changes as homage to the memory of his mother . " General de Rivera was much disturbed , for he had only recently announced that more vigorous measures than ever were necessary to save the country , " it continues . He therefore begged the King to accept his resignation . This the King obviously could not do , for it would have jeopardized the whole situation and the Premier was requested to be reasonable . " The King did not withdraw his confidence . He only desired to pay the tribute of some liberal measures to the memory of his mother . That was all , but for General de Rivera it ova ; , apparently too much . " The situation is still uncertain . The rebellious part of the army and the old politicians are hoping the moment of change is at hand , but the Premier and his partisans are all out to maintain the dictatorship more strongly than ever . But the key to the situation is really the King , and his Majesty is so profoundly upset it is impossible to know what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Feb. 22 ( M. ? Reports were brought here today that dissatisfaction with the regime of General de Rivera had spread to a considerable section of the upper middle classes of the kingdom . A personage who arrived from Madrid said that this was the result of the disbanding of the artillery corps , with the consequent return to civil life of nearly 2,000 officers . The informant , who wished his name withheld because he " desired to return home , " said that the dismissed officers belonged to wealthy and influential families , and that the whole situation had become intensely critical .                     