@@686558

txt The sudden visit to London of Lord Irardinge , Drills ) ) Ambassador at Paris , immediately following Lloyd George 's sensational attack on Poland , has caused much comment political circles . The scrupulously refrained in his speech from putting any direct blame on France , but increasingly outspoken dispatches in the London newspapers on the attitude of the French Commission in Poland has left no doubt In the mind of the public as to serious differences between the two countries . After all this is not the first time there has been a difference of policy between the two Governments openly announced , and the Entente still lives . The French occupation of Franlcfort last April called forth public protest here , and that was far more openly an act of the French Cabinet than is the ; . resent attitude of the French Commissioners in Poland . The immediate outcome of the situation , says , The Observer 's diplomatic correspondent , is likely to be another meeting of the Supreme Council , perhaps at Boulogne . The proposal , it says , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed his willingness to accept it , but has stipulated that it must be postponed for ' a few days owing to his engagements . Mr. Lloyd George Is likely also to be very busy with the industrial situation . As a matter of fact , that has had a powerful reaction un events in Poland . The British Commissioners and officers have had to stand by and watch the Korfanty insurrection spread because the British troops stationed in the plebiscite area had had to be withdrawn to take the place on the Rhine of other troops recalled to England to be ready to keep the peace in case of industrial disturbances . This has undoubtedly weakened most seriously both the mind and material power of England to enforce observance of the Treaty of Versailles in Silesia , G. L. Garvin in The Observer tonight calls Premier Lloyd George 's speech the most important diplomatic step that has been taken within the Alliance since 1018 . " The Premier 's patience with France has been admirable at times in the past , " he continues . " We are all on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be restrained behind the closed doors of the Supreme Council , then it must be restrained in public . " Discussing possible policies Garvin asks : " What can be done ? We can allow the Germans , in Mr. Lloyd George 's words , to defend themselves in a province which has been theirs for 200 years , In that case it means an end of the Entente , for it is established that France is not only backing but organizing the Poles . Or we can make it finally clear to the Korfantis , Zellgouskls and Pilsudskis that so long as they behave as they do British influence will be thrown every time into the scales of Russia , Lithuania and Germany . " " Great Britah does not stand alone in this matter , " The Manchester Guardian points out . " Italy , " it says , " is as resolute as England , and with some special reason , as she is the one power whose troops have been honorably distinguished by their loyalty to the allied cause against Korfanty . All that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty et Versailles and to vindicate the allied cause as really the cause of European freedom and order , is that the French Government should range itself whole-heartedly with its allies . " For France , above all , the matter is urgent , because for no European country does so much depend upon the respect of all Europe for the treaty . For her , least of all , can the scrap of paper doctrine be safe . The word is with France . "                     