@@688269

txt The announcement of the coming season at the Metropolitan Opera House , officially made last week , has the urbane decorum , the well-bred reticence , that have been familiar qualities of that document in recent years , The days when the management felt any anxiety about the outcome and was ' hence moved to unseemly touting of its wares have long gone by . The announcement breathes perfect confidence ; it implies a knowledge that more people will want to go to the opera than can be accommodated . It treats the public with decent liberality in letting it know in general , but not in too great detail , what it may hope for . There is , to be sure , not much to rouse excitement in its promises . ' The outstanding feature of the announcement is the return to German opera , in German , by German singers , just as it was given before the war . Nobody will be surprised at this , for it was known to be coming . It is in line with the established policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were written  --  mostly . Sometimes it is n't at all convenient to follow the established policy , and then operas are given in the language that is most convenient , which generally happens to be Italian , unless it is French , and never happens to be English . If any have grieved at the abandonment of what they hoped was a lead toward " opera in English , " resulting from wartime necessity , there might be a certain cold comfort derived from the fact that rarely has it been possible to grasp more than a few words in an act of any opera in English . General unintelligibility ruled more completely than when the opera was given in the original tongue . The reflection is a severe one upon the modern methods of teaching and learning singing . Some familiar names will be missed from the season 's roster of artists , but there are numerous new names that will pique public interest and curiosity . The art will once more be found to be greater than the artist and will survive in spite of the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored German wing of the company . None are known to New York except by name ; and all will have a clear opportunity to commend themselves by their merits . Only two new operas are announced for production , one Italian , one German . It is not a time of fertile operatic production anywhere in the world . To what straits managers are put to freshen and enlarge their repertories is indicated by their resort to such seasoned antiquities as " William Tell " and " L'Airicaine , " both of which have seemed to be obsolete at the Metropolitan . But there will doubtless be enough to engross the attention and kindle the interest of the opera-going public ; and it would surprise nobody to learn that the subscription is once more larger than ever before . In such terms does the New York public express its interest in opera and its devotion to the Metropolitan Opera House in particular .                     