@@687437

txt Lord Birkenhead , the Lord Chancellor , uttered the grave warning in the House of Lords tonight , with regard to Ireland , that " within the next few weeks we are going through the most grave and critical period probably in living , memory . " - It was true to say , said Lord Birkenhead , that the Provisional - Government received the allegiance of , by far the majority of the Irish Republican Army , but there were important areas in which the I. R. A. l ' ad not acceded to the cause of the Provisional Government and would not receive or ' obey instructions of that Government , which at the present moment lacked means of enforcing orders on the recalcitrant minority . It was plain that Collins was apprehensive that an ? attempt might be made by violence in Ireland to wreck the treaty and to destroy tie Provisional Government by seducing the armed forces  - -  upon whom , if it came to a trial of strength , they must in the last resort depend . In the present difficult situation it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy that she should , so far as he , ? honorable obligations in the North permitted , support those men in Ireland who under almost inconceivable difficulties were making a courageous attempt to carrtout : the treaty to which they had set their haids . Lord Birkenhead said the'Government came to the conclusion that they would not be justified in continuing the evacuation of troops until the time appeared to be ripe . They had also suggested to Sir James Craig and Michael Collins that there should be liaison officers for both sides on the border to keep in constant touch with each other . He was still not without hope that discussions between Craig and Collins would take place again . " We should deceive ourselves if we blinded ourselves to the fact ? " added Lord Birkenhead , " that within the next few weeks we are going through the most grave and critical period probably in living memory . Whither we shall get through them with success or not I do n't know , and I Make it quite plain that in all that I have said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safeguarded myself against being unduly sanguine . But I am still of the opinion that if all men in the two countries who are of good intention and all men whowish to see the treaty succeed and carried out will co-operate there is still great prospect that we may be so fortunate . " Winston Churchill , replying to Ronald in the Commons , said the Government had been in constant communication with both Governments in Ireland . The British Government done all in its power to deal with the situation . It had suspended evacuation of troops from Ireland . He had received a telegram from Michael Collins saying he was crossing tonight in order to confer with the Imperial Government . Collins also telegraphed he was now in a position to say where the kidnapped persons were being kept and would take steps to secure their release as soon as possible . Mr. asked if Mr. Churchill had any information with regard to a statement attributed to Collins in which he stated that the British authorities had no knowledge of the reasons for stopping evacuation and insinuated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among British troops . Churchill said the statement was based on pure misunderstanding , for the order to susJ pend evacuation came from London on the responsibility of the Government . In reply to another member , Mr. Churchill said that apart from serious political reasons the Government received the unanimous advice of military advisers against having troops on the south side of the border . The Daily News Dublin correspondent claims authority for stating that the evacuation of British troops will be resumed today unless hostilities break out on a large scale on the Northern front . The correspondent says there seems no foundation for Collins 's suggestion that the British army refuses to vacate the county , and that a " situation similar to elle situatioh created by the Curragh mutiny " may arise . The correspondent adds : " The- facts are not nearly so dramatic . Certain persons in authority appear suddenly to have formed the opinion that civil war on a big scale with an invasion of Northern territory by the South and of Southern territory by th - North was imminent , and that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be flung between the combatants to serve as a cushion while politicians got together round a table . " British troops are now worse than useless as a orotection to life and property . Whatever happens , they can not be used in the numbers now available without flinging the country straigbt back into the hell of guerilla warfare . There is no half-way house between complete evacuation and complete reconquest with an army of 100 , - 000 and upwards . " De Valera wishes to refrain at the moment from commenting upon Collins 's statement in the cable message to America that a coup d'etat was being planned for the overthrow of the new Government . Mr. Collins has merely put into writing what is common talk in the city . That some attempt at a coup d'etat is likely to be planned , if not i executed . before the year is out is taken for granted by experienced politicians . " Troop Movements Halted . LONDON . Feb. 14 ( Associated Press ) . ? Lord Birkenhead , Lord Chancellor , referred in the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Churchill in recent speeches in the House of Commons with regard to the necessity of making allowances because of the restricted powers possessed by the Provisional Government . He also made it ' clear that he did not criticise the action of the Northern Government in arse-Ling football players carrying arms . With reference to the suspension of th : evacuation of British troops , the Lord High Chancellor said the Government considered in the present situation of extreme tension , when so many were entitled to look to British help as the only refu-e , that continuance of evacuee tion would not be justified until the time appeared to be ripe . Announcement that the British Government regarded it necessary to sus-pc:nd the evacuation of British troops from Southern Ireland was made by Winston Churchill , the Colonial Secretary , in the House of Commons today . The sole reason for the suspension , Mr. Churchill said , was the disturbed situation on the northern border and not beeruse of anything that had happened in the southern part . of Ireland . The Colonial Secretary said that Michael Collins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet members . had informed the Government he would take steps before leaving Dublin to secure the release of the kidnapped Unionists as soon as possible . Collins had stated in his message , added the Secretary , that he knew where a number of the kidnapped men were being held . Answering a question as to whether the British troops would be placed in Monaghan County to prevent further raids from the South , Mr. Churchill said : " Quite apart from serious political reasons . the Government has received the unanimous advice of military experts against the adoption of such a course at the present juncture . " Alluding to the rioting in Belfast , the Colonial Secretary said the trouble began by the ' firing on loyalist workers from a Sinn Fein locality . He said the bomb that exploded in Weaver Street was thrown over a wall in Sinn Fein Quarters . He said the British Government was doing everything to cope with the situation . Dublin Condemns Halt in Evacuation . DUBLIN , Feb. 14 ( Associated Press ) ? Great apprehension has been caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as it is believed by many leading Irishmen that this act plays directly into the hands of the opponents of the Anglo-Irish treaty . Speedy fulfillment of the London Government 's promise to evacuate Southern Ireland had created the general impression here that the British were acting in good faith and that there was reality in the powers granted to South Ireland by the treaty . The handing over of the barracks and their occupation by troops of the Irish Republican Army had a similar effect . Interruption in evacuation is feared in many quarters as Indicating a change of front on the part of the British Cabinet . The military authorities in Dublin are not believed to be responsible for the move . It was learned today that the Cabinet was not supposed by time Provisional Government to have been , consulted on the suspension of evacuation activities , and Michael Collins takes the view that it is a fresh example of " meddling by the War Office , acting in the old spirit . " Acceptance of the candidacy for an Ulster seat in the Imperial Parliament by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacated his post as Chief of Staff of the British Army , has had the effect of reviving old suspicions here . One explanation offered here for the suspension of evacuation is that the local commanders , in view of recent incidents in Southern Ireland , refused td take the risk to the men and equipment that would be involved in the- troops ' departure . Mr. Collins places responsibility on Eamon de Valera 's campaign of resistance to the Provisional Government . Today 's issue of Mr. de Valera 's newspaper , The Republic of Ireland , shows the strengthening of this attack . It urges Arthur Griffith to remember that he ( Mr. de Valera ) is President of the Irish Republic , and that the Free State is yet in the far future . The journal attacks the bill intAduced in ate British Parliament giving . powers to the Provisional Government as " a masterpiece of camouflage . " It continues : " The tactics of mystification and deception will not succeed whenever the election comes . Early or late , we shall be ready for it and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republic , living and indestfuctible , and we shall win . " In the same paper Robert C. Barton , who was one of the Irish delegates who negotiated the Free State treaty , has a long article contradicting statements of Mr. Collins and asserting that the treaty was signed only under duress . With reference to the delegation at London , Mr. Barton says in his article : " The ignominious fact is on record that at that crisis three members of the Republican delegation refused even to submit to the British Government , on behalf of their country , counter-proposals maintaining for itself the dignity of independence . " Two members , of whom Mr. Collins was one , finally refused to submit them when their submission involved a risk . One Member , Mr. Griffith , eventually agreed to , but he personally pledged not to press to the breaking point the claim of Ireland to be free of British sovereignty . These counter-proposals afterward became the basis of Mr. de Valera 's alternative document . and Mr. Collins permitted the differences between them end the treaty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' quibble of words . ' A difference so dangerous and great in London as to warrant a refusal even to press it at Downing Street became a ' quibble of words ' in Dublin .                     