@@685744

txt Governor Alfred E. Smith will meet Samuel Gompers and James H. Vahey , - general counsel for the Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Railway Employes , in this city on Monday afternoon in an attempt to end the Brooklyn Rapid Transit strike . The Governor 's willingness to confer with the union leaders was expressed in. a telegram to Mr. Valley replying to a request for a conference " to join with Mr. Gompers and Myself In appeal to Federal Judge Mayer to help end the strike . " Mr. Valley 's telegram supplemented a personal appeal made to the Governor on Thursday by William D. : Mahon . President of the Amalgamated Association . It was learned yesterday that Mr. Valley , whose headquarters are , in Boston . was also present at the con- , ference in Albany . The telegram which Mr. Vahcy sent to the Governor said : Boston , Mass. , Sept. 10 . Honorable A. E. Smith , Governor , Albany. : I have been instructed bit , the eXecutive . officers of the Amalgamated Association to ask you to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Mayer to help end the strike on the Brooklyn Rapid .4 ransit system , affecting a great inUltitude of people , by meeting with Mr. Gompers and me in New York City , or any other convenient place , on Saturday or Monday . I thank you in ath vance for anything you may do in the situation and await an early reply . JAMES H. VAHEY . Agrees to Meet Leaders . ? The Governor sent the following reply : Albany , N. Y. , Sept. 10 , 1920 . Mr. James Vahey , Boston , Mass. : Will be glad to meet Samuel Gompers and yourself at Biltmore Hotel , New York City , at 2 o'clock Monday afternoon , as requested in your telegram just received . ALFRED E. SMITH . Leaders of the Amalgamated at the Hotel Continental last night said that there was nothing ' to add to the telegraphic correspondence between Mr. Vahey and the Governor in - which the meeting was arranged . It was admitted , however , that Mr. Mahon , during his conference with the Governor on Thursday , had discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which was the primary purpose of the meeting . The leaders here said , however , that the details of the strike itself had not been discussed and that that Was the purpose of the meeting here Monday . Officers of the Amalgamated Association and representatives of the American Federation of Labor last night at a poorly attended meeting of the strikers in the Brooklyn Labor Lyceum , Willoughby and Myrtle Avenues , urged the men not to return to work , declaring they had information that the strikebreakers were quitting . Less than 1 .. 500 of the strikers attended the meeting . Vice President Shea of the Amalgamated told the gathering he had been informed that 400 strikebreakers had failed to report for work at the carbarns and that many others were talking of deserting the company . " We are going to win this strike boys , " he said , " and all we want you to do is to stick it out . We 'll win through the conference next Monday which will be attended by Governor Smith , Samuel Gompers and other prominent officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are going to win this strike that he canceled an important engagement in another part of the country to participate in the conference with the Governor . " Edward A. Adams , an official of the American Federation of Labor , also urged the men to remain on strike and intimating hope through the conference with the Governor . The indictment yesterday of nine strikers by the Brooklyn Grand Jury ' on charges of murder in the first degree In connection with the death of Ferdinand Friedman , 17 years old , of 2,1U Sixty-fourth Street , who was struck on the head with a stone twelve days *go during an attack on a Sea Beach train near the Fort Hamilton Station , seemed to have a discouraging effect on the strikers . Earlier in the day the . B. R. T. officials maintained a service which they declared was on a par with That of the preceding day , but after news of the ? indictinents reached the strikers ' headquarters reports were circulated that many of the strikers had decided to return to ' work . A ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. R. T. , that 2,000 of the strikers up to noon yesterday had returned to their jobs was vigorously . denied by leaders of the strikers . but- it was obvious that service on the subway , elevated and surface systems of the B. R. T. had improved considerably by the time the evening homeward rush began . While dense crowds of Brooklynites filled the terminals of the lines on the Manhattan side of the East River bridges , the rapidity with which these crowds were absorbed by the elevated and surface systems showed unmistakable evidence of great improvement in the transit service . At 7 o'clock last evening , however , service on the surface lines crossing the Brooklyn and Williamsburgh Bridges was halted . Held Without Bail . Eight of the nine indicted strikers were arraigned before Judge Haskell in the Brooklyn County Court soon after the indictments were handed up . They - were held without bail . District Attorney Lewis said later that the police expected to arrest the ninth man mentioned in the indictment within a few hours . The eight strikers remanded on the murder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street ; Sylvio Orisino , 25 , same address ; Frank Marsano , 23 , same address ; Michael Colludo , 23 , of 1,330 Sixty-fourth Street ; Paul Antonelli , 27 , of 25 Bay Fourteenth Street ; Michael Freeman , - 17 , of 323 Park Place , and Angelo Spracco , 23 , of 1,452 Sixty-fourth Street , formerly employed as guards on the Sea Beach Line . and Simon Cohen , 22 , of 834 West Twenty-second Street , a former conductor on that line . District , Attorney Lewis an . nounced that he had received a report ' from the Kings County Hospital to the effect that W. Fairbanks , who also suffered a. fractured skull from a stone thrown by one -. of the - strikers , was in a dying condition ... He intimated that in the event Of the motorman 's death he would ask the Grand Jury to return an additional indictment for murder against the nine men indicted yesterday . - -. - Five hundred men and boys at 9 o'clock last night surrounded a Vanderbilt Avenue car at Park and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the motorman and conductor to flee . for their lives , Smashed the windows of the car . The motorman of the car , which was on its way from Coney Island to Manhattan , being unfamiliar with the route , switched the car to the Ridgewood line turning I in t and dpraerckTO END B.R.T. STRIKE 74%heennuehse icnaettleteadtoor. vtuanrnd Crowd Jeers Bewildered Crew . About fifty strikers and sympathizers were at the corner when the green crew hove in sight with the car . and when they saw the crew undecided as to what way to Switch the car they began jeering them . The motorman became excited , and started the car up Park Avenue . with the crowd following . By the time the car reached Marcy Avenue the crowd had increased to 500 . The motorman stopped the car , and when he and the conductor jumped off men and boys ran inside and began smashing the windows and destroying the register . The reserves were summoned from the Vernon Avenue station , and Policeman Minnion arrested John Russo , 23 years old , of 71 Ellery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was an . elevated guard , but denied taking part in damaging the car , and said he had been a passenger on it . He wan locked up on a charge of malicious mischief . A wrecking crew from a barn was sent after the car . The only trouble reported to the B. R. T. officials during the preceding night was to the effect that a band of strikers attacked a West End train as it was entering the Bay Parkway station at 9:30 P. M. and threw a dozen small stones through the car windows . None of the passengers was injured , however . The strikers ' fled before policemen could reach them . Receiver Garrison reported to Public Service Commissioner Nixon at noon yesterday-that during the morning rush 683 surface cars were operated , a decrease of 37 from Thursday 's operation in the same period . Mr. Garrison also reported that the company had resumed service on the Putnam Avenue line with thirty-five cars , and on the Jamaica Avenue line with sixteen cars . The receiver reported that the company made its greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trains being operated during the day at about 75 per cent . of normal . The Culver elevated line was in operation , to Coney Island , as well as the Brighton-Franklin Avenue line , the Sea Beach line and the Brighton subway line . He stated that cars were in operation yesterday morning on fifty one surface lines , which carried passengers across the Brooklyn and . Williamsburg bridges , and between midnight and 6 o'clock yesterday morning seventy-five trains , with a total of 231 cars , were operated over the B.- R. T. subway and elevated systems . Trains Run to . Park Row . Receiver Garrison also announced that shuttle service on the Manhattan Avenue Line , which operates from Greenpoint to Long Aland City , was - increased with the operation of 187 trains with a total of 898 cars ; an increase of 19 trains or 38 cars over the preceding twenty-four hours . Trains also were run to Park Row , Manhattan . Only 53 out of the 4,700 surface car strikers returned to work , according to William Reilly , Secretary of their union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's union , said that - of the 3,800 shop workers who struck only 68 were at work . Mr. Garrison denied a. report that 1,100 women employed in stations of the B. R. T. had joined the strikers . He said all of the women were at work yesterday with the exception of ninety who joined the strikers when they walked out two weeks ago . Service Uniforms Barred . Le Roy W. Ross , United States Attorney for Brooklyn , announced yesterday that he would begin legal proceedings against any striker or sympathizer wearing a uniform of the United States armed forces during disturbances in the streets growing out of the strike . He said he was investigating reports that men in soldiers ' and sailors ' uniforms Participated in the disturbance on Labor Day at Prospect Park Plaza . Mr. Ross claimed that Major Gen. Robert L. Bullard , Commander of the Department of the Bast , hadent him a letter in which he declared that the wearing of a soldier 's ' or sailor 's uniform at a labor demonstration was a violation of the Federal law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enright for a list of the men arrested at the riot on Labor Day , who were alleged to have been wearing United States uniforms at that time . As soon as he receives the list . Mr. : Ross said , he will begin proceedings against the men . Bolshevist agitators renewed their efforts yesterday to have - the strikers resort to violence . Policemen reported that pamphlets condemning the police and the B. R. T. officials for their alleged ill-treatment of the strikers were slyly circulated , 12y the agitators by the aid of children . Early in the . morning Policeman Sweetzer found a package of handbills purporting to have been issued by the Communist Party in the Long Island Railroad Station at Flatbush Aventie , Brooklyn . The handbills called for ? " more direct action ' t - on the part of the strikers , and urged them to rid themselves of - the officials of their unions , specifically mentioning Vice President Shea of the Amalgamated Association , who were declared " , to be in league with the officials of the 13 . R. T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eight young men arrested on suspicions of having discharged ' pistols at e Culver line train at Gravesend . and Twenty-second Avenues ; Wednesday night ; were fined each in the Flatbush Court . The , - policemen - said. the shots were fired from : taxicab , and that they found the prisoners in a taxicab a short distance from the scene ot the shooting . The youth 's declared they knew nothhik , - about the shooting , .. bus admitted they had been- drinking. , ,                     