@@692775

txt Strong intimations came yesterday from the Anti-Saloon League camp that the drys may place an independent candidate in the field for Governor , as well as a contender against James W. Wadsurlirth Jr . for the seat he now holds in the United States Senate and would like to occupy for another six-year term . The question will come up probably for settlement at a conference to be held by the ultra-drys tomorrow at the Presbyterian Building , 156 Fifth Avenue . Among the organisations that will participate are the New York Anti-Saloon- League , the Women 's Law Enforcement Committee , the Women 's Christian Temperance Union , the New York Civic League , the Independent Order of Good Templars and what is left in this State of the old Prohibition Party . An independent candidate for Governor , there is reason to believe , would make a great deal of difference to the Republican leaders , who are making all their campaign - plans on the basis of a straight-out party fight which they expect to win if Governor Smith does not run again . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drys would make defeat almost certain , even if the Democrats should be compelled to go into the fight with a candidate less popular than Governor Smith . A Blow to Republicans . Should the drys carry into effect this most recent threat , it undoubtedly would have the effect of scaring off Republicans of calibre , who otherwise might be available , from entering a race in which heavy handicaps would be against them . The fact that the drys are contemplating running a candidate of their own for Governor is an indication of the distrust they-'now feel toward the Republican organization in this State . which until recently they believed could be relied upon to do the bidding of the Anti-Saloon League . Normally their policy would be to , I wait until after the Republicans had I nominated , but that would involve this difficulty : The Republican State Con- , vention will be held so late that they ) might find it hard to get the 12.000 signatures to nominating petitions for their candidates . Not since the Prohibition Party ceased to function regularly have the drys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to enter the primaries , or to entitle them to a place for their candidates on the ballot . Coming on top of the repeated and increasingly outspoken declarations of Senator Wadsworth in marked conflict with dry policies , and the passage of the Referendum bill by the Republican Legislature , the selection of this city for the meeting of the State  --  Convention is accepted by the drys as an indication that the Republicans may decide to enter the fight this Autumn with a hundred per cent . wet ticket , and a platform to fit the candidates . Of already known Republican candi- dates whose names will appear on the ballot , only one  --  Lieut . Governor Seymour Lowman , who almost certainly will be renominated ? is even politically dry . The probability that the candidate for Governor will be a New York City Republican makes certain a Republican ticket with a wet at the head of it , and wets heavily in preponderance in the other places . , To Discuss Referendum . Questions which will be brought up at the dry conference tomorrow will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State platform , and the attitude to be taken by the extreme drys toward the referendum . Statements emanating from the Anti-Saloon League and other dry organizations strongly indicate an intention on their part to have it appear that the drys have refrained from participating in the vote on the referendum question , thus providing for themselves an alibi in view of the big affirmative majority which political observers be ' lieve to be in prospect . It is believed that a final decision on whether the dry leaders should be directed to warn their followers to ignore the referendum will probably be reached at the conference . It was learned yesterday that the drys are making a determined drive for the Rev. Charles Wesley Flint , Chancellor of Syracuse University , to accept their nomination for Senator . Chancellor Flint . for many years a Methodist clergyman , is an ardent dry . In a recent statement he denounced the referendum , characteri- : - ing it as a " gold brick , " even from the viewpoint of the wet . There is no doubt that if Dr. Flint should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wadsworth they would line up solidly behind him . Arthur J. Davis , State Superintendent of the Anti-Saloon League , said yesterday that he looked upon tomorrow 's conference as of the utmost importance . To Fight Wadsworth . " Is the conference being held for the purpose of definitely deciding whether to put a candidate in the field against Senator Wadsworth ? " Superintendent Davis was asked . " That question has already been definitely determined , " he replied . " We will have a candidate of our own in the field against Senator Wadsworth . " " How will the candidate be selected will you hold an unofficial convention ? " was asked . ? ' No , I think not . There is no need of a convention . We will go ahead and circulate our petitions when we find the man we want . " " If the matter has been decided , what is the need and purpose of further conferences ? " Mr. Davis was asked . " As I understand it , " he replied , " the entire question of prohibition in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be gone into . Of course , the most important matter to be considered is whether we will have an independent candidate for Governor as well as for United States Senator . "                     