@@692007

txt Copyright . 1925. by The New York Times Company . Special Cable to THE NEW YORK PARIS , Oct. ** French do not take tragically the failure to reach a debt settlement at Washington , but they take it regretfully . While it had been expected that the terms of settle , ment would add to the tax burdens of France , business leaders and bankers , as well as Government officials , had beileved an arrangement would inject stability into the fiscal situation here and would give the French people confidence born of knowledge of just where they stood in the matter . With its large floating ' debt the Government stands in absolute need of public confidence . The value placed on the news from Washington last night was shown in the weakening of the franc in the local market , the dollar rising from 21.10 francs1 on the Bourse this morning to 21:50 this afternoon . This drift did not come . from New York , where the market opens later , nor did it come from London . It represented French sales of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government , which gave buying orders for $2,000,000 worth of francs before the Bourse opened . Expectation here is that francs bought in America for the rise will be thrown on the market within a week and that it Is Possible the Morgan credit will be used to hold the franc steady . There is very little comment in the French capital on the provisory accord being brought back by M. Caillaux . IParis is awaiting his explanations of it and in the meanwhile public Interest is settled on the failure to reach a full agreement with the Debt Funding Commission and the probable effect on handling the French debt to , England . Press Supports Calllaux 's Offer . Papers of all parties naturally enough . take the stand that It ! . Caillaux 's final proposition was the best France could do . Some take the stand that a five years ' delay will clarify the situation in showing France 's capacity for payment and in making plain how the Dawes plan will work , while others believe delay will mean increasing friction between France and the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor because one of the prime motives of France 's seeking a settlement was to regain the political independence which many Frenchmen thought was hampered by the unsettled debt . Several French correspondents at Washington place a large part of the blame on the indiscretion of the French spokesman , but most papers here do not take seriously the idea that such a factor could break off the negotiations . The Gaulois thinks that " American statesmen , prisoners of their own political considerations , broke off the negotiations in order not to bear the crushing responsibility of having inflicted on friendly France intolerable financial servitude as the price of her sacrifices for common victory . " The Presse says : " This business will astonish those among us who still had for the ' United States some esteem for the part played In the war . It is the most demoralizing spectacle which could be offered to humanity . What sadness , what bitterness , for soldiers of civilization , for those soldiers of the Marne and Verdun , to see t ire beautiful figure of the promised peace with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a sacrifice to a god more detestable than the god of war . That Is the reward for heroism , It is a sad event , this sailing of the French delegation . The event is to our credit , hut does not reflect much lustre on that nation of a hundred million Inhabitants . " The Liberty attacks the temporary arrangement and says France should not ratify it . The Information says in any case France has a free conscience . " Fault of the failure is not hers , " it adds . " She acted most correctly . Our moral prestige will lose nothing " The Journal des Debats thinks the re ; - zult of the failure of the negotiations will be serious . It hopes the French offer will serve as a basis for future negotiations . Domestically this paper thinks the effect will be bad , especially with regard to efforts to restore public confidence in public securities , and makes a plea for return to power of Poincar4 on the ground that the existing situation in France needs a nationalist policy . The Temps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans and that Frenchmen had best rest on the position of having made the best offer they could " In five years much can happen in the political and economic situation in the world , " The Temps says . " Between now and then it will be easy to judge the finnncial capacity of France . " Also we will know better what the Dawes plan will produce and in what measure our allies and associates in the great war will see that Germany pays in order that we may pay them . " The Temps adds that in any future negotiations greater emphasis should be placed on the need of providing some transfer machinery as was done for Germany in the Dawes plan .                     