@@696938

txt Have you ever luut a dream which later came true ? If you 'll Mail Us am. account of your prophetic dream we 'll pay you $1 for every . dream published . Address Sr Dreams , " Chicago Tribune . Received Warning . Last winter while my htisband 's mother was visiting us , I had served it number of late suppers in a short mriod.of time , and , consequently , had quite a lot of soiled linens which I did not care to send to the laundry . One night , before I could get them laundered , I dreamed I was preparing a lunch and when I was about to seat my guests , found I had no clean napkins , I told mother of my dream , and remarked that I had better look over my linens ; but the day was a busy one and . I failed to do It . The next night or so , we had some friends drop in unexpectedly , and I prepared an Impromptu lunch . When 1 went to the linen closet for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mother and told her pedream had some true , and we had a good laugh . Fortunately , our friends were well known and I served them paper napkins . S. ? Revealed Money . My husband had been dead about six months when I had a dream about him . I dreamed he was walking around the house calling me . He said over and over . " The money 's In the pocket . " ' When I awoke the next morning the dream was still in my mind . I went to the clothes closet and 1pokedi In different pockets . I looked in an oldpair of trousers and what I saw there nearly made me faint . It was a roll of ten dollar bills . There were 100 , which meant $1,000 altogether . I remembered he had never eared for banks and this is where he had hidden it . No one can tell me dreams do n't come true . A. H. W. i Answers to L Beauty Queries ' ' ' ' ' T Antoinette , Donnelly C. D. C. : THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elec trio peedle . It Is rather an expensive operation , as the work must be done by a skilled and experience operator . The hair on the face may be bleached ' with applications of peroxide . Send stamped addressed envelope for my booklet on superfluous hair . L. M. : IF YOUR HAIR IS OILY , you need to wash it every week or perhaps twice a week until ' the condition has been civercome .. I have a tonic for oily hair which you may have for a stamped addressed envelope . R. R. : Pp RID ' YOURSELF OF blackheads bathe the face with soap and warm Water , using a comp brush . 4crub thoroughly the attbate4 parts . Rinse in warm water and then in cold water . For exaggerated cases steaming the face Is advised . Details for steaming may be had for a stamped addressed envelope .                     