@@686046

txt Elimination of the quarterly stock dividend of 1-40 share . on General Motors common ' is likely to be decided upon when directors meet for dividend action the latter part of this month . Since March common shareholders have received quarterly a . cash dividend of 25 cents a share in addition to the stock dividend and no change'in the cash disbursement is looked for . Some of the new financial interests in the company are opposed to payment of stock dividends on present basis . They believe that most of the shares distributed as stock dividends are not held but are thrown upon the market . ' This acts as a constant drag upon the market for General Motors stock . To what extent is indicated by the fact that on present outstanding common capitaliiation of approximately 20,000,000 shards present stock dividend requirements add 2,000,000 shares or 10%. to the common capitalization annually . It is believed that stockholders would receive greater benefits from a lump stock dividend every two or three years rather than a continuation of present plan . There has been more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Motors financing . This was hinged upon rumor that the British explosives people who subscribed for $36,000,000 of common stock earlier this year - were takirig only half that amount . It can be stated that not only has the entire original subscription been taken but practically the entire amount involved has been paid into General Motors treasury . In common with practically all other motor companies General Motors is doing comparatively-little business . It will be remembered that the General Motors passenger car lines are among the few whose prices have not been reduced . A reduction at this time would ' be unlikely to stimulate sales to any marked degree . but it is not unlikely - that next Spring will witness a lowering of prices on General Motors cars , which coming at a time when the greatest number of buyers usuall come into market should result in substantial bookings .                     