@@689944

txt Mrs. James Russell Parsons , president of the Republican ' Neighborhood Association , who is. supporting former State Senator Schuyler Ma Meyer , insurgent candidate for Republican leader of the Fifteenth Asseinbly District , made public yesterday a challenge- for a debate that she has sent to Mrsadohn ' T- Pratt , woman leader of the organization forces in the district . Mrs. Pratt - is supporting Frank T. Coleman , Sr. , the present leader , and Firs- parsons 's challenge called toms. ' debate on the question of whether Mr. Meyer was better fitted thin Mr. Cole-1 man to bring about , the election of . a successor to Samuel S. Koenig as .1 County Chairman and to bring out a record vote this fall for President Coolidge . " I feel that the vitally important issues in the coming primary contest in this district have been obscured . " Mrs. Parsons wrote to Mrs. Pratt . " In order to assist in clarifying these issues in the minds of the enrolled RePublican voters , trust you will accept my challenge to debate the enclosed propoSition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon by both of us some time between March 14 and 25 , preferably In the evening . " Mrs. Parsons declared that she considered the only two real issues in the primary contest to be-.the necessity of revitalizing the Republican organization in the district and displacing Mr. Koenig by a new chairman of " sufficient yigor , ' competence and loyalty to make the New York County Republican organization once more a factor ' to be reckoned with . " ? Answering the charge of opponents that Mr. Meyer 's contest in a Presidentialyear tended to split the party , Mrs. Parsons recalled that Mrs. - Pratt in 1920 supported candidates favorable to the nomination of Herbert Hoover against Herbert Parsons , then Republican National Committeeman and the choice of the organization . " I notice by the morning papers that Mr. Wickersham stated that he neither . liked nor approved . of Mr. Koenig , but that out of more than 100,000 Republicans in New York County it would be impossible to find any one to replace him . " she continued . " I had thought myself a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I confess I do not yield to such complete despair regarding Republican efficiency and loyalty , even in New York County , as Mr. Wickersham 's statement would seem to indicate . " Mrs. Parsons added that the charge that " a certain member of the Republican Neighborhood Association had failed to be elected leader anal had been trying to stir up trouble ever since " evidently referred to her . She - declared that she had no apology for her candidacy and asserted that if she had the time she might become a candidate for a more important office than associate leader . A meeting of supporters of the or- ganization primary ticket met at the home of Mrs. Harold Pratt , 58 East Sixty-eighth Street , in the afternoon . Mr. Coleman characterized as false statements by those opposing him that he was subservient to Mr. Koenig . " If there is any candidate for County Chairman . better than Mr. Koenig I will support him , but I do n't believe there will be . " Mr. Coleman said , " Mr. Koenig is better qualified than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualified , but the question is how to get him . " BERGER SCORES LAGUARDIA . Tells Club Women He Is Disloyal to Party Over Tax Fight . Samuel Berger , former State Deputy Attorney General , speaking at a luncheon of the Women 's Harding and Coolidge Club at the Hotel Marie Antoinette yesterday , attacked Representative F. H. LaGuardia ah being disloyal to the Republican Party , and urged the women to defeat him if he attempted to stand for re-election . ? Mr. Berger 's theme was party loyalty . He said there wag too little party loyalty in the United . States , and referring to LaGuardia , he said : " He is no Republican at all . He is no more a Republican than the representatives of Soviet Russia are republicans . Nor is he a Democrat . He is just a man consumed with a high opinion of himself who feels that the only correct way of doing a thing is the way he wants It done . He is harming the cause of the Republican Party by his obstructive tactics on the tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed in the same class as LaGuardia by the speaker , who said that through lack of party loyalty he feared the Mellon tax reduction plan had been killed . After saying that the Harding and Coolidge Administrations required no defense , Mr. Berger declared that in retaining the Harding Cabinet Mr. Coolidge did his duty . " The President is not going to be swept off his feet by mob clamor , " he said . ' He will not be swayed by noise and will investigate before acting . He will examine the evidence first and he will not crucify a man because that man is being attacked . I refer to Mr. Daugherty . If the Senate committee 's facts justify Mr. Daugherty 's removal , he will go . If the committee finds he is a man of probity he will not be removed . "                     