@@696087

txt Calvin Coolidge has joined the New York Life Insurance Company as a member of the board of directors , it was announced yesterday by Darwin P. Kingsley , president , who made public a letter of acceptance written by the former President . bnortiy atter this announcement , it became known that former Governor Smith had been elected a director of the Consolidated , Indemnity and Insurance Co. , of which his old friend John H. Gilchrist is president . On March 28 Mr. Smith . was elected a director of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company . Mr. Coolidge was formally nominated at a meeting of the board held yesterday in the company 's new building , 51 Madison Avenue . He will be elected at a meeting of the directors and officers to be held next month . To Be on Agency Conimittee . As a director Mr. Coolidge will serve on the . agency committee . of the company . ' In that post , Mr. Kingsley explained , he will maintain " human contacts " between the company and its more than 10,000 agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chose that committee upon which to serve , although membership on others , such as the finance committee , was open to him . The former President will , of course , serve without salary . He will receive a fee of $50 in gold for each directors ' meeting he attends . They are held monthly , except in July and August . As a committeeman he will receive $20 in gold for each meeting , the number of which varies with the amount of business brought before the committeemen . Mr. Coolidge also gets transportation to and from this city and two days ' maintenance . Mr. Kingsley preferred not to disclose the circumstances under which Mr. Coolidge , already eminently successful as an author , was induced to enter the insurance field . It was understood , however , that Mr. Coolidge 's decision to follow the example of another ex-President , ' Grover Cleveland , who also turned to insurance , serving for three years as an Equitable Life Assurance stock trustee , followed talksbetween him and Mr.-Kingsley , the first having taken place some time ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the place of the late Myron.T . Herrick , Ambassador to France . He set forth his reasons for taking the post in a letter , which follows : Northampton , Mass. , April 4 , 1929 . Mr. Darwin P. Kingsley , President of the N. Y. Life Insurance Co. 51 Madison Avenue , New York City . My dear Mr. Kingsley , : Believing that life insurance is the most effective instrumentality for the promotion of industry , saving and character ever devised , that a well-managed mutual company is a cooperative society for the advancement of the public welfare , and that as one of the leaders in this national economic movement the New York Life Insurance Company may justly be called a public service institution , ? I accept the , nomination you have tendered me to become a member of the board of directors of your company , and if elected I shall be glad to participate in its administration . Very truly yours , CALVIN COOLIDGE . Mr. Kingsley issued this state-ment : " At the regular meeting of the board of directors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its new home ? office building ' at Madison Square , ex-President Coolidge was nominated , as a , member of the board of directors , in succession to Ambassador Herrick , de- ceased . The nominee will be elected at the May meeting of the board . " Mr. Coolidge is the second exPresident of the United . States to lend his name and influence to the promotion of life insurance as a form of social service . From 1905 until his death in 1908 , Grover Cleveland performed what Elihu Root has characterized as distinctly a public service ' by acting as a trustee of the majority stock of the Equitable Life Assurance Society . " In accepting a directorship in the New York Life , Mr. Coolidge undoubtedly responds to ? the motives that appealed to Mr. Cleveland . He has been a policy holder in the company for thirty-seven years , and as a young lawyer in Massachusetts he performed some valuable service for it . " I believe that all life insurance will rejoice in welcoming Mr. Coolidge into the directorate of this company . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers of the company appreciate , but , beyond that , it notably testifies to the fact that life insurance is a high type of public service . " ? Memorial in Herrick 's Honor . A memorial in honor of Mr. Herrick was put in the minutes of the directors ' meeting as follows : AMBASSADOR MYRON ' T. Hsenicx . The career of our deceased associate , Honorable Myron T. Herrick. emphasizes again the facility with which an American , trained in big business or the law , becomes a successful diplomat . The old world diplomat . trained until he makes the punctilio of his profession greater than the end sought , does not easily understand . nor does he properly value the diplomat of Mr. Herrick 's school . Formal diplomatic training would probably have marred rather than advanced his success . He belongs to the school of Benjamin Franklin , Alphonso Taft , Joseph H. Choate , Edward J. Phelps . Walter H. Page and Townsend Harris . He came up through the law , banking and politics . His brilliant success as Ambasador to Fiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed his equipment . Death has ended a useful , even a great , career . Few men have lived fuller , richer lives . It is difficult to recall an instance in all diplomatic history where an Ambassador from a foreign country , dying , has received such ' evidences of his conquest of the hearts of  --  the people in the land to which he was accredited . His mortal remains , now on the ocean , borne back to us with such honors as are seldom accorded any man , will finally rest in the soil of the State where he fought his way to distinction . : This city and this nation will stand uncovered as his body passes to its final resting place . We have been inspired by his achievements ; we are proud of the association we were privileged to have with him in this board room ; we shall miss him , but we shall not forget him . We direct that this minute be spread upon the records of the board and that a copy suitably engrossed be sent to his son @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Abbott , John E. Andrus ; Nathaniel F. Ayer , Cornelius N .. Bliss , Mortimer N. Buckner , Thomas A. Buckner , Nicholas M. Butler , George B. Cortelyou , Walter W. Head , Charles D. Hines , Alba B. Johnson , Percy H. Johnston , Willard V. King , Darwin P. Kingsley , Richard I. Manning , John G. Milburn , Gerrish H. Milliken , Frank Presbrey , John J. Pulleyn , Fleming H. Revell , George M. Reynolds , Hiram R. Steele , Jesse I. Straus and Ridley Watts . The insurance company of which former Governor Smith has become a director has its offices at 475 Fifth Avenue and the announcement yesterday said that " its original authorized capital has been increased to 800,000 shares and when the entire authorized capital has been taken up the company will have a capital , surplus and reserves of $20,000,000 . " In addition to Mr. Gilchrist , the officers are : Chairman of the board of directors , Bernard . K. Marcus , president of the Bank of the United States ; chairman of the executive committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and president of the Bankus Corporation ; secretary treasurer , A. S. White , vice president of the Bankus Corporation ; vice president and general counsel , Rolland R. Rasquin . Coolidge Declines Comment . Special to The New York Times . NORTHAMPTON , Mass. , April 10 . ? Former President Coolidge , who has accepted a place as a director of the New York Life Insurance Company to succeed Myron T. Herrick , declined comment today beyond the acknowledgment that the statement from New York was authentic . He said that any information relative to his choice as a New York Life director would have to come from the insurance company officials in New York .                     