@@695548

txt The passage of an American airplane overhead saved the life of Juan Lopez , one of several peaceful Nicaraguans marked for slaughter by a bandit group in the Province of Jinotega early this month , according to a personal investigation made by Colonel Francis Lejeune Parker , Vice Chairman of the American Electoral Mission . Lopez escaped from the bandits after suffering three machete wounds , but while making his way toward the 1- town of Jinotega on horseback . he again encountered Pedro Altamirano , leader of the bandits , who was one of . General Sandino 's agents sent to terrorize the residents of Jinotega Province . Altamirano ordered his followers to seize Lopez , at the same time greeting him with the words : " Hello , Johnny , we shall finish you this time . " While the bandits were grappling with Lopez an airplane flew overhead , causing them to scatter in every direction to escape being bombed . Lopez took to his heels and escaped to Jinotega , where he is recovering from his wounds . Colonel Parker 's report of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a prominent lawyer of Managua , conducting a campaign in Jinotega on behalf of General Moneada , and half a dozen members of his party , retired to rest at midnight , Oct. 1 . Soon afterward bandits rushed the house at the village of San Marcos , dragging Dr. Mendieta , Lopez and three others out of doors and slashing them with machetes . Dr. Mendieta asked for mercy , but the bandits answered with curses and blows . Lopez escaped , but the four others were killed in a revolting manner , being hacked to pieces with machetes . Their ears , noses , fingers and arms were cut off and their bodies mutilated . It was on the following morning that Lopez again fell in with Altamirano , to be saved by the appearance of the American plane . Later Altamirano released some captives on condition that they should spread a warning among the inhabitants that he would return at the end of October and would kill all who attempted to vote on Nov. 4 . Although the bandits made the raid during the registration period the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Additional forces of marines and the National Guard are now in Jinotega to protect the inhabitants , and it is not expected that the election will be disturbed by the bandits . Altamirano has retreated toward the Honduran border , plundering the inhabitants and committing several murders . A number of people were captured and robbed and forced to act as carriers .                     