@@690902

txt The first objective sought by independent forces now preparing to- enter next year 's Mayoralty campaign will be to scare Tammany out of renominating John F. Hylan . The strategy of the independents calls for a constant bombardment of the HyIan Administration on transit and other issues . The evil effect on the city 's finances of the alleged shortcomings of Mayor Hylan 's administration is to be told in detail at public functions and gatherings by those anxious to dislodge the Mayor . In recent years , and especially since the enfranchisement of women ; whisk was contemporaneous with the election of Mayor Hylan seven years ago , Tammany has got rid of much : ' Of . the evil repute which had tn , , ! de , 61 : - 07 ready target for the civic reformer . Hence the battle cry of the independents this year is not raised against Tammany but against Mayor Hyman and a continuation a his administration . . - The Republicans , of course , for party reasons , will direct their fire against Tammany as Tammany , regardless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . - The Republicans can not win unless Tammany suffers defeat . Sonie observers see in this a possible line of cleavage , which may render the Mayoralty fight next year different from previous municipal fights . Willing to Back Tammany Men . Spokesmen for the Citizens Union and other anti-Tammany organizations are expressing the-hope that Tammany may place in the field candidates of a character that might render a fusion movement unnecessary . They gay they would just as soon support the candidates named by Tammany as those of any other organization provided they conform to their idea of what candidates should be . This sort of talk in such quarters is almost without precedent . " Hylan must be eliminated as a candidate for re-election  --  that will be the starting point of our campaign , " said Walter T. Arndt , Secretary of the Citi- ? zens Union . " With that assured , we sincerely trust that Tammany may be induced to nominate a ticket that would make a fusion movement unnecessary next year . " We will bend all our energies toward the elimination of Hylan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and July 1 of the shortcomings of his administration , the misrule that through him has been foisted on the city and the serious consequences therefrom . Taxpayers in this city will be paying for many years to come for things that Mayor Hylan and his administration have done or left undone , and the next generation will bitterly rue the day that he was placed in the Mayor 's chair in City Hall . We hope to make all that clear before the time to make nominations is at hand . " Independents , regardless of group , and the Republican leaders , are equally insistent that fusion along the lines of the compact entered upon four years ago is a thing of the past and not to be revived in next year 's Mayoralty fight . The dicker and bargain regarding places on the ticket and the division of patronage in the event of victory , all agree , raised an almost insurmountable obstacle to success at the very outset of the campaign . " The fusion processes of 1921 , repeated this year . would merely mean that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fusion candidates would go clown to defeat , " Mr. Arndt said . If circumstances rendered it necessary , he added , the Citizens Union would be prepared to propose a ticket that he hoped would make universal appeal through the calibre of the candidates who , he said , would be selected for their qualifications and with some consideration given to . their prospective strength as vote getters . This did not mean , he said , that the Citizens Union would function as a political organization  --  as it did in the Low campaign of 1901 . Under the present election law such an organization would be of little avail. , Ile held it quite pos. , Bible that as the situation develops and the time for nominations draws nearer , borough committees might be organized to discuss candidates and issues . Joseph M. Price , head of the City Government League , under whose auspices a group of independents began mobilization last week . said his movement had been misrepresented in the newspapers . " It is not a fusion movement , " he said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field the best candidates that can be obtained to oppose HyIan . This movement will not function on lines identical with the fusion movement of four years ago , when Republican insistence made it impossible for us to get anything better than we did in the way of candidates . This year we are looking for the nomination by either party of men who will fill the bill and whom we can support . We would as gladly endorse Republicans as Democrats . But the candidates receiving the stamp of ' our approval must be men sincerely devoted to the welfare or the city .                     