@@692891

txt Declaring reports of his resignation today to be without foundation , General Lincoln C. Andrews , Assistant Secretary of the Treasury in Charge of Prohibition Enorcement , asserted that although he had advised friends that he desired to return to private life , it was his purpose to remain in office until his plan of reorganization , recently formulated , had been well carried forward . Both the White House and the Treasury confirmed the fact that he would not vacate his post upon his return from Europe on Aug. 11 . The General left Washington this afternoon for New York , where he will sail tomorrow for England . accompanied by other officials , with a view to effecting an agreement with Great Britain , and possible with other countries , for the suppression of liquor smuggling to the United States . Commenting upon the reports of General Andrews 's resignation , Secretary Mellon said : " These stories arc unfounded . General Andrews has not resigned . " A like statement was made by UnderSecretary Winston , who was present at two long conferences today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will Finish Job . After his conferences with Secretary : - Zellon . General Andrews made a brief statement in which he made it plain ; list the thought of resignation was : n his mind . I came here to build up a new organization and I will not leave it now ; Intl ' it is working smoothly , " he said . " I have agreed to stay until the changes necessitated by the Second Deficiency bill can be put into effect . Next Fall , probably in September , I expect the organization will be corn ' , tete . " " Will it take longer than September for you to get your organization perfected so that you can leave it then if you wish to do so ? " General Andrews was asked . " It should not , " he replied . Hope was expressed today by officials associated with General Andrews that the dry program , which was sidetracked at the recent session , would be approved in December . " Most of the proposals have been reported favorably by committees and given places on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our ad interim study and experience may well result in improving these measures before their enactment . " Despite official denials , the impression is quite general here that Assistant Secretary Andrews will relinquish his post some time in September , when he expects to complete the work of reorganizing personnel made possible by the appropriation of about 629,000.000 allowed by Congress for dry law work in the fiscal year beginning July 1 last . Three Mentioned as Successor . Coincident with today 's reports that General Andrews had resigned , or would resign upon his return from Europe , the report became current that lie had gone so far as to suggest the names of three men , any one of whom , in his opinion , would perform efficient service at the head of the prohibition forces . Major Gen. John F. O'llyan of New York , Frank D'Olier of Philadelphia , the first Commander of the American Legion , and Herbert H. White , a former army officer who is now administrator for Teens and Oklahoma , were suggested as available , in the order named , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days that General Andrews was bitterly disappointed over the failure of Congress to grant him additional powers in the administration of the Volstead act , and that , as a result , he would accept a business offer that he is said to have had under consideration for several months . Following the adjournment of Congress on Saturday , with the Andrews dry bills lying on the calendar unacted upon , it was reported that the dly chief wrote a letter of resignation , and that in it he indicated a wish that it should become effective by Sept. 15 at the latest . Whether this letter was transmitted to Secretary Mellon could not be learned today . At the White House , however , it was indicated that President Coolidge had received information from Secretary Mellon that General Andrews had not resigned and that Mr. Mellon had communicated the same news at today 's meeting of the Cabinet . . Two ; Named ; . for- , Hey yositions . Two appointments to fill vacancies in key positions in the dry ' law service , vacated by resignation , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennington , Lieutenant Commander , U. S. N. , retired , was appointed administrator of the Pittsburgh district to relieve Edgar R. Ray , the ' acting administrator , whose resignation becomes effective July 15 . Commander Pennington is 45 years of age . He served in the navy twentynine years , and was placed on the retired list in September . Vincent Simonton , special counsel .. was chosen to fill the office of chief prohibition investigator , succeeding . Major Walter A. Green on Aug , 1 . Mr. Simonton is 43 years old , and has not been in Government service since 1908 . The office of chief investigator was created by General Andrews when he took office in April , 1925 . This offi- , cial , who operates under the direction of General Andrews without regatd to district lines , deals with big liquor con- i spiracles . Organization Plans , Proceed . Accompanying General Andrews abroad are Rear Admiral Hillard of the Coast Guard , A. W. Henderson of the Department of Justice , and R. W. Valiance of the State Department . He seeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britian , in preventing shipments of liquor to the United States by their nationals . Soon after General Andrews returns from Europe on Aug. 11 , he will meet the Regional Administrators here and discuss with them the program that has been devised to curb diversion of industrial alcohol and to suppress the traffic in high power beer . Under the appropriations now available , General Andrews expects to add 906 agents to his field forces , and the new men will be divided into squads to deal with special problems . Just before leaving Washington , General Andrews approved several orders dealing with matters of organization made possible by the increased appropriations for dry law enforcement . In a letter addresed to the twentytwo Administrators , he gave notice that they were at liberty to select some of the agents now on their payrolls for promotion to special inspection squads to deal with bootleg beer and industrial alcohol , and to conduct surveillance of drug stores handling medicinal whisky . He strongly urged that great care be exercised in the selection of men to be designated for such promotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : " In building up your special inspection squads , alcohol , brewery , drug store , Sic. , you may ? want to select some of your agents for promotion to this work. , In this case recommend them for appointment to the new work , thus justifying the increased salary . " Your members of these squads will be paid as are the members of the Federal squads in the grade from $.2,400 to 83.000 . This is easily recognized as necessary as a matter of uniformity and good organization . But I want to caution you , as I have the chiefs of the Federal squads , that this personnel must be of a very high standard . " We are inaugurating the experiment of having better paid men for this class of work , and I want you to help me , prove that a few qualified men , paid enough to justify their employment , will do infinitely better work , and more of it , than a larger number of the ordinary prohibition agent type . " 1 therefore urge you to be very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these men . At this price you can get men who have had real experience and trained minds . Many a college graduate is working today for less pay . This is your opportunity to elevate the whole standard of your personnel . " I hope that each Administrator will make it his pride to have his force composed of such men that the slurs so frequently cast upon our organization may soon cease and be replaced by comments reflecting an appreciation of the fact that the Federal agents are not only ; len of integrity , but skillful and courteous in their conduct of office . " You all recall my early appeal for such conduct of office as might restore respect for Federal law administration . The success of this law depends upon its popular support . Those w ho administer it must constantly have in mind that it is their duty to conduct themselves in office in such a way as to commend themselves and the law to popular approval . " This means clean-cut , decent , efficient , courteous conduct In office under all circumstances . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men who can meet these requirements , and then to instil into your whole organization a spirit which will be reflected in this manner . " L. C. ANDREWS , " Assistant Secretary . " New Medicinal Liquor Rules . ' New regulations Were promulgated today by General Andrews looking to a better control of the distribution of Medicinal spirits in an effort to prevent , as far as possible , their diversion to the bootleg industry . Restrictions are imposed with respect to the local transport of ' medicinal whisky . One order provides that all local transportation of medicinal spirits from bonded warehouses and distillers ' agents to wholesale and retail druggists and from wholesale druggists to retail ' druiggists must be by a railway express company or by a bonded commercial express company performing general transportation service in connection with rail or boat carriers . Administrators are cautioned to approve only railroad or boat transportation for long hauls . This regulation , it is expected , will eliminate much . of the diversion that takes place between the warehouse and the retail druggist . Administrators also are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and using th ' over again , as in the past . The retail druggist or pharmacist holding a permit to sell liquor is required to forward every month to the administrator in the district in which he does business prescriptions filled during the previous thirty-day period . The administrator is directed to cause the used prescriptions to be canceled by a punch . Announcement also was made today that formulae for completely denaturing alcohol must , in the future , be further compounded ' , by the addition to each 100 gallons of one-half gallon of approved gasoline .                     