@@696809

txt The French Government intends to . propose ? at the London five-power naval conference a radical reduction in. capital ships and would support a ' move for their abolition . It promises to be a French argument that the plans for naval limitation under the aegis of the Kellogg pact should look toward limiting warships to defensive ships since defensive war is the only kind of war justified under the anti-war pact . Capital ships , the French contended , are Jar excellence a weapon of offense , whereas cruisers and submarines may be called weapons of defense . The French point out furthermore that with the exception of Japan the only nations which have large fleets of capital ships are America and England . Since Washington and London avow that they are proceeding on the basis that future war between America and Britain is unthinkable , it is contended in Par , ls that America and England should have no further use for Capital ship 's . This point of view is bolstered with the argument that capital ships are good only to fight capital shies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are never going to fight they will find their battleships useless . Since the conference will hold little prospect immediately of reduction of cruisers , it is held here that the biggest thing it could accomplish would be a reduction of battleships , which are the costly part of modern fleets . Want Further Postponement . The French have noted the American adoption of the British suggestion made in 1927 , that the replacements allowed under the Washington naval treaty be postponed for fiva years , and they favor making the postponement of replacements extend for ten years beyond 1931 , by which time there would be very ew capital ships which would not be out of date on the basis of twenty years of effectiveness . All the French battleships wou:d be antiquated by that time . In other words , it is the French position that if America and England seek to reduce the cost of naval armaments the best possibility lies in attacking the capital ship situation . As for submarines , the French retain their position that they will oppose their abolition . They say that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they mean to keep them . This does not mean that they would oppose in theory the limitation of suer marines either in number or in size , but they say that this would depend on a great many considerations . Regarding reports that the Italians will swing to the Anglo-American position favoring the abolition of submarines , the French say that since the invitations to . the London conference were issued the Italians have three times informed them that Rome will stand with Paris for the maintenance of submarines in their fleets . Stand Firm on Cruisers . As for cruisers , the French show every evidence of adopting a firm attitude . They point out that their Program of cruiser building has not yet been completed and that , if it be true that their present cruiser tonnage would approximate a 1.75 ratio as compared with the proposed British cruiser tonnage , they made it plain at the Washington conference that they did not accept the capital ship ratio as governing cruisers . Before the war , the French say , they had the entente with England under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ports while France could concentrate her strength in the Mediterranean . They no longer have any such arrangement with England . Furthermore , it is contended , while Britain and America added to their fleets during the war , the French did no naval construction then . They are just getting financially to the point where they can afford what they regard as their needs . England is basing her cruiser position on , her national needs , America is doing the same thing , so why should not France ? When it comes to placing a limit on their cruiser construction the French immediately bring up a number of considerations . There is the Italian - fleet . The French do not accept the thesis of equality with Italy in total tonnage but argue that an arrangement may be possible by separating the French navy into Atlantic and Mediterranean fleets . ? Would Consider Spain . Also bearing in mind their need of preserving communication with Northern Africa , the French say that the Spanish fleet must be taken into consideration since there is always the possibility of an ItalianSpanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval construction program . They also point to Germany 's construction of cruisers superior to those permitted under the Washington naval treaty . When one asks the French if this means that Spain and Germany should be invited to the January conference , they reply in the negative but add quickly that the situation shows that the final arrangements must be made in Geneva , where all the interested nations can take part in the discussions . The French also still insist that there is a connection between naval and land disarmament and to illustrate they say that their most important naval problem is to insure communication between France and Northern Africa , from which they would draw man-power for their army in another war . They say that they must remain in a position to guarantee that line of communication against any possibility of danger . Fast cruisers and submarines , they maintain , are the best weapons for this purpose . Regard Meeting as Political . The French insist on regarding the London meeting as political more than anything else . They do not accept the situation as being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous disagreement , thus opening the way for definite naval limitation for all the sea powers . They say that the total result , as far as Britain and America together are concerned , will be an increase rather than a reduction of cruiser strength . They argue that the negotiations are dominated by the parity arrangement between England and America , which they call essentially political , and they see no reason why political consideration should be absent from their own program for the meeting . While recognizing fully that England wishes a settlement in the Mediterranean satisfactory to her interests . the French contend that does not constitute any reason for a sacrifice of French interests . It would thus become apparent that if England refuses to make a cruiser arrangement with America prior to settling the Mediterranean situation to her satisfaction , the naval conference may become much more complicated than is expected in London and Washington There is no reason to believe that the French will not be ready to bargain in London . They will bargain , but feeling that this time they arc in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they wish to get something politically out of the conference , which they regard as being dominated by political accommodation between America and Britain . If the present government remains in power that long , it is likely that the French delegation will he headed by Premier Tardieu , which would be in keeping with the protocol since the British delegation will be headed by Prime Minister . Negotiations will be in the hands of Foreign Minister Briand.                     