@@694269

txt Officials of the American Embassy who called at the French Foreign Office today to urge immediate consideration of the American protest against the new French tariff were informed that a decision may be taken Monday . The United States has formally requested that the old intermediate rates enjoyed by nearly $80,000,000 worth of American manufactured goods sold in this country each year be maintained until the termination of the Franco-American trade negotiations . These negotiations will begin about the middle of October . However , ' there is little likelihood of the French Government acceding to this demand and the most that can be hoped for is general classification of American products at the minimum set forth in the new tariff , which would mean an average increase of about 40 instead of 200 per cent . There were indications today that a compromise along these lines will be reached next week . Will Still Be at Disadvantage . A 40 per cent . increase will still leave American products at a distinct disadvantage with domestic goods and those which come from Germany . But unless a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced with the practically impossible task of trying to sell its products in this market in competition with similar German wares paying duties only one-third , and in many instances one-fourth , as much as those assessed against American products . German business men in France are naturally elated at the result of the new Franco-German commercial accord , which grants to Germany most-favored-nation treatment . In well-informed commercial quarters today it was said that in anticipation of just such a turn of events Germany prepared immense shipments of goods for dispatch to France . Now that the Franco-German treaty of commerce has become operative , these shipments are arriving daily . In advance of this dumping , it is further stated , German salesmen have been painstakingly canvassing French ' buyers and offering longterm credits , often as much ' as two or three years . Over and above this , German salesmen are reported to have gone so far as to offer to lend money to French buyers who , because of bad economic conditions , need ' ready cash with which to carry them over depressing periods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see Franco-American trade negotiations get under way without further delay There are many business men who feel that Washington has taken too long to come to a realization of the necessity of such a treaty . It is explained that responsible officials abroad have repeatedly brought to the attention of Washington the fact that American business would soon find itself in an embarrassing position in France unless steps were taken to negotiate a trade agreement . Will Hold Shipments in Bond . The tariff crisis continued to absorb the complete attention of the Commercial Attache 's staff at the embassy today . Protests of business men are piling on the deck of Commercial Attach ? Charles E. Herring . American importers have decided to hold in bonded warehouses all incoming shipments not in transit on Aug. 31 . Although the tariff duties were to have been applied from Aug. 26 , the French Government agreed not to apply the new rates on shipments which left American ports before the 31st . This concession has been of little value , however , for the Americans were taken so completely by surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hence only normal stocks are on hand and normal shipments on the water with which to replenish them . Other instances of how the new maximum rates , if continued , will force many Americans to suspend business in France reached official sources today . One importer complained that he had sold an order of 50,000 francs worth of goods and that under the new tariff he will be required to pay 65,000 francs duties . Another told how a certain article on which he paid 5 francs under the old tariff is now assessed at 48 . Then there is the case of importers who have sold bills of goods for delivery two , four and six months hence . Now they either must sell at a loss or have a lawsuit on their hands . As the Commercial Attache 's office progresses with examination of the new tariff further American products appear to suffer a severe blow . Compromise Rate on Goods Needed . The new tariff schedule applies to about 600 groups of imports , infinitely subdivided . In general a minimain or compromise is given the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implements and tools of all varieties . Contrasting the new schedule as applied to the United States and applied to Germany as a result of the signature of the new Franco-German Treaty , of Commerce , one ' finds that in about 80 Per . cent . of cases where Germany gets- a ' minimum tariff the general tariff is applied to United States merchandise . The difference between the two tariffs is approximately one to four . At many points of the list the minimum tariff is applied to a special item in a group , so that it is impossible to give  --  a more general outline of the goods affected and the difference between rates . In all cases instanced below Germany has obtained the minimum tariff . Chemical products from the United States will pay the general tariff , which is approximately four times the German rate and works out on an average 10 to 12 francs higher per kilogram . American paints and coloring materials will pay on an average 60 per cent . more than the German ' product . Woven materials will pay an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods 48 francs a kilo . American silk stockings will pay 72 francs per kilogram , while the minimum tariff is 18 francs . In woolen goods the difference is approximately 14 francs per kilo . Some of the Industries Hard Hit . The leather industry is among those who suffer from the fact that no previous agreement was made . Practically all hides in all stages of tanning are hit by the general tariff , whole skins paying 94 francs per 100 kilos more than those imported from countries benefiting by the minimum tariff . To saddles , however , the minimum rate is applied . The American automobile industry has secured the minimum rate for all internal combustion engines , but the general tariff is applied practically to all automobile equipment , especially electric fittings . Weaving and knitting categories are raised from 80 to 500 francs per 100 kilos . Agricultural implements , on the other hand , are all exempt from the new high rate . Printing presses benefit by the minimum rate , but , as in the case of motors , accessories will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric tools are included under the general tariff . Wireless apparatus from America will pay a 58 per cent . higher rate than from countries which benefit by the minimum rate . Electric dynamos , magnetos and all telegraph and telephone instruments will pay the high rate , which in some cases is almost prohibitive . Typewriters , which neither France nor Germany manufactures in large quantities , will come in under the minimum tariff , while photographic apparatus of all kinds , including cameras ' and ' cinematograph projectors , will pay - 40 per cent . ' of value against 10 per cent . in cases of imports from favored nations . Locks of all kinds will get minimum treatment , . while . safety razor blades will pay 6 and 2 centimes per blade , according as the high or minimum rate is. applied . Cutlery is highly taxed , knife , scissor and other blades in rough state paying 400 franca under the general tariff and 100 francs under the minimum tariff for each 100 kilograms . Subdivision in every case according to grade is worked out with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , woodenhandled knives are in the general tariff at 1,600 francs per 100 kilograms , but ivory-handled knives from America will benefit by the minimum tariff of 500 francs on the same amount .                     