@@685063

txt SEX EQUALITY And How It Works Under Woman Suffrage . To the Editor of The Nay York Timrs : In your editorial article today on equality as practiced , or not practiced , by the suffragists regarding representation on political committees , you express surprise that women who have asked for equal rights do riot want them . I hope you will kindly permit me to make some further comments on the subject and to draw your readers ' attention to them . Surely there is nothing in the demands of the suffragists in our woman suffrage States that show desire on their part to stand on the same fooling in the Government as men , but by their actions and consent they appear to accept willingly sex discriminations in matters governmental . Look at New York State . Can arty woman be required to serve upon a jury ? Can any woman be called upon by a Sheriff to assist in quelling a riot ? Was any woman conscripted during the war for military service ? In spite of the elaborate register made during the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included in the war law which required a man under 45 to have a useful occupation ? Has there been any fort made by any woman suffragist for a change in these exemptions , excepting a feeble effort by a few regarding jury duty ? In regard to laws regulating social relations which discriminated between men and women prior to woman suffrage , has the law been repealed that compelled a husband to support his wife and their children ? May not the wife , under this law , be free to build her political fences , to run for office and to hold that office , and yet the husbana be compelled to support her ? ( And we were told that in the last election in New York State a husband and wife ran against each other for some clerkship , in which contest she won and appointed him as deputy clerk . And is she still entitled to his support and the use of her own salary unhampered by any financial obligations to him ? ) If any of the pre-woman suffrage laws regarding the obligations of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should like to be informed of them . And I call upon the suffragists to state their view regarding the laws made before woman suffrage prevailed and to declare whether or not they believe that any sex discriminations should be made in matters governmental , and , if so , what discriminations , and the reasons ror such discriminations . HENRIETTA 0 . MAGIE , Vice President of the New Jersey Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage . Princeton , N. J. , March 4 , 1920.                     