@@689698

txt Congress adjourned for the holidays with nothing done . This is not an unusual record . The work of organizing a new Congress usually occupies the thoughts of the members for the first two weeks or so of the session . This year the task of organization was made uncommonly difficult and was marked by a good deal of futile and unseemly wrangling . It was not fully completed as regards the Senate , though tie little that was lacking will doubtless be made up quickly when Congress convenes early in January . . There is little justice in the partisan complaint that Congress has thus far frittered away its opportunity . It had no opportunity except to get ready to do something later , and the real test is left for the future . Thoughtful people are not seriously troubled because Congress has as yet done nothing . Doing nothing is sometimes the best way of winning the approval of the country . Just now out in Ohio a movement has been started to carry a monster petition to Congress , the burden of which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the volume of laws , but their wisdom , in which the nation is most concerned . In fact , the outlook for many new statutes , or radical amendments of old ones , in the present Congress is generally retarded as not good . In that there is no cause for discouragement . What makes people anxious is , rather , the temper of their representatives in Congress , the attitude toward large public questions , the ability to reflect and interpret the public sentiment of the country . What serious - minded Congressmen should take to heart is the fact that legislatures in many countries have been more and more failing to satisfy the people that they are functioning well . In some lands they have absolutely broken down or been brushed aside . What has happened in Italy and in Spain is virtually the abolition of Parliamentary government , at least for the time being , and that apparently with the acquiescence , if not the actual approval , of the people . The reason was that the Parliament in Rome and the Cortes in Madrid had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faction and corruption and rendered wholly inefficient instruments of the popular will . This is the ominous thing for believers in representative institutions to consider . Along with it they have to weigh the discredit into which even the House of Commons has temporarily fallen , the loss of authority by the French Chamber , and the impotence into which the German Reichstag has sunk . Is it not possible for the Congress of the United States so to conduct itself ' as to present a shining exception to this process of decay ? It would be too much to ask or expect American Congressmen to become models of unselfishness and of statesmanship overnight . They can not all be leaders of debate or fertile in great ideas for legislation . They Will doubtless go on thinking more of local interests than of national . There will be a lot of empty partisan controversy as before ; there will be manoeuvring for party advantage in the Presidential election of next year ; there will be logrolling and patronage-hunting. - These things we have always had , and there is no magic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may rightly demand of Congress ; and perhaps faintly hope for , is a clearer sense of responsibility to the whole country than has lately been shown , with an honest endeavor on the part of its members to sink petty differences and to unite in the purpose to show that representative government will still work , at least in the United states . There is one test that can not , be avoided , and that will be . conclusive : - Other measures may be debatable , or may be of doubtful value , but there is one bill which will reveal the stuff of which Congress is made . We refer , of " course , to the bill embodying the plans of . the .. Administration for enforcing ical device . The measure proposed the result of long and patient study b the most competent men we have in tt public service . Moreover , its desirabilit : its absolute fitting in with the need of the time and the overmasterin wishes of the people , have been s plainly demonstrated that the countr . has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project . The people have let Congress knot beyond mistake what they want . I Senators and members of the House ar truly representative of the pronounce sentiment of the country , they will mak haste to comply with it . In fact , they ar nearly all saying that they mean to d so . The danger is that they will rail artificial objections , obstruct the passag of the measure through Congress oi false pretenses , or endeavor to compli cate it so as to deprive it of its ful value . But our belief is that they wil not be able to mislead public opinion The issue is too sharp and plain . Ii Congress proceeds to thwart or frustrate the policy of substantial reduction oi taxes , it will have failed in the greal and decisive trial to which it will soon be put .                     