@@687065

txt The Boston News Bureau has pointed out that the United States holds a guardianship relation to Cuba and must take note of the financial and industrial position accentuated by the action of the United States increasing in the emergency tariff the sugar duty .. The Boston News Burein has also been voicing the sound economic opinion that it is not to the interest of the beet sugar raisers or consumers of the west to have disorder in Cuba which will cause her . annexation to the United States , making her sugar duty-free and destroying the beet sugar production of the It States . It is not to the ultimate interest of any part of the United States to have sugar production out of balance as betwixt Cuba and the beet growers of the United States . For the safety of our sugar supplywe need both American and Cuban production and we need such a tariff as will keep:Abe . equilibrium of production . Yet it wuold be the simplest and most easily collected consumption tax in the United States to make levy on all refined sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could easily pay a billion tax and relieve the burden that is now placed upon thrift and capital accumulation by unjust and inequitable taxes that arrest the progress of the country and must ultimately decrease the demand . for labor . A billion and a half , or one-half the taxes that ought to run this government and pay the interest on the war debt could ' be collected from sugar , coffee , tea , oil , automobiles and bank cheeks , ' and with a minimum of expense . However in-those tariff discussions , beet sugar people of the West are entitled to a hearing and we gladly give space to the annexed letter of President A. E. Carlton of the Holly Sugar ' Co. , Colorado Springs , Colo. , which owns'three factories in Colorado and three in California . PreSident Carlton writes : ? In the United States over a million acres ' of most intensively cultivated land is yearly . devoted to beet culture . Sixty million dolliirs a year is paid to beet growers ? with an equal amount expended in freights , coal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This means that one-fourth of our annual bill for sugar is expended at home , increasing the purchasing power of our people . With a normal sugar consumption in the United States of 4,000,000 tons , we are confronted with an available supply of over 8,000,000 tons , as follows : 1921 production of domestic beet sugar Raw sugar on hand in Cuba Cuban raw sugar , Atlantic seaboard 1920 domestic beet sugar carried over New Cuban crop-production beginning Dec. 1 Hawaiian , Philippine and Porto Rican sugars are admitted duty free , due to our policy of adopting our little black brothers . CUBA DOUBLED PRODUCTION DURING WAR Cuba doubled her sugar production during the war , and is now lustily demanding additional tariff preferentials with a decrease in the present duty un sugar , while at the same time reducing the common labor daily wage scale of $4 cash prevailing last year , to 40 cents a day paid in commissary supplies . During the war the beet sugar production did not in. crease due to the food price control under the Lever bill and the high war profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission has attempted to readjust the market in an orderly way , but ultimately the necessary decrease in Cuban production will be brought ' about by a price below cost to many of the plantations . While the Cuban price readjustment has not been completed , it has reached a point where the domestic beet sugar production must disappear unless the required protection afforded by an increased tariff is included in the new legislation . With the present price of less than 5 cents factory net for refined sugar , the domestic beet producers are facing another year of losses rather than the almost vital profit required to re-establish bank credits . An additional ' tariff of % cent per pound will . show n small profit for the factory and the beet grower , and without this even our creditors , who Ns911 own the properties at 10 , cents on the dollar , will not continue operations . With the new Cuban crop increasing the visible supply , continued price declines are certain , and the additional tariff will only serve , to lessen the losses of the domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , but to protect what we have , and , incidentally , add 30,000,000 to the government 's revenue . Even free trade England has 4% cents tariff on sugar and France about 5 cents . PRICE CONTROL AND DOMESTIC SUPPLY The history of the sugar trade demonstrates the value , in the matter of price control , of our own domestic supply . If our country were depended entirely upon foreign production , we would soon pay the price fixed by the foreigners . No greater ? calamity can befall the domestic consinner than to have  --  the sugar supply of the United States controlled . by foreigners , who , paying no takes , and free from restraints so far as pools and monopolies are concerned , could ? control prices , production , and all things that go into the:marketing of this commodity . For years Germany has paid the producers a bonus , resulting in the production of an export surplus . A tariff sufficient to guarantee the'production of our entire sugar requirements would appear to be n sound economic Tolley for the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remember that 92% of their business is domestic , and therefore the beet industry is of importance to them , and that free sugar does not mean cheap sugar . / Nearly all of our agricultural commodities are produced in excess . of home consumption , and the price is therefore fixed in the - world 's markets . Sugar is one of the few agricultural commodities that can be protectced by a tariff . Fifty per cent . of the beet sugar companies are today in the hands of bankers ' committees . Their only salvation is prompt act* by Congress . The Federal Trade , Commission reports issued by the Government are replete with data respecting the beet sugar industry . Bunkers can tell you of the serious financial condition of the companies . The question of providing money for the present campaign has been difficult . Several factories are unable to begin operations , and many others have found it necessary to mortgage their- daily production ,                     