@@686254

txt The Federal Railroad Labor Board denied today the plea of General W. W. Atterbury for the railroad qxecutives that the national working agreements should be abrogated at once and that basic wage rafts for common labor should he set aside so that the roads might substitute the prevailing local rates of wages . Following this decision announcement was made by the executives that the roads would now proceed Individually to ask for conferences with unskilled employes over wage reductions in order that cuts for common labor might be brought before the Labor Board in the form of definite controversies between men and management . The national agreements will continue in force until the present hearing is completed and until they are modified or a new code drafted by the Board is sub- , ' slanted . These agreements , five In number , establish the working rules for the shop crafts , stationary firemen and oilers , clerks , maintenance of way employes and signal men , They do not cover wage rates . The plea of the roads was that if the agreements were thrown out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In operating expenses would result . Although the decision was counted a victory for the unions , it may result in a wholesale application from the roads for a reduction in wages . Atterbury 's plea was based upon the view that the roads would hold back ) such requests for at least ninety days . Some roads , In fact , have already proceeded to announce cuts , and protests are being filed with the board . Walsh Urges Summoning Financiers . Frank P. Walsh , counsel for the unions , asked for the summoning of twenty-four financiers , Including William Rockefeller , with a view to looking Into the question of an alleged " ' Wall Street conspiracy " to destroy unionism and crush collective bargaining . From all indications , the board will not call them . The theory on width it rejected the Atterbury plea for abrogation of the agreements because of fears of bankruptcy for the roads was that questions of financing are in the province of the Interstate Commerce Commission . Thls , it is argued , would also apply to Mr. Walsh 's effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlanta , Birmingham &; Atlantic Railroad , asking for permission to cut wages In order to avert a financial crisis , came up . W. S. Carter , head of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen , moved that it be dismissed , his argument being : " If the Labor Board assumes to fix wages upon the financial ability to pay wages , the theory of the Transportation act will be completely reversed . The proper step would be an appeal to the Interstate Commerce Commission for relief . There is no justice in the theory that out of the wages of employes must come all looses sustained by a railroad . " The board refused to dismiss the aprlIcittion . Officials of the road presented their case tonight . A decision is looked for tomorrow ' or Saturday . This may set a precedent . The developments indicate that the board may take the following course relative to the national working agreements : After the hearings are completed , which may consume at least a month , the agreements will not be abolished in toto , for that , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revision , however . Rules that are considered plainly restrictive and burdensome will be dropped . A new code , either the old one revised or an entirely new one , will eipablish certain broad rules of national ' application and the rest will be left to local negotiation between the men and the roads . The national agreements : teal with working conditions and not with wage schedules , although , of course , rules that might be unreasonable would serve to Inflate labor costs on he roads . Board Bars Prolonged Belay . The present hearings , the board Indlmted , must proceed with reasonable ; peed . It was said in sonic quarters hat there was a tendency by the unions .0 spar for time . Labor was jubilant over the day 's reMtn . The executives , too , were g ? atl ? ' led by come aspects . W. Jett Lauck , ! conomist for the . unions , said that the ' eat issue now was " not the rules bat . what they concretely sanction  --  the priniple of collective bargaining on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the main slue is that of the " reasonableness or ) therwise of the working rules . " The board 's decision came as a surwise . The union men were primed tolay for an attack upon the executives in the ground that the roads were trying o make labor bear the burden of unconomical and inefficient management , . nd that it was all part of the movonent for the " open shop . " Before the argument could be begun , lowevor , Chairman Barton of the uoard , announced that the plea of the CMGs for immediate abrogation of the national agreements was denied . This left the case where it was before General Atterbury interjected his appeal for urgent action . The board 's decision reviewed the powers delegated to It by the Transportation act and set forth that its duties were to decide just and reasonabla wages , salaries and working conditions , the matter of the roads ' finances being left to the Commerce Commission . B. M. Jewell nevertheless filed his rebuttal for labor , the tenor of which has been outlined in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Walsh amplified it , charging the railroads with being a party to a conspiracy to wipe out collective bargainietg and put labor unions out of business . In asking for the summoning of 24 financiers , he asserted that 25 men sit on the boards of 99 Class 1 railroads operating 211,180 miles of track , or 82 per cent . of the total mileage of the United States . The twenty-five , he said , divide among themselves 193 railroad directorships , and all belong to the " Inner banking circles centring around the house of Morgan and the National City Bank . " The financiers whose summoning Mr. Walsh asked are R. S. Lovett , William Rockefeller , H. W. de Forest , A. U. Smith , G. F. Baker , H. S. Vanderbilt , Samuel Rea , L. F. Loree , A. J. County , Alvin W. Krech , F : II . Davis , W. W. Atterbury , . T. E. Reynolds , Charles Steele . Howard Elliott , M. H. Smith , Charles Hayden , A. H. Varies . Charles E. Ingersoll , E. T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V. It . Thayer and Julius Krutschnitt . Basis of the Decision . CHICAGO , Feb. 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? In announcing the decision of the Railroad Labor Board , Chairman R. M. Barton reviewed the powers of the board under the Transportation act of Feb. 28 , 1920 . He said that the act imposed upon the board the duty of deciding disputes between carriers and employes of what shall constitute just and reasonable wages , salaries and standards of working conditions . The present hearing separated by agreement rules and working conditions from wages . The decision on wages was rendered last July . Judge Barton said . and the rules hearing was convened on Jan. 10 . The board assumed as the basis of this decision the continuance in full force and effect of the rules , working conditions and agreements enforced under the authority of the United States Railroad Administration , " Judge Bartel : said . He made an exception of any mutual agreement between carriers slid emph:yes and declared that it was the beard 's desire to render a decision at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involving expense of operation reign outside the jurisdiction of the Labor Board . " If any of these rules and working conditions are unjust and unreasonable , " said the decision , " they constitute an unwarranted burden upon the railroads and upon the public . It is therefore the duty of this board to use the utmost practicable expedition . eons ! stent with the necessary time for hearing and consideration , In determining whether any of the rules and working conditions now in effect are unreasonable . The board is endeavoring to perform its obligation and will be better able to succeed In doing so , if it is not further interrupted by the introduction of unwarranted demands by either party . " Jewell Charges Conspiracy . B. M. Jewell . in his statement to the board , declared that the alleged conspiracy to disrupt unionism , so far as the railroads were concerned , was engineered by financial interests , and . absolved from his charges a majority of the men engaged in active railroad management . Referring to the statement n:ade Jan. 31 by W. W. Atterbury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we have found a great number of the real representatives of management taking a very different attitude toward the Whole matter . It is in connection with the financiers who hold the whip over management as well as over the employes that we are going to show cause why this board should act quickly to save its ability to accomplish the purpose for which it was created . " Mr. Jewell asserted that General Atterbury " abused the courtesy of the board in granting him an opportunity to ! peak under its sanction by using that privilege in vainly attempting to coetce employes of the roads by threatening them with a lockout , if the ultimatum which he laid down is not immediately accepted . " He added that through the publicity which the Atterbury statement attained . the union employes were " already face to face with what virtually is a lockout . " The Labor Board will Fit in executive session tomoriow and Saturday and will set the date for continuing the rules hearing , dependent upon the labor side 's preparation for presenting its testimony . Atterbnry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managers on the hoard 's action was a letter from General Atterbury to Chairman Barton , in which the Chairman of the Railroad Executives ' Labor Committee raid : " Your board in its decision has very properly said that all questions involving the expense of operation or the necessities of railroads are under the Commission . of the Interstate Commerce Commission . If there is any doubt in the mind of the board of the correctness of my statement of the serious financial condition of the railways , I beg you to request immediately a stateInent of the facts from the Interstate Commerce Commission . " In your decision you ray that the board is not insensible of the fact that national agreements , rules and working conditions affect the expenditures of the railroads , and that if any of them are unjust and unreasonable they constitute an unwarranted burden upon the railroads and the public . This matter of rules and working conditions has been in controversy ever since the railroads were returned to private operation almost a year ago . " The unwarranted burden imposed by unreasonable rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of financial stress , such as the present . It is therefore gratifying that you announce you intend to proceed to a determination of the reasonableness of the existing national agreements , rules and working conditions with the utmost practicable expedition . " With regard to the wages of unskilled labor , the Association of Railway Executives will take immediate steps to have that matter presented in definite controversies between individual carriers and their employes . " WALL STREET NOT ALARMED . Some Financiers Hold Railroad Labor Decision Was Wise . ? There was some confusion in railroad , dad banking circles yesterday immediately following the receipt in the financial district of the ruling of the Railroad Labor Board in Chicago on national agreements and basic railroad wages .. At first It was the general Interpretation that the board had turned down the railroad executives sharply and that the question of national agreements would have to run for a long dme before being settled . Deliberation , however , brought about t change in sentiment and it was asserted in some quarters that the board lad made a wise decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abrogation of national agreements Ind a reduction in the wages paid to tnekilled labor was looked upon as somewhat premature even among the ranks ) f the railroad managers . The fact hat the impression had become wideTread that the matter being presented tad to do altogether with a cut in cages was generally deplored . In conservative quarters the wisdom the move by the roads because of this mpreseton was questioned as it was isserted that too much stress had been aid on the saving which would have wen effected through abrogating the agreements in question . While that tieing , according to some railroad men , you 'd be considerable , it would be only . drop in the bucket as compared to 1111 wage reduction which the roads , - nuld eventually have to ask . One observer said that had the board liminated the national agreements now , act action would have been generally sieunderetood as a reduction in wages , ' ben , when the roads had to go before the board with a request for a sul stanti , il reduction in the wage scale tl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would react against the road Satisfaction was expressed with 11 board 's statement that the case in , has would be continued without unneeeseat interruption as indicating that Mei would be no long drawn out testimor that had no direct bearing on tl question ,                     