@@693625

txt The World War might have been avoided if in the troubled years preceding -- the conflict an opportunity had existed for the Foreign Ministers of the different States to discuss problems personally instead of sending notes , Dr. Stresemann , the German Foreign Minister and President of the Council of the League of Nations said in an interview he gave to the press this morning . " The Council sessions . " Dr. Stresemann said , " are scarcely material for sensations . Their great importance lies in the possibiilty of taking great questions from the atmosphere of written notes and bringing them into the realm of personal contacts . If before the war there had been reunions of Foreign Ministers ? such as have been realized by the League ? if these personal contacts had existed  --  perhaps it would have been possible to avoid the misunderstandings which came to trouble the reality of things . " Denies Britain Antagonizes Russia . Speaking of the numerous interviews he had this week with Foreign Ministers , Dr. Stresemann declared there was no truth in the report that efforts were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of States against Russia . ? " I know that since Locarno neither Sir Austen Chamberlain nor Great Britain has made such an effort by any means whatsoever , " he said . " The assertion of the Soviet official newspaper Investia that Sir Austen Chamberlain proposed a plan for the return of the Danzig-Polish corridor or of a part of Polish Silesia to Germany , or to form a Cossack republic under the protection of Germany and Poland is only a miserable fantasy . You can ask M. Zaleski the Polish Foreign Minister what he thinks . " The German attitude on this question can be characterized by saying that we regret enormously to see complications arising between Britain and Russia . " I must today submit a report to the Council . on the International Economic Conference . But world economics can not be brought to normal if 150,000,000 people entrench themselves in east Europe and reduce consumption . We are neighbors of Russia and we were led to make exchanges with her , as with Poland . It is to our great interest that these exchanges be untroubled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the chief policy of the Reich he could state that no secret clauses existed either in the treaty of Rapello with Russia or that of Berlin . It was Germany 's wish to see Russia develop on a sound basis in an evolutionary sense and maintain good relations with Europe . Germany 's Foreign Policy . On Germany 's foreign policy changes in her Government had no effect whatsoever , he said . He pointed out that Foreign Minister Briand was continuing his policy in France despite M. Marin , its bitter opponent , being in the Cabinet and asked why he himself could not do the same with Herr Hergt at his side . " The essential thing is that the policy of conciliation which bears the name of Briand cora : ues , " he went on . " It is the same with me and the paths which conducted us from Locarno to Geneva are intact . The chief of the Reichstag opposition himself recognized that no change had entered into German foreign policy . " Speaking of the Rhineland he said be had discussed the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officially ask evacuation . " We reserved the right to make a demand , " he said , " and perhaps we shall make it in the not distant future , as we consider that the provisions of Article 431 of the Treaty of Versailles have been fulfilled and wish to profit from the rights this article gives us . " With the world understanding today one can not talk of n. great peace work and at the same time maintain occupation with 100,000 men . One thing or the other is necessary . " We hope that considerations for public rights and considerations based on Article 431 of the Versailles Treaty undertaken in the spirit of the League will soon lead to a settlement of the question and a new step thus be taken in the path of peace . "                     