@@693401

txt When Congress reassembles tomorrow after its Christmas holiday recess it will start on a twb-lxumtlis ' sessionsiiiiely to be filled with oratorical fireworks whose glare will throw into shadow any efforts toward real legislative progress of consequence to the people . Beyond the enactment of the annual supply bills necessary for the support of the Government for the fiscal year which which-'begin on July 1 , - there is poor prospect of the passage of constructive measures . tinder constitutional limitation the session must end , and with it the Sixty-ninth Congress , on March 4 next . Certain circumstances to which both the Coolidge Administration and its critics will be parties will furnish the trend toward doing practically nothing of importance other than the passage of the supply bills . In the first place , President Coolidge has shown himself to be satisfied with having Congress , during this two2 month period , devote itself to routine . Although he is keenly interested in bringing about the enactment , of a law that will relieve the taxpayers of paying a portion of the taxes due cm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major segment of the accumulating Treasury surplus , opposition within and without his own party has become so strong as practically to give assurance that his wishes will not be followed . Debt Rather Than Tax Reduction . A Democratic measure that contemplates a permanent reduction in the corporation tax from 13% to 11 per cent. , with a reduction of the automobile tax and the repeal of certain other direct taxes , does not accord with the Administration 's view of how the tax situation should be handled . The outlook promises the utilization of the surplus or most of it in reducing the public debt , which went to staggering figures on account of American participation in the World War . This reduction can be made by the Secretary of the Treasury without additional authority from Congress . With advocates of advanced farm legislation somewhat divided as to what steps are necessary to respond to the complaints of farm organizations concerning the condition of agriculture , and a rather general agreement that the subject t is too complicated and is certain to produce extended debate , a widespread opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a farm-aid legislative program satisfactory to those who are most insistent upon additional relief through the Government . Thus the bugaboo of the session 's brief tenure arises with . respect to other proposals , and is sufficient to frighten legislators into quiescence . Leading supporters of the Administration , reflecting its views , are e : . - tremely anxious to confine the session 's activities chiefly to matters of necessary routine . , Before them alppearp the spectre of an extra session of the next Congress , in which the Republican Party will be less well equipped than it now is to cope with its Congressional opposition . If the Senate and House at this short session should attempt to enact farm aid legislation and other legislation of a keenly controversial character , there would be danger that the annual supply bills would go by the board and an extra session become imperative . This does not mean , however , that everybody will acquiesce in a program of merely routine business . A good many of those Senators and Representatives who are active in behalf of doing something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined to exert themselves to the utmost in behalf of measures designed to have the Government give direct governmental aid ; to agriculture . A. revised bill has been introduced in both houses and there is every indication that its backers will make the welkin ring with demands that it receive consideration . There is , however , no hope of accomplishment . The most promising prospect of a battle hi Congress is afforded in the virtual revolt against President Coolidge 's failure to include in the budget for 1927-28 any provision for beginning the construction of the remaining three of eight cruisers authorized in the Naval Appropriation act of 1924 . Nearly every member of the House Committee on Naval Affairs is insistent that the cruiser strength of the fleet must be augmented . They are not satisfied with the concession they obtained from the President for an authorization of another group of ten cruisers . What is the use , they ask , of authorizing the oonstruction of ten additional war vessels when not a penny is Appropriated for beginning work on the re ... T aming three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this revolt lies the promise of a contest this week , for the Naval Appropriation bill is ready to be reported to the House tomorrow . The battle will start when an amendment is offered for an appropriation sufficient to start work on the three cruisers remaining of the eight authorized in ' 1924 . There is almost as much sentiment against an extra session among Democratic Senators and Representatives as among Republican . The great majority of both parties in Congress are willing to take advantage of the prospective nine months ' period of vacation . With many there is the desire to devote themselves to their businesses or professions and make some money , for politicf3 and living- in Washington are expensive . All , of them , of course , except the few who are growing tired of political life , feel that they can strengthen their political fences by a long residence among the folk back home . Some of the radicals and a comparatively small number of Senators and Representatives who regard it as a political advantage to be able to express their views in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers do not look with favor on the long recess . They would prefer to remain in Washington . Whether these will seek to bring about an extra session by dilatory tactic* that will prevent the passage of the annual appropriation bills has not yet/appeared . The expectation is that a good part of . the session will be given over to speeches of a ' strongly partisan tinge . With no extra session Congress - will not reassemble until December , 1927 , when jockeying will be begun for the nomination of candidates for President and Vice President by the Republican and Democratic parties , and the two months between now and March 4 will afford opportunity for manufacturing ammunition looking to its use in the national campaign of 1928-President Coolidge is in for severe criticism on account of his policy In Nicaragua and in other fields , and generally : - there will be plenty of precampaign oratory , with the Democrats and insurgent Republicans attacking the Administration and the President 's friends defending the . party breastworks . The Senate will get the-annual agricultural appropriation bill from committee tomorrow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relations , will call up the Lausanne treaty with Turkey , to which much opposition has arisen in and out of religious bodies . Mr. Borah will try to have the Senate agree to consider this treaty , in open session instead of behind closed doors .                     