@@693246

txt Frank L. Smith , Republican , has been electedUnited States Senator from ' Illinois : Late returns indicate that his plurality over George E. Brennan , Wet . Democrat , will be 75,000 . Complete re -- turns may raise it above that mark . The Smith plurality in the . downState sections was estimated early this morning ' at approximately 165,000 and Brennan 's indicated lead over Smith : in Cook County , which includes the city of Chicago , had slipped downward and was wavering between 90,000 and 100,000 . Of Chicago 's fifty wards , incomple  --  te returns indicated that Brennan carried forty and Smith ten . Oa the wet and dry issue , Mr. Smith appears to have drawn support from partisans on both sides . Down-State he had support of ' the Anti-Saloon League as a Sahara dry , while in Cook County the ' Crowe-Barrett ? ? Organisation , dripping wet , ? apparently gave ' him full support . Unwilling to Admit . Defeat .. .. The Democrats+ even in ? the ' face of the convincing reports received , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Brennan manager , ' said : " Upon the basis of the very plate returns at 1 o'clock ' this morning there is no concession . that ' Mr. Brennan has been defeated and that Mr. Smith has won . On the Contrary , we for Mr. Brennan prefer . to await the county-by-county results as officially reported to the State canvassing board . The indications at . this . hour are that the final result is to be determined by the official count . " Returns received up to 1:30 o'clock this morning indicate that the Democrats will obtain at least two new seats in Congress by electing James T. Igoe over John J. Gorman in the Sixth District and Edward J. Glackin over Elliott W. Sproul in the Third District , both in Chicago . This would make the Illinois lineup in the lower house of Congress , if there are no other changes : Republicans , 20 ; Democrats , 7 . Igoe now holds ' a lead of nearly 8,000 in 106 precincts out of 260 , and his election is virtually conceded . In 43 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes . Those precincts include some of the country towns and , while Glacldn 's election is not con-1 ceded , he- looks like a winner . There is a possibility of the Democrats electing their nominees for Congress in the Fifteenth and Twenty-first Districts also , but returns are too scanty to warrant a prediction . Close in Distillery County . In Peoria County , the former location of great distillery interests , the first fourteen precincts showed Brennan and Smith running almost even . The Republicans were counting on a large margin in this county . It is the home of Garrett Kinney , candidate for State Treasurer on the Republican . ticket , who won by an old-fashioned Republican plurality , and with his assistance Peoria County , on the basis of later figures , went to Smith by an indicated 3,500 . As the returns from down-State come in they indicate that Brennan is ahead of normal strength in Democratic counties where the religious issue was not dragged in , while in rockribbed Republican areas he made large cuts into ordinary Republican strength . In connection with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counties , usually Democratic strongholds , indicated that Brennan 's vote was being trimmed down by the religious issue , as happened to the late Roger Sullivan , also Catholic , when he ran for Senator in 1914 . The partial returns show the wet and dry issue to have made a great appeal in the industrial centres , while in the rural regions , counted as dry , the vote was not as great as expected . The revolt of the drys against the leadership of the Anti-Saloon League is seen in the reports , which show areas where the league has been strongest rolling up diminished pluralities for the Republican nominee . Mr. Magill , in his crusade to " awaken civic conscience , " did not obtain as heavy a vote as the Breananites expected , although it is apparently in excess of what the hardboiled politicians have been conceding him . The figures early today indicate Magill has polled about 60,000 votes down-State and 50,000 in Chicago . The Old Guard Republican politicians said he would not get more than 75,000 all told . The civic conscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where Mr. Magill was County . Superintendent of Schools , and where he was expected to break " about even with the other candidates , his vote was light . In twenty-five Sangamon precincts the vote stood : Smith , 3,45 ; Magill , 356 ; Brennan , 2,652 . Soma of the late returns indicated that Brennan was obtaining an astonishing vote in territories that the Republicans in the past have carried by from 2 to 1 to 6 to 1 , In Joliet , Wills County , Brennan is right on the heels of Smith on the first returns . In Rock Island , a Republican atrongholdL the first precinct gave Smith 198 and Brennan 151 . The reports from city precincts on the Senatorial race gave much encouragement to the followers of Brennan , but while early returns indicated that Brennan was cutting deeply into the normal Republican pluralities in some down-State districts later figures were not so hopeful from the Democratic viewpoint . The probable winners for Congress from the ten Chicago districts follow : First district  --  Martin B. Madden , Rep. ; second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glackin . Dem. ; fourth , Thomas A. Doyle , Dem. ; fifth , Adolph J. Sabath , Dem. ; sixth , James T. Igoe , Dem. ; seventh , M. A. Michaelson , Rep. ; Eighth , Stanley Kunz , Dem. ; ninth , Fred A. Britten , Rep. ; tenth , Carl R. Cliii.dbloom , Rep. Five Democrats Are Wets . Of the five Democrats who have apparently won seats in Congress , representing two gains , all are wets . Of the five Republican prospective winners Madden is wet , Hull dry . Michaelson is consedered wet although hairing voted dry ; Britten is wet , so wet that the Democrats withdrew their candidate against him so he might become the wet leader in Congress , and Child bloom is dry . Scattered and meager returns on the Illinois State ticket indicated that all of the State offices remain in Republican hands . Garrett D. Kinney of Peoria , former Chairman of the G. 0 . P. State Committee , appears to have defeated his Democratic opponent and fellow-townsman , Samuel N. Nelson , by a comfortable majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth term , looked like an easy winner over Alexander W. Jamieson , Democrat . The three Republican trustees of the University of Illinois , who were up for re-election ? Laura B. Evans , Helen Matthews Grigsby and William L. Noble  --  were leading the three Democratic candidates Beulah ' Wilson Campbell , Frank T. ' O'Hair and William Tracy Alden . Charles W.- Vail , for twelve years Clerk of the Illinois Supreme Court , appears to have been re-elected to a third six-year - term over John A. Logan , Democrat .                     