@@691141

txt I read with interest your editorial Feb. 2 concerning a recent decision by the full bench of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts , in which it was held that a dead man could not be elected to office and that the living " candidate whose vote was nearest his should have the office . " As a brother of the dead man , Representative William A. Canty of Boston , I am more or less familiar with all the circumstances inyolved and congratulate you on the well-timed suggestion that " the law apparently would be better if changed to provide for a new election in all like cases . " The absurdity of declaring elected a candidate who received but a small portion of the entire vote of the district is too manifest to require comment . In the Case of the young man favored by the ruling , I would inform you that he was not a candidate for nomination for the office in question at the primary election . There were many candidates . and my brother , who had already served his constituency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another term of two years . He received the highest vote of the candidates and was therefore renominated . Later , however , he became ill , and his death seemed imminent before the day of election . A death watch , so to speak , until the eve of election day was held over him by persons seeking to get his place , and two pf them , feeling that his death might exur suddenly , had printed in advance stickers on which their names appeared . As it happened , my brother died twenty-four hours before election day . These two candidates then had their friends patrol the various polling booths , asking voters to stick the printed papers bearing their respective names in the proper place on the ballot . That the voters resented this subterfuge was evidenced by the returns , which showed that Representative Canty , though dead , received considerably more votes than either of his opponents : in fact , more than both of them together . The actions of the candidates running on stickers was severely denounced throughout the city , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his name for consideration at the special election ordered by the Governor of the State to fill the vacancy he would have been emphatically repudiated . It so happens that several candidates seeking to be elected to the place in question had spent considerable time and energy , and some money , no doubt , in the furtherance of their respective candidacies , but the decision of the court not only eliminates them , but declares the election of one of the sticker candidates not wanted by the electorate . As it stands , this decision of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court will serve as a precedent In future cases of this kind , and I therefore agree with you heartily that the law should be changed immediately to prevent the recurrence of similar practices . GEORGE R. CANTY . Washington , D. C. , Feb. 3 , 19n.                     