@@696497

txt A pastime 10/ at least one of our social recorders is to grade debs Into classes . A , B , C , D. I do n't know the details by which the varying standards are arrived at , but one 's ' magi. nation is permitted the indulgence in class A. type , for example , as symbolizing the girl above reproach in every conceivable way . Beading over one of the lists , I Wondered how a grade D girl must feel , or one listed with the C 's and B 's . A girl was discovered in a dressing room not long ago weeping hysterically . She had listened In on a conversation when she accidentally heard her mine . The weeping began when she heard herself described as a thirdgrade type . Her commiserator asked whatever cauaed that classification and the girl said it was undoubtedly because she 'd got " plastered " using her own expression at a couple of parties lately . This method of pigeon-holing girls with a grade A , B , and C tagging Is in more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And there is something so devastating about the low-grade appraisals and so commendable about the grade A victors that young women might pause and think about it all . A grade A girl , as I make it out , is a thoroughly nice girl , not prude . not highbrow , not anything you could n't spend the pleasantest sort of an hour with . She dances well . She has her athletic pursuits , although this is n't , absolutely essential . She looks well . She dresses well . She 's up and doing . Can talk well , if necessary , and can be just fun conversationally if the occasion calls for lightness . But above everything e6e. she is nice , tine in her speech and actions . She is , in other words , the old fashioned , nice , protected darling brought up-to-date , if you know what I mean . Grade B has much of grade A 's appeal but she has n't the first girl 's ability to forestall familiarities . Site may be caught in company or situations that reflect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as grade A. She does n't put quite the same value on herself , as it were . Grade C. as you may expect , does the things that stamp her as free common and sometimes awfully cheap DORIS BLAKE ANSWERS Unreasonable . " Dear Miss Blake : When I ask the girl I love to give up her girl friend she refuses . Does she love me ? " BUCK . " You 're making a very unreasonable request and there 's no reason why she should consent . It is astonishing how much objectionable treatment may be given to cabbage and yet leave it edible , though not really pleasant to the eater who knows cabbage cooked to perfection . The new cabbage of this season can be mistreated with less disagreeable results than can the older sorts . New cabbage , even the dainty Savoy , when blanched for five minutes and then cooked to a finish with a little bit of water , can be as melting as butter , almost , in from seven to ten minutee , according to its freshness , It Is often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreeable with the flavors of meat . It is a good deal subdued when it is cooked with a pot roast and other vegetables . We are reminded of this by receiving a request for the recipe , which is as follows : Prepare the cabbage by cutting it up slaw fashion , put It Into boiling water on the stove for five minutes , rinse it with cold water , add it to a pot roast a half hour ? before it is done . If It is an exceedingly delicate ' cabbage it may cook tender in fifteen minutes , ' and that will be a long enough time to cook it with the meat . It is difficult to say just what quantity to use , but it must be remembered that cabbage cut in this fashion will shrink a great deal , and when people like it they will bo exceedingly sorry if they do not have enough . A small chuck pot roast which has been well seared in savory fat , or plain fat with a good seasoning of other vegetables , after it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good seasoning to the cabbage , and we may vary the collection of vegetables that season while they combine their wetness with its Juices . Always there should be some onion , and beside that we need nothing more than some chopped green pepper , yet carrot is always good because It gets somewhat glazed , and fine cut celery , also . No water is added when the cooking is good . The floured and seared meat is put on top of a bed of vegetables and the wetness from the two will stew out of them in fifteen minutes so that it all can be basted . The people who would hesitate to try to cook the meat in this fashion may add two or three tablespoons of hot water at the start . The whole must cook only fast enough to give a slight sound in a pot closely covered . It may be basted three or four times .                     