@@693896

txt One of the greatest welcomes ever accorded to a returning hero will be arranged for the homecoming of Captain Charles A. Lindbergh . His exploit is one which because of his personality appeals particularly to the children of the country , and the school children of New York will have an opportunity of seeing this young knight of the air , for the schools will be closed for a day . More than 100,000 youngsters will take part in the welcome . A large group of the children will assemble in City Hall Park to await the arrival of the parade which will escort Captain Lindbergh from , the Battery . The famous plane , Spirit of St. Louis , will be in the line behind the flier , for he always refers to himself and his plane as " we . " Other children will line some of the streets along which the procession will Pass , Lafayette and Ninth Streets and Broadway . At least 100,000 pupils of public and private schools will assemble in Central Park , according to expectation . After Captain Lindbergh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the park and receive the cheers of the youngsters who have so much admired him . The aviator 's personality and modest behavior have made him an inspiration to children , in the opinion of teachers and school officials . Greetings by Land and Air . Captain Lindbergh will be met at Quarantine by the Mayor 's Committee and escorted to the Battery , while ships on every side welcome with whistles and sirens . Airplanes will wheel overhead and captive balloons , which have been offered by the Aerial League of America , will float huge American flags and welcoming banners in the air . At night , after the ceremonies of the day , Captain Lindbergh will be the guest of honor at the Mayor 's dinner at the Hotel Commodore . It is expected that the welcome will be one of the most spontaneous and enthusiastic that New York has seen , running close to the rapturous greetings given to the returning troops after the war . Grover Whalen , in charge of the plans , has been overwhelmed by offers of cooperation from all sorts of civic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honor the brilliant young pilot . The important part which Captain Lindbergh has played in fostering good-will between this country and France was emphasized yesterday in a letter sent by Robert Underwood Johnson to Secretary Kellogg , asking for negotiation of a permanent peace treaty between the United States and France . Johnson Letter to Kellogg . Mr. Johnson 's letter was as follows : Dear Mr. Secretary : It has now been several weeks since the French Secretary for Foreign Affairs , Mr. Briand , in a public statement declared himself in favor of a treaty of enduring peace between France and the ' United States . More recently , Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , who , by his imaginative outlook on international affairs , has gained the ear of the public , called conspicuous attention to this overture. which , though neglected by the general reader , no doubt arrested the interest , . and it is to be hoped the sympathy , of the Administration . Your fellow-citizens do not doubt the Administration 's sincere sentiment of attachment to the cause of peace , but they would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplation in response to this important offer of perpetual amity . Is not the time specially propitious for such action , when Captain Lindbergh. our Ambassador at large of American good-will , has demonstrated that the hatred of our people by the French is but a myth ? And if , as we devoutly hope , a treaty . of the sort is being drawn up for negotiation and for ultimate presentation to the Senate , would it not be desirable ' to take the public into the confidence . of the Government ? There are . of course , occasions when the interests of a country may require for a time a certain amount of secrecy in such matters , but surely so great a project is one of those measures which may well be included among " open covenants openly arrived at . " Until such fa- . vorable word comes from Washing- ton , must it not be presumed that officially Mr. Briand 's proposal is not regarded with sympathy ? I believe the American people are substantially a unit in desiring that there should be no further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that final goal of universal peace " toward which the whole creation moves . " May we not have a word of assur-ance ? I am , Mr. Secretary , indeed , Very respectfully yours , ROBERT UNDERWOOD JOHNSON . Parade of School Children Proposed . A parade of school children was proposed yesterday by Daniel W. Blumenthal , President of the Associated Local School Board , to the members of his boards Mr. Blumenthal suggested that a fund to meet the expenses of such a ? parade be raised and started it with an offer of $100 . A telegram to Colonel George W. Burleigh , counsel for Raymond Orteig , donor of the $25.000 prize won by Captain Lindbergh , was made public by Colonel Burleigh yesterday . It read : " All France besides myself is overwhelmed that my prize has been won in such heroic manner and by such a charming young man as Captain Lindbergh . We all love him . " A telegram was also receIveil from Captain Lindbergh by Colonel Jefferson de Mont Thompson , thanking the Aviation Commission of the State of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission for its hearty congratulations . I am touched by the evident widespread interest in my flight . Date of return to America still indefinite , but will cable you when it has been decided . " The interest in flying since Captain Lindberg 's great flight has been very evident and particularly so at Curtiss Field . " Merrie " Merrill , the superintendent there , said that since the flight eight times as many applications for instruction in flying had been received , ten of them being from women . The demand for flights from those willing to pay for them has increased five times .                     