@@696040

txt Attorneys ana engineers tor me sanitary district caught a gleam of hope ' in the proceedings yesterday which opened the newest phase of Chicago 's struggle to prevent its disease laden sewage from being clumped into Lake Michigan . Charles Evans Hugnes. ' special master in chancery appointed by the United States Supreme court to hear evidence in the case , called upon officials of the war department as the first witnesses . And from them came the testimony which the sanitary district lawyers viewed hopefully , and which Indicated that the United States government is aiming at a permanent solution of the entire controversy . Nine Conditions Complied With . Col. ' E. H. Schulz , former United States district engineer at Chicago , now division engineer with headquarters at Cleveland , first informed Mr. . Hughes that the sanitary district bad complied with nine out of ten conditions imposed in a permit for the diversion issued by the war department on March 3 , 1925 . " It has been considered that the conditions laid down by the department have been substantially complied with , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of questions relating to the dangers of current reversals in the Chicago river , which would send sewage into Lake Michigan , Col. Schulz said several projects to prevent this had been considered . Maj. Gen. Edgar B. Jadwin , chief of army engineers , rose from his seat at ? illegal , no such , bar would prevent congress from establishing a diversion permanently to build the lakes to the gulf waterway . All the acts of the war department in connection with the diversion suit are studied In the light of their effect upon the waterway plan , and with this also in mind the recommendation of Col. Weeks is considered of great importance . Directs Study of Projects . Mr. Hughes directed Gen. Jadwin and Col. Schulz to make a detailed study of the projects under consideration , bearing in mind the position of the Supreme court that navigation must be unobstructed at all times . Accompanied by engineers and lawyers on both sides of the controversy , Mr. Hughes visited the north side sewage treatment plant , now in operation , and then toured to the west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested , asking many questions concerning construction problems , the cost and the time necessary for completion . Counsel for the six states  --  Wisconsin , Minnesota , Michigan , Ohio , Pennsylvania , and New York  --  which contend that the sanitary diversion is lowering the levels of the great lakes and thereby damaging navigation , were present when Master Hughes opened the hearing in the courtroom of Judge James IL Wilkerson in the federal building yesterday morning . Baker Heads Opposition . The sessions will continue daily from 10 to 1 o'clock , and 2:30 to 5:30 o'clock in the afternoon , Mr. Hughes announced . The opposing lawyers were led by Newton D. Baker , former secretary of war , of Cleveland , G. , and Raymond T. Jackson of Wisconsin . Representing the Chicago side of aid controversy were Attorney General Oscar E. Caxlstrom , for the state of Illinois ; George F. Barrett , Edmund D. . Adcock , Waiter E. Beebe , James M Beck , former solicitor general of the United States ; James Hamilton Lewis and Louis J. Deban , for the sanitary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chicago Association of Commerce . Edward J. Kelly , chief engineer for the district , with his principal assistants , Langdon Pearse and Horace Ramey , were in court advising the legal staff . ' Col. Schultz Only Witness . Col. Schulz , named by his chief , Gen. Jadwin , as the man best fitted at this time to advise the court on the progress made by the Sanitary district in its construction Program , was the only witness of the day . Ho read the ten terms of the war department 's permit ' of March , 1925 , and told the record of the district in complying with its terms . The first three terms dealt with requirements to maintain navigation In Lake Michigan , and had been complied with , Col. Schulz testified . The fourth provision was that the Sanitary district should build treatment plants sufficient to dispose of the sewage of a population of 1,200,000 by the expiration of the permit on Dec. 31 , 1929 . Telling of the plants placed in operation since 1925 , Col. Schulz estimated that sewage treatment has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,11C1C 01 ** He pointed out that no funds are now available for continuing the work this year . He replied to a question by Mr. Hughes that $11,000,000 would be required in the remaining nine months to bring the work within the requirements of the permit . The fifth provision of the permit required that the sanitary district pay tho cost of regulating works to be built in the Detroit and Niagara rivers . Although war department and other engineers all agree that these works would automatically restore the levels of the great lakes at slight expense , Col. Schulz pointed out that no demand had been made for payment of this project , nor has a plan been adopted . Fag Short on Meter Plan . The sixth provision dealt with the construction of a gate at the mouth of . the Chicago river , to prevent current reversals . The seventh provision is the one in which compliance has fallen far short , CoL Weeks stated . It required that the city of Chicago ' adopt a metering plan by which 41,500 meters per year would be installed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four years . Ho did not mention that this was one of the unique campaign pledges of Mayor William Hale Thompson and that the metering was halted by Thompson . Other provisions dealt with the war department 's right to revoke the permit Since tho district had substantially complied with its general requirements , the war department had not deemed it necessary to revoke the permit , Col. Schulz said .                     