@@688945

txt Senator Borah , speaking before 6.000 parsons in the Coliseum tonight . denounced the proposal that the United States join the World Court as a scheme to get the United States into the League of Nations . He declared with emphasis : The United ? States can not join the International Court and remain out of the League of Nations . as both institutions are bound by shackl  --  s of binding adamant that capnot be broken . " He continued : " Let us suppose we become a member of this Court . We sit at Geneva day aft .. r day , and 3-ear after year , not merely passing as arbitrators upon some controversy which may arise between countries , but we sit there advising , counselling and directing the League itself , not only with reference to its own Powers , but upon all vital European questions which may come before the League and upon which it sees fit to ask the advice of the judges concerned . How could we be more thoroughly , both legally and morally , bound up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than . to become the counsellor and adviser of the League ? " In the same connection he remarked : If anybody thinks that he can win in 1924. by uprooting a system of foreign policies as old as the Government itself , let him get upon a political platform and try to carry the election in 1924 . " The League of Nations , he went on . " injected itself into the campaign in 1920. and when the votes were counted I thought it had been settled . Now it seems that we have to disregard all of the great domestic issues , the questions of sugar , oil , coal and the great economic and transportation questions and meet this League issue again . " Secretary Hughes , who spoke in advocacy of the United States joining the World Court since President Harding first suggested participation by the United States , came in for criticism by Borah . I can not understand . " he said . " the argument of those v.tho say that we should go into that part of the League of Nations and stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the League of Nations is the father of the World Court . The League elects t is Judges and if the League falls , the Court falls . " But you say you are going only into the World Court . and are not concerned velth the welfare of the League of Nations . If you occupied a room at the Statler Hotel way up stairs and somebody was dynamiting the foundation , would you not have some anxiety about It ! oS it is with the Court . " One of the objects in going into the Court Is to help pay its expenses . What about sharing the burdens of the League of Nations ? " Senator Borah read from the Journal of the League aiming to show the large expense it was under . Senator Borah declared that France 's invasion of the Ruhr was sowing the seeds of a future world war , and asserted that Poincare was a " menace to the peace of the world . " The Senator spoke under the auspices of a committee of which Charles Nagel. former Secretary of Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cxtraction were present . Although his address was virtually the opening of the campaign of the " bitterenders " against President Harding 's ' World Court proposal . the Senator in an interview disclaimed any intention to fight the President for renomination . ' ? My speeches upon the World Court have nothing whatever to do with Presidential candidates . " said Senator Borah . " I believe that President Harding will be nominated by the Republican Nation Convention by acclamation. but upon an air-tight platform . " It was apparent that Borah 's fight , t as not to prevent Harding 's renomination. but aimed to control the convention against the World Court .                     