@@688551

txt It is now five full years since the establishment . of the New York State Police , and Major CHANDLER , who has been in command of it throughout that period , takes the opportunity in making his annual report , this time to Governor SMITH , to sum up the achievements of his troopers . For one thing , he says , they have made 43,129 arrests , and in 90 per cent . of these cases convictions have been secured . That in itself constitutes a fine record , for it shows that the arrests were made with discretion , but , incidentally , 87,227 investigations were undertaken , and these , even when they did not lead to direct action , often were of importance . The force , with the two troops recently added , now has only 348 officers and men , and the amount of efficient work they have done , scattered widely , as they are , all through the State , is little less than astonishing . They have practically cleared the State of tramps , with amarlted decrease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There has b6en successful co-operation with the Conservation Commission in the protection of wild life , and the Major claims that the troopers , partly by the exercise of their authority and partly b3 giving instruction , have brought about , in New York 's innumerable automobilists a commendable increase of respect for the law and an equally commendable decrease in the number of highway accidents . This control of motor cars he thinks the biggest of his problems , and he sees its ultimate solution in regulations that will keep pedestrians off the roadways except at designated and guarded points . He denies that accidents are due to speed , declaring that more of them occur when cars are going under fifteen miles an hour than when they are exceeding that rate . That is a hard saying , but the Major ought to know . invasions nvasions of France ' ' have been enough , anq they draw inconvenient contrasts between the state of their own coal mines and factories and those of Ger --  ' many . This , of course , is all wrong . Great men like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of others , including all pacifists and evetybody eager for an entrance to German marki , ts , can see the wrongness plainly enough , but the French ca n't , or at any rate they wo n't . They make no allowances for the genial Teutonic peculiarities , and 1 as the terrible result the Germans , whose one ambition is to be kind to everybody and to love everybody and to sing sentimental songs , have been forced to transfer to France the nctble rage which not long ago they directed t England and a little later diverted to .. the United States . Work Done by the State Police . Of special interest in Troopers Major CisANDLER 'S report as Used is what he has to say . Strikesabout the use of his in troopers as a factor in industrial disputes  --  the preservation of order during strikes , that is . It is to be regretted , perhaps , that he was not more explicit on this subject , for the only antagonism to the State Police , here or elsewhere , is due to the belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are strikebreakers , in short . That charge , for which there is no basis except the fact that. , strikers are more apt to resort to violence than are employers , is constantly repeated by the enemies of this most valuable force , and its refutation can not be too frequent or too explicit . Major CHANDLER does little more than express regret that his men frequently have been called upon to repress disorder resulting from industrial conditions , and to express the hope that " conditions in the Slate will be such that this unwelcome work will not be delegated to us again . " He does say with pride , however , that never have the troopers had to use firearms or to inflict more than trifling injuries on anybody . It is a little surprising in these days to read in the report that " the horse has proved of great value and is still our mainstay . " The motorcycle has been thoroughly tested , and has been found to be of not much use to the troopers , but the Major has a good word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he says , " to be the least expensive and best means of transportation When motors must be used . " Each trooper has cost the State since the organization of the force a fraction over $7 ' a day , but that includes every expense , including salaries , rentals , equipment , food , travel , light , heat and incidentals . For this , in the five years , 1,838,572 miles have been patrolled . Vice President Does n't Know COOLIDGE does n't Much know everything . . Savages If he did ? if he About were an ethnologist as well as a statesman ? he never would have said in a speech delivered in Chicago that " it requires less intelligence , less skillful effort , to live among a tribe of savages than to maintain existence under the average conditions of modern society . " If by that he meant , as he seemingly did , that savages do not need to be intelligent and skillful , he was quite mistaken . Not only must they be both if they are to live at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than is required for a safe and comfortable existence " under the average conditions of modern society . " The savage , as a matter of fact , must be close to physical ' . perfection , with a versatile mind and the possessor . of many trades , including , almost always , house and boat building , hunting with weapons made by himself , soldiering and at least a little farming . IncaiSable of these and many other activities , he could not meet the daily demands of his life and he either would starve to death or the tribe would accelerate his departure with a club as a useless member of it . Civilization makes great demands on a few , buts it also has easy jobs for many ? jobs in which only the ability to repeat endlessly a single easy task is required . It has uses for multitudes of men who would not last a week in a wild land where complete self-dependence is imposed on everybody - as soda as childhood is past . No wonder France is receiving angry denunciation from so many quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not get along well with the Germans , and yet nothing is easier ! The Germans ask so little from their neighbors  --  only the privilege of doing anything they please and of taking anything they want ! What demands could be more modest than those ? But the French , being , as was well said " long ago , a frivolous people , much given to dancing and light wines , insist on thwarting the Germans whenever they can . They demand the payment of debts which the Germans do not want to pay ? than which nothing could be more tiresome ; they insist that thirty- or forty Scoldings Well Deserved .                     