@@691967

txt From Alaska and Arizona , two regions where frontier conditions persisted longest , comes the plea that : ne ' Federal Government ' turn over its holdings of public lands to the States . The argument Is based on the theory of local self-government . Public lands , It is contended , belong to the people of the State in which they are situated rattier than to the  --  peoPle of ttlf , United States as a whole . The State Administration knows better the spe- ' cific needs of the State 's population in so far as these lands are concerned . By permitting each State to decide ne fate of the lands within its boundaries enough latitude is left to meet varying local demands . When Washington administers them it means , as The Alaska Daily Empire puts it , that " there is an alien Government , within /nose States which prevents full " control by the people . " This argument finds some justification as well asrefutation in the history of our public land policy , When the Federal Government originally acquired the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was twofold  --  to develop them and open- them up to eettlexuent , yet to reserve the benefits derived from them for the people at large . Local and national interests , however , always clashed . This ' they have continued to do down - to the present . The latest manifestation of this fight is in the drive against the Departments of Agriculture and the Interior . Part of the attack on conservation is in reality an attack on the holding and administering of public lands by the Federal Government . Not only is this considered detrimental to the best interests of the States ( by some of their citizens ) but it is also said to deprive them of important revenues . It is hard to look upon the policy advocated by the StAes control people as a progressive step . In numerous cases , no doubt , they have at heart the beg interests of the conservation movement . But history has shown that Federal control in recent years has been the/ most effective check against unscrupulous local interests bent on exhausting the resources of public lands for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a protest from , the Secretary of the National Lumber Manufacturers ' Association to the effect that it is unfair to class the lumbermen as opponents ? of the national administration of the forests . In the old days , to be sure , they fought the forestry policy . But now they see the wisdom of conserving and developing what remains of the nation 's forests so that they may reap crops for many years instead of denuding the timber lands for today 's profits . Other interests , however , have not been so foresighted . They see public lands which they can use to their advantage . The Federal Government hinders them . The States might be more " reasonable . " Hence , they say , the States should be given the public lands . That bureaucracy and red tape have put unnecessary delays in the way of lawful and proper use of some of the forests and other lands controlled by the Federal Government is undoubtedly true . But it is better in matters of 1 conservation to err on the side of slow action than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Emporia Gazette has styled " the modern Cap , tarn Kidds . " In due time even the Western States which now oppose Federal control will realize that the underlying policy is sound and that the checks on exploitation during the last two decades , even though accompanied by blunders , have worked to the best interests of the people of the States concerned as well as of the whole nation .                     