@@694423

txt HE was dying and all the world knew it . He was dying slowly of a terrible disease and a whole city became his sick room , for Herman Heijermans was as much a part of Amsterdam as Amsterdam was of Herman Heijermans , and if the eager good-will of half a million people could have saved him he would be here today to be happy that his work at last had found a hearing in the New World and to rest a little more Contented because now that terrible worry about his family would have been set to rest . This is a dreadful subject . I do not believe Americans can ever quite realize it . But what of the fate of those who must express themselves in the language of a small country ? We look at our programs and read the intriguing names of Norwegians and Danes and Hollanders and Hun , garians , and we often feel that if our country were not so large ; if , from the Pacific to the Atlantic , we did not speak a single tongue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Art which somehow or other seems to escape us , no matter how many schools and laboratories and universities keep pounding at the Great American Drama and the Great American Novel and the Great American Symphony . It may be true that the spiritual leaders of the small nations are able to bestow upon this somewhat indifferent world certain products of the brain that surpass anything we have thus far raised on these shores . But God knows they do so at a cost of personal suffering which makes us wonder that they have the courage to bear up and to continue . ... The life of Heijermans , made known by the presentation at the Civic Repertory Theatre of " The Good Hope , " his best play , is an example , a very fair example , of the sort of tragedies that are enacted almost every day among those poor devils who have something to say and must say It in a vernacular that does not reach beyond the confines of a country which hardly offers exercising space for a moderately geared flivver . Here was a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays and wrote first-class plays , who wrote novels and detectives yarns , all of them of superior calibre , and who barely made a living because there was not enough of a public for him , to buy his books or see his plays . What made his position all the more difficult was the fact that he wrote among a people who never quite dropped the ancestral habit of wasting 90 per cent . of their energy upon theological controversies , The good old Calvinists of the low countries still regard literature and the stage with a profound and bitter contempt , and their Catholic neighbors ( who in that part of the world are merely Puritans who happen to go to mass rather than listen to psalms and a two-hour sermon ) are just as /motile to these expressions of what they are apt to call the " levities of Satan , " It is difficult to make this point quite clear to the average American . Heaven knows we have enough problems of our own , but we are spared the wasteful horrors of the ever-conflicting catechisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or that or the other denomination . We certainly do not deal with our grocer because he is a Catholic or patronize a certain jitney bus because the driver is a Protestant . Nor do we send our children to a 11 : . : specialized denominational school and refuse to let the Protestant kids play football with theirCatholic companions . But the Hollarrd in which Heijermans worked was a small country , divided and subdivided into endless hostile camps , and the Catholic " goatraisers " ( I am quoting a classical example of this lovely spirit of spiritual specialization ) would not dream of breeding their domestic chamois with those of the Protestant GoatRaising Association. , All those good burghers wasted so much time upon those futile pursuits ( and incidentally so much money ) that very little was left for the book or the box office . There were other difficulties with which Heijermans had to contend . Holland was one of the first European countries to mass vast amounts of surplus wealth . It was the highest ambition of every middle-class Dutchman to acquire enough money to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he was possessed at the rate of twenty-four hours each day ) to the reading of his denominational newspaper and a contemplation of the wind-swept skies . Such a state of affairs demanded , before all other things , safety and sanity , A populace which depends for its maintenance upon dividends is almost always a country which does not believe in asking questions . It is willing , yea eager , to leave well enough alone . Hence the Holland of Heijernians'e youth was a land in which there were many ghastly economic abuses against which no one dared to protest because it would have made him or her " queer " ; it would have set him or her apart as a kicker , a low-down Socialist , an anarchist , an open and avowed enemy of society . The fate of the intrepid Douwes Dekker , the strange philosopher who , under the Pseudonym of Multatuli , exposed the terrible conditions which even at that late date prevailed in the East Indies , taught others what they might expect if they should raise their voices and should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these paragraphs I have been using the past tense on purpose . Today Holland is well in the vanguard of those European countries which have deliberately undertaken the gigantic task of economic reform . The workman has become a human being . He is well housed and well fed . He is so well looked after that he finds It difficult to die , and the fact that the death rate of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is one of the lowest in Europe indicatrli better than many volumes of praise how much has been accomplished . This great humanitarian gain . however , has not been the work of statesmen . It has been brought about through a thorough awakening of the public mind by a small but brilliant and determined group of writers and newspaper men and playwrights . And among those Heijermans deserves to be named as one of the most courageous and also as one of the most successful . It is true that he did preach sermons . His theatrical work was not written for the purpose of mere amusement . It had a very serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prophet with a profound knowledge of theatrical technique . He knew he could pull all the registers of indignation and emotion and at the same time keep the attention of the spectator engrossed upon the main theme of his terrible symphony of Wrong . The present play is an example . If it were true , as the old fisherwomen in the play say , that " the fish are dearly paid for , " then Something ought to be done about it . Heijermans , poor hack journalist . did it . Although the life of the Dutch fisherman is not yet a happy dream of roses and moonshine , compare with what it was when Heijermans shrieked his warning across the turbulent wastes of the North Sea so movingly and intensely that he blinded better than he knew , The proof is ready at hand at the Civic Repertory Theatre in a performance true in atmosphere and realized to the utmost in its production .                     