@@695818

txt Charles V. Barrett , a member of the board of review , will present the prizes at THE TRIBUNE 'S thirteenth annual Silver Skates derbies to be held on the Garfield park lagoon Saturday and Sunday . sir . Barrett , who is president of the Barrett Athletic club , always has been interested in amateur sports . He donates prizes for nearly every skating meet of importance held in Chicago . Dr. Eastman on Staff . " It is a pleasure for me to award the prizes in THE Tan:ars-a races , " said Barrett said yesterday , " I know of nothing which arouses more interest among our boys and girls than THE TRIBUNE races . All winter I have heard the skaters talking about the Silver Skates derbies . " Dr. Louis K. Eastman of the Reystone hospital will be in charge of the Physicians who will be on hand both days . Dr. Eastman is enthusiastic about all sports events which help in the physical development of the city 's youth . An ambulance will be on hand and two nurses will direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will Referee . Not only will Charles V. Barrett and Dr. Eastman give up their time on both days to help make the event one of the greatest ever held , but the same is true of Brig . Gen. John V. Clinnin , who will be the active referee . Judge Walter P. Steffen will serve as chief judge of the finish . Herman J. Fischer , superintendent of Chicago 's board of education playgrounds , will be the starter . Other officials include Walter Wright and Theodore A. Gross of the municipal playground system ; E. C. Delaporte , who is in charge of athletics in the Chicago public schools , and William G. Bratton , who Is coming from Pittsburgh to be one of the finish judges . Dr. John Dill Robertson , president of , the west park board , has issued orders to those In charge of the skating conditions at the various lagoons to have the ice in perfect condition for the meet . The surface will be planed and the cracks filled with water during the week . This year 's entry Is exceeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broken and when the total list of nominations is tabulated this morning , the entry may exceed 4,000 . The gratifying feature is the large number of boys who have entered the junior and juvenile races and the girls who have sent in their names for the junior race . It has been decided to hold trials In the boys ' junior and juvenile races on Saturday starting at 2 o'clock . The program on Sunday will open at 1210 o'clock , when trial heats in the boys ' intermediate derby will be held .                     