@@688248

txt Mrs. Ogden L. Mills , the former Margaret Rutherford , stepdaughter of the late William K. Vanderbilt , and Sir Paul Dukes , British war hero , were married In Nyack , N. Y. , last week , . it became known tonight . Montague Glass , a close friend of Sir Paul and his American lecture tour manager , was authority for the state ? ment that the ceremony was performed in Nyack a few days before the couple sailed for Europa last Saturday . It was their intention , Mr. Glass said , to announeg the marriage in Paris . A search for the record of the marriage in Nyack was ineffectual . An obvious attempt to keep it secret was manifested on every hand , and no tangible evidence was unearthed until the town clerk admitted having issued a marriage license to the two . . Resided at Braeburn Club . Little could be learned of the events that preceded the license beyond the fact that both Mrs. Mills and Sir Paul had for some time resided at the Brae-burn club , Nyack , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spiritualistic cult whose followers call him " The Omnipotent Oom . " The license , which was issued Oct. 3 , gives the name of this bride-to-be as Margaret Stuyvesant Rutherford , daughter of Lewis ' Morris Rutherford . Sir Paul 's residence is given as Nyack ; his occupation that of lecturer , and his age as 33 . Ills father , he said , was the Itev . E. J. Dukes of London . Report Sailing on Olympic . Two notices published in today 's issue of a Nyack paper add to the mystery . One announces that Sir Paul has gone to England for a ! ' two weeks ' business trip ; " after which he will re ? turn for an American lecture tour . The other sets forth that Mrs. Mills has left with her sister , Mrs. Cyril Hatch of Greenwich , Conn. , for a month 's trip to the west . Reports that Sir Paul and Lady Dukes had sailed on the Derengaria for London last Tuesday brought the statement from steamship officials that two reservations taken out in these names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the honeymooners had sailed on the Olympic last Saturday . Justice Admits Wedding . Benjamin Haas , Nyack justice of the peace , tonight reluctantly admitted that he knew of the marriage of Sir Paul , but refused to announce when It occurred or to whom . Mrs. Mills was married to Congressman Mills in France while he was a captain in the United States army . She in 1920 obtained a Paris divorce . With her sister , Mrs. Hatch , elle received a large share of the estate of her stepfather , William K. Vanderbilt . She is said to have first met Sir Paul Dukes in Petrograd. where he was serving his government in war secret service work . He worked his way into the lied army while serving for the British secret service . Later he was knighted for his record in Russia .                     