@@690275

txt Supporters of William G. will number thirty-two out of the fifty-two members of the Committee on Permanent Organization of the Democratic National Convention , his managers here claimed yesterday , and will put forward J. Bruce Kremer of Montana , Vice Chairman of the Democratic National Committee , or Senator Key Pittman of Nevada for Permanent Chairman . It was said that Mr. Kremer was the more likely of the two to be selected . Mr. Kremer , although he will support Mr. as a delegate from Montana , was said to be not unfriendly personally to Governor Smith , and belief was expressed that the delegates favoring the Governor might accept him without a contest . Cordell Hull , Democratic National Chairman , was said to desire to avoid a fight in the selection of a permanent Chairman , as was done in the selection of Senator Pat Harrison of Mississippi for temporary Chairman . Senator Thomas J. Walsh of Montana has been suggested for the place , but some party leaders believe the permanent Chairman will be subject to severe physical strain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was said to a likely choice for Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions if Mr. Kremer from the same State should not be made permanent Chairman . One member of each of the four convention committees , Permanent Organization , Credentials , Rules and Resolutions , will be selected by each of the fifty-four State and Territorial delegations in thirty-two of which the supporters of Mr. are said to have a majority . With a majority of the Committee on Resolutions , the forces , it was said , would be in a position to bring forth a " dry " plank . Supporters of Governor Smith , Senator Underwood and other candidates of " wet " inclination would have opportunity to oppose such a plank , as they would the recommendation of the Committee on Permanent Organization for permanent Chairman , on the floor of the convention . Control of the Resolutions Committee by Mr. 's friends might be taken to indicate a favorable report on a plank favoring the entrance of the United States into the League of Nations , but it was said there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that , while the Wilson admirers amongthem might favor a strong League of Nations plank , some of his followers in the West , particularly among the radical and labor groups , were opposed to the League . The Committee on Credentials , which will hold hearings on contested seats , is not expected to be of particular importance this year . So far as the Democratic National Committee has been informed there is likely to be but one contest , that from the District of Columbia . The Rules Committee may become of great importance if the supporters of Mr. should attempt to abrogate the rule requiring a two-thirds vote of the convention to nominate a candidate for President , and the Smith forces should start a counter-offensive by moving for the abolition of the unit rule , which still applies to delegations elected at State conventions . The unit rule probably will come before the committee and the convention , anyway , for two Kentucky delegates , elected in their Congressional district as supporters of Senator Underwood , have announced that they will test the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As matters now stand , the anti-qzmcq#Adoo delegates , including those for Governor Smith , are opposed to the abrogation of the two-thirds rule . but would support a motion to abolish the unit rule , which will hold a number of Smith delegates for . Whether the Governor 's supporters would support a resolution to abolish both rule 's was said to be uncertain . Judge David Ladd Rockwell , the national campaign manager , in a statement telegraphed here from Washington and made public at the headquarters in the Hotel Vanderbilt , declared that it was immaterial to Mr. 's friends whether the two-thirds rule were changed or not , and reiterated his assertion that Mr. MoAdoo would be nominated under either condition .                     