@@690033

txt - it has been hard to send murdering females even to the penitentiary from Cook county , where there have been a number of them . State 's Attorney Crown , unsealed in breaking down the immunity of lady murderers and sent thirteen of them to the penitentiary and one ' hi under sentence to be hanged . They were sent . ' put they did not all stay . The ether day Tim TIMUNE was informed that a woman who had chopped her husband to pieces with a m.nt ax while be begged for mercy was collecting her rents from Lake street property . It was difficult to get track:of the lady at first , but finally , after an examination of records and by Investigating at Joliet and-Kankakee at the same hour to prevent homes . liocus , it was found that she had been sent to the Insane asylum as crazy and released to Chicago ais cured . fixtutn executive clemency . SOFT HAIL . It rained In Los Angles the other day . That min an event warmly welcomed by the native been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assure this year 's crops , and tolerated by the tourists and retired easterners as emphasizing the value of the 360 sunshiny days In the year . But unfortunately , In the midst of the rainstorm came a fall of white flakes . The visitors shuddered . Snow : The natives pinched themselves , took counsel , and arose superior . Not snow , not such ; merely soft hail ? : a momentary meteorological ! Incident of no cefusequenCe , such as might happen anywhere . It snowed in Chictego . It even froze . And worse titan that was the fact that , the fall made two feet of snow on the surface for the winter , and probably two feet of frost below that . We neither welcomed It , nor shuddered at it Our winter weather Is unbleasant , and we know It , and ignore it . . Catifornia does n't and ca n't . Climate IS its life . Comparisons are odorous , so we 'll be brief . Los Angelo : , has the sunshine . We 'll admit it . Chi. - sago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monthly building survey prepared by S. W. Straus A Co. ehtmew building permits for construction amid the sunshine and upon the unfrozen ground of Los Angeles for February amounted to 316,083,412 . Building permits among the icy blasts of Chicago for the same month totate ( 1 ? 13.694.410. ghlatgo 's superiority , and in midwinter , amounted to 33,000 ; 998 . There 's no soft hail about that .                     