@@693131

txt The economic conference which the League of Nations committed itself at Geneva to call at an early date was originally proposed more than a year ago and was authorized last December . The stated purpose was to " organize a general consultation " under the auspices of thirty-five unofficial experts , at which the various economic doctrines and policies of the nations might be freely discussed , without committing any Government to the conclusions reached . The question of currency stabilization , which largely occupied the attention of the Brussels conference of 1920 and the Genoa con-1 ference of 1922 , has changed considerP. - My since-the general question of gold resumption was discussed at Genoa ; stabilization of the Austrian and Hun- ' garian paper issues , Germany 's reversion to a new gold standard currency , and gold resumption in England and the Netherlands have occurred during the interval , and the question of return to gold by France . Belgium and ! Italy may conceivably have been set-1 / tied before the conference now planned I shall have assembled . ? There is another economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct attention . The German delegate who on Tuesday urged its calling referred not only to the " currency criSis " but to " import and " export prohibitions and the- increase " of customs barriers which were born " of the war . " To soine of the " succession States " of Central Europe this question of prohibitive import duties is getting to be a matter of commercial life and death . Partition of the old Austrian Empire brought into being separate nationalities - whose people had traded with one another on a basis of virtual freedom prior to 1919 , but have subsequently found their trade almost hopelessly blockaded by excessive protective tariffs . This was one perhaps inevitable result of the post-war imperial dismemberment  --  just as , by way of contrast , the American Union under the Constitution put an instantaneous end to the " tariff war " between the States , which in 1787 had nearly occasioned actual warfare . The Austrian textile industry , one of the main dependences of that economically crippled State , has lately become all but paralyzed by the exclusion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposing high duties on the grain products of Hungary and the manufactured specialties of Czechoslovakia . Rumania , taking its cue from the " succession States , " increased its tariff on metal and textile goods all the way from 300 to 1,000 per cent Poland virtually shut out the products of Central Europe . When the suicidal nature of the policy could no longer be Ignored , the Governments entered on tentative efforts at commercial treaties . Some tangible results have followed ; rela tions have measurably improved between Austria and Czechoslovakia and between Hungary and Austria . But the status remains tentative and unsatisfactory , and meantime the story of every Central European mar1 ket in 39n has been made up of declining foreign trade , waning prosperity , increasing unemployment and political unrest . The difficulties in the way of complete solution of the problem will be apparent to any one familiar with the obstinate adherence even of our own politicians to the high-protection doctrine . Adoption of a " Zollverein "  --  a zone of equal trade facilities like the old North German Confederation  --  may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the nature of the situation caused by retaliatory tariffs has forced itself Into r public recognition , consideration of the problem at such an internatiodal conference as is now- projected might do real service .                     