@@692672

txt Following the break-down of negotiations between the Cabinet and leaders of the trades unions , which has called a general strike , the Government issued a statement , challenging the position of the strikers and declaring that no more parleys would be held until the strike order had been canceled and overt acts have ceased . In reply to this the union chiefs made defiant response late in the morning , questioning the reports of overt acts and declaring the negotiations at an end . The Government 's declaration was as follows : His Majesty 's Government believe that no solution of the difficulties in the coal industry which is both practicable and honorable can be reached except by sincere acceptance of the Coal Commission 's report . In the expression " acceptance of the report " are included both reorganization of the coal industry should be put in hand immediately . and , pending the results of the reorganization being attained , such interim adjustment of wages or hours of work as will make it economically possible to carry on the industry in the meantime . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behalf , were prepared to say plainly that they accept this proposal the Government would be ready to resume negotiations and continue the subsidy for a fortnight . But since the negotiations which have taken place between the Ministers and members of the Trades Union Congress , it has come to the knowledge of the Government not only that specific Instructions have been sent ( under the authority of the executive of the trade unions represented at the conference convened by the Council of the Trades Union Congress ) directing their members in several of the most vital industries of the country to carry out a general strike on Tuesday next , but that overt acts have already taken place , including gross interference with the freedom of the press . Such action involves a challenge to the constitutional rights and freedom of the nation . His Majesty 's Government therefore before they can continue the negotiations must require from the Trades Union Committee both a repudiation of the actions referred to that have already taken place and immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the instructions for a general strike . Trades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government statement the Negotiating Committee of the Trade Union Council sent this morning the following letter to Premier Baldwin : Your letter announcing the Government 's decision to terminate the discussion was received by the General Council with surprise , and regret . The negotiations which had taken , place between the Industrial Committee of the General Council and its representatives had been adjourned for a brief period in order to allow the Industrial Committee to confer with the full General Council and representatives of the Miners ' Federation who were on your premises in order to advance full efforts which the Industrial Committee had persistently been making to accomplish a speedy and honorable settlement of the mining dispute . The trades union representatives were astounded to learn that , without any warning , renewed conversations which it was hoped might pave the way to an opening up of full and unfettered negotiations had been abruptly terminated by the Government for the reasons stated in your communication . The first reason given is that specific instructions had been sent under the authority of the trades union representatives , directing these members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are directed to remind you that it is nothing unusual for workmen to ceasework in advance under the circumstances as wage earners . And the specific reason for the decision in this case is to secure for the workers the same right as the employers insist upon with their workers  --  nanely , that negotiations shall be conducted free from an atmosphere of strike or lockout . This is the principle which Government have held to be cardinal in the conduct of negotiations . Denies Nowiedge of Overt Acts With regard to the second reason that overf acts had already taken place , including those in interference with the freedom of the press , it is regretted that no specific action is contained in your letter . The General Council had no knowledge of such- acts having occurred and the decisions taken by them definitely forbid any such independent and unauthorized action . The council is not aware of the circumstances under which the alleged acts have taken plate . It can not accept any responsibility and is taking prompt measures to prevent any acts of indiscipline . The Council regrets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the alleged incidents before the Government made them an excuse of breaking off peace discussions , which were proceeding . The public will judge the nature of the Government 's intention by its precipitate and calamitous decision in this matter and will deplore with the General Council that the sincere work which the General Connell has been engaged in to obtain an honorable settlement has been wrecked by the Government 's unprecedented ultimatum.1                     