@@693828

txt Wilma Miller , 25 , who was employed 1.9 a maid , was beaten to death early last evening in the front hallway of the home of Thorne Donnelley , wealthy resident of La.ke Forest . A man , seen running from the house a minute or two before the girl was found dying , was identified as Odo Pueschell , 25 , - whom gossip in sera . ants ' quarters of the millionaire col. ony on the north shore had described as her suitor . Near the girl was found a metal statue of a dog with which she probably had been struck . Pueschell , a chauffeur for another wealthy Lake Forest resident , Mrs. Abhio Farwell Ferry , was taken into custody . Acting Chief of Police John Dunn found that one of the sleeves of his coat was bloodstained . Chauffeur Denies Killing . Questioned by Dunn and Mayor Feewell Winston of Lake Forest , the chauffeur denied vehemently that ho had killed Miss Miller . He attempted , with a disconnected story , to prove an alibi and at first he asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown a picture of her that showed her standing in front of the car he drove . At that point Pueschell made a frenzied effort to seize a policeman 's pistol , apparently with the intention of killing himself . He was frustrated . Mr. Donnelley. who is a son of Reuben H. Donnelley , head of the concern that prints Chicago 's telephone directories , and his wife are in Europe . Their Lake Forest home , 612 Deerpath avenue , is being cared for by servants . It was Joe Harrison , colored janitor , who discovered the dying maid onthe steps in the hallway , lie told the police that as he stepped in the front door at about 7 P. In. he was met by Pueschell . , To Harrison 's question , " Where 's Wilma ? " the chauffeur replied shortly that she was out . Then he fled . Adds to Identification . Besides Harrison , Mrs. Ed Peterson , housekeeper at the home of H. N. Tuttle , saw Pueschell run across the lawn and added her identification to that made by Harrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Alice Home hospital . There she died a few minutes later . Dr. C. P. McCullough , attending physician , said lie had been struck four or five times on the head and the skull fractured . I The exact motive for the killing could ; not be determined . Dr. McCullough said there apparently had been no attempt to attack Miss Miller . Pueschell had In his pockets a sapphire ring and a locket containing two pictures of himself . Possibly , the police argued . ' he might have struck her to get theta ' back . The theory that the statue of the dog was the weapon used was strengthened when Thompson told the policeilt ordinarily was kept in the library . Early this morning Pueschall wag taken to view the body of the slain woman . He displayed no emotion , and continued to deny any guilt . Follow . ing this he was taken to the Lake county jail in Waukegan . How Chauffeur Explains it . Montgomery Ferry , a son of Mrs. Abble Ferry , reported that Pueschell had been working in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an unannounced destination . He returned at about 7:30 . He had stepped into a taxicab at the North Shore electric sta. lion , explaining that he had gone as far as Fort Sheridan before he discovered he had left his money behind . He asked the driver , Frank Baldwin , tto hurry , but made him take a roundabout way through the quieter street9 , the chauffeur said .                     