@@696531

txt Three indictments were handed up by the Queens grand jury yesterday after hearing evidence taken by Su preme Court Justice Arthur S. Tompkins , special John Doe investigator appointed by Governor Roosevelt to inquire into graft in the Queens Street Cleaning Department . Shortly afterward the Queens police made an arrest . The man arrested was Patrick J. Morris , formerly  --  a district superintendent of the Street Cleaning Bureau . Detective Joseph Burke of the Hunter 's Point . station found Mr. Morris at his home , 149-17 Ninth Avenue , Whitestone , Queens , and served a bench warrant issued by Judge Frank F. Adel , to whom the grand jury had handed up the , indictments . He was taken to Flushing police station . Four Warrants Issued , At the same time District Attorney Newcombe gave out Justice Tompkins 's report . Although Mr. Newcombe would not say whether indictments had been returned , it was learned that three had been found , naming four defendants . Two indictments against three defendants charge the commission of a felony , and one indictment charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returnable to himself . Among the fifteen witnesses- who testified before the grand jury were Dominic Borica . Tony Lobasco and Angelo Campaglia . At the John Doe inquiry these men had sworn that they paid for the privilege of salvaging junk from the Little Neck dump in Queens , paying the money to Mr. Morris , who at the time , as district superintendent , was in charge of the dumps . Mr. Morris resigned shortly after the original charges of graft were made by Fritz Krieger , then Superintendent of Street Cleaning in the Harvey administration . Payments at a rate of $20 a month were made , the three men testified before Justice Tompkins on . May 6 last , for several months during 1928 . Michael Lyons , a former corporation inspector , who testified at the John Doe hearing that he had been ordered by Martin Mager to split his wages as an inspector with another man , also testified at the grand jury proceedings yesterday Eugene J. Tully of the Controller 's office . and Louis C. Connolly , an auditor in Borough Hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Briegeree investigators . M. S. Barnes . Allen Schonberg and Robert Donady , were other witnesses . One witness , important to the State , did not . appear . A subpoena was not served on him , in as much as he is in Germany . He is John Fierter . He testified at the John Doe hearing that he had observed August Geipel storing five-gallon tins of gasoline under his porch . Geipel was employed as a laborer in the Flushing Asphalt plant . Reviews the InquiryThe report of Justice Tompkins es made public by District Attorney Newcombe was as follows : Supreme Court , Queens County . The People against John Doe . Before Arthur S. Tompkins . a Justice of the Supreme Court , sitting in the County and Borough of Queens , in the City of New York , as a Magistrate . On the first day of May . 1929. verified information made by Fritz Brieger. a citizen and taxpayer of said borough and c-ity , waa read before me b7 the Hoe . Richard S. Newcombe . District . Attorney . of said county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! corn- ' plainant with feloniously appropriating various quantities of gasoline and ' other supplies belonging to the City of New York . Thereupon subpoenas were issued-for all whose names were - furnished by the District . Attorney and others . whose names were disclosed during the hearing , and many Witnesses were examined nn the subject of .. the said complaint and other matters relating to the Street Cleaning Department of said borough . The particular subjects that were investigated and as to which the various witnesses gave testimony were the picking privileges of materials collected by the Bureau of Street Cleaning , the use of gasoline oils and other supplies in the Bureau of Street Cleaning and Highways ; the hiring of horses and carts ; the employment of corporation inspectors and dumping permits . These , in brief , were the subjects concerning which testimony was given by the witnesses produced by the District Attorney . This judicial inquiry grew out of charges made by the Borough President and repeated in the public press to the effect that these had been dishonesty and graft in the Street Cleaning Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borough President , when called as the first witness in this examination testified that be had no personal knowledge of any graft or corruption in said department , and that the information he had received would only justify charges of dishonesty aggregating $8,000 or $10 , - 000 in amount . In all , eighty-four witnesses were sworn and examined by the District Attorney and his assistants , James J. Conroy and Edmund Rowan , and the net results of all of this testimony given by these witnesses so far as showing reasonable or sufficient cause to believe that the crimes charged in said information had been committed are as follows : The unlawful and felonious use of gasoline by one August Geipel , an employe of Asphalt Plant No. 1 of Flushing ; taking unlawful fees in violation of Section 1826 of the Penal Code by one Patrick Morris , a district superintendent of the Street Cleaning Bureau ; the violation of the provisions of Section 1863 and 1872 of the Penal Law by George H. Starkey and John W. Caveney , employes of the Street Cleaning Bureaus , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Section 1832 of the Penal Law by one Martin Mager in asking for and receiving a gratuity or reward for the appointment of one Lyons as a borough employe . These are the only cases in which there is sufficient evidence to warrant grand jury action , and as to these persons I find sufficient cause to believe that the crimes mentioned have been committed . With reference to the charges of dishonesty in the use of gasoline , oils and other automobile supplies . there is not sufficient testimony concerning any particular person or instance to justify the general charges with respect thereto contained in the information or stated in the public press or by the Borough President The District Attorney end his assistants examined in great detail and very thoroughly all of the witnesses produced before me on every phase of the charges contained in the information , and I am satisfied that no other witnesses were available in support of any of the said charges . I find that the crimes hereinbefore enumerated have been committed and that there is sufficient cause to believe that the persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newcombe has prepared a very complete summary of the testimony given by all the witnesses on the various questions that were subjects of investigation . and that digest or summary of the testimony IS am adopting and making a part of this report . ARTHUR S. TOMPKINS , Justice Supreme Court . Sitting as a Commtting Magistrate . Dated June 27 , 1929.                     