@@694765

txt A highly significant resolution was introduced in the Senate yesterday by Senator GILLETT of Massachusetts . It related to the World Court , and told the President of the belief of the Senate that it is advisable to have " a further exchange " of views with the signatory States " in order to establish whether the 11 differences between the United " States and the signatory States " can be satisfactorily adjusted . " Such a step taken at this time by such a Senator means a sincere purpose to reopen the negotiations with respect to the Permanent Court of International Justice , to see if the slight remaining difficulties in the way of adherence to it by this country can not be removed . It is a fair assumption that Mr. GILLETT would not have offered his resolution unless he had known . that it would not be disagreeable to the President . To be sure , Mr. COOLIDGE has publicly committed himself to the opinion that nothing more can be done by our Government about the World Court . But perhaps he has changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was politics which gloried , as Senator REED of Missouri has lately been glorying , in the fact that it had killed the World Court , and possibly politics may think that the time has come to resuscitate it . There is nothing unprecedented or irregular in the Senate calling upon the President to undertake or pursue a negotiation with respect to a treaty . The thing has been done again and again , in connection with a great variety of subjects . Of course , a Senate resolution of this kind is only advisory . It binds neither the President nor the Senate . He must retain unimpaired his right to take the initiative in the conduct of foreign affairs . But he may well be swayed by an appeal from the Senate , or by a joint resolution passed by both House and Senate , of which there have been many instances in our history . The case for reopening the negotiations about the World Court is clear and strong . There had been a remarkable display of American sentiment favorable to our entrance into the World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1924 . President HARDING and Secretary HUGHES had warmly urged our joining the World Court , with proper reservations , and President COOLIDGE afterward espoused the cause in his own name . Finally , Jan. 2T , 1926 , the Senate by the overwhelming vote of 76 to 17 gave its advice and consent to the adhe:ence of the United States to the Court or International Justice upon certain conditions . There could hardly have been a more conclusive demonstration of the desire of the American people to have a given policy adopted . The trouble arose , as everybody knows , over the reservations which the Senate proposed . These were not easily understood by the signatory States . Yet four out of five of them were accepted , and the only hitch occurred in connection with that part of our fifth reservation which had to do wit1 " advisory opinions " of the World Court . Our position on that subject was not clearly under7 stood . Our Government was requested to send some one to Geneva to explai4 it , but Secretary KELLOGG declined to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t ( speak , until , as the statement mad ( by the signatory States expresser it , there should be " such.further ex. " change of views as the Govern . " thent of the United States may " think useful . " To date , the Government hat thought that nothing useful could b ( done . But that is no finality . The Administration may see an opening now where it did not a year ago , With Senator REED taunting Repub. licans with having failed to get this country into the World Court " through the transom , " it may appear that the time has come to enter by the door . At all events , those Americans who have believed in a World Court and worked for it can not fail to see a revival of hope in the significant move made yesterday by Senator GILLETT .                     