@@695488

txt Mr. OWEN YOUNG 'S analysis of this Presidential election , together with the statement of his own position , is so far and away the best thing of the kind yet to appear that THE TIMES is printing it in full today . It makes good reading , because it is the application of large and lasting political principles to the present campaign . They are sound irrespective of personalities or the shiftings of party allegiance which are going on in so unprecedented a fashion . Mr. YOUNG puts away with intellectual scorn and moral condemnation many of the issues of which so much has been made by politicians . To him they are but anise and cumin compared with the really weightier matters . He is able to stand apart , as it were , from the shouting and the confused movements , so as to be able to perceive the true significance of the contest . Like a keen-eyed commander looking over what appears to be a chaotic battle , he has firmly grasped its fundamental strategy . Great forces are engaged . They exemplify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conservative party , priding itself on containing the great majority of " the wealthy and the good , " and often displaying the insufferable conceit of believing that it alone is fit to rule in this country . Opposed is a party less compact , more heterogeneous , often afflicted by divided councils and bad leadership , but including great masses of people who are striving to improve , first of all , their own condition , and then the well-being of the nation , It is a party in which poor men , or those in moderate circumstances , largely predominate , and it is Mr. YOUNG 'S view that this body of citizens is more apt to be liberal and adventurous in spirit than those whose arteries become hardened by long possession of office . He thinks that a change is to be welcomed which reassures the poor man that he has not only a stake in our Government , but the right and power to direct its course of action . If our democracy is to be versatile and adjustable , it must continue to offer possibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is in this aspect of the case , and in its political potency , that Mr. YOUNG sees the great appeal and promise of the Democratic Party in this campaign . To that party he gives his cordial and considerate allegiance , not as a partisan , but as a far-sighted political philosopher , who sees the thing that is good not only for today , but for tomorrow .                     