@@696818

txt Fifty years In the state penitentiary  --  a life sentence  --  today was given Jeff D. Harris , 65 year old rohibition Posse man , for the killing o Oscar Lowery , farmer , during a dry raid last . July 4 . Harris was found guilty of first degree manslaughter by a jury two weeks ago . Judge Hal Johnson overruled a motion for a new trial , and stated : " I listened to the evidence as It came from the stand . I have considered the case carefully , and can not agree with the verdict of manslaughter returned by the jury . Jeff Harris , you are guilty of the inexcusable and I wanton killing of Oscar Lowery . I do n't know about the shooting of James Harris , but you had no justification whatever in shooting an unarmed man . I " It Is the judgment of this court that you be sentenced to 50 years in the state penitentiary . " Faces Another Trial . This closes the first chapter in one of the most sensational murder cases in Oklahoma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the eighteenth amendment . Harris has yet to stand trial for the murder of James C. Harris , brother-in-law of Lowery , who was killed at the same i time . Strong feeling that has been brewing between local and federal officials rfor the last two years was brought to -a climax by the Independence day raid . I W. W. " Snake " Thomason , federal i dry agent , deputized three possemen , one of them Jeff D , Harris , and went to the home of Lowery and James 1118411s . Jeff D. Harris entered the yard and found the two men and Mrs. ! James Harris and three children on the rear porch . Slain with Rands Above Head . Jeff Harris claims he told them he was a federal-officer and gained their consent to search the place although he had no warrant . Mrs. Harris and the children testified , however , that he did not speak but began kicking over chicken coops . Their testimony coincided with death bed statements made by the two farmers . A shooting , affray started , between ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he stood unarmed with ' his bands above his head : pleading for his life . The four federal officers refused to make a report on the shooting or condescend tO explain it to county officials . County Attorney Pitman Investigated the case and ordered tile arrest of the four officers who panicntted In the raid , At the examining trial Jeff Harris was held for the murder of Lowery and he and Thomason were charged jointly with the murder of James Harris . The federal government has assumed jurisdiction in the Thomason case , but Pitman has announced he will seek a hearing before the United States Supreme court in an attempt to have Thomason remanded to a state court for trial . Prisoner Makes Speech . Jeff Harris entered the courtroom this morning confident that he would not receive more than ten years . " Stand up , " commanded Judge Johnson . " Do you have anything to say ? " " Judge , your honor , " began Harris , " this is a new experience to me . I do n't blame you for doing your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here I do n't think the jury vvotild have found me guilty . " He referred to John Williams , one of the Men on the raid . " I ca n't forgive . those persons , " he continued , " who swore that way against me. 1 ca n't forget tither. 1 just hope I live to see the time when- they are in the same position I am in . " When the judge named the penalty , Harris slumped and seemed scarc.ply able to realize that this was the end of his 45 years as an officer . Notice of appeal to the state Crim ? inal Court of Appeals was made immediately by Harris ' attorney . WOMAN AND TWO CHILDREN VANISH FROM WINNETKA The Winnetka police early this morning started a search for Mrs. Alice B. Austin , 437 Chestnut street , Winnetka , and her two children , Alice , 6 years old , and Richard , 2 . They had been missing since 11:30 o'clock yesterday morning , when they set out in the family automobile on a shopping trip to the Winnetka @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was reported to the police by George F. Austin , a landscape gardener , shortly before midnight . Austin said he had waited through the afternoon and night , expecting to hear from his wife'at any moment , but had finally become convinced that she and the children had been the victims of accident or foul play . He said that Mrs. Austin appeared to have been in good spirits when she left home and declared there had been no domestic trouble that would account for her disappearance .                     