@@686848

txt Two policemen on a struggle with a madman yesterday afternoon on a small , slanting platform about 330. feet above the East River , atop the Manhattan tower of the Williamsburg Bridge , to which the man had claTbered after telling friends that he Nv ? going to jump from the bridge . , Hundreds ' of persons watched the rescue from the bridge footpath and roadway , from nearby buildings and from river craft , and cheered the policemen 's feat . No one noticed the man approach the tower and make his way up a slender ladder , which is there for the use of workmen when repairs are needed . When attention was first attracted to him he was up on the platform waving his arms wildly . The platform is at the base of a flagpole on top of the tower , ond it slopes abruptly toward the river . While those below ' watched with the expectation of seeing the man start a death slide , Traffic Policemen Michael J. Kelly and John Quealy , both stationed Aim  --  the ? bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ladder  --  ays flank the steel tower ? an iron ladder and a wooden one . Quealy took the iron one and Kelly the wooden one . Race Up Tower Is a Tie .. The race up Me tower , according to spectators , was a tie . After they had reached the top of the ladderways , Kelly and Quealy hall to crawl through a tangle of cables to et r o small windows , which open upon the platform . Kelly crawled through one of the windows , . but Quealy found the opening too small and had to smash out the casing . s . When both policemen had got out ov the platform the man , apparently overcome by exhaustion or dizziness , was lying down . At the sight of the police . men he quickly sprang to his feet and began to fight them off . Kelly grabbed him by the arms and Quealy caught him about the legs . . The situation for a moment wai perilous to ? all three men , but the stranger 's strength had given out and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inside the tower . There the matt lost consciousness . The descent of the ladderway remained the most dangerous ' part of the rescue . One policeman grasped the man , still unconscious , about the , ankles arid the other caught his arms . While they carried him down ? the rescuers had to keep one hand on a steel cable , which runs down along the ladQer , to keep themselves from being 4wayed off by the wind . In that way they got down to the bridge roadway , where Sergeant Hurley and Patrolman Curran were waiting . The arrival of the rescuers and the man bo. , A : on the bridge was the signal for a noisy demonstration from the persons who had watched them . Sirens shrieked from the river craft , aPitomobile horns were sounded , and a yell of applause went up from the spectators on the roadways and footpath . +Bent to Bellevue . An ambulance irons Gouverneur Hospital was called and Dr. Berman , who attended the man , sent him td Bellevue for observation . He later regained consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Aper he scribbled " John Herscog , 422 East Fifteenth Street . " Several pieces of sheet music were found in his pockets . Rudolph Herzog of the East Fifteenth Street address , later identified the man as his nephew , Joseph Hemog , 19 years old . He said that the youth came here from Hungary about fifteen months ago and that be had been employed as a bus boy in several restaurants . Mr. Herzog said that several days ago his nephew had come to visit him and had told neighbors that he was going to Jump from one of the bridges .                     