@@686614

txt THE NURSES NEEDED . Young Women With Short Training for Simple Cases . To the Editor of The New York Times : The nursing situation at the present time is wrong . , Light on the subject , such as Dr. W. Gilman Thompson 's recent and valuable article , is needed and worthy of broader circulation among the people than that afforded by the New York State Journal of Medicine for May . It is a subject with an economic side of intimate interest and concern to the public at large . The demand for sensible , cheerful women at a moderate wage is great . The , supply Is small . A three months ' intensive course of training , partly in hospital wards , will enable them to take charge of ? simple cases , act as nursecompanion and as an assistant to the fully trained nurse in serious cases . As a matter of fact , people of moderate means are unable to afford a nurse with their charges of , $1 , ( and $10 in so-called " twenty-four hour " cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in special fields and which makes the present trained nurse " a luxury for the very rich only , " as Dr. Thompson says . Through the ability of women since the war to enter the various fields for profitable employment , requiring comparatively , brief previous training and with greater freedom of life , the ranks of the training schools are much depleted end the difficulty of securing nurses has become a matter for very serious consideration . The " Nightingale Era , " with its high , and often holy , humanitarian appeal to the desire to mitigate suffering , alas ! has passed . However , the same suffering and need of help with the high heart exist . The glamour and excitement of the war , with its pressing needs so splendidly met , have left the idea of nursing in times of peace undoubtedly prosaic to many , and when years of preparation without remuneration during that period and the cloister-like requirements of many training schools lacking in sufficient pleasurable recreation are added we begin to realize causes for the present condition . Inducements and publicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the other fields of remunerative endeavor open to - them . It Is a situation demanding much more thought and effort toward controlling from the medical profession than it has received and broader views on the part of the matrons and help from public-spirited men and women . To meet the present situation from an economic standpoint , women of high school education , natural adaptability and refinement , kindly , high-Minded and in good health , should be enabled to take a short intensive course ( if unable to give the time necessary for a higher certificate ) and at once become available in a most honorable field that at present leaves much to be desired in quantity , quality , general management and ability to meet the urgent need of help for those of moderate means . DOUGLAS BROWN , M. D. New York , May 2 ( I , 1921.                     