@@686718

txt An Interesting feature of the preparation of the new permanent tariff bill just introduced in the house , and one which should serve as a valuable hint in the consideration of all tariffs and protecAlen policies , is the fact that duties on automobiles are reduced in compliance with the request of the manufacturers , who argue that such action will cause other countries to remove high duties on American cars . ? This is an excellent example of the theory of reciprocity which appears to be essential if trading features of the tariff are to be developed under tha powers conferred by the bill upon the President in a manner which will stimulate our foreign trade anti enable us to sell abroad as well as to buy'at home. ? The bill grants sufficient powers for all reasonable reciprocal trading arrangements , and it is to be hoped that , in cases where trading features of the tariff are not specifically provided for , ample avangements may be made to adjust the schedules in such a way as to provide for the general good of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? production . Such an arrangement , as in the automobile schedule , ought to stimulate our production and trade along lines of efficiency rather thin to redUce the necessity for such efficiency by the erection of an impassable tariff barrier/ The automobile makera are anxious to have tariffs on automobiles reduced because they know they can snake better cars for the money in this country than can be made in any other country . They are not afraid of foreign competition In this market because their superior standards , the efficiency of their workmen , their sources of materials , and their system of production are dach that they can undersell foreign cars made with less efficiency , and more expensive raw materials . That is the best possible form of protection , a form never subject to change or injury through a change in national policy . It assures profits to employers and employees alike . It means high wages and low prices through the process of high production per unit of labor . The higher this pro- duction may be and the better the quality of the ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ e the possible returns for bOth the business and the workman . With such efficiency in workmanship t and management the automobile manufaCturers a welcome foreign competition in this country if it t carries with It ' the possibility that they will be allowed to compete in foreign countries . . We want more of such methods of business and , gi WorkmanShip in this country . TI ; ' ey rise Superior to any artificial and necessarily changing laws of 1 protection . They can be stimulated and developed I if the powers for arrangement of a trading tae4ft ! conferred upon the President are used to develop foreign markets which will pay Americans for the ! development and application of Initiative , energy , and efficiency in production .                     