@@690106

txt When a bootlegger attempted to shoot Samuel Kupferman , a prohibition enforcement agent , last alight in the office of his garage at 243 North Eighth Street , Brooklyn , Kupferman shot and killed him . A cousin of the slain man then attacked the prohibition officer , it was alleged , and Kupferman dangerously wounded him . The dead man was Thomas Monteforte , the cousin Michael Monteforte . The shooting took place just after Kupferman , posing as an illicit purveyor of liquor , had completed a deal to buy thirty-six cases of liquor from the owner of the garage . When the agent told him he was under arrest for violating the Volstead act , Thomas Monteforte drew a pistol and was shot in the eye . Then , according to Kupferman , Michael Monteforte , who was alleged to have been a silent witness to the liquor negotiations , also whipped a pistol from his pocket and he was shot through the back . A trap to catch the Montefortes as bootleggers had been set by R. Q. Merrick , divisional chief of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Merrick had learned that large quantities of liquor were being sold by a gang of men who made their headquarters in the garage and . he assigned Kupferman and Robert J. Owens to visit the place in an automobile , arrange to buy some liquor and then arrest the bootleggers . Shortly before the shooting , Kupferman informed Merrick by telephone that more than twelve members of the alleged gang were in the garage , and asked him to send reinforcements . Agents and Shannon were ordered to the garage . Hundreds Attack Agents . The garage is situated In an Italian colony , where the Montefortes were well known . The owner lived in a tenement at 248 North Eighth Street , across the street , and when the reports of the shots died down and neighbors learned that Monteforte had been killed several hundred men , women and children rushed to the garage and surrounded the four prohibition agents . Agent Owens had remained in his automobile while the negotiations for the liquor were going on , but with the , shooting he leaped to Kupferman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowd at bay with their pistols , Owens telephoned to Acting Captain Fleming at the Bedford Avenue Station for the reserves . By the time Fleming with several policemen and detectives arrived , women in windows and on fire escapes across from the garage were urging the crowd below to attack the prohibition agents , at whom showers of bricks and other missiles were being hurled . The police broke through the besiegers and began to club them back . It was not until the full complement of reserves arrived , however , that the street was cleared . Then tentmen , besides the dry agents , who were found in the garage , were taken to the station , while the wounded roan , who was 25 years old and lived at 236 North Seventh Street , was removed to the Cumberland Street Hospital . Agent Tells of Shooting . Deputy Chief Inspector Cahalane and Captain Carey , head of the Detective Bureau in the district , appeared in automobiles just as the ten men were being started for the station . They questioned Kupferman , who told them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the place and he went into the office and asked for the garage owner . Kupferman , using the name of a man who , according to Chief Merrick. had purehaSed liquor from Monteforte , announced that he wanted some liquor and would pay for it on the spot . He said he would take it away in installments within an hour . Kupferman said the garage owner told him he could buy any amount , and Kup- fermab then arranged to get twentythree cases of Scotch and three cases of rye whisky and ten cases of Bacardi rum . " Come into the office , " the garage owner was alleged to have said to Kupferman , when the prohibition agent started to pay for the liquor . As they entered , Kupferman said , Michael Monteforte walked in behind him and stood at his back . Not liking the situation , Kupferman then said he had decided to buy more liquor , and when he got in a position facing both the Montefortes he took $200 from his pocket and passed it to the garage owner . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and announced that both men were under arrest . - Garage Owner Draws Pistol . With an oath , he continued , the garage owner dropped the money on the floor and whipped a pistol from his coat pocket . Ile backed off a few steps and was taking aim at Kupferman 's head , the prohibition agent said , when Kupferman shot him . As Thomas Monteforte fell dead Michael Monteforte , he alleged , got out his pistol , but Kupferman jumped out of range and fired a second shot , which plowed through Michael 's back near the heart . Michael fell unconscious across the body of his cousin , with the pistols of both men within a foot of his outstretched right hand . Agents and Shannon had picked up the pistols , and with Kupferman hack started toward the entrance to the garage to summon the police when the ten men in the rear of the place came creeping up behind them . Then Owens entered the garage on the run and warned his associates , helping them back the ten men into the rear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighbors of the slain garage owner appeared . The . four agents had to keep whirling around to keep their weapons trained on those inside , as well as those on the outside , until Acting Captain Fleming and three detectives at , the head of some uniformed policemen , came to their as- sistance . Liquor and Motor Cars Seized . The detectives took charge of the men inside of the garage after they had aided in driving the attackers from the place . After the reserves had cleared the neighborhood it was discovered that the thirty-six cases of liquor ordered by Kupferman already ha d been unloaded from a small automobile and two motor trucks and piled near the entrance to the place . The prohibition agents confiscated this liquor as well as several other cases found on the three vehicles , which also were seized . The ten men taken from the place were questioned by Deputy Chief Cahalane and Captain Carey at the station . Michael Monteforte was made a prisoner at the hospital on a charge of attempting to kill the prohibition enforcement agent . Later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record but was known to associate ' witn gunmen . He added that about a year ago Monteforte was shot three times near his home , but refused to reveal the identity of his assailant or the motive for the shooting , /3e added that it was pot until after this shooting that the police began to hear reports that the garage owner was the head of a band of bootleggers . The police repeatedly visited the garage in an effort to find violations of the prohibition law , he said , but without success .                     