@@695230

txt His body torn by a blast which wrecked his automobile this morning , Vernon W. Plager , 28 , died less than an hour afterward. the victim , police believe , of a murder plot . Mrs. Iva Plager , 22 , his widow , was taken into custody for questioning , but was permitted this evening to go to her home . Paul Reed , 30 , said by the author ! . ties to have been accused of the deed by Plager as he lay upon the operating table in the hospital , tonight surrendered to authorities in Oregon , Ill . He denied any connection with the affair . His home Is in Rockford . Steps on Starter , Then Blast . The explosion occurred when Plager entered his Ford sedan in the alley back of his home , where it was parked , and stepped on the starter . He was blown fourteen feet In the air , his body striking a lead covered telephone cable , which was bent by the force of the Impact . His shoes were torn from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car was blown to bits . An investigation was begun immediately by fire and police departments and George Kirane , deputy state fire marshal . A policeman reported he found attached to the starting button of the car , a length of fine copper wire , whicilt normally does not belong there . Bomb Planted in Car , Theory . It is the police theory that the wire led to a bomb placed either beneath the seat cushion of the car , or inside the gasoline tank ; which in this model of automobile is inclosed in a box beneath the driver 's seat . Mrs. Plager heard the explosion and saw her husband 's body blown into the air . She rushed down the stairs of her apartment , screaming to a neighbor living In the lower apartment . " It was a bomb ! " Lois . the 5 year old daughter of the Plagers , was waving good-by to her father when the blast occurred . Visited Widow Day Before , Mrs. Plager , according to the pollee , told them she had been bothered for some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to her home while her husband was absent , and she told him he must stay away from her . The young widow is said to have adL mitted she went away with Reed last October , but returned to her husband after a few days and was forgiven by him . ' The Plagers changed their place of residence recently , presumably to get away from her admirer . Victim 's Life Threatened . C. A. Plager , a brother , operator of a radio shop In which the explosion victim was employed , said Vernon had complained ' that his life was threatened by the man who was annoying his wife . The theory that an accidental explosion of the gasoline tank caused the blast was abandoned after the discovery of the " wired " starter . Plager was born in Pearl City , Ill . He had lived in Rockford most of his life . His wife was Iva Cook before their marriage six years ago .                     