@@695722

txt Developments in the oil industry the past few weeks show a well defined trend toward voluntary cooperative effort in attacking and curing national and international problems of first importance . The subject of much discussion and consideration for a year or more , the economic solution of leading questions found some crystallization at the recent annual meeting of the American Petroleum Institute . While the cooperative spirit can not yet be described as 100% effective , it is unmistakable that more and more leaders of the oil industry , here and abroad , are approaching questions of production , transportation and marketing from the standpoint of the broad economic principles involved . The hopeful side of the situation is the remarkable number of converts which has been won to constructive coordination within the past year . As in similar instances in other industries origin of the movement may be traced to necessity . The overproduction of crude oil created by Seminole in 1927 was the impelling motive which started cooperative effort in that area . Progress came slowly but surely , and it was not so difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the west Ter-I. -5 producing fields , and later in California .. Since that time , however , the whole question has been vastly broadened . It no longer is limited to crude oil production . It takes in as well the ethics of domestic marketing . stabilization of export marketing through a Webb Act export association , and the seeking of common ground by which cooperation may be had with foreign companies in all departments of oil . The Institute Meeting The problems of coping with domestic overproduction of crude oil , the establishing of ethical marketing practices and organization of an export unit had progressed some distance prior to the Institute meeting in Chicago . At that gathering the work received further stimulus with the adoption of a code of marketing ethics , decision to start the export association and a general discussion on conservation of production . The broader aspect of the oil industry was placed before the meeting by Sir John Cadman. chairman of the Anglo-Persian Oil Co . He approached it from an international viewpoint , summing it in the succint remark that : " Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a gospel of world consciousness in consideration of oil problems . Where was the economy , he asked in effect , of the Anglo-Persian Oil shipping gasoline from Persia to Iceland and Australia at the same lime American gasoline was transported from Texas to India . This instance , be added , could be multiplied many times wherever oil tank steamers plied the seas to supply foreign markets . Ships loaded with California gasoline and other oil products arrived at ports of the East and in England simultaneously with took ships from Dutch East Indies , Persia and the Gulf Coast of the United States . The nub of his argument was that enormous economies could be effected within the industry itself through effective cooperation . It would not come from higher prices to the consuming public , but by the efficient operation of tank steamers and elimination of unnecessary duplication of storage and other facilities in the various foreign countries to he served . , In other words , Sir John 's argument continued , there is no economic justification for a ** tank steamer moving gasoline from Persia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served , at a large saving in cost , from closer sources of supply . On the other hand , Persia can serve many markets now handled from greater distances . Serving ' Markets from Nearest Supply Adoption of such a project , on a world basis , would mean consuming markets would be served from nearest source of supply , with consequent savings in transportation . Further , with a uniform specification for the gasoline and motor oils there could be a common point of storage for the , products in bulk to be drawn upon by the respective marketers . This would greatly reduce capital investment in storage , terminals . etc . Such coordination within the industry itself , to save transportation and storage expenses , has had many supporters among leaders of the American oil industry and the hearty approval of large foreign companies for some time past . The meeting in Chicago furnished an opportunity for these proposals to be fully set forth . The result was the gaining of numerous adherents among American oil men and bringing closer the time for its general adoption . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dutch-Shell Group and Anglo Persian Oil by which they have joint marketing operation in Africa . Egypt , Syria . Palestine and other Near East areas . Under this arrangement these markets will be served from nearest points of supply and through common storage and other facilities at a tremendous ' saving Such a development , which would be international in its scope and would include big American enrol-mole. , is of unusual importance to American oil companies . Its realization is all the nearer by reason of the American Petroleum Institute meeting and the opportunity it afforded for presentation of the savings which are passible under ci.e . " th an arrangement .                     