@@685747

txt If you spoke of an American peasantry , nn American would know what you meant . But a Mexican or n Russian would attach a meaning . The Frenchman would know , because the small landholding peasant class in France is the backbone of that nation . It is made up of a majority of the French people , bound to the soil by a roil tie of interest . No country can show a class more thrifty , single minded and patriotic . nor is its name a badge of class inftriority . In this country of citiaen kings there is no peasant class. , But there is a large class of workers who , but for their craftsman 's skill and their savings baz.k accounts , ' would come under Leifinc 's definition of a proletariat . Our farmer does not take the place of the French peaqant proprietor . The tendency of our industrial classes to concentrate in great cities i , the most formidable problem of our future . Ten years ago Ferrero , Italy 's greatest historian , who has maintained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the danger of the problem to ourselves . It is not too much to say that both Russia and Mexico have the means of solving their problem before we shall solve ours . Probably Iin per cent . of the Russian people , whether as communal or individual peasant proprietors , are settled on the land , and all the powers of Bolshevism can not uproot them . The peon is the problem of Mexico . ' Well beated , he is a good worker , contented , cheerful and industrious . Hut the great landholdeis of Mexico exploit the peon and deny him the most elementary rights . There will be stable government in Mexico when a simple system of land settlement in small holdings is established , such as that ? vhieli was peacefully revolutionizing Ireland until the Slim Fein feared that the revolution would establish undesirable peace and contentment . We exhibit our great cities and tall buildings to the visitor . We tell him that the streets would not hold the workers in the office buildings if they were all driven out at once . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if a man boasted of the measurement of his neck because a goitre made it larger . And our manifest problem is not to get people into the city but how to get them out . This is not to say that our necessarily enormous crops should not be grown and handled in bulk , or that our gigantic industrial production should be curtailed by making peasant proprietors out of the men in the rolling mills . No solution is here suggested . We have developed after our own fashion . We may well pause to ask ourselves what balances we have attempted to set up in a structure which is so obviously lopsided . Senator Owen says attempt is being made to defeat Cox through industrial depression . Another mare's-nest to match that $15,000,000 campaign fund canard .                     