@@690520

txt The judicial hearing by which is to be determined the fate of Nathan F. Leopold Jr . and Richard A. Loeb , confessed murderers of Robert Franks , went from the serious to the comic today and wound up in a gale of laughter . Throughout the morning session Clarence S. Darrow , chief of the defense counsel , fenced adroitly with Dr. H. Douglas Singer , alienist for the State , as he tried to obtain from . the expert admissions that " schizophrenic " or " split " personalities were necessarily subjects of mental disease . This afternoon Dr. William 0 . Krohn , last witness for the State and probably for the hearing , recited at length the observations and reasons for declaring the defendants mentally sound and then got into a hammer and tongs exchange with Benjamin Bachrach of the defense counsel , who began his cross-examination of the State 's " ace " of alienists . Frequently the doctor 's replies to the staccato fire of questions about his analifications as an expert brought laughter from the crowd . Once Judge John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caverly glanced at the clock , which was two minutes beyond the adjournment hour , straightened up in his chair and , with a twinkle in his eyes , announced unexpectedly : " We will adjourn now until 10:30 o'clock tomorrow . " The yell of merriment that followed was the greatest of the day and the only one that brought no rebuke from the bailiff 's gavel . Arguments May Begin Tomorrow . The day 's developments served to bring the case appreciably closer to its end . Mr. Darrow said tonight that the defense probably would conclude its crossexamination of Dr. Krohn tomorrow and would offer no further testimony . Robert E. Crowe , State Attorney , announced that unless there were unexpected overnight developments Dr .. Krohn would be his last witness . ' If this program is carried out closing arguments may be started at the Wednesday session . Each side is expected to consume at least two days in presenting its summing-up arguments . Judge Caverly has given no indication as to when he would render his judgment . A fortnight ago he said he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go over the entire record of the five weeks ' hearing . Guesses about the courtroom ranged from five to I ten days as the time the Court would take to consider the facts and theories of the State and defense . The court spectators , who jammed the room today , evidently had como prepared to hear pyrotechnics between , State experts and defense counsel . They , were disappointed in the morning session , but relieved their feelings by snickering at the glib exchange between Mr. Darrow and Dr. Singer . The attorney showed satisfaction when he finally . drew from Dr. Singer an admission that the endocrine glands are I affected by emotions . It has been the theory of the defense that Loeb 's pineal gland , an endocrinal gland of the brain , has calcified prematurely and affected his mind . The State has asserted that there is no way of determining the mental effect of such a condition . There was a long discussion on " paranoid personalities , " but the expert said he had found only " selfishness and domineering character " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Calls Prisoners " This Man . " Dr. Krohn took the stand at the start of the afternoon session . Under the friendly guidance of John Sbarbaro , Assistant State 's Attorney , he rehearsed the oral confessions of " Mr. Leopold " and " Mr. Loeb , " speaking of each generally as " this man , " defense alienists having spoken of them as " Babe " and " Dickie . " He averred that his opportunities to observe the defendants and examine them mentally were almost ideal and on these observations based an opinion that both were mentally sound when they committed the crime on May 21 , when they narrated it on June 1 , and today . The cross-examination did not develop the exact line upon ' which this conclusion lwill be attacked by the defense . While it lasted it had to do entirely with the doctor 's experience by ' which lie had qualified himself as an expert : It went I into minute detail as to the time he had spent in each pla , ge Where he had studied . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons . At one stage the defense attorney objected to the witness " talking so much " and Mr .. Crowe interjected : " If you would stop talking an instant he might have a chance to answer . " The questioner went into the expert 's degrees and asked if he had received his Ph . D. in medicine " That degree is not given for ? . " be- gait Dr. Krohn . " Oh , the question is simple enough ; - answer yes or no , " interrupted Mr. Bachrach . " Yes or no , " was the dutiful response , and as the spectators laughed the                     