@@687426

txt Railroad corporations have more than once had occasion to bewail the good intentions of sincere ' friends . They have again been put in that position by the wellineant proposal of Secretaries Hoover and Mellon that the government " assist " them to prepare for the return of normal traffic- by guaranteeing new issues of equipment trust certificates . There is something positively superstitious about this insistence upon specious and superficial- remedies for a disease which is itself neither specious nor superficial  --  the old superstition that the best cure for a dog 's bite is some hairs , from the dog that bit you . Any scheme to help the railroads to go deeper.into debt , : when.for years past their glaring weakness has been inability to finance themselves otherwise than by piling their debts higher , must be regarded as a counsel of desperation . Just what , specifically , do these two Cabinet members propose ? With equipment on hand sufficient to handle a far greater volume of traffic than is now moving and more than the most optimistic " booster " for good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were all in usable condition , the carriers are urged to shoulder additional capital burdens and interest charges ' to buy , new rolling stock while the old decays . The reasons why the carriers are not keeping up current repair , and have not done so for a year past , should be thoroughly understood by this time , even in Washington . Not only in their repair shops but in the handling of traffic and purchase of fuel the railroads are still held , by arbitrary outside authority , to a scule of operating costs wholly out of line with the general average among industries upon which they must depend for their revenues . At the same time the pressure for sweeping reductions in freight and passenger , rates has reached such an intensity , and has taken on so-political an aspect , that the Commerce Commission , or more accurately a majority of its members , ' has been forced to approve the impairment of carrier revenues by an estimated $200,000,000. a year . The railroads might reasonably Inis ; e been asked to make this contribution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But their working capital hai already been dangerously reduced by the failure of the government to complete its settlements for the federal control and guaranty period . The disastrous effect upon their net revenues'Of the indefensible continuation of wartime operating costs into the succeeding prolonged depression in all produai-Veenterprisii ; dtir.eiltrWttie'fiee. , Railroad managers can not afford to forget that  --  there is no wholesome and dependable restoration of borrowing power which ' is not based upon - restoration of earning power . No business man , however much he may be surprised that this proposal should come from men of such high reputation for business sagacity as Mellon and Hoover , will need to he told that fresh borrowing based on delirious-cost sheets is vicious practice . The time has gone by for administering oxygen to the railroads ' in the shape of government credits . It will be quite as easy and far safer for them to rehabilitate themselves as other industries must do , and they need only be given the same freedom to meet the business conditions of the day in common sense business fashion . Men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . like the hairdressers who wanted Louis XV to compel people to wear wigs .                     