@@695729

txt A re'training order to prevent Gov. and Clarence G. Bliss , SffcreLary of the state department of trade , and commerce , from collecting a special assessment of one-quarter of 1 per cent of the average deposits for 1928 of the State hank of Able , Neb. , and 558 state banks similarly situated was granted this evening by District Judge W. E. ' Stewart . The temporary restraining order is to be heard in the Equity court of this county Jan. 7 . The suit is regarded by many as a test of the soundness of the existing Nebraska bank guaranty law . The petition tiled by the Able bank alleges that the attempt of the state to collect this special assessment Is illegal , unjust and conhscatory , and a violation of the constitution , and will force such state banks as can do so to become national banks , and those which are unable to take out national bank charters will be cornpalled to liquidate . The petition further alleges that the assessment is discriminatory , inasmuch as it is not levied against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in direct competition with them , it says if the plan to make this assess . ment is carried out it will require a payment of $1,600,000 annually Into the guaranty fund , and in three years more will force two-thirds of the state banks into receivership . PRICE CHANGES IN BOND MARKET ARE NOT IMPORTANT ( New York bond list on page 28. ) lChleuso Tribuno Press Seniee . New York , Dec. ** bond market was unusually quiet today and price changes for the most part were unimportant . As a rule the trend was toward lower levels . A few convertibles were active and some of them went forward for sizable gains . Foreign issues displayed continued firmness in the main . The situation in bonds at the end of the year is , in many individual issues , the reverse of that . In stocks . Bonds are Well below the prices of a year ago , while stocks are much above the level of that period . This difference plays an important part in the current movements of bonds . For this reason the holder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them and take his loss for income tax purposes . On the other hand , the holder of the average active stock when he sells today has to pay a tax on the profit realized . Not a little of the heaviness of the bond market this month is due to this kind of liquidation and with money rates growing firmer additional pressure is exerted against the bond list . Pacifi c Ry . Gets Right to ? Build 8 Mile Extension Washington , D. C. , Dec. 21 . ? UP ) The Central Pacific railroad obtained permission today from the interstate commerce commission to build an 81 , .1 . mile extension ' 1,1 California . Nov . World Zinc Output Shows Slight Increase New York , Dec. 21. ? ( ill  --  November world output of slab zinc totaled 127. - 355 short tons against 126,719 tons in October and 119,645 tope in November , 1927.                     