@@694227

txt A Red uprising in the Mexican State of Jalisco has placed Americans and British there in danger and presented a situation which may constitute a grave problem for the United States in its determination to protect Amer ' . can life and property in that country . Red syndicates , the State Department was advised today , seized the mines . of the Amparo Mining Company , an American concern operating near Etzatlan , forty miles west of Guadalajara , and eighteen Americans and eleven British were reported barricaded in their homes and unable to leave . Those foreigners who were able to get away fled to Guadalajara . Consular reports ou the outbreak were supplemented late today by a dispatch from H. F. A. Schoenfeld , American Charge d'Affaires at Mexico City , saying the Calles Government had received advices that the situation of Americans and British at the mines was " satisfactory " and that the military had the situation " in hand . " This message , in the absence of definite details , failed to allay appreciably the concern of officials Before taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information and rest upon the request of consular and diplomatic officers in Mexico for protection by Federal troops at the mines . Intimations were given in the official advices that the outbreak may have developed from a demonstration in protest against the execution in Massachusetts of the Italian anarchists , Sacco and Vanzetti , but these were accepted with reserve by experts on Mexican conditions who recently returned to Washington from that country . They were in. clined to believe the situation was basically revolutionary , directed at the Callen Government , with en antiforeign tinge given to it to embarrass the Mexico City Government in its dealings with the United States . Jalisco , it was pointed out , has been one of the most serious centres of disturbance for President Calles . Statement by State Department The Amparo Company , whose.headquarters are at Philadelphia , operates three silver mines in the vicinity of Etzatlan . Announcement of their seizure was made by the State Department in the following statement : The department is in receipt of a telegram from Mr. Joseph C. Satterthwaite , the American Consul at Guadalajara @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken over the Amparo Company 's mines and that all foreigners have left Fiedraboia and Meseta . Refugees arriving at Guadalajara yesterday morning informed the Consul that there are eighteen Americans and eleven British at Amparo barricaded in their homes and unable to leave . The department has received a telegram from the American Charg ? d'Affaires at Maki ) City to the effect that upon receipt of a telegram from the American Consul at Guadalajara reporting on the above-mentioned situation , he has requested the Mexican  --  Government to furnish military protection for the Americans at the Ampere mines . On Aug. 21 the American Consul at Guadalajara informed the department by telegram that he had received ? reports to the effect that labor agitators from Guadalajara were attempting to arouse the workmen at the Amparo Mining Company to take action against the foreigners at the mines in case of the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti . The Consul stated that , in company with the British , Consul , he had called this matter to the attention of the General in command of the Federal troops . Later in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The department is in receipt of a telegram dated Aug. 26 from the American Charge d'Affaires at Mexico City to the effect that he was informed this morning by the acting Minister for Foreign Affairs that , according to telegraphic advices received by the latter , the situation of Americans and British at the Amparo mines is satisfactory and the military has it in hand . While Jalisco has long been recognized as a danger point , the outbreak against the Amparo Company came out of a clear sky , as it had always been known as a concern that dealt fairly with the Mexicans and one that had the protection of Federal troops . Even greater uncertainty has been caused here by the fact that this is said to be the first report to reach the State Department of the seizure by Reds of American property in Mexico . The Amparo Company is Conspicuous for having gone through ten years of revolution , following the overthrow of Diaz , with no severe disturbances at its properties , although north of Guadalajara the Cinco Minas , silver properties of the estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjected to repealed interference . Next to the primary concern felt for the safety of the Americans and British at the Amparo mines , interest ' here turned to the source of the trouble . If only a demonstration against the Calles Government in a State which saw the start of the de la Huerta revolution against President Obregon and has been in the forefront of the opposition to the Calles religious program , the question may present no deep ramifications . Even if merely a demonstration in the Sacco-Vanzetti case , it would be expected to subside quickly . But if the result of a deep-seated , well-organized radical labor movement , it conceivably may point the way to problems that will occasion the deepest concern for the United States from the standpoint of what the future will hold . A hint that it might be due to such a basis was seen in reports of a year ago to the State Department from consular officers in Jalisco telling of visits by labor agitators to the properties of the Amparo Company in an effort to create trouble . At that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Danger Zone . Definite advices are lacking on the number of Americans in the danger zone , although recent consular reports have stated that there were four American families at the Amparo Company mines , two Americans at Piedraboha and one at Mazata . Information is almost completely lacking as to the number of British in the region , although there is understood to be a considerable group employed by the Amparo Company and at some small , scattered British silver mines in the vicinity . According to reports to the Commerce Department , the Amparo Mining Company has its headquarters in the Drexel Building in Philadelphia . It is capitalized for $2,000,000 and it is known as a successful corporation . Its President is A. F. Bracher . Officials of the company in Mexico , according to these reports , were James H. Howard , general manager ; William Howard , assistant manager and mill superintendent ; Charles F. Joyce , mine superintendent ; W. R. Askew , chief engineer ; R. B. Cookburn , purchasing agent ; Charles .. rackson , electrical engineer , and James Towlerton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              