@@685663

txt Public Service Commission of the Second District denied application for increases in passenger rates but acted favorably upon the application relating to freight rates , except as to milk and cream . The ground for denying passenger increases is that those rates are substantially all held by statute , the steam roads in excess of ** miles in length being limited to 3 cents a mile , there being also a 2-cent statutory rail rate on the New York Central between Albany and Buffalo , and statutory rates of 2-cents a mile for mileage books which is of general application . It is the opinion of the commission that such statutory tales can not he increased by it except upon evidence show-IN them insufficient to yield a fair return and the application of the roads for increased passenger fares not being made on the ground of insufficient returns but solely on the ground of discrimination . The commission did not approve the justness of freight rate increases . The effect of the order is simply to permit the rates to go into effect on short notice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full right of suspension for 30-days ' period which it would have in case short notice , filing were not permitted . During the 30 days ' period any shipper may complain against any rates or rates and on such complaints commission has full power of suspension . Public Service Commission 's decision in the state rate cases further says : This is a discretionary power , the exercise of which would depend upon the facts in particular cases . While the power of suspension 11 limited as above complaints against the increased rates may under law be made at any time either before or after expiration of the CO-day period . In it opinion the commission stated that Interstate Commerce Comm:ssion may have erred in granting the increased passenger rates and stated that they considered it incumbent upon them to t.tudy justness of proposed increases . The new freight rates can thus he posted as late as August 2-7 and : till become PffACIiVP August 26 , the date on which interstate freight rates become effective . It is the opinion of railroad repre  --  entatives that railroads will lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority of the I. C. C. to increase intrastate rates is believed to be given it under the recent amendments to the Interstate Commerce Act . Such action will probably result m the legality of this provision of the Interstate Commerce Act being tested .                     