@@689943

txt President COOLIDGE makes it clear in his letter to . Maemet . RoxAs , head of the Filipino Independence Mission , that he Shares the opinion of . Governer General WOOD that the people of the Philippines have not yet proved their capacity to stand alone as a nation . No more impressive document has come from the President 's pen . No reader can doubt that Mr. Coomece has carefully studied the Philippine problem and patiently considered the charges preferred against Governor General WOOD by the Legislature at ' Manila . The President 's conclusions are expressed in unequivocal terms . He does not so much argue the case against immediate inde= pendence as pass in review conditions that make claims to it premature . Moreover , , he shows that the gainers IV the political relation between the United States and the islands have been the Filipinos . Mr. Comte= knows that his policy will be resented at Manila , but he hopes that counsels of moderation - will prevail . " You have chosen , " he reminds the Filipinos , " to carry on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and means . " There is no doubt that Mr. CooLIDGE is right when he says that . many people in the islands believe that " at " this time any change which would " weaken the tie between the Filipinos " and the American nation would be a " misfortune . " A minority of officeholders and ambitious Men are leading the movement , and they give scant consideration to its disadvantages and risks . Mr. Cooeince looks beyond the Filipino politicians : The world is in a state of high tension and unsettlement ' The possibility of either economic or political disorders calculated to bring Misfortune , if not disaster , to the Filipino people , unless they are strongly supported , is not to be Ignored . This declaration of the President 's policy , which he believes will have " the overwhelming support of the American nation , " is remarkable for a display of moral courage not often seen in State papers . " In my judgment , " he says , " the strongest argument " meat that has been used in the " United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippines " is not the argument that it would " benefit the Filipinos , but that it " would be an advantage to the United " States . " This should be read in the light of the assurance that " the " American people have never enter " tained the purpose of exploiting the " Filipino people or their country . " When Mr. COOLIDGE comes to the controversy over General WOOD he is entirely frank . It is not the Governor General but the Legislature at Manila that has wrongly interpreted the Jones act , he maintains . " The legislative " branch of the Insular Government " has been , " he says , " the real offend " er , through seeking to extend its " authority into som4 areas of . what " should properly be the executive " realm . " He is convinced that General WOOD " has acted within the scope " of his proper and constitutional an " thority . " Governor General WOOD " has at no time , " declares Mr. Com , - mos , " been other than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Fully as courageous on the eve of a national campaign in his final conclusion that " there remain " to be achieved by the Filipino people " many greater advances on the road " of education , culture , economic and " political capacity before they should " undertake the full responsibility for " their administration . " When Mr. ROXAS says that the President 's letter to him is " just an " other political move , similar to his " defense of Attorney General DAITOE " SETT and other members of the Ad " ministration who have been at " tacked , " and adds to this indiscretion the fling that " President COoereae " has n't anything to do with it tin " dependence anyway , " the 1='resident 's judgment that the Filipino leaders are not yet ready for independence is in the act confirmed .                     