@@691797

txt In a hush unbroken save by the measured booming of a salute of nineteen guns and the clear notes of bugles sending the echoes of their requiem across the bay , Ambassador Bancroft 's body was borne from Yokohama today on a Japanese warship back to those shores whence came America 's first envoy to Japan . As the ship passed the breakwater the last cannon boomed and Japan had paid , the highest possible honors to the former Chicago attorney , who died in his country 's service . A Princess of the blood , the Premier , Cabinet Ministers and high national and diplomatic officials attended the funeral services in St. Andrew 's Cathedral , where the glitter of gold lace uniforms and bank after bank of flowers . including wreaths from the Emperor and Prince Regent , contrasted with the black dress of mourners . The service was short . The Imperial Bodyguard of Lancers , carrying fluttering pennons which bore the Rising Sun , led the procession of nearly 100 motor cars which passed through lanes of the Imperial Bodyguard Division , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tokio Station . The route was lined with thousands of citizens , who paid their last respects with bared heads to the Ambassador , who had endeared himself to the people in his nine months of service . Past the embassies , with their flags half-masted ; Past the Imperial Palace grounds , where the Guards ? were presenting arms ; through the business " district , where every window was filled with hushed and uncovered spectators , the cortege arrived at the railway station . There the Lancers formed a lane through which the hearse passed as it was taken into the entrance reserved for the royal family . Here the platform was cleared , except for three companies of infantry and a band , as the American Army and Navy officers carried the casket to the waiting special train . The baggage cars were filled with floral offerings from Japanese and foreigners . The coaches were crowded with Government arid diplomatic officials and the embassy staff . As the train left the shed the band played a solemn air and the bugles sounded . The stations en route @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At Yokohama the train was met by a detachment of Japanese marines , which formed the escort to the pier , where thousands of persons stood hushed . The coffin was then taken to the cruiser Tama and placed on a steel catafalque especially built , between the main conning tower and the turret . The mourners . went aboard and paid their final respects to the Ambassador . Then all save Lieut . Commander Herbert Hein , the Naval Attachd who will accompany the body to Chicago . went ashore and stood uncovered on the pier while the cruiser in midafternoon put slowly out to sea , with the Rising Sun flag at half-mast , on the way to SanFrancisco.                     