@@684969

txt BENJAMIN - GITLOW , sometime a Member of the Assembly , found guilty of criminal anarchy in the Criminal Branch of:the Supreme Court , admitted to the jury , to which he was allowed to make a statement ; that he was a revolutionist , that he believed in the manifesto of the Communist Party . His life , he said , was dedicated to those principles , the principles of Communism . He would fight for them . He asked no clemency . Outside of suffi- : dent evidence against him , he may be said to have confessed . The jury could reach no other conclusion than that he was guilty . Justice WEEKS , in his charge , told the jury that the right of free speech , so often and so wearisomely appealed to by the men and Women who seek to overthrow freedom and free government by physical had nothing to do with the case . The statute on which the defendant was tried was not in violation of free speech . The Constitution provides a means " without force , violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any other Means advocated is unlawful . Justice WEEKS , thanking the jury after their verdict , expressed what every " decent citizen " feels . The . verdict was a credit to the sincerity and intelligence of the jury and " of " distinct benefit to the country and " the State . There must be a right " in this organized State to protect " itself . If citizens who accept the " benefit of an organized Government " do not recognize that the Govern " went that protects them can only be " overthrown by lawful means , then " it is difficult to see how civilization " can be maintained . " When so much shallow and deluded sentimentalism comes even from persons , from laymen and clergymen , who ought to be able to think and see clearly ; when there is so much misjudged sympathy for dangerous criminals and so much hollow talk about free speech as a protector dangerous criminals , the verdict of this jury and the remarks of Justice WEEKS furnish a salutary and needed corrective . Instructive , also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words of Justice WEEKS : . He Grisow took the oath as a member of the Assembly of the State to support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of New ' York . When he entered the Assembly he was - fettered by ? that obligation of his organization which provided- that he should be driven from it if he voted for an appropriation for military purposes or the war . Was that only the entering wedge for the destruction of the nation , to prevent it appropriating money to save itself from war , to hamstring it ? It certainly seems so . A. carefully thought out , deliberate , and elaborate plan to destroy the Government of the United States , to destroy all free government  --  that is Communism . For abetting that plan GrrLow has justly been found guilty of criminal anarchy . A few convictions like this may cool the ferocity of the thousands of Communists now in the United States .                     