@@686370

txt The special session of Congress to consider tariff and revenue matters especially , as ' well as international problems , will be called for April 11 . This announcement was made at the White House today , following a conference between Senators Lodge , Smoot and . Underwood and President Harding . A.oancionment of the tentative plan . to pass an emergency tariff in the special session and an agreement that the Underwood tariff law shauld be amplified into some form ' of temporary , protection by the enactment *of an anti-dumping law and an American valuation of imports were decided upon today at . the conference on tax and revenue matters . This conference , attended by the Secretary of the Treasury and tax experts and the Republican members of the House Ways . and ' Means Committee and the Senate ' Finance Committee , went thoroughly into the entire tax situation and the preponderant opinion favored revision of the tariff ahead of revenue revision . Decision as to which shall take preee , dence , it was announced by Senator Penrose , will be left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result of today 's conference . Indications are that the tariff will be considered first , unless Mr. Harding accepts the view of the tax experts , which is that the greatest business relief would come from a prompt revision of the burdensome war revenue laws . It Is the intention of the leaders , however , no matter which subject is considered first , to act upon them almost concurrently . Representative Joseph IV . Fordney , Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee , said that hearings had been concluded on the tariff and that a permanent bill could be reported to the House very soon after Congress convened . While the House is considering tariff the Senate Finance Committee intends to hold tariff and revenue hearings . so that the tariff bill can be reported to the Senate in the least possible time after the House has passed it . To Act . on Soldiers ' Bonus . In today 's conference the definite opinion was expressed that a soldiers ' bonus must form part of the legislative program . Senator Penrose said that in considering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require  --  the expenditure of about $2,000,000,000 in a period of twenty years had been taken into consideratiOn , with the intention of passing such a law early in the special session . Figures presented by the Secretary of the Treasury , while not definite , indicated that the expenditures of the Government could not be reduced greatly . if at all , in the present year . " it is the purpose of the Ways and Means Committee to send to the Senate immediately after the session opens an anti-dumping measure and an American valuation of imports , as an amendment to the present tariff , " said Mr. Penrose , who was authorized to explain the action of the conference . " The purpose of this is to give notice to the country that something is being clone in a legislative way which will be quite effective in giving temporary relief . The conference was unanimous on these two propositions ana it is thought that these proposed laws will pass the House and the Senate without much aiscussi , on and in the least possible time . " Those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program . Many views were expressed as to the relative importance of getting tariff laws or the war revenue laws amended first . The preponderance of opinion seemed to trend toward taking 11.13 tariff legislation first , but with the suggestion that as nearly concurrently as possible action should be proceeded with in connection with revenue legislation so as to assure the taxpayers of relief . In other.wordsaan effort.will be made to pass both measures as early as possible . , " I do not doubt , if the House should proceed to take up tariff legislation and hold any additional hearings that may be required , the Finance Committee would proceed to hold hearings on revenue matters and take up the Tariff bill as soon as the House has disposed of it . These are all details . in my opinion , and are not of great importance . because the whole situation will be worked out harmoniously . Both committees are fully alive to tile need of the agricultural interests especially . It is not possible to give details , ' because the conference au- thorized the Chairmen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the President and inform him of the results of me cecislon and ascertain his conclusion upon the tariff ' and revenue program . " " Does today 's action mean that the Underwood law will be amended by an anti-dumping law and changing the ad valorem duties so that the valuation of imports shall be placed at the port of entry rather than the port of . shipment ? " Senator Penrose was asked . " Yes ; ' that is contemplated , " he replied . " But these laws will be temporary only , and a parmanent tariff will be passed very early . "                     