@@693416

txt Pollee and private citizens last night took from potential mobs degenerates who had attacked or annoyed children in several sections of the city . Before the evening was far spent four had been thrust into cells as alleged annoyers of children and the Lake ? Forest police were seeking a fifth . One of the men arrested was John , 63 , superintendent of the Off the Street club at 1524 West Van Buren street , a headquarters maintained by charitable and social organizations for the betterment of underprivileged children and young boys and girls . Ile was charged with taking indecent liberties with girls six and seven years old . Father of Two Seized . Another was Ephrain Westwood , 31 , of 11841 South State street , the father of two children , assistant superintendent of a loop theater , who was charged with contributing to the delinquency of a 15 year old high school girl and her 13 year old sister . The man the Lake Forest police were seeking was Clarence Lowitz , publisher of the North Shore Blue book , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , wanted as the attacker of a 13 year old colored girl . Mobs Threaten Morons . It was in the cases of the other two arrested  --  Charles Strock , 34 , of 650 Rush street , and Charles Backer 's , 43 , of 1560 Weft Chicago avenue  --  that the mobs gathered with cries for violence that was only stilled when individuals stepped In and administered chastisements that were to the mobs ' liking . was taken to the Desplaines street station after the mothers of a girl . 6 , and a girl , 7 , had heard the children arguing about who was to tell how the 63 year old man had lured them into an upper room in the club . The mothers listened as the children told their story . Then both went to the DesPlaines street station and told the police . Westwood confessed to assistant state 's attorneys . He will be arraigned on serious charges this morning . Causes Father 's Arrest . While young Lowitz of the North Shore Blue book , was being sought , his father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the request of Chief of Police Lester Tiffany of Lake Forest , who haled him before Magistrate Harold J. Tallett on a charge of conspiracy to defeat Justice . alleging the father had shielded his son after the latter had confessed to him ho had mistreated the 13 year old girl In question . Melvin Lowitz , a retired business man , after a hearing before the magistrate , was released on $5,000 bonds . The younger Lowitz has an office at 517 University place , Evanston . Chief Tiffany said that papers taken from the automobile of the man who attacked her by the little girl directed suspicion at Lowitz . Ono Acts for Crowd . ? Deekaris of West Chicago avenue was quickly surrounded by a crowd of angry men and women ' when he attempted to lure several 7 year old girls from a playground at Noble street into an alley . Ile was taken from the crowd and given a severe beating by . Frank Serino , 24 , of 1014 West Ohio street , who happened to be passing in an automobile . Serino , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Was allowed to go with Ins prisoner . Ito took him to the Racine avenue station . where the children lodged complaints against him . Strock was given into the custody of the police at the county Jail by J. IL Hoffman , 14 East Illinois street , whose 11 year old son , Bernard , Strock had annoyed among- other children . here another potential mob gathered and would have Liken the law Into their own hands but for the severe beating Hoffman gave the man . whom he caught after a chase of several blocks                     