@@696004

txt Although there was week-end profit-taking in certain directions Saturday . a sufficient number of strong spots were maintained to encourage continued buying of the general list . The steel shares met realizing , but were well supported at n.oderate reactions . On the other hand coppers. oils and others moved ahead , because of favorass. , eonditions in those industries . Goodyear was an outstanding feature of strength . establishing a. new high record on ' estimates of excellent earnings for the current ' quarter . Radio and American Locomotive were among the other recent favorites which also entered new territory , the former getting buying through several commission houses which issued optimistic statements on the outlook . while the latter met an investment demand as the current trice still gives a much better yield than other leading industrials . Sentiment is optimistic . Conservative observers have continued their efforts to get customers to reduce long commitments , but report that few have been willing to sell stocks during the upturns . Their attempts , however , have been successful in having followers adopt stops to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ontinue. but admit there may he some interruptic.n atout the middle of this week when more active discussions of brokers ' loans and the re-discount rate are expected . Tr -- - din : : Commission houses were buyers on balance New demand from outsiders has increased steadily in the past few days indicating a resumption cf the enthusiasm which was interrupted early last month Profess.onals and floor traders were active on both sides , but sold on balance because many of these operators were evening their accounts for the week-end . This realizing more than offset new buying and short covering by other traders . Money Money will be watched closely in the current v.sek . Within a few days the large income tax payments should begin to go through the banks and this is likely to cause a stringency in the available supply It is still maintained that the ease last %Neck was due primarily to the fact that deposits aga.nst tax payments in the banks were employed teraporarily in the money marker during the last three class of the week Time funds have held at a high rate and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market is not subject to fluctuations and is looked upon as a better straw on which to judge the immediate outlook in the entire credit situation Action of tone money has been responsible for most of the predictions for higher call rates It is evident that quite a few bankers are confident the call rate he rather high until early in April once is advanced in the next fev. days The end of March is always a period for heavy distributions and preparations for these payments will begin when the first effects of the tax stringency are rel.evedi in the opinion of le id.ng bankers . In contrast with the uncertainties of the credit situation business conditions are being maintained at a highly satisfactory rate . There IS no evidence in the advices which have come to hand that any clouds are gathering in the industrial activities . Of course , some of the industries which have reached a peak can not be expected to maintain a record breaking rate for any great length of time but the recession from the top is expected to be much smaller than in former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has gis en most encouragement to leading market optimists right along . Public Participation Once again it has been definitely demonstrated that the public becomes interested in the market N ? hen stocks are moving upward . The most recent advances have been accompanied by a material increase in public participation on the long side Even comm.ssion houses which have been most cautious in their advices and hate been keeping customers from over-busing report their clients again have been large purchasers of stocks In outstanding des eloprzient has been the discrimination which has been exercised by the National Cash Register Students of the market express the opinion that there is quite a large short interest in National Cash Register . This was one of the Issues which was put out by boar operators when the market was reactionary . A demonstration against the short position could bring heavy covering at advancing prices . Marine Preferred Houses which have been active in International Mercantile Marine preferred in the past on several occasions report there has been accumulation recently by interests who were in the stock some time ago . They are watching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accumulation will be felt if new Outside buying develops on a larger scale . Oils Judging from the comments made in most of the larger commission houses the feeling toward the oil group is better now than it has been in months . Many arc confidEnt that steps will be taken to improve the statistical position of the oil industry , and this would be reflected in all the leading stocks . Thus far there has been little outside buying of oils when comparison is made with the public participation in the general run of inaustrials . As a result this group is in a better technical position and could respond to favorable developments rapidly . Ati.ititie R Atlantic Refining has cont.nue.1 to meet good buying , particularly on moderate technical reactions . The excellent report of earnings for 1ia2S was made possible largely by a reduction in manufacturing costs together with higher values of refinery products compared with crude oil prices . The company 's new Atlantic Pipe Line is adding to profits , and the clearing up of the statistical oil position will make the company 's prospects even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steel always has been popular and there is reason to believe this stock will move ahead again , giving courage to traders in other issues . Stockholders v. ill meet the naddle of mat month to approve the common capital increase which will ' provide f.a- r:gnts to subscribe to additional shares A demonstration in the stock prior to this action would not be surpris.ng . U. S. Steel s financial position was strengthened further during the past year . and this must result eventually in increased dividends for common holders . Many have been clamoring for a greater share in the cash on hand . on the theory that this money rightfully belongs to the stockholders and it is probable the present management will give these requests some consideration later in the year if the steel business and earnings continue satisfactory . Hudson There are still many in the financial district who believe the record breaking production of Hudson will make that stock one of the favorites in the motor group in the coming weeks . For some time there has been an insistent accumulation in the stock for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floating supply so that greater response should be made to new buying . Hupp Within a few weeks there will be reports of the new line of Hupp cars which will replace the old Chandler and Cleveland products . Interests who are active in Hupp hold the view that the public reception for these cars will be good . and will be reflected also in the market for the stock , which is still a favorite with many because of the large yield obtainable at the current dividend rate of $2 a share in cash and 10. - ; - in stock per annum . It is maintained that early indications point to a substantial increase in Hupp 's earnings this year . Union Carbide Interests credited with activity in Union Carbide for some time now express the opinion that the split-up may be only an initial step in a larger program of the management which will bring benefits to stockholders through sharing to a larger extent in the company s prosperity . Loft The fight for control of La ft will come this week at the annual meeting . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excellent response Announcement of the nominations to he made for directors by this committee has led to the belief in Wall Street that if control is obtained an attempt will be made to merge with Paige Ss Shaw . Several officials of the latter have been named as prospective directors of Loft by the committee . Spicer The current active rate of automobile production will bring benefits to Spicer through increased earnings . There has been some buying of the stock recently by interests who accumulated a line some time ago . It is possible these operators are ridding to their holdings . Seneca High copper prices have been causing some buying in the lower-priced copper stocks and Seneca has been moving forward on much greater activity than in some time . The favorable condition in the industry may result in efforts to get Seneca to higher figures for the purpose of bringing about the conversion of bonds to the amount of $1,400,000 , outstanding and convertible at 15 . Central Alloy Steel Excellent middle western buying has been In progress in Central Alloy Steel without attracting much attention , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much larger earnings because of the company 's Interest in new alloys in conjunction with Ludlum Steel . Central is operating at capacity and will get benefits in the future front the large amount of earnings which have been plowed back into the company to strengthen its position .                     