@@695071

txt A month away from the national conventions of the two leading parties , rumblings and threatenings about the formation of a new one are heard Senator ** of Missouri goes so far as to say that " a political revolution is impending . " In his case , a certain extravagance of language may be pardoned under the circumstances . He is a fighter hut not a forlorn-hoper. ? It would be idle to expect him to lead a thirdparty movement , however provoked or under whatever label . Indeed. ? one of the confessed difficulties of those who are muttering dire things about a revolt taking . form in a new party is that they have no outstanding figure  --  or even figurehead to rally about . There is no Colonel ROOSEVELT this year , though there is the simulacrum of one . And the Senator LA FOLLETTE still living is not the " Fighting BOB " of 1924 . The lack of fiery leaders might be made up for if there were burning issues . But where are there any which would not be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the old ones ? Prohibition is r. two-edged sword in the hand of any party leader , threatening to cut followers as well as opponents . The discontent which is supposed to fill the heart of every farmer is , when ail is said , local or regional . It does not spread over the whole country , or over many States in the same form . The farming industry of New York , for example , is said to profit more or less from the very causes which distress the tillers of the soil in Iowa or Minnesota . The most that could be made out of a third party calling itself " Grangers " would be to upset political conditions in a limited section . There is no promise of a new and vigorous and united political movement in that cause , able to sweep over the entire nation . Existence of grievances and of bitter dissatisfaction need not and can not be denied ; but between them and the political revolution of which Senator REED darkly speaks , a great gulf is fixed . Another reason why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going into a third party is their knowledge of the fact that such political offshoots are not popular in this country . This is a fair inference from our party annals . A political maxim , or tradition , across the sea is that " England does not love coalitions . " In this country it might be made to read , " America does not love third parties . " What it has seen of them does not endear them or make them seem full of promise . The third parties of our history have mostly been like the green bay tree of the Scriptures ? apparently flourishing for a season . but soon dried up and withering . It was partly because THEODORE ROOSEVELT had an intuitive sense of this American dislike of third parties , except for temporary purposes , that he refused in 1916 , to the grief or rage of many of his old friends , to countenance keeping alive the Progressive Party . When men speak of an impending political revolution , they may mean only the indication of a break-up of previous party lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the major parties , but only a great shifting of allegiance and of voters , for the time being , between them . We shall have many Smith Republicans in this campaign , and many Hoovei LleaWa4t4 BlIt that will not foreicast the disruption or disappearanc of either the Republican or tt Democratic Party . Nor will it , wit both leadership and political ISM lacking for the formation- of a ne party , prepare the soil for U growth of a third party . Doubtleg a large number of citizens are in tt mood to cry out a plague o ' bot your houses , and to wish that the had a new political agency throug 7hich to express their precise sent meats ; but from that feeling to tt actual work of forming a new part is a big jump which very few ( them will.think of making this year .                     