@@690606

txt ? Bishop Fan S. Noli . Premier of Albania and head of the Albanian Orthodox Church , delivered before the Assembly of the League of Nations today an Ironical address on world political conditions , which evoked a great ' deal of laughter but also some mild demonstrations of disapproval . Bishop Noli said that everything the League did sooner . or ' later was bound to go into the ' dead files of the gecretaytar and he argued Ahat the only way to achieve peace was through education in the schools , where children should be taught that- wholesale murder was just as criminal as retail murder . The Albanian Premier , who was educated in Harvard - University , talked for the most part about the United States . He described Boston as a city situated somewhere in Ireland , " full of O'Connors , O'Connells and Fitzgeralds , all of them good talkers , . who with other Irishmen do all of the talking in American electoral campaigns . " Bishop Noli wished the " Irish Republic had brought to Geneva some brave orators who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There is no wonder . " he continued , ? ' why the Americans , Germane and Russians are not anxious to join the League of Nations . They do not appreciate our speeches . They know better . " The Bishop-Premier said the Assembly was nothing but " words , words , ' words ? which means in plain English , hot air . " Calls Dawes Plan a Bubble . President Motta of the Assembly gasped and looked as if he were going to call the Albanian statesman-prelate to order . But the Albanian had not finished . He predicted that nothing would result from the talk about arbitration and disarmament and that , after endless conferences , the resolutions would eventually be consigned to the dead files of the League Secretariat , where they would remain for generations to come . Bishop Noli described the Dawes reparation plan as " a tortuous , complicated , diabolical , infernal , combination of bubbles " and ' the most colossal super-bubble modern history has produced , " which might obtain the Vice Presidential chair for its author , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Belgium . Amid general laughter , ' the BishopPremier urged Sir Eric Drummond , Secretary General of the League , to prepare the very driest sections of his dead files for the plan , which , he said , would certainly be referred to the League , because Charles G. Dawes was an American and America was a dry country . despite the fact that from time to time " surreptitiously and sub-rosa , she gets wet , very wet indeed , just for fun , thanks to the noble efforts of the bootleggers . " The Albanian Premier interspersed his remarks with requests for a loan to Albania . Having argued lengthly against the League of - Nations , he closed by blessing it and by saluting its standard as the highest ever raised . He said the spirit of the late Woodrow Wilson , whom he described as the League 's father and prophet , was leading everybody . In conclusion , he asserted that a world federation was coming as the real solution of the problem of peace . Britalln Stands by Covenant . Great Britain stands by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance by all ' the signatories tar preserve peace , said Lord Parmoor hero tonight , after the Disarmament Commission debate on arbitration , security and disarmament . In a statement to the representatives of the press of the world , Lord Parmoor ' affirmed that Great Britain meant what she said when , through the lips of her Prime Minister , Ramsay , she declared her readiness to submit all disputes to arbitration . He added that the words " all disputes " included those usually characterized as questions affecting vital interests and national honor . Lord Parmoor qualified his statement , however , by remarking that- the terms " vital Interests ' and ' national honor " were exceedingly-vague , - but went on to say that a way must be found to handle ' every possible cause of conflicts between nations . The Birtish statesman contended that after all , the League covenant covered pretty nearly everything , and it was only necessary to clarify certain points and perhaps generally strengthen , 210 covenant . Lord Parmoor 's Statement caused great pleasure among , the French delegates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the cornmisSion today  --  that when the time comes the British delegation will prederit detailed resolutions on arbitration , security and disarmament . The French think it too early to form a . definite*opinion on the tendency of the . - deliberations , but they are con-. winced that everybody represented on the Disarmament . Commission seemed . agreed that arbitration as a means ' of preventing war , must be greatly extended and that everybody wanted to see ' the League discussion* crowned by seine protocol signed by a large number - of States. ,                     