@@688261

txt Floyd Gibbons cables from Paris that a new financial comtnission will take up the problem of stabilizing the mark . It may have better luck than that of last spring , which Germany hoped would approve a large loan . The bankers who composed the commission made conditions which were not acceptable to the French government and nothing but a very general statement of views resulted from the commission 's efforts . Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan was a member of the former commission . Mr. Gibbons says he will act upon the new one . Inasmuch as American resources are certain to be drawn upon for any stabilization scheme , it is natural that an Amer ? lean should be Invited to help formulate it . From the British and French . viewpoint Mr. Morgan is the inevitable selection . lie is considerably less acceptable from the American . He is head of a great international financial house which during the war period and after floated the huge British and French loans in this country , and in fact was the fiscal representative of the British government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is associated intimately with British and French finance . Mr. Morgan himself has strong ties with British and French society and belongs to that influential minority which thinks America owes the allies of the late war an apology for not entering In 1914 . Mr. Morgan 's partner , Mr. Lamont , is the leading advocate In this country of debt cancellation . We do not doubt Mr. Morgan would consider himself as thinking and acting for American interests , but his interpretation would be subject to influences which do not make for the  --  alert and vigorous defense of our interests . We need a , very different representative from Mr. Morgan or any other banker already interested in international commitments and saturated in a partisanship l ? artly sentimental and partly material . We have no doubt it Is necessary at a proper time to devise a basis upon which our large financial resources can be safely and profitably ern. ' , toyed toward the financial and economic recon ? struction of Europe . We have a large proportion of the gold of the world and a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deflated currencies and restore exchange . But in the negotiation of any such agreement we need a clear-headed and single-minded representation . In fact , one of the prime factors which make it at present undesirable and unsafe for us to take part in any negotiation with European governments is that the men who are likely to represent us as financial or political ambassadors are not fit to protect us . Our diplomacy is full of foreign snobbism and second or third rate ability . Our financial emissaries are not disinterested . Our situation calls for a renewal of the famous warning , " Put none but Americans on guard , " and by Americans we do not mean Americans under the law , but men without foreign entanglements of any kind .                     