@@684888

txt Forty-two persons were killed and 105 wounded in the Reichstag fighting in Berlin , according to the Reuter correspondent , quoting a semi-official announcement . Eyewitnesses estimated the casualties at 50 killed and 100 wounded . The pol ) ce were finally compelled ? to throw bombs among lire rioters , causing a panic in which many were struck by qui . lets and others , including many women , were trampled under foot . A Berlin wireless dispatch s that Dr. Karl Heine , Prussian Minister of the Interior , speaking in tire Assembly today on yesterday 's disorders , assumed full responsibility for the protective measures adopted and accused the Independents of having incited the masses to disorder . The speech was noisily interrupted by the Independents . Chancellor Bauer said : " I regard it as ray duty to express in the name of the Government my thanks to the ? safety police . ' They opened fire only after they had been attacked by criminal elements in the crowd and brutally maltreated and killed with their ' own arms . Signals were given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handkerchiefs . ? Had the mob succeeded in penetrating the building a second St. Bartholomew 's night would have ensued . " Berlin Quiet Again . ? The estimates of the Berlin papers of casualties in the rioting put the dead in excess of thirty and the wounded at one hundred . Quiet prevailed during the night . The street patrols were heavily reinforced . The Social Democratic Party has issued an appeal to its members not to allow themselves to besprovoked by independent and Communist " wire polices , who are directly responsible for the bloodshed and want to continue playing an unscrupulous game with human ltves. ? The appeal asks whether ' the workers will permit national representation to be placed under terrorism , and tells ithem that the German nation can be saved from complete destruction only by work . ? Level-minded citizens of Berlin call for Government measures to prevent further riots , especially those dreaded In connection with the celebration on Thursday of the anniversary of the death of Dr. Liebknecht. and Rosa Luxemburg . Vor  --  rirts editorially declares that according to all reports the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and did not fire until ten policemen had been severely wounded . IL points out that Dr. Heine , Prussian Minister of the Interior , and Chief of Police Ernst personally controlled the police , and adds that neither the Government nor its organs was responsible for the bloodshed . " The aim of the criminal elements , however . " it says , " was achieved , and the workers were increasingly stirred by the bloodshed . The responsibility will be on the heads of those who senselessly led innocent people into danger of destruction . " All the Rightist papers also support the Government and welcome the proclamation of martial law . The conservative papers regret that the measure was not applied sooner by way of precaution , and for this reason shift the responsibility for the bloodshed to the Government . Martial Law Pat in Force . The Government last night proclaimed martial law in all sections of Germany , following the mob demonstration . Gustav Noske , Minister of Defense . was appointed Commander in Chief for the Greater Berlin district and Brandenburg Province . Street parades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Noske prohibited the sale of Dee Freiheit and the Red Flag throughout the territory where a state of siege was proclaimed . Noske 's troops , at night , threw a rifle and barbed wire cordon throughout the downtown streets . To the Reichstag Square was given a reinforced patrol . The Wilhelmstrasse was barred to all traffic , and the Government Building was virtually inaccessible except to those employed there . The linter den Linden entrance to the Hotel Action was closed and darkened . The members of the Assembly were not Itolested as they . left the Reichstag Building after adjournment was taken . The- Government admited the loss of one member of the troop of guards , killed in the fighting , while several are missing . Premier Bauer created a sensation in the Assembly today when he declared that witnesses were available to prove that Independent members of the Assembly went to the west window of the Reichstag and motioned to the mob to come on . The Prussian Minister of the Interior . Dr. Heine , specifically charged that Louise Zietz and Friedrich Zuibeil , two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south entrance of the Reichstag and beckoned to the mob to enter there . The Conservative and Liberal press concur in attaching the blame for Tuesday 's clashes to the Independents and Communists , who caused the mobs to gather in the streets . Provocation for the shooting , it is declared by unimpeachable eyewitnesses , came from the leaders of the mobs . Editorial criticism is directed against the authorities for not providing adequate troops , In view of the constantly augmenting crowds which assembled in the early hours of the afternoon . Only a single chain of guards was assigned to defer ? l the west portal of the Reichstag building , which was the objective of the attack . Observers say that the conduct of the troops aria their leaders was such as to give offense to the crowds at no time . Their attitude was unprovocative . This also is the conviction of The Associated Press correspondent , who made the funds of the area outside the building during the afternoon . Numerous personal attacks upon officers and troops outside the fighting zone were reported during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and one was blown into the river , from which he was rescued by a fisherman . In niter den Linden , where the crowds gathered after having been driven away from the Reichstag , officers and men were attacked , one officer being dragged from a cab and severely beaten . Independent Socialist leaders plan to continue demonstrations whenever the industrial Councils bill is up for debate . and it is expected the climax will be reached on Thursday . which is the anniversary of the deaths of Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg , radical leaders , who were slain while being taken to Moabit Prison . The Entente missions arriving yesterday are reported to have indicated their intention to call upon their Governments for military protection , if demonstrations here are theatening.                     