@@686917

txt WRECK OF THE ZR-2 . Failure of British and Americans to . Perfect Details of Construction . To the Editor of The New York Times : It was with feelings of sorrow and vexation that many - Americans learned that the ZR-2 had broken in mid-air and plunged into the river beneath . Sorrow wits freely voiced for the loss of the precious freight of human lives . Vexation was the overtone of the expressed conviction that the disaster was avoidable . The wreckage will be flooded with light from the calcium of the investigators . A report will be prepared with technical accuracy , and " lessons of inestimable value will be learned from the wreck . " One of these " lessons of inestimable value " will undoubtedly be the necessity of focusing attention upon minute details of construction . Both in America and in Great . Britain the tendency has been to see the larger things vividly and to note the details only in a shadowy way . This tendency is primarily due to two psychoiogical conditions . First and foremost is the belief in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tenacity that characterizes the British , and ' in America to the belief that all difficulties must yield to the dauntlessness that characterizes Americans . Furthermore , the tendency to disregard details may be traced in Great Britain to the belief in Britain 's world-wide wealth , and in America to America 's boundless resources . Prosperity despises details . According to report " the dirigible was built on the general plan of the big German Zeppelins that raided London and Paris during the war , althbugh many improvements over the German craft had been made . " But Who ever hoard of these Zeppelins breaking in two in mid-air in calm weather ? Their endurance and g-eueral efficiency could all be expressed in terms of attention to details . Achievement need not be purchased with the coin of disaster , but should be the natural reward for close attention to minute matters . We should generously encourage all who have a penchant for delving into the depth of details . Then we may hope that there will be more safety for those intrepid souls who , hearing the call of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile the Humber murmurs its requiem . DAVID LEVINE . Brooklyn , Aug. 29 , 1921.                     