@@693259

txt ? Secretary KELLOGG has refused to grant passage through the United States to Mine . ALEXANDRA KOLLONTAI , Soviet Ambassador to Mexico . This gives added timeliness to an article , issued by the Foreign Policy Association , elsewhere in THE TIMES dealing with our present attitude toward Russia in the light of American precedent . Four steps are noted : ( 1 ) A foreign Governmhnt desiring recognition must be in de facto control . This was virtually the sole condition laid down by us from the beginning of our national history up to the Civil War , though before that time there had emerged , with minor stress , ( 2 ) apparent popular acquiescence in the authority of the de facto Government . ( 3 ) In 1877 appeared the condition that a new Government , in order to be recognized , must " manifest a disposition " to fulfill its international obligations . Finally ( 4 ) , President WILSON based his refusal to recognize HUERTA in Mexico on the ground that HUERTA had secured power by non-constitutional means . This attitude was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of Nicaragua . Now the question arises whether Secretary KELLOGG has not made a further step in excluding Mine . KmLONTAI as a person who , by her activities in the Russian Communist Party and the Communist International and as a member of the Soviet diplomatic service , has been " actively associated with the " International Communist subversive " movement . " The best approach to answering that question is tp glance once more over the various steps enumerated above . When President WILSON and President COOLIDGE refused to recognize Latin-American Governments created by coups d'etat , they only gave special and more than usually emphatic expression to popular acquiescence in the authority of a new regime . They spoke with unusual emphasis , because in Latin America is a special field of American . interests , and because Latin America has been a chronic sufferer from violent revolution . Similarly to ordinary observation , " manifest disposition " to perform international obligations is really identical with a de facto Government capable of fulfilling ? international obligations . The authors of our State papers were not academic essayists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighbor , but unwilling to be a good neighbor , would have meant little in our lives . " Recognition is an invitation to intercourse . " Our historic policy thus resolves itself from four principles into two ? de facto control by a new Government to a degree sufficient to fulfill international obligations , and apparent popular acquiescence in the new Government . We may carry the reduction process a step further . It may be taken for granted that our State Department will not overstress popular acquiescence where de facto control is established  --  outside of the Americas . Were it merely the fact that the ? Soviet Government is a dictatorship established by force and openly dedicated to minority rule , American recognition would not , in all probability , be withheld . It comes down , then , to the one basic principle : the manifest disposition on the part of a new Government to meet its international obligations . The case has never been put better than by Mr. HUGHES when Secretary of State . Secretary KELLOGG has injected no new principle . He affirms that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among international obligations he would include , along with paying debts and not confiscating the property of foreign citizens , abstention from making trouble for other Governments in their own countries . Legalism and precedent do not by themselves shape policy . Expediency enters . If one Government feels that it badly needs the company of another Government , it will recognize it if even a cantankerous international neighbor . Germany recognized Soviet Russia in 1922 , despite the fact that Moscow was engineering a Communist revolution in Germany ; Berlin wanted Russian support against the Allies . Great Britain recognized Russia in 1924 because British trade was in a parlous state and ready to try anything . France recognized Russia because . she did not wish to fall behind in the race for the highly hypothetical Russian trade and because the Herriot radical bloc was in power in Paris . What has hitherto prevented American recognition of Moscow is the absence , of a counterrailing argument from hard self-interest . The dictatorship theory , upon which the Soviet , Government is based , and the principles of communism , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , American people . The material benefits of intercourse with Russia have apparently not impressed themselves on the Administration as overwhelming .                     