@@695040

txt The British Government not only hopes that the Kellogg treaty for the outlawry of war will be concluded successfully but it will be glad to do anything in its power to help obtain unity on the American proposal among the six nations concerned , Sir Austen Chamberlain , Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , told the House of Commons this afternoon . Sir Austen 's statement was elicited by a mild chiding from Ramsay at the delay in the British answer to the American proposal . The exchange of views by the Opposition and the Government on the Kellogg note was less a debate than an indication of their unanimous approval of it . " No reservation " was the burden of 's plea . Sir Austen 's answer was chiefly an expression of his belief that all implications of the proposed treaty should be read and thoroughly understood by all.nations concerned , so that all should . sign sincerely and with no doubts as regards its meaning . Clarifies Birmingham Speech . Sir Austen 's speech was a clarification of his Birmingham address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain was not preparing to throw over oh friends for new . He told the House of Commons that he is indebted to the speech of Secretary Kellogg before the Foreign Policy Association for an assurance that the American treaty did not contemplate impairing engagements undertaken by members of the League to preserve the peace of Europe or agreements reached at Locarno . Great Britain 's role in the current negotiations , he asserted , would be as a m diator between nations differing in views on the desirability of the simple , unqualified Kellogg agreement , but hopeful that the treaty might be made and " make a real contribution to the peace of the world . " Sir Austen acknowledged that he had suggested a conference of jurists on the treaty , but said : " As soon as I learned my proposal did not commend itself as one the Government is concerned with , I immediately withdrew : t , and we shall proceed , therefore , through the ordinary diplomatic channels . " His only object in suggesting a conference , he said , was because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty Referred to Dominions . His Majesty 's Government has concluded its examination of the treaty , Sir Austen said , and has sent it with suggestions and comments to the Dominions . As soon as the Dominion views have been received , he will give the British Empire 's answer to the American Ambassador in London . He said he presumed that it would be the desire of the American Government , as it was his , that the answer be published then , but he declined to hazard a guess , for the benefit of the impatient Labor members , when this would be . Mr. , pressing for swifter action for the sake of both world peace and Anglo-American friendship , said : " If only we can get the big nations of Europe to say with conviction that they will eliminate war from their national policy , 99 per cent . of our peace difficulties will be solved . Not only that , but our answer to this note is going to have a very considerable effect on Anglo-American relations , which are not as good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfectly good , but nobody can read American newspapers without seeing that there is always a possibility in some sections of some parties making political capital out of anti-British propaganda . We get the same thing here . " To the accompaniment of a chorus of cheers from th benches of all three parties , he said he hoped that Britain would accept the treaty without reservations . He felt it would be a great tragedy if the League of Nations commitments prevented Britain from joinin r wider proposals for peace from a nation which has not seen its way clear to join the League . Would Be " Document for Archives . " " An instrument signed is better than a speech made . We can say that war with America is absolutely unthinkable . We can say that war is no part of our national policy . But surely it is better to have a document , not only for our archives , but for the American , French and German archives . Such a document will be a mark to be seen at times of crisis . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help to prevent the threat of war which those who are accustomed to international dealings recognize as a factor to get rid of . It will also help to bring America far nearer our practical peace problems . " Lloyd George , as leader of the Liberal Party , added his voice and that of his followers this evening to the chorus of British unanimity . " Having outlawed war , we surely ought to have no difficulty thereafter about making arrangements regarding cruisers , " he told the House . " Mr. Kellogg 's speech has made it quite clear that acceptance will not inferfere with the obligations which we have incurred . It will be purely an acceptance of a principle , and that has its value . " Sir Austen 's speech was in part as follows : " I have already said that His Majesty 's Government warmly welcome this initiative of the Government of the United States . I will go farther today . I will say that not only have we warmly welcomed it but we are hopeful that it will be successfully concluded and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . How could our attitude be different ? For the years that we have been responsible for the foreign policy of this government , our prime objects have been to establish peace firmly , proceed with the reconciliation of peoples and prevent a recurrence of war . Denies War as Policy . " This country has never treated war as an instrument of national policy . There have been countries in the past which have deliberately worked for war at a moment convenient to themselves in order to solve a problem in their favor when they see no other means of attaining a favorable solution . No British Government would take an action of that kind . War has never been an instrument of our policy . " Sir Austen was heckled by the Labor opposition here with members crying : " What about the South African War ? " Sir Austen insisted that he would not go back to ancient history and the crusaders . " Within the time we contemplate in discussing Europe today , war has never been an instrument of our policy , " he persisted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will take no umbrage if we discuss this . matter with his Majesty 's dominions in various parts of the world . In a matter of this kind , the policy of the whole Empire should be one . We want all the dominions to sign this engagement . " Sir Austen referred to Mr. 's statement that speeches were easy to make at Geneva , and might be meaningless . " I too have had my Geneva experiences , " he said . " In that atmosphere it is so easy to make large and generous declarations , even to vote for them , and then sit down privately with those who have supported and voted for them only to find that they have signed or voted with mental reservations . " Urge Time to Study Compact . " Is it not better , " he asked , " to take a little time and get everybody to understand the full implications of this Kellogg proposal ? What is our object and what is the object of the United States in this matter ? It is to get a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which all will sign , meaning the same thing , which all will sign with the same good-will heartedness and the same determination to maintain it . " He said in view of Secretary Kellogg 's speech at Washington , the British Government had found it quite possible to reconcile all its engagements of the League and Locarno with the new declaration which Kellogg invites it to make . " As soon , therefore , as the reply of the Dominions has been received by us , we shall hope to deliver our answer to the Government of the United States , and I need scarcely say that it will be to the effect of our desire to cooperate in the conclusion of such a compact as is proposed and to engage with the interested governments in the nations required . " Replying to Commander Kenworthy 's question whether it was necessary to consult other governments , Sir Austen said that Britain was not bound to do this but added : " The purpose of the United States Government in the first instance was , not to get the signature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments , and if his Majesty 's Government can contribute anything toward obtaining unity among the six governments , we shall be very glad to do so . " London Times Hails Sir Austen . Hailing Sir Austen 's speech as one in which all the parties of England will agree , the Conservative London Times will say tomorrow : " The answer of the Dominions is hardly in doubt . Almost unanimous expressions of approval in the press of Canada and Australia have already given great satisfaction to Washington . General Smuts in South Africa has welcomed the proposal with an enthusiasm which was rendered all the keener by his disappointment at the result achieved thus far by the League . When once the British reply is reinforced by the cheerful consent of the Dominions , the empire will be committed to real cooperation with the United States in the cause of peace . That is a forward movement . " The Liberal Daily News and Westminster Gazette , expressing pleasure at the Government 's decision , says it hopes that steps will be taken to abridge as much as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and that " acceptance will be a simple acceptance , not hedged around with reservations and conditions which can serve no purpose whatever except to irritate American public opinion . " The Conservative Morning Post warns that Kellogg 's proposals are not backed by authority until the Senate approves them . Recalling the American defection over the League of Nations , this die-hard organ contends that Kellogg ought first to place his plan before the Senate . Then when it has been ratified by " that august and reverend body , " he would be in a better position to negotiate on equal terms with Great Britain . The Morning Post does not quarrel with the idea of renouncing war . It observes , however , that war has too often outlawed peace as in cases of China and Egypt at the present time . The most whole-hearted assent is given by the Conservative Daily Telegraph , both to Kellogg 's proposals and to the British Government 's attitude . When Britain gives her approval , it should be with a full knowledge of the implications of the Kellogg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that any Government would be so cynical as to sign a formal document renouncing war as an instrument of national policy on the ground that the position after signing it would be just the same as before . " The more effective the American proposal promises to be , according to The Telegraph , the better pleased British public opinion will be .                     