@@693919

txt In the course of Europe 's financial reconstruction since the war . " return to a normal basis " has always I been held out as the objective . This meant correcting evils such as depreciated currencies , budget deficits , unwieldy floating debts , under-production and unmanageable trade balances . Once in a while , especially in the earlier economic conferences , discussion turned somewhat vaguely to the possibility of " restoring pre-war conditions . " The London Economist has deemed it expedient to warn its readers of the futility of such a program . The warning might seem superfluous . No country ever emerged from a world-shaking struggle of such magnitude without permanent change in its economic condition and relations . Europe could not possibly have reverted to the prewar status after 1815. or the United States after 1865 . Many decades were required before the new economic situation had fully shaped itself , but it was never what the old one had been . In the sequel to the recent great war , the mere fact of the complete reversal in economic relatio s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would itself have made return to pre-war conditions impossible . The Economist points out a series of other consequences which will permanently give a different course to economic history . It cites , first , what it calls the " increase of industrialization " all over the world . This is partly a result of the unlimited war-time demand for manufacture and partly of the extent to which many countries were thrown on their own resources . This is continuance of a process whose beginnings had become visible even before the war and were already complicating the world 's industrial problem : but th. : war vastly accelerated the movement , and in the event has created not merely a " disturbed equilibrium " in commerce and industry . but a wholly new equilibrium . Transformation of the United States from a debtor nation to one of the world 's chief creditors is allowed full weight in the problem . The disappearance of Russia as an important figure in international commerce has further altered the pre-war economic situation . So has the Reparations settlement with Germany , which foreshadows , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " must mean a shift of European " trade in favor of Germany , though without any corresponding in " crease in her purchasing power . " The great decrease in emigration from Europe to the younger countries , as compared with the prewar movement , is a cause of altered industrial and social conditions in Europe . Naturally , there is further cited the commercially destructive tariffs set up against one another by the Succession States of Central Europe . 1t will be observed that some of these influences may in time be modified , if not removed . There is already in progress at least a powerful effort to mitigate the evils of prohibitory tariffs . It is possible that the Dawes plan will be amended . The longer economic future of Russia is as much a riddle as as longer political future . For these and other reasons these new economic factors indicate not alone , that return to pre-war conditions ' 1 is impossible , but that we have not yet the means of determining what is to be the permanent post-war economic situation . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unbalanced equilibrium may seem as remote a3 the world 's economic relations prior i to 1914 . We do not even know to : day how reform of depreciated cur ; currencies will change it ; the complete ! reversal in the position of France on the world 's markets , since her Government took the fiscal dilemma effectively in hand , indicates how swiftly such changes can come . The Economist 's position is that Europe will have to recognize that the economic fortunes of its constituent States are interdependent . But the problem of our own ultimate economic relations with the rest of the world it does not attempt to solve .                     