@@689884

txt Attorney General Daugherty 's resignation is imminent . It - may be presented to the President this Week after the Attorney General has learned the views of his colleagues in the Cabinet . . Senator Borah , who has suddenly injected . himself into the oil scandal inquiry with the idea of aiding the Administration to regain the faith of the American people , is leading the fight against Mr. Daugherty . He is expected to lead the Attorney General to present his resignation this week , probably tomorrow . Conferences at the White House in the midnight hours last night brought the situation to a focus . First Senator Lenroot , Chairman of the Public Lands Committee , which is conducting the oil lease inquiry , and ex-Senator Pomerene , prosecuting counsel in the oil cases , appeared and were with the President for nearly an- hour . It is understood that they told the President of some very sensational information which came to them through a sworn statement . This information , it is understood , bears upon operations in the stack market and , other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said in authoritative circles that the President was acquainted with this information because some of the charges were made against a member of his Cabinet , and this gave him a chance to act in advance of the facts being given to the public . It Is further understood that the statemen will be discussed by the Senate Public Lands committee in executive session tomorrow . Before the committee reveals the information and . summons its author , a man who has been on the inside of the Harding Administration and intimate with the doings of some members of the Harting Cabinet , it is expected tonight that the Attorney General will have forwarded his resignation to the President . Senator Borah was also a ' White House visitor last night . He found Attorney General Daugherty with the President and was admitted to the conference . Apparently the visit of both men had been arranged . The position of Attorney Genera.i . Daugherty was under discussion . Senator Borah is reported to have told Mr. Daugherty he ought to resign because he had lost the confidence of the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversation was in progress . Finally when it was necessary for Mr. Daugherty to reply the Attorney General is reported to have said that he could not credit the statement made by Senator Borah that he did not have more than three friends in the Senate . Attorney General Daugherty is re ' ported to have said that " he would " obtain the views of members of the Cabinet " before making a decision on resigning . It is believed , in the face of this reported conversation , that Mr. Daugherty will ask his colleagues as to the course he should take . The Cabinet , it is said , believes that he should resign . While the testimony before the Public Lands Committee has not involved Attorney General Daugherty in a def'inite way the letter of Director Bain of the Bureau of Mines , to the effect that Mr. Daugherty had given a verbal opinion approving the oil leases , is accepted by many friends of the Administration as sufficient to make it proper that he should retire from the Cabinet . His position , they say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court cases are started he , too , would be in the position of defendant in the Government cases for cancellation . There is pending in the Senate a resolution offered by Senator Wheeler demanding the resignation of Mr. Daugherty for his failure to prosecute antitrust cases , his delay in the war veterans cases and his own utterances asserting that he did not want to try Mr. Fall because of his association with him as a member of the Cabinet . Senator Wheeler had intepded to press for the adoption of his reighlution in the Senate today , abut delayed It upon the request of Senator Willis of Ohio . Unless Mr. Daugherty resigns tomorrow the resolution will be called up in the Senate . It is expected that the Investigation Mr. Daugherty askei ' . will be ordered and started without delay , unless developments make it unnecessary .                     