@@688825

txt An immediate and searching inquiry into the charges made by Assemblymar Cuvillier on the floor of the Assembly Monday night was demanded yesterday by Police Commissioner - Enright . In letters to the District Attorneys of the five counties of the city asking for an inquiry the Police Commissioner asked that the Assemblyman " prove his statements or take the consequences , which should include his removal from any responsible office in the State g-ov-errunent . " The Commissioner also stated that he had instructed his attorneys to bring action against Cuvillier for damages " for false statements and slander , " and he challenged the legislator to prove his charges . " Cuvillier is a member of the Assembly , " said Commissioner Enright . ' ? I am advised that he may , under the law , take shelter behind his constitutional privilege and assert that privilege as a bar to the action , but I am also advised that nothing in the law compels him to assert that privilege , and I state publicly now that if he will file an answer ' forthwith I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the action so that the public may know now whether I am a ' bootleg grafter ' or whether Assemblyman - Cluitaller ' is a Contemptible liar and slanderer. " .1 , Commissioner Enright 's statement . in full follows : " A statement purporting to have been made , by Louis A. Cuvillier , ASsemblyman from the Twentieth District , New York County . in the Assembly night accusing the Police Commissioner . sevefral high officers of the department and the department in general of various forms- of , graft and wholesa:e bootlegging has been given front page publicity throughout the city by certain newspapers . This entire statement is a tissue of , malicious falsehoods . " The people who know Cuvillier ? ? ? will not be surprised at this tirade of slanderous abuse and they require no ' explanation , but to the great majority of people who never heard of Cuvillier some response may be due and a statement from me might be timely . " The accusations made by Cuvillier , so far as they relate to the Police Commissioner and , I believe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any member of this department , are grossly , grotesquely and maliciously false and criminally libelous and were known to be false when they were made . " I have requested the District Attorneys of each of the five counties of the greater city to begin an immediate and searching investigation of these accusations , and Cuvillier will be obliged to prove his statements or take the consequences , which should include his removal from any responsible office in the State Government . " Cuvillier 's statement that Inspector Underhill was forced to retire from this department because of any interference with his activities against bootleggers or criminals of any kind is wholly false . Inspector Underhill retired from the Police Department of his own free will and accord , a step he had been contemplating for some time past . The author of these statements and accusations is in ? this respect an unmitigated liar . However , it is strange indeed how eager certain newspapers were to take advantage of the ranting of this irresponsible individual to broadcast a monstrous libel concerning high officers of this depaxtment and indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructed my attorneys to bring action against Cuvillier for adequate damages for the false statements and slander uttered by him in Albany yesterday . I note in the press that Cuvillier stated among other things that he is prepared to prove every assertion which he has made . I not only challenge him to make proof , but I demand that he make proof of his charges , and I am giving him the immediate opportunity of doing that in this action for damages . Cuvillier is a member of the Ass-em bly . I am advised that he may ; under the law , take shelter behind his consti tutional privilege and assert that privi- lege as a bar to the action , but I am also advised that nothing in the law compels him to assert that privilege , and I state publicly now that if he will file an answer forthwith I will apply to the Supreme Court for an immediate trial of the action so that the public may know now whether I am a. ' bootleg grafter ' or whether Assemblyman Cuvillier. is a contemptible liar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his letter to District Attorney Banton , as well as to the other District Attorneys , Commissioner Enright recited at length the statements attributed to Assemblyman Cuvillier and added : ? ? These statements , attributed to this Assemblyman and broadcast in the press throughout the city today , accuse the Police Commissioner and other responsible officers of this department and . indeed , every member of the police force with various felonies and misdemeanors ; these accusations , made in a legislative hall of this State ? ? ? demand in the public interest an immediate investigation by your office to the end that if any of these accusations are true , the persons accused should be dealt with accord : ing to law , or in the alternative , if the accusations are found to be false , as they will be , immediate steps should be taken to remove Cuvillier from this body of representative citizens , and he should be punished as the law provides . " With the approval of Mayor Hylan , David Hirshfield , Commissioner of Accounts , will also make an investigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Accounts asserted that although Assemblyman Cuvillier could not be sued for libel or slander , by reason of his office , he was not immune from being called as a witness in a legal investigation . It was intimated that this inquiry would take the form of an investigation of the Police Department ; but while it would be a friendly investigation , so far as the affairs of the department were concerned , it would give to the friends of the Mayor an opportunity to examine every one who has criticized the Hylan Administration . Among the witnesses to be called would be Magistrate Joseph E. Corrigan , who has sought to connect police officials with bootlegging from time to time . " Although I realize from my acquaintance with Assemblyman Cuvillier that he was in an unusual mental state when he made his speech in the Assembly last evening when he attacked Police Commissioner Enright and the Police Department of the City of New York , " said Mr. Hirshfleld. ' ? nevertheless he is unfortunately an Assemblyman , and the newspapers give wide circulation to what he says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that in speaking as an . Assemblyman on the floor of the Assembly his remarks are privileged and he can not be held accountable if or either libel or slander , but he stated certain alleged facts which I , as Commissioner of Accounts of the City of New York , can not let pass unnoticed . " For instance , he charged that the police of the City of New York receives $5 per case on all whisky that comes into the city ; that the city is divided into inspection districts for the collection of money from bootleggers and that Inspector Underhill resigned from the department several days ago because he did not wish to be a party to such collections . " Assemblyman Cuvillier further stated that he-knew of a case where the premises of a saloonkeeper had been entered by the police without a warrant for search and seizure , where thirty-five cases of liquor had been seized and that the bottles of liquor had been removed from the cases and near beer put in those boxes instead . HIrshfleld Bias Mayor 's Approval . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is privileged from being sued for libel and slander , he is not immune from being called as a witness in a proper and legal investigation to testify to what he knows against the Police Department of the City of New York , its Commissioner , or any of its members . an-I I propose to begin such an investigation and will notify Assemblyman Cuvillier to attend before me as a witness and testify under oath concerning the facts and his knowledge of any grafting of the police with respect to the prohibition laws . " In order not to interfere with the Assemblyman 's duties at Albany , I will ask him to name the day , either Friday , Saturday or Monday morning , on which days there is very little , if any , work done in the Assembly , and I have no doubt that the Assemblyman will be in the city . In starting this investigation I know that I have the full approval of Mayor Hylan who will aid me in every way possible to get at the facts . In connection with this investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me such information as he may have on the subject . "                     