@@689920

txt Automobile dealers who cooperate to fix maximum prices at which they will take in uses cars may lay themselves liable to Federal prosecution , the Federal Trade Commission indicated today . A formal citation was issued against the Boston Automobile Dealers ' Association , charging it with following such practices , and alleging that it Is unlawfully engaged* in suppressing competition . The assocation will have thirty days in which to answer the complaint . Nearly all the automobile dealers in the Boston area are included in the association , the Trade Commission said , adding that the effect and object of the system complained of " to suppress competition , especially in the sales of automobiles in the territory served . " The Rev. Charles Francis Potter , pastor of West Side Unitarian Church , 550 Cathedral Parkway , and opponent of Dr. John Roach Straton , pastor of Calvary Baptist Church , champion of fundamentalism in New York , announced yesterday the opening next Sunday of a Modernist Bible class , whose teachings will be broadcast throught the United States by radio at S P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to offset the attacks of the Fundamentalists , who have succeeded in excluding the teaching of science and evolution in regard to religion from many educational institutions in the United States . " The demand for such a class , " said Mr. Potter , " began some months ago , after certain sermons in which I had expressed radical views about the Bible . The requests for such a class increased rapidly after my first debate with Dr. John Roach Straton , Fundamentalist and pastor of Calvary Baptist Church , in which I attacked the theory of the infallibility of the Bible . " Truth at Any Cost " the Motto . " This Bible class will be distinctly differtnt from , the old fashioned Sunday School Bible class of the days of the blue ' quarterlies : ' Truth at any cost ' will be the mottto , and the aim will be neither to magnify the virtues of the characters in the Bible nor to make fun of them , but to endeavor to find the facts shown and the truth of the events therein described . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretations of the old Bible stories . " Frankly , the methods of higher criticism will be followed , but nothing of the pedantry of the theological seminary classroom will characterize our efforts . In other words , I shall attempt to bring to the people the information which has long been possessed by ministers , many of whom have concealed it from the people for fear of disturbing their faith . A faith that is disturbed by learning the facts of science is no real faith ; it is largely prejudice and superstition . Of course , people who like magic resent its exposure , but truth must be upheld , even if parts of the Bible suffer . " Enough people have already registered to make the class a success . There is no tuition charge . The early sessions every Sunday evening in the church ? will be taken up with such subjects as ' How We Got Our Bible , ' ' The Fascinating Story of the Manuscripts , ' ' Version and Aversion , ' ' Books That Should Have Gotten Into the Bible and Did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Different From the Protestant , ' ' Why We Have a Right to Reject Some Sections of the Bible . ' Experts on Chain of Classes . " The course will be open to the general public and questions will be permitted . Noted expounders of Modernist teachings will be asked to address the class from time to time . I believe that the formation of this class will be the beginning of what may develop into a chain of similar Bible classes throughout the country , for my correspondence indicates that thousands of people are veTy anxious to know the truth about the Bible . I forsee the time when by the use of radio and these chains of classes more than 1,000,000 children in America will get the real truth about religion . It will be my purpose to digest various scholarly tones and give the most of them in popular form . " I see no reason why this should not develop into a great popular movement , especially among these people who have left the church because they have become disgusted with the sophistries and casuistries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bible . " I consider this Bible class a constructive measure , and I will point out , as we proceed with the lessons , how we have in our American and English literature sufficient material for forming a Bible as inspirational as the Hebrew Scriptures . " In our Bible class only two things will be required of those who attend ; first , that  --  they leave behind their prejudices both ' for and against the Bible , and , second , that they bring their honor and common sense with them . "                     