@@691055

txt In the recent past an all too conservative advance in the Atchison dividend was made . A rate of 7 per cent . to stockhodlers whose property for more than two years has been earning over 15 per cent . may-be described as tanIn the states through which the Atchison system runs interest rates under contracts are permitted at 10 or even 12 per cent . First mortgage bonds pay interest ( at small risk ) as high as 8 per cent . Profits of merchants , manufacturers and real estate dealers and others in those states are unlimited as to return . But the men who made the Atchison system , to which all of these more or less owe their existence , put in money year after year with small return or none at all . If holders of the common stock of railroads are to be the only investors denied adequate interest , plus what they deserve even more  --  a - generous profit for risks ? they will continue to seek other investments . A politically deluded public can have only itself to thank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. Take as a parallel the Now York city subway situp. , tion and what it has cost the public . Belmont and his associates , with difficulty , raised enough money for the first subway in New York . The cost of the construction was enormous and the opportunity had for years gone abegging . No politician dared to propose city construction and ownership . When this subway was opened . and operated to earn good profits to stockholders for the daring risks they had taken , a clamor was raised against allowing anyone in future to make like profits . Legislation was passed in Albany to prevent it , and was successful in doing so for a number of years . Finally , in order to get the West Side subway of the Interborough built  --  that which serves the Pennsylvania Station and Times Square  --  New York city had to issue its own bonds . As a further result the city gets no return on the investment of any consequence and has small prospect of any return in the future . Had it not been for this foolish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of the public served , New York city would have had an adequate subway system , constructed before the war at the low costs prevailing then . The taxpayers would have been saved many millions . The city would have been richer by many more millions in the higher assessment value of property . Uncountable waste in time , temper and comfort would have been eliminated . Observe how childish is the only objection . The private projectors of these subways might have grown rich , but only by conferring incalculably greater wealth upon the city as a corporation , upon every traveler on the subways , and upon every holder of real estate , every little business man in the new area opened up . Proposed reduction of the Mexican army could be effected simply by putting it on a Private instead of a General basis .                     