@@688088

txt World Communications . To the Editor of The New York Times : Trig Twee of Aug. 25 reported a clash between myself and Walter S. Rogers , Chairman at Williamstown of the Round Table on International Electrical Communications . The really important feature of that clash is this : Chairman Rogers introduced a sharp . division between people who could be expected to take part in the discussions of his round table . One group comprises tile existing American telegraph , telephone , cable and radio companies and their technical and scientific experts . Mr. Rogers calls them the Private interests . The other group comprises People who , headel by Mr. Rogers , know nothing about electrical communications from the technical or scientific aide . Mr. Rogers admitted that , and stated that no representatives of the first 1 ... rotip , the private interests , were Invited to his round table . I interred that the few people whom I. saw around Round ' fable 14 were people who knew nothing about the technical side of the subject which Mr. Rogers was discussing . Ono @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no constructive transoceanic electrical conununications program . It was permissible to interpret his statement as an Indictment of the cperaUng companies . I know that the American electrical communications companies and the electrical scientists of this country have a constructive transoceanic electrical communications program , which aims at nothing less than to put the United States into a dominating position in world communications . When I nppeared at the round table Mr. Rogers informed me that I belonged to the group of people which he calls the private interests , and that I was therefore disqualified . Mr. Rogers informed me finally that , after all the technical cable problems have been solved , and after the Government of the United States has removed all foreign ' obstructions so that the American cable companies may lay all the cables they may wish to lay , then the United States may wish to step in and lay more cables which private interests may not wish to lay , because they would not be paying propositions . Pressed for an answer , I said that I had no objection if the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of Round Table 14 at Williamstown . Perhaps Mr. Rogers would like to be a Chairman of this commission , and the other two or three members of his Williamstown round table could be made the other members of the proposed United States Communication Commission . M. I. PUPIN . Norfolk , Conn .. Aug. 28. 1922.                     