@@687184

txt Baron Naihu Kanda of the Japanese delegation at the Washington conference asserted today that the apparent hitch in the main object of the conference , caused by the reservations entered by Baron Kato on the ratio of relative armaments . need cause no anxiety and that the final solution was a matter for the technical experts and the statesmanship of ? the leaders in the conference . " Better to make a clean breast of it at the outset than half-hearted co-operation afterward , " he added . Baron Kanda denied that Japan had an eye on the Philippines or that Japan claimed any special rights in China except those naturally given to Japan by geographical propinquity- . Japan wanted a prosperous and stable China , and had no intention of retaining permanently the leased rights in the leased territory of Klao-Chau , which Japan seized from Germany during the war . On the contrary , he said , Japan had repeatedly offered to turn them back to China on condition that the lease territory be made a free port and that the section of the former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the international consortium . Baron Kanda made these declarations in an address to a large audience of Americans this afternoon at a luncheon , in the nature of a forum , given by the City Club , and they are important as reflecting the views of the Japanese delegation in the Washington conference . Baron Kanda is not one of the Japanese three principal delegates , but came to Washington with the Japanese delegation as one of the principal advisers . He is a member of the Japanese House of Peers and emeritus professor of the Japanese University of Commerce . He spoke a closely reasoned address from a prepared manuscript , to the repeated applause of his audience , anti at the end of his address replied to a number of questions from the floor . " As for us , " said the speaker , " we would sce not merely a naval holiday for ten years , but a perpetuation of that blessed state of the world . " Japan faces the problem of a territory too small to feed her growing populatioxi , and she pust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and supplies of raw , materials . But the Idea of ee Japanese attack on America , across an ocean twice as broad as the Atlantic , is madness and folly . The World War has left America practically unassailable ; and you have demonstrated that national strength lies not in arms , but in industrial organization , education and patriot ism . " Unfriendly critics have said that Japan plane to organize China into a ? yellow peril . ' Such an attempt would bring Japan  --  whose great aim is only her own national safety  --  into conflict with all the other nations already holding great interests in the Far East . Besides , China 's history shows the impossibility of permanent political control of her by an invader . She has been invaded again and again , and has always absorbed the ' conquerors . ' " Japan wants a prosperous and stable China , well organized and able both to buy , and produce , aftd an equal opportunity there with all other nations for commerce and industry . We claim no special rights except those naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the meaning of the IshiiLansing agreement . We are neither self-sustaining nor rich in natural resources ; and we have reached the stage where we must industrialize to preserve our national existence . Continental Asia has the ray materials and markets we need for such an industrialism , but all we ask is the maintenance of the policy of ' live and let live . ' We adhere to the open door without any reservations whatever . China and the Philippines . " It is true that China has suffered from an influx from Japan , perhaps more than from any other country , of a horde of unscrupulous traders and other undesirable elements , to the keen regret of Japan ; but this is not uncommon in trade frontiers . But Japan has also introduced law and ordeNalong the South Manchurian Railway , for InAance , transforming a bandit-ridden country into a fruitful land which provides hundreds of thousands of Chinese with sustenance and comfort . This is the brighter side . " As for the statements that Japan miglIt have an eye on the Philippines , . let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands they are not a menace to Japan . And the present conference assures us that those hands will always remain friendly . As for the mooted topic of Shantung , let me point out that the Province of Shantung is about 200 times greater in size and poptilation than the leased territory of Kiao-Chau , which Japan seized from Germany . Japan has no intention of retaining these leased rights permanently , and has repeatedly offered to turn them back to China on condition that the leased territory be made a free port and that the section of former German-owned railway be made a joint Chino-Japanese project , financed by the international consortium . ' ? Although legal rights in the matter favor Japan , in my opinion , what Japan wants now is not just a legal justification , but real justness itself . The solution of this problem , I believe , is now at hand . Although the criticism of Japan in the matter has been to some extent reasonable , there has been much misunderstanding of the whole matter . " In reply to questions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented tilo views of the great solver-thinking majority of Japan . " It is our sincere wish . " he concluded . " to see China work out her own destiny , however great her difficulties may be . I myself , personally and as a matter of principle , am in favor of the attitude of trusting China as a fully grown-up personality and of waiting patiently for her to emerge triumphantly from the present chaotic conditions . " Baron Kanda said that the reception given the Japanese delegation of more than 100 persons now here had proved to him that if there was any anti-Japanese feeling in America , it was not in the District of Columbia .                     