@@687230

txt Is the Irish question about to pass into history ? The reason it has not lone so all these years was stated by Lord ltosEBEnv to be that it has never passed out of politics . " If he latter passing alone were to be achieved now , it would he a source of mmense relief and unfeigned rejoieng . Ireland 's troubles have been like m evil spirit laying a curse upon English politics for generations . The rich question has troubled American lo ! these many years . It has meen a disturbing element in Austraian and Canadian politics . Finally , it lame to he a great embarrassment in international politics , threatening the mem/cc of mind of the British Empire . Nis LLOYD GEORGE put the matter in his ' ecent Guildhall speech , the British lousehold had become discredited by ' continual quarrels which attract the attention of the neighbors . " To put m end to apt unhappy state of things mould be of itself a blessing not only . o England but to the world . Shin Fein is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament is lot to be master in Ulster , without jIster 's consent . Moreover . the Irish - 'ree State is to be a loyal component mart of the British Empire , agreeing o accept certain Imperial limitations and obligations . Ulster may go her nvn way if she chooses , but it is evilent that great inducements will be meld out to her to persuade her to cast n her lot with the rest of Ireland . Irish taxation will be much lower than English , and if Ulster insists upon ' epresentation in the Parliament at . Westminster she will have to pay high ' or the privilege . Moreover , if she Meets to cut loose from the Irish Pariament , she stands to have a certain amount of her present territory cut loose from her . A boundary . commission , which would pretty surely take parts of Tyrone and Fermanagh away from Ulster , is at once a promise to the South of Ireland and a warning to Ulster . If she does not heed it , " the people of England , " said Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deciding . " This , of course , means a general election on the issue , ' if Ulster forces it . LLOYD GEORGE now has the whip hand . Thus the long-drawn negotiation ends by a process of give and take . Sinn Fein has abandoned its first extreme position . On the other hand , the British Government did not stickle over mere forms when it was getting the substance . The whole is a striking tribute to the sincerity and good sense of the delegates on both sides . It is also , be it noted , one More proof that the method of confidential conference is the only one by which such a formidable controversy can be smoothed out . If the meetings at 10 Downing Street had been open to the public , with partisans admitted , the windows would have been smashed and the whole affair broken off long ago . As it was , the patience and resource of the Prime Minister , combined with the practical sense of the Irish delegates  --  under strong ' pressure , as the latter must have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  finally triumphed . One almost feels like pausing to drop a tear over those who will feel like so many Othellos with their occupation gone , after the Irish question is settled . Particularly will some politicians in this country lament that their source of reputation and even of livelihood has cruelly been taken from them . But such personal sacrifices are necessary when the general good demands them . And nothing can really abate the deep satisfaction with which the entire world will receive the news that at last English political genius has found a way to put a term to evils in the relations of Ireland to England that have existed for more than seven hundred years .                     