@@690272

txt Although the House of Representatives decided today by a vote of 221 to 157 to adjourn at 7 o'clock next Saturday night until December , Senator La Follette , the radical leader , introduced a resolution in the Senate calling on Congress to recess from June 7 to July 9 , and then to act on farm and railroad legislation . Nothing was done about the La Follette resolution , and it will lie on the table until about the middle of the week , when an attempt will be made to substitute it for the adjournment resolution passed by the House . If the Senate refuses to approve the House resolution and accepts the La Follette plan Congress will merely take a recess over the national conventions and will come back here to spend practically all Summer in lawmaking . The alternative will be for the President to exercise his prerogative under the Constitution and adjourn a divided Congress until a certain date . Basing his demand for further legislation on the claim that more than 600,000 farmers in fifteen wheat States alone are virtually bankrupt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and act upon emergency agriculturel legislation , the Howell-Barkley bill , new railroad freight rates and reclamation legislation . Text of La Follette Resolution . The text of the La Fdllette resolution follows : Whereas the Secretary of Agriculture has reported that in the fifteen wheat States alone more than 108,000 farmers have since 1920 lost their farms or other property through foreclosures or bankruptcy , over 122,000 have lost their property without legal proceedings , and nearly 073,000 have retained their property only through the leniency of creditors , making a total of 603,000 farmers , or 26 per cent . of all , who are virtually bankrupt in these fifteen States ; and Whereas the . conditions are even more appalling in particular States , as , for example , in South Dakota , where , according to the Secretary of Agriculture , 40 per cent . of all farmers are virtually bankrupt ; Colorado , 42 per cent. ; North Dakota . 50 per cent. ; Wyoming , 51 per cent. , and Montana , 02 per cent. ; and Whereas , , as a result of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1,357 State and national banks have failed , with total liabilities of more than $500.000,000 ; and Whereas during the first three months of the present year 265 banks failed , with total liabilities of $100 , - 275,600 , or at the unprecedented rate of 1,060 bank failures for the year ; and Whereas this constitutes conclusive evidence that the alarming conditions in the agricultural States above described are not only increasing but threaten the financial and commercial stability of the entire nation ; Resolved by the Senate ( the House of Representatives concurring ) , That when the two houses complete the business of the calendar day of Saturday , June 7 , 1924 , they shall stand adjourned until 12 o'clock meridian Monday , July 9 , 1924 ; and , Resolved further , That when the Congress reconvenes on July 9 , 1924 , the two houses shall proceed to consider and vote upon the following measures in the order named : ( 1 ) Emergency legislation for the relief of agriculture ; ( 2 ) the Howell-Barkley bill for the settlement of disputes between carriers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate-making sections of the Transportation act , and ( 4 ) reclamation legislation . Resolution a Two-Edged Sword . Just how far the Senator from Wisconsin expects to get with his recess resolution no one knows except himself , but through it he will wield a twoedged sword . If the resolution fails , he will have the opportunity through a roll-call to place all Senate Republicans and Democrats in the position of either aiding the farmers or deserting them in a time of dire need . If it passes , the Senator will have the credit of proposing legislation begged for by the farmers , and the probable satisfaction of seeing a good part of his program approved . In spite of the fact that the majority of the Senators wish to stop work and get away from Washington , Mr. La Follette does not regard the outlook as hopeless . He said today he believed his resolution had " a good chance , " and he would push it vigorously . Under the parliamentary rules the resolution itself is not debatable , but an experienced campaigner like Mr. La @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , even if he did so while some other measure , such as an appropriation bill , was under consideration . Such a Speech would embarrass Sen- ators who want to leave Washington but who feel that their constituencies would demand relief . Some - of the Southern Democrats were very nervous over the situation today . Greater embarrassment would be brought about by the actual vote , for then the names would be recorded plainly in a vital campaign year , with the resulting chance of damaging the Senators not only individually but as representatives of the two major parties . Look for a Filibuster . Many observers here say that if Senator La Follette is sincere in presenting his resolution he will no doubt resort to one of the filibusters for which he is so well known , and may do everything possible to prevent the Senate quitting its work in time for the Cleveland convention next week . Rumor had it today that he had gathered a nucleus of eleven to fifteen farm bloc Senators who would follow his guidance in any combat he might start . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteri thus needing the sanction of the Senalte . It will go automatically into the custody of the Appropriations Committee , of which Senator Warren of Wyoming is Chairman and which has yet to bring two deficiency appropriation bills into the Senate . These will be the last of the regular supply bills to be passed , but Senator Warren will not allow the House resolution to be acted upon until the deficiency bills have been disposed of . Mr. Warren notified Mr. La Follette that he would bring up the adjournment resolution at that time , and that the Senator would not be taken by surprise  --  a promise concurred in by Senators Lodge and Curtis , the Republican leader and whip , so Mr. La Follette will be prepared in advance to offer his own resolution as a substitute and to make sure of a roll-call upon it . Both Senators Lodge and Robinson , the latter Democratic leader , are anxious to adjourn until the Winter session , and it fs probable that for the first time this session they will attempt a coalition of their parties against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too threatening . If the House should insist upon adjournment and the Senate upon a recess , the President could dissolve the session under the Constitution . Through Sec-1 tion 3 , Article 3 , he may on extraordinary occasions convene both Houses , or either of them , and in case of disagree- , ment between them with respect to the time of adjournment , he may adjourn them to such time as he shall think proper . Party Lines Broken in Rouse . The vote In the House on the proposed adjournment was closer than had been expected . Ninety-five Democrats , fit &; nine Republicans and three Independents opposhed the idea , while 136 Republicans and , 85 Democrats voted to adjourn . All the Wisconsin Radicals and their adherents from other States formed the heart of the Republican opposition , but numerous Republicans from the West and Middle West took the same attitude . . While many Democrats objected to adjournment with farm legislation . their leader . Representative Garrett , refused to block the plans of the majority . holding that the responsibility was solely up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition had been expected , did not take , part in any debate , Representative Nelson , the ' Wisconsin leader , remaining silent . Opportunity for presentation of the adjournment resolution came when Mr. Barkley of Kentucky , author of the bill . to replace the Railroad Labor Boatel : with other boards , announced that it would be- useless to press his measure in the face of the filibuster that had been carried on against it . " For nearly four months consideration of the bill has been opposed and obstructed at every turn by the Republican organization in the House . " Ur . Barkley , said . " So tar as I ism concerned , I do not propose to vote for an adjournment next Saturday . " There Is a. demand all over the country for not only the passageqf this measure to bring to transportation an era of just and peaceful settlement of their problems and- to end the life of a labor board which has brought nothing but discord and distrust ; but there is a most urgent demand and need for farm relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its best to prevent all such relief , and they are in a hurry to adjourn because an adjourned Congress can do nothing . But one that is in session might . in spite of them . find another way of bringing relief to the people , just as it found a way and in spite of Republican leadership , to bring the boon of the tax reduction to the masess or our people . " Longworth Offers Resolutions . Following Mr. Barkley 's speech , Mr. Longworth offered the resolution to adjourn Saturday . " I think that a large majority of this House feels we are ready to adjourn and ought to adjourn , " said Mr. Longworth . " I think that Mr. Barkley has done th ) wise thing , both from his own standpoint and from the standpoint of legislation , in failing to make his motion fur46er to consider his bill today . " the Republican leader said there were 141 hills on the consent calendar , some of them of major importance , which it might have been impossible to reach if the Kentuckian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to Inquiries by several members , Mr. Longworth said he would agree to vote on the MeNarrElaugen bill " the first thing tomorrow . ' Representative Garrett. minority leader , said he would support the adjournment resolution , since it was offered by the majority leader , and the responsibility would be on the majority side . " They declare themselves ready to quit , " he said . " They declare themselves-ready to announce to the country that they have done all they desire to do . They being the responsible party , having the organization of the House , what good public service can be rendered by us to keep them in session , still . to wander in the wilderness and accomplish nothing , or something worse ? "                     