@@688976

txt It is just a daylight journey from the Gulf of Mexico to Canada . Lieutenant Harrison 0 , Crocker of Kelly Field , San Antonio , Texas , proved this today when without a stop he drove a specially built De Haviland plane 1,400 miles from Ellington Field at Houston , Texas , to Selfridge Field , near here in 11 hours and 54 minutes . The distance , measured in time , between the Gulf and Canada Is less than that , for Lieutenant Crocker swung over Canadian soil at the mouth of the Detroit River just 11 hours and 29 minutes after he left Ellington Field at 5:21 o'clock ( central standard time ) , this morning . He made a new flying record , being the first aviator to make such a distance at one hop while traveling alone . Lieutenant 's Croker 's victory was won against odds probably as great as any airman ever encountered . During 800 miles of his journey his highest altitude was 500 feet and during a large part of the 800 it was as low as 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Storms . Between the Texas-Louisiana border and Defiance , Ohio , he encountered twenty-nine distinct storms . As he entered the storm area the flier was forced nearer and nearer to earth , finally flying as low as 100 feet to observe landmarks and thus keep on his course . Seeing a group of tall trees looming directly in his path Lieutenant Crocker shot his plane rapidly into the skies . It was necessary for him to attain an altitude of 3,000 feet before he could see the sun . - He drove for an hour by compass , descending finally when he observed a rift in the clouds . During the remainder of the journey to Defiance the flier skimmed along at the very ceiling of the clouds , passing through one terrific electric storm after another . The rain beat into his face while the lightning crackled just overhead . Intermittently he made out landmarks and thus continued his dash northward . At times he was all but lost in the storms , but his compass and flier 's instinct sent him streaking ahead , at times dangerously close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of struggle did the plane 's engine falter . It sputtered and threatened to die in the midst of a terrific electrical disturbance over Louisiana . Then it went bravely on and did not miss another beat until the Lieutenant shut off the power after a graceful landing at Selfridge . Officers at the local field were a unit in declaring that had the engine stopted while Lieutenant Crocker was flying at so low an altitude the plane would have crashed . Only Food Two Sandwiches . When the Lieutenant set off for the north he carried with him a parcel of sandwiches , a bottle of coffee , a quantity of chocolate and a quantity of drinking water . He ate two sandwiches and drank a small quantity of water . being too busy fighting the storm to Partake of the remainder . At times he attained a speed of 130 miles an hour . At others his ' speed was cut to below 100 . Brig . Gen. William Mitchell , . - Assistant Chief of the Air Service , was one of the first to congratulate the flier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It shows that the United States can place a , flying unit in the centre of the country and have fighters of the air on any of our coasts on eleven hours ' notice . " Lieutenant Crocker was tired from his long trip and his muscles were so stiff that he accepted help in climbing from his machine . The main fuel tank , containing 240 gallons of gasoline , was drained when the plane still was twenty minutes from Selfridge Field and the aviator was obliged to draw on his emergency lank , Containing twenty-eight gallons .                     