@@687282

txt Puebla , the leading Mexican state In which several thousand laborers , it is said , have seized lands and property near the City of Puebla with the design of setting up a soviet government , has lately suffered from attempts by the authorities under the guise of law to put extreme radical theories into practice . In November the so-called " strangle law , " the aim of which was to give workmen a share in the profits of industry , was introduced in the State Legislature , causing disturblances which Federal troops were orldered out to quell . Merchants declared that they would close their places of business if the law were promulgated . Vera Cruz has its " hunger law , " which is similar in intent and has excited the opposition of employers of labor , who are already overtaxed . Puebla business men declare that there are scanty profits of industry , If anx , to divide . They , too , complain of intolerable taxation , but get no sympathy from Governor SANC IIEZ , who declares that the heavy taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ile is the idol of the labor radicals . They count him a , one of themselves , because he began life as a workman and was a dealer in charcoal at the time of his election to the Governorship . There is no doubt that life is hard for the poor in the City of Puebla . Prices of foodstuffs are abnormally high and there is a great deal of unemployment . At the same time the employers do not exaggerate when they say , as 7,000 of them did at a conference with Governor SANCHEZ , that if the " strangle law " is not abandoned Puebla , the second municipality in . Mexico , will become a dead city . Business is in a bad way and the enforcement of such radical legislation would finish it . An international complication looms ' ominously . Some of the properties seized by the laborers belong to Spanish citizens , who have appealed to their Ambassador for protection . Very recently the Spanish Ambassador threatened to ask for his passports because the Government declined to give any other equivalent for lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but bonds which had no standing in the market . The despoiled landowners maintained that the bonds were not " adequate coat. ; pensation " in the ' terms of the Agrarian law . Many of the Puebla merchants are Spanish citizen &; Thus in the State governed by SANCuEz , who owes his election to the favor of ELIAS CALLES , the radical head of the Obregon Cabinet , the Spaniard , whether ho is a shopkeeper or a landowner , 9nds himself making what he believes is an unavailing struggle against a rising tido of radicalism . Other nationals are similarly affected , especially Americans who hold title to large areas of land legitimately acquired before the Constitution of 1917 was promulgated . President OBREGON 'S position is a difficult one . In a political way he is indebted to General CALLEF* , who was one of his chief supporters in the movement to depose CAILSANZA. , The agrarian problem is complicated enough to wreck any administration , President ( ) BRECON has little sympathy with extreme industrial radicalism , but he has a good deal of sympathy for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cultivate it . On the other hand , he would have valid titles respected . The tendency of expropriation is to question titles to the great estates . The President wants to hold the balance true and he particularly desires to attract capital to Mexico . He is embarrassed by those features of the new Constitution that menace the interests of aliens , but he can not ignore them . Nor can he defy his too radical supporters without risking crganized insurrection . Unfortunately for him , Yucatan , Vera Cruz , Puebla , Michoacan are tenacious of their State rights and they are more or less under the influence of extremists . It is evident that a test of President OBREGON ' 3 sagacity and firmness an a progressive ruler is imminent .                     