@@691339

txt In some quarters NO Man Ever there seems to be a Had disposition , not exa Fairer Trial . aetly to question the fairness of the trial which . CHAPMAN had in Connecticut , but not to gain from the evidence , as reported by the press , the same certainty as to his guilt that was felt by the jurors . Doubters regard the testimony of the witnesses who connected CHAPMAN with the murder of the policeman as inconclusive  --  as not so much better than that of the witnesses who declared that he was in Brooklyn when the murder was committed . Such people probably are the victims of the illusion , based on CHAPMAN 'S coolness , his self-control , and his courage , which created for him a curious sort of popularity in the city of Hartford ; and the obvious contrast between CHAPMAN and Ssseus , to-the disadvantage of the latter , may have something to do with it . instead , what should be considered is not the irrelevant iteet that CHAPMAN is not a criminal of the slinking , rat-like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who watched the trial day after day , saw all that went on , and I had more than the werds of the testis mony on which to found Judgment of the credibility of the witnesses , and the probability that they were accurate observers , reached their verdict on the first hallot , and that the Judge , in thanking them for what he called their intelligent and careful services , pronounced the verdict a just one . The competency and the fairness of both the Judge and the jurors arc impugned by nobody , and to disagree with them Is something more than rash . The jurors were as little swayed as was the Judge by the " atmosphere " of sympathy which CHAPMAN , as a man fighting hard but calmly for his life , managed to ' create . it is notable that . on retiring to their room for deliberation , they did not start by taking a ballot . but entered ou hours of discussion , during which they went over all the evidence . None of them , therefore , had an already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that their unanimity was immediate is highly significant . Whether the sentence of death pro7 pounced on CHAPmax ever will be carried out Is a question by no means so closely connected with the question of his guilt as it would be desirable to have it . Innocent men are not hanged in this country , but owing to the peculiarities of our criminal law and procedure the guilty man has many chances of escape . and this is especially true when the crime Is homicide . Rightly or wrongly , American jurors are reluctant to give a verdict that sends a man or woman to the gallows . When the accused is a woman they practically will not do it , and In the case of a man they look far for a colorable excuse to acquit or to lower the ' 1 degree of guilt , and unless the crime has ' been of a particularly atrocious and brutal nature they usually find one . In CHarmAN 's case no excuse wasI ? found , but his lawyers already are talking of the inevitable appeal for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will get one . Not only has there been raised the nice question as to the use of the railway time-table that so weakened CHArt-Art 's alibi , but it is contended that he must servo imprisonment in Atlanta before he can be put to death . To lay minds these points and others like them are merely legal quibbles , but by just such trifles the course of justice often is impeded or stopped altogether ? as was seen last week in Washington In cases far More Important than that Of CHAPMAN . Dr. Com , one of the most curious products of our times , at last has reached t h e penitentiary , the goal for which he has been heading , seemingly . from the very beginning of his career . A criminal of a sort wholly different from CHAPMAN , he yet presents the same problem  --  why , apparently possessing more than enough ability and intelligence to live honest and successful lives , did they both turn to courses which , as they must have known , lead inevitably to just such terminations as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good education and training In an honorable profession , but he had the power to make himself liked , for a while at least , by nearly everybody with whom he came In contact . But one scandal after setother marked his history until finally he did something without its like in ; the whole record of exploration . He claimed to have gone where he did not go and to have done what he had not even attempted to do . For a few days he enjoyed  --  really did enjoy , apparently ? the glory that belonged to another , and even after the other had spoken Dr. Coax had the impudence to maintain his baseless and hopeless claim to having reached the Pole . He found ' believers , for a while , both in anti out of Congress ; he brought sults for libel  --  which never were tried  --  and he wont lecturing about the country and received the applause of the gullible for tan other known reason than that FrAalhau characterized his tale harshly . but quite accurately , in a telegram from the North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swindler . He Will be out again in a few years . Whether he or CHAPMAN Is quite responsible for what they do is a question for the psychiatrists to discuss endlessly . In an ideal world probably both would be sent to asylums instead of prisons . But in an ideal world such types as Coos and CHAPMAN would have disappeared long since through the efforts of the eugenists , Why public dinA Long Kept ners ? In other days . Secret when those not oresIs Disclosed . Pelt at any particular dinner read about It in the papers only what the intelligent reporters thought worth recording , their real nature escaped the notice of the general public , Now the radio is bringing public dinner oratory into places where it can be judged coolly for what it is , and the " why " of such assemblages Is fast becoming an open and highly amusing  --  or discouraging  --  seeret . It depends on whether one wants to admire his fellow-creatures or to laugh et them . The public dinner , thus diselos.Ad. and in about nine vases out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or flattery among those present by speak- . ers who , in turn , get the same thing from each other and . in the shape of ' applause , from the inarticulate diners . Everybody there gets a warm conscim , ness of greatness or notable worth . usually quite unattainable elsewhere and well worth the money paid for a dinner . The fear that public dinners ever wilt become unpopular and that after a while people will refuse to attend there can be dismissed as kaseleas- They will go on . anti be just what they are now . as long as human nature remains what it always has been and men remain willing and eager to scratch the backs of these who scratch theirs . The notion that public dinners would cease to be attractive because of prohibition was due wholly to ignorance of their real purpose ,                     