@@686531

txt In an address at the National Foreign Trade Council convention at Cleveland yesterday JAMES A. FARP.ELL declared that merchant marine pros- , peets were overcast and dubious khiefly because there had been no " settled policy and well-defined purpose " in planning , operating and legislating from the beginning . It may now be said without fear of being misunderstood that the Shipping Board was more or less of an experiment . and being a somewhat unwieldy orE ; anization it functioned unsatisfactorily . Nothing could be attempted on a large scale without exciting criticism and opposition . There was a deference to public opinion that was not always justified , for the United States had not been a shipping nation on the Seven Seas for fifty years . Our flag was seldom seen abroad , and particularly was it absent from Asiatic waters ; and other nations , Great Britain , Germany , Norway , carried the goods we exported . Shipping experts had become the exception in America . The organization which was to manage the new merchant marine until it could take care of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When it was proposed to sell ships that could be spared after the armistice , nothing was done , for objections came from every side . Improper motives were attributed to those who advocated the transaction In good faith . There was an impression , born ' of ignorance and inexperience . that the Government would be defrauded . So nothing came of the proposal . Mr. FARRELL estimates that , comparing past and present values , $800,000,000 was lost to the Government by inaction . The market was missed . " Mr. FARR E L L. makes the suggestion pg . 10 that an international conference of pi ( maritime nations be held to stabilize the shipping industry . Our rivals alec have their troubles , and there is muct luplication and loss which could be avoided by conferring together . The Shipping Board with the best intentions laid out trade routes to every port of the world . Perhaps it was a premature enterprise . At any rate , it was costly and the results were disappointing . The plan needs revision . Thern is not enough business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , well known that a great many vessels are laid up , or are lying at anchor , without prospect of employment . . One remedy would be to charter them on the best terms that could be arranged to private operators . But , after all , as Mr. FARRELL says , " the main factor " in determining whether we can com " pete successfully with foreign ton " nage lies largely with our shipping " laws . " Unless these laws are amended , there will be ' scant hope of maintaining the merchant marine as a paying concern . Indeed , practical shipping men say that there will be no hope at all . Take the requirement that 65 per cent . of a crew must consist of licensed men . or ccnsider the large engine-room staff of an American ship , how can America compete with rivals that make the conditions less rigid and expensive ? The restrictions of the American wage scale also could be rendered less embarrassing without encroaching upon the ' rights and interests of seamen . This , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two things necessary to the success of the American merchant marine are , indisputably , the sale of ships on reasonable terms to private operators and the recasting of the laws under which business must be carried on .                     