@@694959

txt Henri Bourassa , member of the Canadian parliaMent , recently told the Canadian people that they ought to disarm and depend entirely on the benev()knee and the Monroe Doctrine of the United States . Mr. Bourassa remarked that be was tired of bearing about the pacific nature of the country to Canada 's south . Ho admired the American temperament , but he believed the true credit for peace lay with Canadian inoffensiveness rather than with America 's unwillingness to take offense . He thought it time that Canada capitalized the situation , went the whole road , and disarmed completely . He admitted that Canada 's population and resources were so small as to make conflict with the United States impossible ; he said Great Britain had aAwedly abandoned the defense of Canada . ' He thought Canada might better publicly acknowledge its dependence on the good will of the United States by parting with all means of self-defense and trusting to the American policy of guarding the entire western hemisphere . At : In plainer language , Mr. Bourassa would like Canada to continue in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trade ani commerce the position implies , yet at the same time announce itself in a class with the weaker nations to the south , an object for paternal pro . tection . Because Canada knows that the Ameri. can interest would not permit non-British interference with ' our northern neighbor , therefore , Mr Bourassa suggests , Canada should let Americans pay the taxes for the defense of both countries . Canadians , of course , will not take Mr. Bourassa 's proposal too literally . Canada has too much self-respect to throw itself on the bounty and might of this country . And for America 's part , we must prefer to treat with Canada as with a nation on an equal footing . Mr. Bourassa , how ever ; opens a topic that needs discussion . If eanada is perturbed about its abandonment by Great Britain it will find the United States ready to sign articles of defense , taking into consideration Canada 's lesser ability to create and maintain a military force but eXpecting Canada to assume its proportionate share of responsibility and to do its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world against aggression . It would be in the interest of both countries should they join in a military convention . The weapons of both national forces should be standardlzed . It would be profitable if a joint military and naval board were set up to decide mutual policies and strategies of national defense . ' With such an understanding in force , Canada could send a regiment to Panama if the safety of the canal was threatened , or in case of invasion the United States could lend Canada . aid by lending a division to defend Vancouver island . Instead of disarming , Canada might better express its readiness to take part in a conference to discuss such ti military alliance .                     