@@693945

txt President Coolidge tarried in the Middle West today , preparatory to spending a three months ' vacation in the Black Hills of South Dakota , where he will arrive early tomorrow night . The President was greeted cordially from the time he woke up in Ohio until the train rolled into the industrial city of Hammond , Ind. , an outskirt of Chicago . Hammond turned out with color and enthusiasm . Thousands greeted the President at the station , while fully 200,000 or more listened to his speech dedi eating Wicker Memorial Park or applauded him along the twenty-mile drive . Reports from South Dakota , the western extremity of the territory where the farmers have been reported in revolt , indicated that the reception accorded the President in Hammond will be repeated in South Dakota . Tonight the President rode across the insurgent State of Wisconsin , stopping for a few minutes at Madison . He is due to arrive in South Dakota early tomorrow morning . His itinerary is arranged so he will have a daylight ride across the State whose guest h6 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Farm Relief bill , which the President vetoed , with a committee will meet him at the State line . A stop will be made in Huron and another at Pierre , the capital of the State , in the afternoon . There a big demonstration has been prepared which will include a parade , and President Coolidge will be welcomed officially by Governor Rulow , a Democratic Governor of a Republican State . President Rises Early . The trip West was without incident . President and Mrs. Coolidge went to bed early last night and were on the rear platform before 8 o'clock to greet the station crowds as the train lessened its pace while passing through the towns en route . They had breakfast while the train was passing through Akron . The first stop of ten minutes was made at Willard , Ohio . There the White House collies were given an airing . A good-sized crowd surrounded the rear platform . Some one called for a speech . The dogs barked loudly . " That is the best kind of a speech . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took a brief stroll on the platform . School children petted the dogs I while . Mrs. Coolidge chatted with the youngsters . One of them presented her with a bouquet . The route of I the special had been well advertised and the station crowds in Ohio and Indiana were large and enthusiastic . The special arrived at Hammond at 2 o'clock and two hours later the trip westward was continued . Chicago was reached at 5 P. M. , and at 7:55 the train reached Madi- son , Wis. , Where a stop of five minutes was made . Rebecca , the pet raccoon , was brought from her cage in the baggage car and fed by Mrs. Riley , the White House housekeeper . President e " e visited her while Mrs. Coolidge looked after her pet canaries , while en route . As the train traveled west President and Mrs. Coolidge were shown the films made by the Pattie News depicting the entire Lindbergh flight from the time he took off , his recepion in Europe and the celebration in Washington . President Kisses Little Girl . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school children lined the streets , waving small American flags , one child had a banner reading , ' ' Coolidge forever . " President Coolidge was greatly pleased by his reception and especially the great attendance of school children . Just as he was boarding his train at Hammond , a woman was trying to push pretty , light-haired , six-year-old Loretta Jablowski , so that she might shake hands with the President . She was restrained by a Secret Service official . " Hold on there , " interrupted the President . " Let the child come in . " He took her in his arms , and kissed her rosy cheeks . The return trip to his train carried the President through residential streets , from the houses of which flags waved . A number of airplanes from Selfridge Field escorted the parade and gave demonstrations at the park . Representative Wood introduced President Coolidge . In opening his speech he expressed his thanks for the cordial reception and said : " It is a real inspiration to come here on this anniversary of the American flag and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display , in accordance with my public request issued some time ago . " America , said , the President , has made wonderful material progress , of which the industrial communities on the shores of Lake Michigan were typical . He praised the industrial advances , but deprecated what he regarded as the lack of progress in some other directions , such as devotion to religion and obligations of suffrage . Asserting that the country has prospered , advanced intellectually and improved morally and spiritually , the President declared that as a nation " we are still a great distance from what we would like to be . " " Too many of our people are unprovided with the advantages of education , " he added . " The number who are lacking in religious devotion is altogether too large . While we have reached the highest point in material prosperity ever achieved , there is a considerable class of unskilled workers who have not come into full participation in .1. e wealth of the nation . " Although our Government is sound and our courts are excellent , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vote , and violence and crime are altogether too prevalent . " Sees Our Institutions Sound . While emphasizing imperfections , the President said that , after all , the progress made is of chief significance , and in making material progress the nation has maintained its ideals . The conclusion that the nation 's institutions are sound " has been dem ' onstrated beyond question by our experience , " Mr. Coolidge declared . " It is necessary that this should be known and properly appreciated . Unless it continues to be the public conviction , we are likely to fall a more easy prey to advocates of false economic , political and social doctrines . " It is always easy to promise everything , " he said . " It is sometimes difficult to deliver anything . In our political and economic future there will always be those who are lavish with unwarranted criticism and well supplied with false hopes . " The President referred to Colonel Lindbergh 's flight . " The ideals which we seek must be practiced , " he said . " We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of your Western young men is the first to fly from America to Europe , our country hails him with a popular acclaim , so spontaneous , so genuine , as to disclose the true values of our national character . "                     