@@694146

txt VIENNA , Aug. ** the Red Friday riots are more than three weeks old and Austria , particularly Vienna , continues its daily life as before this clash between the Communists and Facisti , everybody here knows they were merely the beginning of the fight between the two extremes which must be settled at some later - time by the annihilation of one party . It is not necessarily a. matter which must be decided by bloodshed as it opened . In fact , the recurrence of gory riots is most unlikely . But it must make Austria again the citadel of conservatism it was before the war or throw it into the hands of the Socialists and Communists who controlled the State for the first few months of its life  --  as a republic . The outlook of this struggle , however it be hidden under the surface , is not one pleasing to those who have the welfare of Austria at heart . Unfortunately the country 's good is not going to be a point about which the contest will revolve . Either side seems willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though it may prolong and even deepen the depression now hovering over the State , its bright side is that it will destroy the factional strife which has been the chief contributor to the present commercial gloom . Country Is Divided Against Itself . Possibly Austria may be able to reconstruct itself with more sureness after the civil strife ends and the chances for a political and economic " Anchluss " may be greater when all is quiet than now when anything may happen . The country is in an unhappy position . Being divided against itself it has no middle party but only the Fascist Clerical Nationalists and the Socialists and Communists , which can never be expected to get any closer together than they have been since 1918 . The division is more marked because the country is almost wholly controlled by Chancellor Seipel 's Conservatives and Vienna is equally in the hands of the Socialists . The differences which exist between the farmer and the urbanites are added to the valid political aims of the factions . Both parties have honed for the last few years to gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost exactly the same strength which all previous elections of the Republic had shown and it meant to the Socialist leaders on the minority side that nothing could be gained from the voters . ; loped to Force a Coalition . The riots of July 15 were really a consequence of the selections . Urged probably by the Communist element of the party , the Socialists hoped to take advantage of what they believed a miscarriage of justice in freeing the assassins of some of their members , and through the demonstrations which followed to gain a foothold in the national government by forcing a coalition and if circumstances were favorable to take over control of the State as well of the city . But they failed in both aims . Mgr . Soipel emerged as he has from all political tussles with the same prestige and support as he mobilized eight years ago to put his party in power . It is also true that the Socialists lost no strength although they took the offensive and in ordinary circumstances as in other countries would have lost support . The lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lukewarm supporters of the extremes have no moderate leaders to turn to nor are they likely ever to have . There is nobody one sees capable of steering a middle course . With such an outlook the Austrians await the moves of the Conservatives or Socialists against the intolerable existing order of things at the present time which is expected to break out again within the next few months .                     