@@691208

txt Peritonitis has supervened upon the operation for appendicitis performed upon President Ebert in the early hours of Monday morning . His condition took a turn for the worse at 3 o'clock this morning and became so alarming that the gravest apprehension was admittedly felt by Professor Bier and the other physicians attending him . Shortly after 11 o'clock tonight the physicians reported that the patient 's condition was satisfactory , though his life was still endangered . The puist was normal and there was no fever . They added that no further bulletins would be issued until about 10 o'clock tomorrow morning . Tonight and the early morning hours tomorrow will be the most critical period in the President 's illness . If fever does not ensue then and his heart action does not fail , his chance of life , the doctors say , will improve . Realization today that the President 's condition last night was desperate c'espite reassuring reports of the medical men has aroused resentment and much skepticism regarding their bulletins . It is now known that Herr Ebert was barely kept alive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of political complications if Herr Ebert dies is lessened by the fact that his term of office is almost over and his candidaey for re-election is doubtful . But , nevertheless , his death would sure be a. rude blow to the German republic , since ' he is one of the sanest Republicans in the country , whose tact and ability are admitted even by his enemies . Even if not President , the German Republicans realize that Herr Ebert would be of enormous value to the ' republic , especially because of the favor he enjoys abroad . Public Be/loved Danger Over . Germany had almost settled down to the belief that President Ebert 's illness , though originally so serious as to have forced the surgeons to operate with all possible speed , had been successfully combated and that the patient was on the road toward normal convalescence when the news this morning from the West Sanatorium here . whither Herr Ebert had been hurried late Monday right , suddenly awakened the country to the fact that the rresident was fighting for his life . A bulletin issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition had improved somewhat since the early morning . but that it was still serious . This statement was corroborated by persons in closest touch with those at the patient 's bedside , who declared that Herr Ebert 's condition was not only serious but such as to Justify the gravest apprehension . Still later reports more than confirmed the pessimism of the morning , until shortly after noon it became apparent that the patient 's life was endangered . Otte report from the sanatorium stated that the President 's condition was " very serious , but not hopeless . " His critical condition caused the attending physicians to hold a consultation late in ' the afternoon , since the peritonitis persisted , coupled with high fever . Herr Ebert 's wife and children hurried to his bedside as soon as apprised early this morning of the alarming symptoms , but the doctors did not allow them to stay long . fearing the effect on the patient and since then no one has been allowed to see him . Despite the seriousness ' of today 's symptoms , the doctors persisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they hoped . would win out . Throughout ' the day - they ' kept vigilant watch for further complications . which they- knew glair ton- might make the President 's already serious condition desperate . Ring Alfonso Sends Message . All day high Government officials and foreign diplomats kept constantly in-formed of the latest developments in Herr Ebert 's illness , either by personally visiting the sanatorium or the Presidential mansion in Wilhelmstrasse or telephoning . ' This morning a telegram was received from king Alfonso of Spain expressing sincere wishes for President Ebert 's speedy recovery . The brevity of the early bulletins concerning Herr Ebert 's condition was due to the President 's explicit- desire that as little fuss as possible be made over his illness . This was partly the reason why the public failed to realize how dangerous his condition was even as early as last Monday , when he first began complaining of pains in the right side . Those reading between the lines , of course , knew from the start that the President 's hurried removal from his residence to the sanatorium at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The reticence of the bulletins , however , and the emphasizing therein of the optimistic note did much toward misleading the public regarding the real state of affairs at the West Sanatorium , where the President , lay fighting death ; Just as did Hugo Stinnes ? in the same institution less than a year ago. ? At the sanatorium Herr . Ebert is under care of sisters of the Order uf . Saint Vincent of - Paul , . who ? throughout the day have-been mist - guarded in reporting the patient 's condition ...                     