@@690322

txt Greeted by a cheering crowd of more than 3.000 supporters . William G. , candidate for the Democratic nomination for President , arrived at the Pennsylvania station yesterday afternoon to take charge of his own campaign . Mr. , who was accompanied by Airs. and their two young daughters , Ellen Wilson and Mary Faith , was in a most confident and cheerful frame of mind . He waved his broad-brimmed felt hat to the cheering crowd at the station and to the thousands that watched the procession in which he rode , preceded by a band . to his headquarters at the Hotel Vanderbilt . Just before leaving the train he predicted his own nomination by the Democratic National Convetion . In a speech in the train shed he said the Democratic Party could not be defeated if it remained true to progressive principles , but qualified what might have been regarded as an allusion to his own nomination by adding that the coming campaign must be waged on principles and not on personalities . Issues a Prepared htatement . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration that the Democratic Party must seize the opportunity to sharpen the issue between reaction and special privilege and progress and genuine democracy . He charged that the revelation of graft and corruption at Washington indicated lack of leadership and assorted that the people were unwilling to continue a Government of chaos and confusion based upon subservience to privilege and predatory influences . The reception to Mr. was one that might well have gratified any candidate for the Presidency . Led by Judge David Ladd Rockwell of Ohio , his national campaign manager , the chiefs of the Political organization gathered at the Pennsylvania station to meet their chieftain . All wore hatbands on which was printed the legend , " Mc 'll Do , " a revival of the slogan used four years ago at the Democratic National Convention at San Francisco . In this party were Colonel Samuel B. Amidon of Kansas , Colonel Thomas B. Love and Judge George Cotton of Texas , Wayne C. Williams , Attorney General of Colorado ; Thomas Collins of Montana , Daniel C. Roper of Washington , D. C. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Breckinridge Long of Missouri , Clyde L. Herring and E. T. Meredith , former Secretary of Agriculture , of Iowa ; George Milton of Tennessee , and Morrison Shafroth of Denver , candidate for United States Senator . 200 Admitted to Train Platform . More than 600 shouters , each , wearing the " Mell Do " hatband , gath-1 ered at the station v  --  ith a miscellaneous crowd numbering nearly three thousand more , half of whom were probably ad-1 herents of the former Secretary of the ' I Treasury . By permission of William E. Egan , ' the station master , about two hundred men and women were admitted to the train platform to greet Mr. as he stepped from the train . The others ' massed in the train shed above or on the street outside . The Seventy-first Regiment Band was placed In a strategic position and a negro band beading a delegation of negroes led by Bishop George A. of the African Orthodox Church took a position in the waiting room . Mr. 's train , which brought him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes late and it was a few minutes before 4 o'clock when it pulled into the station . Mr. was in the private car Dickens , attached to the rear of the train . With him , in addition to his family , were Oscar A. Price of New York , Clarence A. Goodwin , Bryce Claggett , his executive secretary and Major John S. Cohen of Atlanta , National Committeeman elect from Georgia . " Three cheers for our next President ! " called a voice as Mr. stepped from the station platform . The band struck up " Hail to the Chief " and the tune could barely be heard above the cheering . Swings Hat High in Air . " How are you . Judge , " Mr. said , grasping the hand of Judge Rockwell . He then swung his hat high in the air in general acknowledgment of his reception and turned to - give each of his leading supporters an individual greeting . Mrs. , daughter of a President and wife of a man who hopes to be , followed her husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who was dressed in mourning for President Wilson , chatted with friends until Mr. , swinging his younger daughter , Mary Faith , to his shoulder , called " let 's go , " and started along the platform to the exit . There was the boom of repeated flashlight explosions as the photographers snapped Mr. and his young daughter and a greater volume of cheering when Mr. left the elevator which took him to the upper level and appeared in the train shed . Policemen in command of Inspector Thomas Donohue and Captain Patrick Brady cleared a way for Mr. as he walked the centre of the train shed . There he mounted a box and again doffed his hat and waved it . " Hurrah for our next Presidene " shouted the crowd and followed this with the slogan : " Mc 'll Do ! " Mr. smiled in acknowledgment , as did Mrs. . " Speech ! " shouted the crowd . Mr. shook his head , but his supporters were so insistent that he finally yielded . Makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , " let me thank you in behalf of Mrs. as well as myself for this welcome home . Although we now live in California , we have never lost our love for our old ' home . " I take this welcome not so much as a personal tribute to myself as an evidence that you , as patriotic American citizens , desire the settlement of certain issues in this campaign . The fight in this campaign must not be on personalities but on principles . There are certain things that need redress . " There can not be two parties of reaction . The Republican Party , obedient to the voice of privilege , is the party of reaction , and the Democratic Party can not hope to compete with it - in that field . The solvent for existing evils is progressivism , particularly progressive Democracy . " If the Democratic party remains true to its principles it w:1l be successful in the election next November . If it is not it will be defeated and it will deserve defeat . Let us not shut our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to restore equal opportunity for all and I honesty in government , and we are going to restore them . " A great outburst of cheering followed . Mr. again swung his broadbrimmed hat in a characteristic circular gesture and , with Mrs. and their children , started for their automobile . There was further delay while more photographs were taken in the roadway leading into the station and while the band took its place at the head of a long string of automobiles carrying the more important leaders . Then the Procession Starts . When everything was in readiness the band began " The Stars and'Stripes For-ever " and the procession started , going by way of Thirty-second Street , up Fifth Avenue to Thirty-fourth Street and then two blocks east to the Vanderbilt Hotel . Another crowd of supporters , many of them women , waited in the hotel lobby , and there was more cheering when Mr. stepped in . He went at once to the headquarters reception room on the first floor . He was introduced to the crowd by , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who said Mr. would like to shake hands with each man and woman individually . " These are your headquarters , provided by the New York State friends of Mr. , " Mr. Boyle said . " We are all here to greet the next President of the United States . " Mr. remained in the reception room until he had shaken hands with more than a thousand persons . Somewhat exhausted but still smiling , he then went to the working headquarters of his campaign committee on the eighteenth floor of the hotel and received a score or more of newspaper reporters . He explained that he had many things to look after for the moment but would be available twice a day hereafter to members of the press during the convention period . Victory Only Through Progressivism . He then issued this statement , prepared on his way here : " It is clear that victory for the Democratic Party is certain only through the ascendency of the preponderant progressive forces within the party . In every section of the country there is a demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and progress and that it shall take no backward step with respect to the great achievements of the last Democratic Administration . " The country is disgusted with the rule of reaction and privilege and the hopeless incapacity which the national Administration has demonstrated throughout the whole of its career . The People look forward with apprehension to a continuation of the demoralization in Government at Washington which has been reflected in the amazing revelations of graft and corruption , want of leadership and the inability of the President to lead the Republican Congress or of the Republican Congress to lead the President . The people are unwilling to continue a Government of chaos and confusion based upon subservience to privilege and predatory influences . " The Republican Party , obedient to its masters ' voice  --  privilege -- has with commendable consistency and candor , adopted a platform which endorses and upholds reaction and has nominated candidates who embody thoroughly the reactionary principles and policies for which that party stands . It has learned nothing during the last four years . It has made no concession to progress . It has read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or who oppose the continued rule of trusts , monopolies and predatory power . In the days of Theodore Roosevelt , the Republican Party sought to compromise with the progressives in its ranks . Today it slams the door in their faces . Party Must Seize Opportunity . " The Democratic Party must seize the opportunity thus presented to sharpen to the keenest edge the issue between reaction and privilege on the one hand and progress and genuine democracy on the other . It can not ape the Republican Party by turning toward or compromising with reaction . Once the Democratic Party ' makes it clear that it will remain truly progressive , most of its major problems solve themselves . " There should be no extensive arguments on specifics . Opinion pis largely crystallized throughout the land . Let the Democratic Party be - as consistent for progressivism as the Republican Party has been for reaction . Progres , sives within the party know what they want  --  social and economic justice to all and Peace everywhere . Those are the broad foundations on which we must build our program for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept nothing else . They will make no compromise with expediency or cowardice . " It follows logically that there are certain things which the Democratic Party must fight for uncompromisingly : International cooperation for the purpose of abolishing war and thus maintaining peace ; cutting down or elimination of excessive military and naval armaments and the restoration of worldwide economic improvement ; broadening the base of prosperity among our own people so *hat as fast as possible parity shall be restored - between the cost to the farmer of the.things he consumes and the price he obtains for the things he sells . " As essential steps in this direction . the tariff must be reconstructed downward and the railroads must he reformed so .. a-s to provide adequate and efficient service at lower rates . Foreign trade must be re-established and widened ; the natural resources of the nation must be protected , particularly waterpower , which must be developed in the interest of the people and not exploited for private advantage . Child labor should be protected anu equality of rights , civil , economic and social , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be practiced and taxes must be progressively reduced to the lowest possible basis consistent with efficient government and justice to deserving employes in the public service . Says Sins Must Be Punished . " Justice to labor , the farmer and the People must be substituted for the policy of advantage to predatory interests constantly practiced by this Administration . The sins of commission and omission committed by the Republican Administration must be punished ; the grafters must be driven out of the Capitol . All laws must be enforced  --  they can be enforced with a vigorous and honest Government at Washington . To say that they can not be is not only to confess governmental impotence but failure of Democratic institutions . " The Democratic Party offers the opportunity for leadership and for honest , cohesive and effective government based upon sound Democratic principles and progressive and huma.nitarian ideals . Our constant adherence must be to the Democratic principle phrased by the immortal Jefferson  --  equal opportunity for all , special privilege to none . Progressive policies and principles such as these are an incomparable part of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them , it wil move forward resistlessly to victory in November . 1924 . " The convention will be inspired by high purpose and the determination to do what is best for the American people . The contest over nominations will . I hope , be conducted in a fair and generous spirit between the rival aspirants . We must remember that it is not enougn merely to nominate candidates . We must so conduct ourselves that we can elect them in November , 1924 . If there should be any who seek merely to obstruct the will of the rank and file of the party or to satisfy personal ambitions or to create schisms , I am confident that they will find neither sympathy nor support among the great body of the patriotic and unselfish men and women who come to New York impressed with the serious responsibility which rests upon them and determined to discharge it in good faith to their constituents and with fidelity to the party . " His Position , en Two-Thirds Rule . Mr. was asked whether he had anything to acid concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what he had been quoted as having said in Chicago . He replied that he had not known that he had been quoted while there , but when told that he was said to have declared that the question was immaterial , as he would be nominated either by a majority or under a two-thirds rule , he replied : " It is immaterial to me personally . However , it is a matter for the convention to decide . I should not presume to attempt to dictate to the convention . " Judge Rockwell added that this was exactly , the position he had taken since the proposed substitution of a majority rule for the two-thirds rule had come under discussion . Mr. then retired , and it was explained that he and Mrs. would take a rest before conferences with his supporters during the evening . It was said at headquarters that the prospects for Mr. 's nomination were growing brighter and that more support was being obtained for substitution of the majority rule . According to one of the leaders , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates for the nomination , after the " favorite son " candidates are eliminated , and that there were more than that number for the abrogation of the two-thirds rule . This teader predicted the nomination of Mr. on the fifth ballot .                     