@@689968

txt The Municipal Court of the City of New York has failed to fulfill even minimum requirements for a satisfactory administration of justice , according to a commission appointed by Governor Smith last August to investigate it and frame remedial legislation . The report of this body , a severe condemnation , was sent by the Governor to thei Legislature at tonight 's session . " The physical accommodations are not sufficient for the proper conduct of either the judicial or clerical work of the court , " the report says . " The judicial business is not conducted throughout the city with promptness , and dignity . There is a substantial lack of confidence in the capacity and courtesy of the court and to some degree in its impartiality . The failure of this court to fulfill the minimum requirements for a satisfactory administration of justice Is directly traceable in a large part to failure to adjust the structure of We court to modern conditions . " The forty-eight Justices who preside in the twenty-five Municipal Court Districts , the commission observes , are a very loosely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their decrees by the Appellate Division , are . none too well equipped for their duties . Percentage of Reversals Large . In the First Department , composed of Manhattan and the Bronx , the reversals . have averaged 331-3 per cent . In the Second Department , comprising the three remaining boroughs , the average I was found to be 37 per cent . " The Appellate Court does not lightly set aside the determinations of facts made by a trial Justice or a jury , " the report observes . " In the majority ofH cases , to warrant a reversal , there must be a clear error of law , or a substantial miscarriage of justice . In this court the chance of securing a correct determination upon the first trial in a realty contested case la slightly greater than 50 per cent . The numerous reversals tend to destroy confidence in the capacity of the court . " As reasons for the existing lack of1 confidence in the impartiality of its decrees , the following are given in the re-port : 1 . ? The distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in creating in particular districts a local political atmosphere . 2 . ? The public expression by Justices of pronounced views in favor of one class of litigants and against another . 3 . ? The active membership of Justices in political organizations . The report states that municipal court districts are gerrymandered so as to follow very closely political lines , until " we might say that in some districts we have a Democratic court or a Republican court , rather than a court of justice . " " The active participation of some of the Justices in political organizations must cease , " the commission urges in its report . " Active participation to the extent of practically assuming the duties and exercising the powers of a district leader is bad in any case . The election of such a Justice to the office of President  --  Justice emphasizcs the viciousness of such participation so that it can no longer be overlooked . " The feeling of distrust against the court that the commission found to prevail throughout the city , according to its report , has been enhanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in rent legislation . " We need not consider the exact point at which the expression of a Justice of his personal Views upon landlord and tenant litigation becomes improper , as some of the Justices have expressed their views to such an extent as to jus- tify the impression that they can not try these matters fairly , " the report says . Clerical Force Censured . Lack of courtesy and consideration in the treatment of litigants , attorneys and witnesses is so frequent and pronounced in the Municipal Court . as to render it impossible to overlook such instances , the report says . adding the suggestion that perhaps inadequate Coure Houses and the trying conditions under which the Justices labor may be responsible for their failure in many cases to conduct their business with " decency and decorum . " The clerical force of the Municipal Court is demoralized , according to the commission . " The whole structure of the force is such as to destroy incentive and morale . " the report says . A further charge is that the records of the court have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that even with the expert aid of public accountazt the commission found it impossible to make head or tail of them so far as the purposes of their investigation were involved . " The care of papers is such as to shock the manager of an ordinary business office , " the commission asserts . " The system of filing is antiquated and a direct incentive to the loss and mislaying of papers . Charges of intentional loss'of papers are persistent Inspection of the methods used discloses that this is an ever present possibility . " The quarters of the twenty-five district courts are pronounced " shabby and undignified , " as well as inadequate for the orderliy conduct of the court 's busi , nags , . Courtrooms " entirely lack dignity or impressiveness " and they " give an impression of shabbiness and squalor . " The maximum salary now received by ? Municipal Court Justices is $9,000 a year . In order that Justices with the necessary qualifications may be ob- ' tained , the commission recommends that a uniform salary of $12,000 be provided throughout the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present personnel of the court by stating that in its opinion the aggregate salary paid to the Justices by the city represents their full salary value . Recommendations of Commission . " We do not believe , " the report says , " that any business organization would pay the same amount to forty-eight lawyers who , with the same powers , administer the same amount of business so inefficiently . " The principal recommendations made by the commission are : The selection by the electors of the entire city of a . Chief Justice , who should be equipped with broad executive and administrative powers , The creation of an advisory council composed of nine members , selected from lists submitted by the six bar associations within the city , to supply continuous expert aid to the court , looking to perfection of organization and better , ment of practice . Creation of an adequate system of daily monthly and animal reports , dealing in standardized detail with the work of the court and of individual Justices . sProhibition against active official connection of Justices with any political party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in legislative bills which are to be introduced in the Senate and Assembly without delay . Presiding Justice Aaron J. Levy of the Municipal Court was named by the Governor as Chairman of the commission , but attended only its initial meeting , which was held prior to his election as a Supreme Court Justice . The report is signed by Henry Willard Bean as Vice Chairman and by Alfred Gregory : : John R. Davies , Harry T. Wooks , Lawrence W. Widdecombe , Alfred D. Lind , Bernard B. Deutzen and Ilaipis E. Jacobs ,                     