@@696933

txt The FaireyNapier monoplane , with which the British Air Ministry had hoped to win the world 's long-distance record with a flight from Cranwell , Lincolnshire , to Cape Town , South Africa , is a mass of wreckage in a Tunisian desert and both of its young pilots are dead . Native horsemen riding in from the desert reported at Zaghouan today that last evening they had seen a big airplane crash into the desert and that both of its occupants had been killed . It took French officials from Tunis some time to reach the spot and decide whether it was the British long-distance craft or the airplane in which three French airmen ? LaSalle , Reba rd and Faltot  --  had left Paris for Saigon , French IndoChina , on Saturday and had since I been unreported . Ministry Confirm% Report . Late tonight the British Air Ministry confirmed the original report that the bodies found were those of Squadron Leader A. G. Jones-Williams and Flight Lieutenant N. H. Jenkins , who left Cranwell Airdrome at 7:58 A. M. Tuesday . They had arranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set every four hours . The last message received was at 4 P. M. , Tuesday , when they reported their position as fifty miles off the northwest cosat of Sardinia while flying toward the Tunisian Coast . It is believed , therefore , that the crash occurred some time between 7 and 8 P. M. , Tuesday night , for no message was received at the London headquarters after they had passed Sardinia . The Fairey plane was fitted with a single Napier engine of 550 horsepower , which was carrying an enormous load amounting to nearly seven and a half tons . It was this load which caused some apprehension here as to whether the airplane could climb over the Atlas Mountains , which stand at the entrance to the Sahara Desert , which the airmen planned to cross . Zaghonan itself is a village on low ground . but near it is a mountain range rising to 5,000 feet , with a mean height of 4.000 feet . The two British pilots had to round this point to set their true course for Cape Town , having deliberately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But some clouds are expected in those mountains at this time of the year . Had ** " Ceiling . " Actually the " ceiling " of the Fairey monoplane at this point with its partly consumed load of gasoline would have been 6.000 or 7,000 feet , but it is probable the airmen had descended lower to fix landmarks and take definite bearings for their long desert crossing . No other serious navigational difficulties lay ahead . They had crossed over the fogs of France and the Mediterranean Sea at almost its widest point . It is calculated they passed over Tunis at 7 P. M. , and averaged something like 120 miles an hour , although on the basis of their estimates they needed to average only 86 miles an hour to break the record . Squadron Leader Jones-Williams. chief pilot of the flight , had served long during the war . He was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in a Welsh regiment in 1916 and in 1917 was transferred to the Royal Flying Corps . He was promoted to Captain in 1917 and received the Military Cross and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1919 . He was promoted to squadron leader in January , 1928 . Lieutenant Jenkins , second pilot , joined the Royal Naval Air Service as a mechanic in 1915 . In 1917 he became an observer with the rank of Second Lieutenant . For his war services he received the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Distinguished Service Medal . In 1923 a permanent commission in the Royal Air Force was given him . Until last year . he had served in Iraq and lately had been engaged as a test pilot in England . These two pilots flew the same machine on a non-stop trip from Cranwell to Karachi , India , last April . Squadron Leader Jones-Williams accompanied Sir Philip Sassoon . then Under-Secretary for Air , on his visit to American air stations in 1927 and made a host of friends in the United States ,                     