@@693775

txt Boats whose searchlights gleamed across debris-laden flood waters as beacons of salvation for hundreds of persons marooned on knolls and high places in Arkansas continued to ply the swollen streams tonight , hourly adding to the list of refugees saved from exposure and hunger . Refugee camps , hastily constructed , received belated and meager supplies of food and clothing , while health authorities concentrated on efforts to prevent the spread of disease which has struck in several concentration points . Other refugees , less lucky than those taken off the high places by boats , were marooned in freight cars . Two such trains were marooned at Hughes , Ark. , where a shortage of food and clothing may cause suffering . Along the lower reaches of the Arkansas River and in sections of the St. Francis River basin where waters were still rising , a serious situation prevails because of lack of sufficient boats to carry on rescue - work and fetch supplies . Airplanes replaced trains and boats wherever available . One airplane arrived here today from Kansas City with 500 yeast cakes for bread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for several days , carried on relief work with hampered facilities . Isolation Camps Established . Sanitary conditions in the flooded areas are bad and further recession of waters will increase danger of disease . Isolation camps for those stricken by disease in the refugee concentration points have been established . The plight of many refugees is beyond description . Some refused to believe the waters would rise to the record heights and rernanied in their homes until forced to flee for their lives . Consequently , in the haste to escape they took little clothing . Many children were barefoot and scantily clad in last night ' : cold . Many persons rescued by the boats from trees or on housetops were weak from exposure . Extra precautions were taken to guard them from danger of pneumonia . Many of them will not be able to return to their homes for weeks . Some have no homes , their houses being swept away by the flood . Relief for the paralyzed railway facilities was hoped for tomorrow when some roads announced they would be able to augment limited operation today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and lines made dangerous to traffic , several days must elapse before operations begin in some of the regions where waters are now beginning to recede . As the waters receded from North Little Rock 's business section business was resumed on a limited scale . The food supply here is plentiful despite the fact that it was necessary to import yeast by airplane for bread .                     