@@693425

txt Unexpectedly , dramatically , with a pyrotechnic suddenness of Rooseveltian intensity , President Coolidge sent to Congress today a formal printed message defending his course in Nicaragua . While the document is chiefly devoted to a review of the events leading up to the adoption of the Administration 's present policy , it Contains declarations virtually accusing the Mexican Government of seeking to set up in Nicaragua a governmental control hostile to the United States , with a menace to the Panama Canal involved in the Mexican attitude . Among the various constructions placed on the purpose of President Coolidge in sending such a communication to Congress , there stands out the suggestion . that he intends it as , an invitation to President Calles , sei ' Mexico to /freak diplomatic relations with the United States . " AS a matter of fact , " said the President in the most striking paragraph of his message , " I have the most conclusive evidence that arms and munitions in large quantities have been on several occasions since AuI gust , 1926 , shipped to the revolutionists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out in Mexican ports and some of the munitions bear evidence of having belonged to the Mexican Government . " It also appears that the ships were fitted out with the full knowledge of , and in some cases , with the encouragement of Mexican officials , and were in one instance , at least , commanded by a Mexican naval reserve officer . " Warns Against Interference . And toward the conclusion of his message the President makes clear , although the Mexican Government is not again mentioned by name , that he will not tolerate the conditions of which he complains with reference to the alleged attempt of that Government to obtain control over Nicaraguan governmental authority . " The United States can not , therefore , " he asserts , " fail to view with deep concern any serious threat to stability and constitutional government in Nicaragua tending toward anarchy and jeopardizing American interests , especially if such state of affairs is contributed to or brought about by outside influence or by any foreign power . " The Administration 's position with reference to Nicaragua now appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government of President Diaz and in taking measures for its protection . he was actuated by a desire to live up to obligations imposed upon the United States to give support to constitutional government in Central American countries and that this course is especially justified by evidence that the Mexican Government sought to overthrow Diaz in the interest of putting in his place an authority headed by Juan Sacasa , with purposes supposedly hostile to the interests of the American Government , including its right to construct an interoceanic canal across Nicaragua and establish a naval station in Nicaraguan territory and affecting its responsibility for the maintenance of the Panama Canal . There is no claim by the President in his message along the lines of the contention credited to the Administration that the purpose of Mexico is to set up in Nicaragua a Bolshevist wedge between the United States and the Panama Canal , but the tone of part of his communication is suggestive of an endorsement of that contention , considered in the light of the Administration 's view that the Calles Government is impregnated with Bolshevist ideas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the President 's communication , in spite of its sense , . tional trend , produced any excitement at the Capitol . There were brief allusions to it in both the Senate and the House , but these were not impor. tent or illurelnatmg in the sense of showing reaction to the President 's disclosure of his position in the Nicaraguan disturbances . While certain members of the House consented to be quoted for publication , there was a general disposition among Senators , including the A.dministration'e Severe est critics , to refrain from comment for the time being . This was in amalgams with an Sava plied understanding 112=dtiftratiotliteen. with respect to the Nicaraguan policy . would be suspend " ed. until the oppprtuniW given to gicretaryltolla isttAtOMitottI:SM =Mee to explain In detail the various reasons underlying the course of the Administration . Secretary Kellogg will appear before the committee on Wednesday . At the same time it was apparent that an undercurrent 0 opinion c isted among Senators critical of President Coolidge 's Nicaraguan venture that his exposition of the course be is pursuing would have been more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a suggestion that the Administration had not been frank in its previous disclosures of what it was undertaking to do in Nicaragua . A more advanced view along the same line was that the various explanations that have been offered through the press Were born in each case of the desire to counteract growing criticism and had not been embodied in any predetermined logical policy of procedure . In other words , it was contended that each of the series of explanations offered by the White House and the State Department was a thing of the moment , put forward in the hope of allaying hostile criticism . From opinions obtained at the Capitol the impression was created that after Secretary Kellogg gives his testimony to the Foreign Relations Committee there will be an outburst of 1 criticism on the Senate floor to which Administration Senators will respondl in defense of the President 's policy . Into any such debate the attitude of the Administration in connection with its effort to induce the Mexican Government not to carry out the laws for the nationalization of oil fields and other landed properties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The accusatory references made to the Mexican Government in the President 's review of the Nicaraguan situation will furnish the text of critical claims that the Mexican situation is full of danger to a continuance of relations between the Governments of Mexico and the United States . Swanson 's Advice to President . In this connection it was mentioned today that when Senators Robinson of Arkansas and Swanson of Virginia . as representing the Democratic leadership of the Senate , were asked at the White House last week to forego an attack on the Administration 's policies with reference to Mexico and Nicaragua , Senator Swanson said , in effect : " Ir . President , do n't go into Mexico . for you 'll find it harder to get out than to get in . " In his message President Coolidge says that he thinks " the time has arrived for me officially to inform the Congress more in detail of the events leading up to the present disturbances and conditions which seriously threaten American lives and property , endanger the stability of all Central America and put in jeopardy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction of a canal . " With that introduction be proceeds to cite those parts of the treaty concluded in Washington between the five Central American republics in February , 1923 , in which they agree not to recognize any Government in Central America which is installed by unconstitutional means . The President contends that the Diaz Government , which the United States has recognized in Nicaragua , was installed in accordance with constitutional provisions and that Dr. Sacasa , former or present Vice President , is not entitled to claim that he is the constitutional President of the republic . The President quotes in full a letter from President Diaz , written when he assumed office on Nov. 15 , 1926. requesting the assistance of the United States to protect American and foreign lives and property . This appeal , the President states , was followed by repeated assertions by President Diaz that Mexico was giving aid to the Sacasa revolutionists and that on that account he was unable to furnish protertion to Americans and other foreigners . These repeated charges led to the imposition of an embargo on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently rescinded by Mr. Coolidge in the interest of the Diaz Government . While the other Central American Governments agreed to respect the emhareo , the Mexican Government , according to the President , took the position that " in the absence of manufacturing plants in Mexico for the making of arms and ammunition , the matter had little practical importance . " The private interests acquired by American citizens in Nicaragua , the rights obtained by this Government for building a canal across Nicaraguan territory and establishing a naval base there , and other things are cited by the President as some of the reasons for his course in sending ships to Nicaraguan waters and landing bluejackets and marines . He denies the assertions of the Sacasa Party that American big banking interests are behind the United States Government 's Nicaraguan policy , and declares that " no American bankers are interested in the Nicaraguan indebtedness . " " Consequently , " says the President , after reciting these various considerations of American interest in preserving tranquilly in Nicaragua , " I have deemed it my duty to use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all American interests in Nicaragua , whether they be endangered by internal strife or by outside interference in the affairs of the republic . " Borah Wants Times Message Printed . Immediately after the Presidential message was read in the Senate , Senator Borah , Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations , moved that it be printed , together with the statement Cabled to THE NEW YORE Twee yesterday by President Diaz of Nicaragua . Senator Bingham of Connecticut detended President Coolidge 's course , holding that Diaz was actually the Constitutional President of Nicaragua . At the outset Senator Borah and Senator Bingham had a short , tiff Over Mr. Bingham 's implication that , fr . Borah had confused two men named Diaz . But Senator Borah insisted he had the present President in mind when he said on Saturday that Diaz was not legally President . " Diaz is the rightful President or Nicaragua , " Senator Bingham said , adding that Diaz had been recognized by every country which recognized Nicaragua except one  --  Mexico . After stating that Mexico was endeavoring to overthrow the Diaz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latimer has discovered on the docks tens of thousands of rounds 0f ammunition bearing seals showing it was made in Mexico , and it is a fact that it could not have reached Nicara gua without the consent of the Mexican Government . " 7 At this point Senator Bingham answered statements by Senators Wheeler and Heflin last Saturday . ? He first took up a letter read by Senator Wheeler from John 0 . Sanders of Ilaissouri . Sanders , who described himself as American Consul in Nicaragua ta 16 ' 17-20 , ** 1920 he had ? ; aseeee 1 been " squeezed out of the service " because of his exposure of the activities of American banking and financial interests in Nicaragua .. Senator Bingham , who said he had investigated Sanders 's record , asserted that the former Consul was not " squeezed out " in 1920 , but remained in the service at another post until 1924 , when he was dismissed for incompetency , which had nothing to do with the Nicaraguan affair . Senator Bingham then alluded to a letter Senator Wheeler read Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Orleans , and added that the head of this organize. - tion , one Roderiguez , was a self-styled Consul , whose office " depended on the success of Sacasa , his intimate friend . " " Roderiguez , " Senator Bingham asserted , " is working with Mexico to try to overthrow the Diaz Government and is trying to get arms sent for that purpose . Senator Bingham denied statements of Senator Heflin of Alabama that the Administration recognition of Diaz was due to oil interests . " So far as anybody knows , " he said , " oil has never been discovered in Nicaragua . " Senator Borah , the foremost critic of the Administration 's Nicaraguan policy , explained that he had an understanding with Secretary Kellogg that Mr. Borah would , not discuss the Nicaraguan situation until after Mr. Kellogg had presented the views of the State Department ma Wednesday . Message Criticized in House . President Coolidge 's message was received in the House of Representa- I tives in the closing moments of the sessions and was introduced by Representative Garrett of Tennessee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might follow the enforcement of the President 's policy . He urged Congress to proceed cautiously in the consideration of Central American problems . " I am not satisfied with the information given in the President 's mesSage ; it is not specific or complete , " he said . " Furthermore , what actual menace to the American flag exists in Central America ? Nothing in this message indicates an actual menace to American treaty rights or the Panama or Nicaragua Canal projects , " Representative Garrett insisted that the real issues were befogged and that the public mind was being led off on false angles . He said a large number of Nicaraguan bonds were held by people in the United States who , he declared , bought these bonds with " their eyes wide open . " " If the armed forces of the ' flitted States are to be used to pollect inter-1 est due on these bonds , reannot give approval and ask Congress to indorse my stand , " he added . Other Opposition Views . Representative Huddleston of Alabama in an interview said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all its most extreme implications . " Representative Oldfield of Arkansas , Chairman of the Democratic Congresatonal Committee , said : " President Coolidge seems to have presented his case against Nicaragua in plausible manner . However , he is somewhat audacious to criticize the the President of Mexico for permitting what Calvin Coolidge himself permits ? the sale of arms to belligerents in Nicaragua . " Representative Linthicum of Maryland , a Democratic member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , said : " I feel we ought not to criticize Mexico . The fact that Mexico is selling arms in Nicaragua is , I think , a commercial proposition . It appears from the message that we are also Selling arms to the other side . " Representative Stephen G. Porter of ? Pennsylvania , Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , said : " I am familiar with the facts fa this matter , and the President 's message is a complete and concise statement of all the facts . I am satisfied it will clarify the situation . " Representative Romjue of New Mexico , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed forces to Nicaragua , directing the Committee on Foreign Affairs to investigate . Dr. T. S. Vaca , confidential agent of the Sacasa Government , got out a statement this evening in response to President Coolidge 's message . He said it was evident the President had not been correctly informed .                     