@@690420

txt Negotiations by the American Farm Bureau for the acquisition of several of the leading grain houses of the country have been completed . Primary market elevators , with a total capacity of 50,000,000 bushels , have been acquired , and are to be reinforced by the nearly 5,000 farm cooperative country elevators . The " Grain Marketing Company , " capitalized at $51,000,000 , has been chartered under the taws of Illinois , and will begin to function at once . Thus , like a newly completed vessel , this giant cooperative marketing enterprise has slid down the ways to ride upon the sea of Big Business . Here is power and a potential monopoly that , in other than farm or perhaps labor hands , would cause a great outcry and set the government to work investigating and enjoining . It is to be hoped that the farmers will realize that power carries responsibilities and that the public welfare comes first . If they do , the public will be friendly to their enterprise , even as Wall Street is . But any unwise use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long be tolerated by the people . Will the farmers realize all the benefits they expect from this great adventure ? Here 's hoping they will , but will they ? The function of marketing is to bring producer and consumer together . The farmer in Kansas or North Dakota has wheat to sell ; the consumer in New York , or perhaps London , wants a loaf of bread , done up in waxed paper , delivered to his table every day . There is a long road between the two , full of risks and expenses . Marketing is the traveling of that road ; sometimes at the end it finds profits and sometimes losses . Not every one can travel that road successfully . Foresight , experience , business talent and unceasing vigilance are necessary , no matter under what name the traveler goes . Cooperative marketing will have to meet the same problems  --  meet the expenses and run risks like any other marketing . If it can do this with more skill  --  and less waste  --  than the individual system and , in foreign markets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , the new enterprise will justify its existence . If it does not do this and give the farmers a greater return it will be a failure . But at least one good should come from this enterprise . The result should be a thorough demonstration of whether or not cooperative marketing on a grand scale , assuming honest and competent management , is a help to the farmer . Likewise , the farmers should learn that the grain pits are not gambling hells , where prices are put up or down at the will of those who operate in them . They will learn also that prices are made , not by gamblers , or even speculators , but by world conditions affecting the demand and supply . When xr-a learn this fact they will be less susceptible to the influence of political fakirs who capitalize discontent .                     