@@695280

txt There is noo. prospect that former Gov . Frank 0 . Lowden . of Illinois , fttemost among public men of prominence as a champion of farm relief , will desert the Republican party or shift his allegiance in the present campaign to Gov . Smith as a candliate for President . That much may be stated on authority . When questioned at his summer home In the Thousand Islands today as to whether he plans to take an active part In the campaign , he said : " 1 have made no statement to any one , since ' that I made to the Repub. ! lean national convention , in which I clearly set forth my position with regard to the agricultural plank in the Republican natlbnal platform and my own ' attitude with regard to the nomination . I am not prepared to make any statement now . " - Zeal for Fariner Unabated . One thing , however , former Gov . Lowden made perfectly clear . Regardless of what part he may or may not play in the campaign , there has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farmer . While disappointed In the Repub. licAn platform 's plank on agriculture , Mr. Lowden sees no occasion for despair . With the farmer forming the backbone of the Republican party in the west , he believes there is yet time for his party to grant to American agriculture the sympathetic under , standing and consideration which , ho I says , it has so freely extended to other ndustrles , oven though this should nvolve a somewhat " forced " construction of the platform declaration 3n agriculture and a deviation from the stand taken by President Coolidge . Mt . Lowden would not comment on the developments In New York City during the last few days , including the meeting between Gov . Smith and George N. . Peek , out of which came a. suggestion that Smith might ' have LOWden 's , support . Will Cooperate if Asked . When his attention wait called to the assurance given by Gov . Smith that , in the event ' of his election ho would at once call together the best minds enlisted in the agrarian cause , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan for farm relief . Mr. Lowden said , the governor could count on him . He declared : " I will whole heartedly cooperate with the next President of the United States , whoever he may be , provided my cooperation is wanted , for the solution of this problem in which I am more deeply interested than in any other . " Mr. Lowden listened in silence when his attention was called . to a recent statement of Gov . Smith 's in which he rejected the method of application of the equalization fee provided for in the bill , He would make no cpmment . Leans to Equalization Fee . ' It is recalled , however , that Mr. Lowden pronounced the equalization fee the central feature of that measure , he declared that without this provision it . would be very much like a tariff measure without any schedules . He has stated repeatedly that if a better method of farm relief could be devised , ho would be heartily in favor of it. - Mr. Lowden said he had at this time no new message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are anxiously awaiting the acceptance speeches of the candidates . He carried with him from Kansas City no personal regrets , but has felt keenly that , in a position which has rendered It impossible for him to be an active figure without going back on principles and policies which he has been advocating , for years , his aloofness should have been construed in some quarters as due to pique over his failure to receive more consideration from the Republican national convention .                     