@@693254

txt LEARNING to play tennis Is similar in many ways to the business of learning to act , in the opinion of William T. Tilden 2d. who is by way of knowing something about both lines of endeavor . Between the acts of " They All Want Something , " in which the tennis star is now being featured at Wallack 's Theatre , Mr. Tilden last week recalled with a in the early days of his court career when , as an embryonic champion , he played in tournaments at the historic old Mannheim Cricket Club in Philadelphia . " In those days , " be said , " I had lots of speed and ambition but very little control . When I 'd hit the ball it would be just as liable to go into the net or three feet over the backstop as into my opponent 's court . My game was wild but full of hope . Finally , I realized that unless I learned the small and seemingly tedious technical details of stroking , all my speed , strength and amI ition would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge till at length I could command my shots and place them at will , and when I drove them with everything I had in me they went fast and clean to my opponent 's base lines or bounced at his feet or on his backhand or wherever I wished them to . " In acting it is very much the same story . You bring to the task plenty of enthusiasm and speed and ambition . You think it is easy because , as done by others who are expert at the job , it seems quite simple . But you are apt pretty soon to find yourself playing all around the court instead of in it . Your ' stroking ' is bad . Your ' shots ' are all ' netted ' and your services are all ' faults . ' Thea comes the time for self-analysis and the assimilation of much technical knowledge . Your enthusiasm must be put under control . Your speed must be harnessed . Each of yoar ' shots ' must be made to ' register . ' " There is one thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Tilden added , " and that is a yearly tournament to determine who is the ' best performer . ' " We have a Pulitzer Prize Committee to rule on the ' best play of the year , ' he explained , " but we have no machinery or system by which we can determine the ' best actor ' of the year . Why is this so ? Surely it would not be difficult for some committee or body to view the efforts of our actors and actresses during the course of each theatrical season and , at the end of the season , to see to it that the most efficient and capable performer or performers were awarded due recognition . This might serve as an added impetus to stimulate interest in the art of acting . "                     