@@693923

txt While such a figure as 93,457,869,000 for brokers ' loans at the end of May , with one exception the largest showing on record , may well make any of us thoughtful , it by no means follows that there is over-extension of credit . It is extremely probable also that this is nowhere near the total money borrowed on stock exchange securities . With a dividend yield better than the rate for money the customer may take up his stock and pledge it elsewhere than in New York . There must be many state banks all over the country which are making perfectly sound loans of this kind . They have plenty of money to use , and the collateral is good enough to satisfy the most exacting banker because it can be promptly turned into cash . No doubt the level of prices is high in a bull market which has been running actively , with two substantial recessions , since October , 1923 . For the present stocks carry themselves , while bear markets and cheap money do not go together . What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividend is a highly important anchor to windward . A simple calculation would show that railroad stocks are selling , on the average , at not higher than ten times their earnings , while in any collapse during the past quarter of a century the ratio would be not less than twenty times . There is nothing in all this to set up any cry of inflation . There are conservative considerations which should always be kept well in view , more particularly when the industrial group is considered . The margin between superlatively good and fairly good management in railroads is not dangc:ously wide . The difference between first rate management and something which is merely going through the motions , in the conduct of an industrial corporation , is the difference between prosperity and bankruptcy . At the present level the investor is betting substantial odds on the maintenance of high production coupled with almost negligible competition . An error in policy can make a radical difference in the most firmly established corporation . What would the late Henry 0 . Havemeyer liave said of his safe 7 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have forseen its history after his death ? There was a mistake in policy and a total failure to comprehend the evanescent character of the brief post-war boom . These arc things which a conservative investor will take into account . Securities held for fixed income tend to advance as commodity prices , which mean the cost of living , come down and the purchasing power of the income increases . It should not be forgotten , therefore , that common stocks have largely joined an investment class which was , not to long ago , represented by bonds alone or their equivalent . Record shows that , in dealing with Soviet , progress is from trade relations to betrayed relations .                     