@@687168

txt Cotton production in the United States is seriously menaced today . The most dangerous cotton pest in the world has made its appearance in one of the largest producing counties of Texas . Let it once get firmly established , as has the weevil , and the reign of King Cotton in the United States would be seriously imperilled. ? This is to introduce the pink boll worm . In 1917 it was found at a few points in Texas where it had been brought from Mexico . Steps were immediately taken to stamp it out by establishing zones in which cotton could ' trot be raised , and by quarantine against foreign seed . Now , in spite of these precautions , it has been found in Ellis County , Texas , and the infestation traced to seed shipped from a point in New Mexico . Seed from the same place has also been shipped-to other parts of the country . Here is what the United States Department of Agriculture has just said of the matter : ' " This occurrence of the pink boll worm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development which has occurred in relation to the finding of it in the United States . * * * It demands early and most serious consideration by the authorities in ? Texas as well as by the authorities of all other states that produce cotton . For this reason the board lets decided ' to call a conferehce in Dallas on December 2 . " ' In a study of the insect , by W. D. Hunter of the Bureau of Entomology , published by the Department of Atriculture , it is said that the pink boll worm is the most serious pest of the cotton plant in the world ; that it reduces the yield , lowers the quality of what is produced , and affects seed as well as lint . The tamer loses a part of his crop , the spinner gets inferior Material and the miller obtains lower grade by-products . There is no reason to suppose it would not maintain itself in the United States . ? According to this samOthuthority the life history of the insect favors its spread . The larvae , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may live there for as long as two years . In experiments , bales of cotton with infested seed were stored . Twenty-six months later they were opened , and living larvae were found . This remarkable , longevity , Mr. Hunter says , makes it possible for the pink boll worm to be transported in seed to the remotest parts of the earth . More than a quarter of a century.ago the boll weevil appeared at one spot in Texas , near the Mexican-border . It did n't look dangerous then to people in Georgia and South Carolina . But now it is intrenched in the entire cotton belt and has inflicted ' losses almost too great to be calculated . That conference at Dallas on December 2 will . consider a greater matter , one that may affect the indtistrial structure of every state in the South . The situation does indeed demand " considerfttian by all states that produce cotton " .                     