@@694484

txt In today 's annual attempt to prove the absurd proposition that all opinions are equal , the people of New York City and State will be called to vote " yes " or " no " on a number of amendments , of which number 4 relates to salaries . There are excellent reasons why the governor of the state should receive $25,000 a year . There are no reasons , good or bad , why the lieutenant-governor should receive $10,000 or the members of the Legislature $2,500 for nine weeks ' work a year . This is the wrong way to advance the governor 's salary , and in order to see that the advance is achieved in a businesslike way every citizen should vote " no . " There is no more responsible state governorship anywhere in the United States , and the administrator of eleven million people should be a $25,000 man . The evil of the amendment is in assuming that a justified advance in salary can not be made except with unjustifiable advances elsewhere . Nothing could more clearly exemplify the difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , incorporated or not , a man 's salary is advanced when he is clearly worth more . It is not advanced because he has been in that office twenty years and has learned no more than can be taught to an office boy in twenty weeks . When he can show that it would cost 50 per cent , more than he is receiving to replace him , with all the inconvenience of a change , the increase in his salary is gladly conceded . It is all the sweeter because both he and his employer know that he deserves it . But that is not the way New York City or New York State runs its business . There must be some competent men in the civil service . in Washington or anywhere else to keep it running . Civil servants like safety , so that in spite of all the waste the best men never get anything like what they might earn if they took courageous chances outside . What civil service does is to protect the duffer . He may never have learned a single thing since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and yet an advance in salary is taken as a matter of course . In the New York City Municipal Building the distribution of office space is wasteful because a clerk of a given number of years ' service is entitled to a private room . The best reporters on a newspaper work in a room with half a hundred others . They arc so busily engaged in working that they soon get accustomed to the crowd . The civil servant has too much time for thinking . especially about himself . Amendment number -1 is all wrong , and should be defeated for that reason . The fact that we pursue a salary policy toward our elected - or other public servants closely approaching to imbecility is no reason why we should go on doing so forever . Perhaps we shall get sonic apprcrach to common sense if we cut off the tail of the salary kite . Nor can it be thought that the possibility of motives other than offended national sensibilities underlying the action of the Spanish government raiz:amazes its import . It May be that the popularity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who throng the theatres to see them and outside of its effect upon the home picture industries . Anier : =ns returning from abroad have expressed the firm conviction that the number of American films exhibited there has had much to do with the expansion of the European markets for our manufactures during the past several years . Whether always accurately or not , movies have held before the peoples of Europe a continuous spectacle of the American mode of living , with its mechanical conveniences , its labor-saving devices and the wide prevalence of seeming luxury among all classes . Our exports of films have served us in a manner and on a scale not fully appreciated here . This , to be sure , is putting the argument upon its lowest plane , that of material self-interest . Unfortunately , there is little enough in the experience of America with its own output of pictures to encourage the belief that other considerations will appeal strongly to Hollywood. , Nevertheless something must be said on the side of decent attention to the national pride , and particularly as in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved . A leading Madrid newspaper speaks of " the inherent intellectual myopia of America , " as among the explanations of a film which moved the Spanish government to act . At the risk of being cited for contempt of the mayor of Chicago , it must be confessed that this shot hits too close to the mark to be laughed away . Intellectual myopia is in truth a mild description of what is wrong with too large a proportion of the Elms shown in the United States , including many based upon native scenes and stories . Perhaps the making of films can not be expected quite to have got past the follies of youth . But it is making some little progress in that direction which should be materially assisted by the Madrid incident .                     