@@687868

txt The Administration 's efforts to bring about an agreement among the miners and operators of the unionized bituminous coal fields to enter voluntarily upon a wage scale conference was unsuccessful today , and adjournment was taken until tomorrow ' morning at 10 o'clock . If efforts at a compromise fail at that time , it is believed that the Government 's plans will be made known . It is the belief that the Administration will demand that both sides submit their differences to arbitration and make it known that steps will be taken to protect the public interest by reopening some of the mines which were shut down by the strike . The operators held a separate meeting this morning and operators and miners were brought together under the auspices of Secretaries Hoover and Davis at 2 o'clock this afternoon . For two hours the groups engaged in a debate which at times became heated . - No definite conclusion was reached and at about 4 o'clock Secretary Hoover made public the following statement , which he said had been agreed to by Secretary Davis : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competitive field alone . The miners voted against the principle of independent conferences in each district . Upon suggestion for further separate meetings of operators and miners for further consideration of methods the conference adjourned until Monday morning at 10 o'clock . " The disagreement which had been stirred up by assertions of some of the representatives of the miners that operators of the central competitive field , who were willing to meet on the national basis had been excluded from yesterday 's meetings , was patched up today , and two of these operators , President Brooks , of the Southern Wyoming Coal Operators ' Association , and Joseph Pursglove , of the Monongahela. district , were admitted . James Morgan , President of District 24 of the miners ' organization , also attended today 's session . The operators , at a separate meeting in the morning , it was said , voted heavily to refuse to enter a wage scale Conference with the mine workers on the basis of the central competitive field . When they ' went into conference with the miners and with Secretaries Hoover and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The representatives of the miners declared as emphatically that they were solidly against giving consideration to district wage conferences . , No persuasion by Secretaries Hoover or Davis was sufficient to break this deadlock , and finally it was decided that further effort at this time would prove of no value . Immediately after the conference adjourned the representatives of the miners held a separate meeting , which continued for an hour . It was made known afterward that there was no thought of receding from the position taken and that this would be made known again when . the general meeting is convened tomorrow . The fact that a deadlock existed when the meeting ended today does not necessarily mean that no solution is to be found . The indications are , however . that hops of a. voluntary agreement by miners and operators has about been I given up . The next step , it is forecast , ' will be for the Government , through Secretaries Hoover and Davis , to make some proposal . This probably will be done tomorrow , and it may be that both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration . Secretary Hoover had no comment to make aside from the brief statement which has been quoted . Secretary Davis was asked if be still was optimistic and replied in the affirmative . He seemed to'held ? the belief that some way would be found out of the tangle , but would not discuss any compromise offer which he ; nay have had in mind . If the Administration should request miners and operators to submit to arbitration to a Government ' commission , obstacles probably would bo raised . The miners do not want such arbitration unless they are given assurance that there will be no decrease in the level of wage scales As of April 1 , when the decision is made . To this position the operators take exception . It was a Situation of this kind that was largely responsible for the failure of the miners and operators in the anthracite coal industry to agree upon arbitration . There was the suggestion in one quarter today that the Government might adopt a. plan to reopen enough of the coal mines to add , say , 5,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pending steps to bring about reorganization of the industry . If the Government were to ask miners to go back to work in some of tho mines on this basis , it la probable that the wage scales existing at the time the strike wits called would be- employed temporarily . By agreement the strictest secrecy was maintained in regard to the plan which the Administration has in contemplation in the event that the efforts to bring about a voluntary agreement among miners and operators should fail tomorrow . Bail Congestion Lowers Output . WASHINGTON , July 2 ( Associated Press ) . ? Bituminous coal production in districts operating , notwithstanding the miners ' strike , showed a slight falling off last week on account of railroad congestion , the Geological Survey reported today . The figure of 5,361,000 tons reached by the output for the week ending June 24 , it was said , was not likely to be exceeded by the later period totals , though anthracite production , which was completely stopped by the walkout on April 1 , recovered very slightly and furnished railroads approximately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous expansion " of nonunion soft coal production in certain areas in Kentucky and southern West Virginia , the survey reported , has finally taxed the capacity- of railroads serving them . While cars were available , tertmorary ? embargoes against new coal trains were enforced during periods of the week to allow yards and tracks to be cleared . " rurther gedne in output are not to be expected . ' the survey commented , " except as mines hitherto closed by the strike resume operation . " Railroads , however , wetsclear . Ing their es toward end of the weir , and on Thursday , the latest day rep rted , 16,411 cars of coal were loaded , compared with 15,760 on Wednesday . Considering the practically complete stoppage of anthracite and the partial stoppage of bituminous production , the survey estimated that ' the quantity of fuel now being mined was between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000 tons below the normal weekly output ,                     