@@693975

txt To the young man or woman wishes to develop the qualities that appeal to the other sex , there is but ? one brand of advice that is worth e.lktnc And it is to " Be Yourself ! " A. certain boy , engaging in h.3 own quietness of manner and his unusual consideration of little attentions , got the idea that he would be more popular if he showed " pep " like the chap ; he traveled around with , lie started imitating Bill in wise cracks and rather rough handling of the girls . As a wise cracker he went flat . and his free and easy manner did n't go over at all . A nice young modern took him aside one evening and told him he was so much nicer when he was himself that she wished be would n't make such idiotic speeches or behave as he was doing . A girl who may be a bit slow getting on at first , the type that in , variably comes off the best in the end if she remains true to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be like Gene or Bess . who keep the crowd laughing with their merry quips . Instead of getting away with Bees ' or Gene 's line , she makes a monkey of herself and bores people to death . A girl who did a lot of entertaining at her borne and would have been a charming hostess otherwise , used to memorize a batch of jokes for table use . She had n't the gift of story telling and the jokes were painfully dull in consequence . Had she been content to let those who can tell stories with a punch , her dialler parties might have been more delightful engagements to look forward to . She was n't dull when you had her alone and she did n't feel it necessary to strain herself for entertainment 's sake , But she got the reputation of being " deadly dull . " Of course , there are certain little arts of pleasing  --  such as listening enthusiastically , sympathetically , interwhich may be added to every type , no matter what the natural make up . with satisfactory results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be it and do n't let any one , least of all yourself , persuade you to try to be an imitation of some one else whose , tricks or charms were not included in your birth certificate . Engagement Is Announced . Henderson D. Graff of the Kenwood hotel announces the engagement of his daughter . Margaret Davis . to R. Richard Jacobsen . son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Jacobsen of Oregon , ill . The weddine date has not been set .                     