@@693195

txt Lord Oxford and Asquith . better known in America and everywhere outside England by the simple title of Mr. Asquith , as he was known during his long career culmlniating in his Premiership of Great Britain at the outbreak of the World War , resigned the leadership of the Liberal Party today , thus providing a first-class sensation in British political Circles . His resignation is directly due to differences with former Premier David Lloyd George . These came to a head during the great general strike last Spring , when Lord Oxford opposed the strike with the utmost vigor as menacing the destruction of parliamentary government , whereas Lloyd George failed to identify himself with this view . Ever since then the dissension within the Liberal ranks has been acute , until it has finally culminated in today 's drastic step by the aged veteran . Lord Oxford stated his reasons in a letter addressed today to J. A. Spender . President of the National Liberal Federation of England and Wales , and is expected to amp4fy them tomorrow in a speech at Greenock on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a speech on Saturday at Barnstaple , in the course of which he will undoubtedly take up his schism with Lord Oxford from his own viewpoint . The Letter of Resignation . In his letter to Mr. Spender Lord Oxford and Asquith writes : I have had to reconsider from every point of view , public and private , since the differences which arose in the early Summer over the general strike , my own personal relations with the party . In my judgment . then and now , serious matters of principle vital to the State and to parliamentary government , and not less so to the Liberal Party , were put in peril . The outbreak of the organized-general strike was the gravest domestic event in my lifetime . If it had succeeded parliamentary government would have been at an end . To temporize with such a situation would fatally and with justice have discredited the Liberal Party . It was no action of mine which made Pis a ground of controversy in the Liberal ranks , and it was with as much distress as surprise that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a quarter which it was impossible for me to disregard , coupled with a refusal at a time of national crisis to meet me in council . Fortunately for the country , the general strike came to a speedy end , and I think I may firmly claim that the firmness of some of the Liberal declarations made during the progress  --  the only time when they ' could be of use  --  contributed materially to this result . If it had gone on I am convinced that the Liberals would have had the strongest reason to deplore vacillating counsels on the part of their leaders . Rivalry Fatal to Party Unity . I attach as great importance as any one to party unity and I have done as much as any man living ( often under difficult conditions ) to attain and preserve it . But I am satisfied that it can not be effectively maintained under a system of rival authorities with separate organizations and separate funds . I can not and will not take any part direct or indirect in sectional controversies . I am now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of half a century in public life . I was Prime Minister for a longer consecutive term and had to face graver responsibilities than any of my predecessors during the last hundred years . For a still longer time I have been leader of the Liberal Party . During all these years I have given my time and strength without stint or reserve to the service of the party and State . From the principles of liberalism as I have always understood them and understand them still I have never swerved to right or left and I never shall . Though my health is now restored , I feel that the anxieties and responsibilities of leadership ought not to be undertaken or continued by any one who can " not be reasonably certain that he can stand the strain . I do not contemplate retirement from public life and hope that I may still be of some service to the State and to Liberalism . But I have come to the conclusion that it is my duty to lay down the leadership , and this decision , arrived at after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as irrevocable . Party Rift of Long Duration . For a long time the British Liberal Party has been rent ny dissension within its ranks . At no time were these so marked and serious as during the general strike . Then the differences between the two great former Liberal Prime Ministers , Lord Oxford and Lloyd George , made it clear to every one that the factional fight was bound to lead to an open rupture unless one or the other made may . Lord Oxford has now made way . Whether this means the rise of his younger and still vigorous rival to supremacy over the Liberal Party re , mains to be seen . There is a faction against him in its ranks which even ' without Lord Oxford in the leadership may continue the Asquithian tactics so successfully that Lloyd George may fail to gather the Liberal reins into his hands . The schism between Lord Oxford and Lloyd George became clearly visible to all when the former , soon after the close of the general strike , wrote a letter deploring the course adopted by Lloyd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recipient of the letter as " the greatest domestic crisis which the country has had to confront in your time or mine . " A. letter was then written to Lord Oxford members of the " Liberal Shadow Cabinet "  --  the name given to the group of Liberal leaders  --  assuring him of their support and hitting out at Lloyd George thus : " Confidential relations are impossible with one whose instability destroys confidence . " Since then several endeavors have been made to restore Liberal unity . But it could not be done . Where Lloyd George was Lord Oxford could not be and vice versa . The members of the " shadow " Cabinet who stand firmest behind the veteran Lord Oxford are Lord Grey of Fallodon , British Foreign Secretary at the outbreak of the World War , Sir John Simon , Mr. Runciman , Sir Donald , Vivian Phillips . Geoffrey Howard and William R. Pringle . Sir Godfrey Collins , the chief Liberal Whip , is absent in America . It is stated tonight that Lord Oxford 's supporters will not put forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party , and they assume . tat the post of leader will lapse . Conservative Organ Regrets Split . In asleading editorial The London Times says : " Upon the fortunes of Liberalism the resignation of the veteran leader of the party is not likely to have any immediate effect . The schism which had long been forming and which became an open breach last Summer remains as it was . It may be aggravated and intensified by the ' recriminations which are certain to follow Lord Oxford 's decision and his candid statement of the reasons which made it inevitable . " There may follow fresh desertions from the Asquithian Liberals in some few cases to the Conservatives or to the camp of Lloyd George , which alI ready outnumber theirs in the House of Commons , but they are not likely to be numerous . ? Most of the party will continue , like Lord Oxford , to hold fast to Liberal principles as they have always understood them . Some may prefer to cherish these principles in private life rather than prosecute an internecine quaitel in a hopelessly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Liberalism may be upon the future of our domestic and Imperial politics is a subject for speculation altogether too uncertain for immediate discussion . But there is no doubt at all that the present state of the party is regretted profoundly far outside its own ranks . " Papers of all political shades pay tribute to Lord Oxford for the great work he has done for the country and express the earnest hope that although he has resigned the leadership of the Liberal Party he will long be spared to render service to the State . The Asquithian Westminster Gazette declares that Lord Oxford " is beyond question the most illustrious of our elder statesmen . " The Lloyd Georgian Daily Chronicle says Lord Oxford 's resignation brings to its historic close a long period of fruitful and useful service to the State . The Radical Daily News says : " The Liberal Party has had One greater leader but none more disinterestedly devoted to its service . " The Conservative Morning Post puts1 the blame for the Liberal split mainly , upon Lloyd George and recalls his " comic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general strike published in American newspapers . " As to the future , most of the papers are awaiting further developments before they venture to predict anything . But The Morning Post says that deprived of Lord Oxford 's leadership the Liberal Party becomes Lloyd Georgian or ndthing.                     