@@692849

txt There can be no bad way of raising money for the care of Central Park , though some ways are better than others . The popular subscription which Mi . Auousr HECKSCHER has launched , if only it could be collected from the people who use the Park , would have the advantage of fixing attention upon its present squalor and decay . A dollar for every bit of litter thrown upon walk and lawn and Into the shrubbery would . soon bring the needed three millions . But even as Mr. HECKSCHER proposed to make the subscription " popular , " he remarked that he would be glad to contribute . From the point of view of the scatterers of chewing-gum wrappers and picnic debris nothing could be more popular than another gift on the scale of the magnificent playground he was dedicating . Mayor WALKER held forth a hope that next year , when the city will be able to contribute without cutting into its subway fund , it will match dollar for dollar of the popular subscription , . up to a million and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole sum , which is small enough in view of the end to be achieved . The actual real estate value of the land is three billion dollars . Mr. HECKSCHER , who made this valuation , added that to the people the Park is worth much more than that . . It should be . In its pristine neatness and beauty it delighted the eye , eased jangled nerves and awakened in prisoners of the city a knowledgt and a love of nature . The value of that is not to be estimated in billions . The present value of the Park is more nearly calculable . It is the best training school for citizenship we possess . Properly policed , it would instil into the popular mind the great truth that no nation can continue to enjoy the privilege It abuses ; that the prime condition of liberty is regard for the rights of others . Central Park will attain its full worth only when the manners of those who frequent it are as wholesome and serene as lichened ledges , velvety lawns and overshadowing trees . Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manners of our democracy are unregenerate , the Park itself is a scandal . Rocks have been blackened by the burning of rubbish against them . Where once there were stately malls one finds a few maimed giants , their truncated limbs holding dead branches against the sky . For the rest there are only saplings , many of them also dying for the lack of a little care . It is explained that money has been appropriated for planting but none for upkeep . With such an object lesson is it strange that frequenters of the Park are shiftless ? Three millions can not be better spent than in making a Park worthy of respect and In making the public respect it .                     