@@689259

txt Anthracite operators and miners after conferences with the Coal Commission yesterday afternoon agreed to only one thing , the commission 's request to resume negotiations in Atlantic City Monday morning . Three days of alternating sessions between the two disputing parties . and the commission failed to bring about a meeting of minds on a single point , and the commission left for Washington disturbed . What looked Wednesday night like a solution of all difficulties when miners offered to abandon their demand 7 for the checkoff if operators would abolish checking off from wages a. list of 29 items , including rent , cost of tools , insurance , etc. , became complicated Thursday morning , when both parties went over the situation more thoroughly . Then followed frequent and verbose offers of concessions by the disputants . Members of the commission said these were apparently for public consumption , and had not been offered in conference with commissioners . Commissioners Hammond and Smith said both sides had firmly in mind what they wanted , but could not in any way seem to interpret each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission requested both operators and miners to meet and determine their attitude on three qUestions covering possibility of settlement before expiration of the present agreement , August 31 , possibility of a strike , and possibility for continuing mining operations after September in event of a strike . They were given until 8 o'clock last night . In joint conference , both sides determined upon the only course  --  to resume negotiations without replying to the commission 's other questions . Following cominuncation was addressed to the Coal Commission : " In View of the commission 's request and public interest and apprehension , miners and operators will , without prejudice , meet in joint conference Monday morning in Atlantic City at 11 o'clock , and will earnestly endeavor to reach an agreement by September 1 . " Operators urged that an understanding be reached , providing that no suspension take place September 1 , in case no agreement is reached by that date , and that the new agreement , when executed , be retroactive to that date . Miners asked that this matter be left to the joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitrate any part of the eleven demands not otherwise disposed of . Miners asked that this matter be left to the joint conference . As the two sides were making preparations to leave , Mr. Lewis said that as far as he could see the New York conferences had yielded nothing . Miners ' demands existed the same last night as on July 26 , when Atlantic City ne. , gotiations were adjourned indefinitely . " I do not know what we will take up first Monday morning , " Mr. Lewis said , " but it is to be supposed that we will start in discussing demand No. 1 again . "                     