@@693132

txt Miami appealed today to the American people for funds to aid in its rehabilitation after the disastrous hurricane of last Saturday . The appeal , issued by the Storm Relief Executive Committee , follows : To The American People : The City of Miami is compelled to issue an appeal to the . people of the United States for the relief of Miami and Dade County . Six days ago this city of 200,000 was one of the most prosperous , beautiful and delightful communities in this country . Today . as a result of a disastrous tropical hurricane which devastated our coast last Saturday , it lies prostrate . We have one hundred dead and nearly 1,000 patients in the general and emergency hospitals , hundreds of whom are grievously injured . While conditions are being rapidly restored by means of most wonderful and efficient cooperation of Its citizens along all important lines , the problems confronting them are almost insurmountable . Food and other necessary supplies are coming in in great quantities , and we have been blessed by the arrival of a sufficient number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate present . But more than 5,000 homes have been either entirely destroyed or made unfit for human habitation . Twenty-five thousand people have been rendered homeless . These are being cared for in thousands of instances by neighbors who themselves are suffering . Miami needs money quickly and in large amounts . It needs it to take care of the poor , sick and injured . It needs it to rehabilitate the homes of thousands who have lost everything in the world and who will die of exposure if assistance does not come promptly and amply . And so we send out this appeal , believing that the people of this nation will respond cheerfully and quickly to this great necessity . On our part , in return we can only ex- : press our appreciation of the wonderful sympathy and aid which are being shoi'vn to our sufferers throughout the whole land and to venture the hope that we will be able some day and in some way to reciprocate to other suffering communities the favor we now are asking . Contributions should be sent by wire or fast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relief Fund , Miami , or to the American National Red Cross , which has been designated by President Coolidge to raise necessary relief funds , of which James H. Gillman of Miami is Treasurer of the local chapter . The American Red Cross has been placed in full charge of the rehabilitation of Miami and all funds sent for relief will be spent for relief without deduction for administrative costs . Executive Committee : FRANK B. SKUTTS , Chairman . E. C. ROMFH , Mayor . RUTH BRYAN OWEN . F. M. HUDSON , formerly President of the Florida Senate . JOHN W. WATSON . E. B. DOUGLASS , Chairman , Miami Chapter of the Red Cross . R. A. REEDER , Chairman of the General Relief Committee .                     