@@696286

txt Mr. WICKERSHAM hr ' t717:er1 little and , as a rule , with good sense , since becoming Chairman of President HOOVER 'S Crime Commission . Its business , he has insisted , is much wider than a mere inquiry into the workings of prohibition . Despite a popular impression to the contrary , this is but a part of the large work to be undertaken . Mr. WICKERSHAM plainly wants it understood that he and his associates are not going to limit themselves to an investigation of crime and the criminal procedure of our courts in connection with the attempts to enforce the Volstead act . To disabuse the public mind in that particular will be difficult , although the later utterances of President HoovErt are much in line with what Mr. WICKERSHAM has been saying . However , in his address at the Berkeley Divinity School in New Haven this week , Mr. WICKERSHAM committed himself to the view that the common disregard of the prohibition law has bred an increased disrespect for all law . He is not under the illusion that lawlessness is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long had too much of it . When one says that Americans are law-abiding it really does not mean much more than that they cheerfully submit to the right of the majority to rule . It does not signify that they respect all the laws which the majority may enact . liUDYARD KIPLING perceived this clearly enough in his phrase about the American who " flouts the law he makes . " Respect for law as an indefinite abstraction is one thing ; respect for a particular law quite another . But Mr. WICKERSHAM implied that easy violations of the Volstead act destroy , or tend to destroy , zeal for " the maintenance of " the law in general , especially the " laws designed for the protection of " life and property . " This is a question of fact It is one of the disputed matters into which the Crime Commission ought to look carefully , gather all the . data possible , and from them draw well fortified conclusions . Until we have such guidance , it is well to be cautious . Certainly ordinary observation would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibition law will also disregard the law against forgery or embezzlement or criminal asault . A large body of evidence goes to show that most people discriminate in these matters . Because they think poorly of the law which undertakes ressdate the personal or social Was of the individual , it does not follow that they wish to relax enforcement of the laws against crime . Undoubtedly a great deal of crime , often of a violent and repulsive nature , has been provoked in connection with the probihition law . But co nave many new kinds of crime accompanied the introduction and widespread use of the automobile . It has encouraged desperate bandits and enabled them to escape the police . Yet this , like the effects of prohibition , is purely incidental . The real problem of the criminal , and of the need of revising and strengthening the administration of justice , stands very much where it was . Before we too lightly adopt any general theory about the growing disregard for law , we ought to have a much larger collection of verified facts than is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts whicl Mr. HOOVER 'S message to Congres. yesterday would have a joint corn . mittee of both houses examine The proposed transfer of the prohi ? bition unit to the Department of Justice will require legislation to effect the shifting and consolidation of - various department bureaus . Ir order to legislate wisely the regular session of Congress next Decembei should have a comprehensive report . This the President would have the joint committee prepare . If commissions of inquiry could solve the crime problem it would soon cease to exist .                     