@@693680

txt With the record of the 1927 Legislature complete , the claim once made in a semi-serious vein for Governor Smith that he was the leader of the Republican Party as well as his own falls to the ground . Most of the measures included in the Governor 's legislative program made less headway during the session which ended yesterday than during any that has gone before during the six years he has been Governor . In fact , examination of this year 's record shows that only one conspicuous Smith measure emerged triumphant . This was the constitutional amendment providing for the creation of the executive budget system , which was adopted for the second time - and ordered submitted to the voters for ratification at the general election this year . In the grist of measures that came out of the legislative mill were many of minor importance which had been recommended by the Governor and were agreed on between him and the leaders of the Republican opposition , but none of the proposals for the passage of which he chose to make a fight were adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Notably is this true with regard to water power legislation recommended by the Governor . In the first instance he contemplated the creation of a Power Authority with title invested in it to all the water power resources controlled by the State and authority to deveiop these in accordance with a plan identical with that pursued by the New York Port Authority in relation to harbor development . Modify . ing this in hopes of obtaining Republican assent , he proposed that the Power Authority should make a survey . formulate a plan of development and submit this to the 1928 Legislature for approval . Both these measures failed of passage , as did the Governor 's third proposal , that a determination of the water power development policy for the State be reached through a popular referendum at this year 's general electron . The Republican majority passed a bill representing its own views . Another conspicuous instance of Republican independence was shown in the treatment of the Governor 's proposal for the election of a four-yearterm Governor in a political off year . The Republicans are in accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor 's term from two to four years , but over Governor Smith 's protest their constitutional amendment designed to legalize this change provides for Gubernatorial elections in years when a President is elected . Smith Measures That Failed . In the long list of measures included in the Governor 's legislative program which failed of favorable action in the Legislature are the following : Abolition of the State census . Constitutional amendment to change the basis of representation of the Assembly , with a view to giving to New York City greater proportional strength in it . Biennial sessions of the Legislature . Consolidation of counties , wherever advantageous , and reform in county administration . Restoring ot the direct primary for the nomination of all candidates for public office . Pre-election statements of campaign contributions and expenditures . Making the State Architect 's Bureau in the Public Works Department an independent administrative department . Abolition ot the Farms and Markets Council and giving power to the Governor to appoint the Farms and Markets Commissioner . Shifting from the State Controller to the Department of Finance and Taxation the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposited . Increasing the number of examiners of municipal accounts in the State Controller 's office . Bi-partisan boards of elections for all counties . Repealing the Motion Picture Censorship law . Establishing a Minimum Wage Board to regulate the pay of women and minors in industries on a living cost basis . Monopoly for the State Compensation Fund in writing workmen 's compensation insurance . Enactment of a flat forty-eight-hour week law to apply to women and minors in industries . A compromise bill was passed . Harmony on Fiscal Measures . In matters pertaining to the fiscal affairs of the State the Governor . however , appears to have exerciscd approximately the powers this year that will be vested in the Chief Executive under the executive budget measure which probably will go into effect next year . In fact , under a statute enacted last year , the system is in force now . The result has been that allotment of moneys under the big bond issues , sanctioned by the voters , was undertaken at the session just ended without much friction at conferences between the Governor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplementary , were approved by the Governor in the form and with the amounts with which they had been passed by the Legislature . The only differences arising In connection with financial measures between the Governor and the Republican leaders were due to the refusal of the latter to provide for a gasoline tax after it had been agreed that one would be imposed . The Governor wrathfully declared that the majority party bosses had " walked out on him " and that he would make no further agreements with them . After due consideration and a talk with Speaker IfoGinnies of the Assembly , the Governor , however , acquiesced in the decision .                     