@@689186

txt Nothing but the greed of the politicians and tax wasters established a property right , impregnable for all time , in the public utility franchises of New York City . It was politicians of the Hylan stripe who passed 1 the Ford franchise tax law , in defiance of disinterested warnings , from this and a few other newspapers , that they were making the traction and gas companies a gift of incalculable value in order to raise a little easy money . Mayor Hylan has already achieved a similar distinction . In the matter of the busses , at present illegally running on New York streets under municipal protection , he has shown that even a revocable franchise has a property value . It is the essence of the demagogue , servile to the sinister political machines which use him , that his real controlling influence is fear . If Governor Smith were a strong man he would say to the Mayor of New York and the Board of Estimate : " Run the busses with a revocable franchise . If your corporation counsel can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the courts , he is obviously incompetent and I will remove him for cause . My own common sense tells me that the state legislature in special session will not reverse itself in order to save Hylan 's face . " Hylan has given a revocable franchise a permanent property value through his monumental ignorance of the law . In saying that it may be made permanent by lawyers clever enough to take advantage of loose wording he has 1 given stability of value to New York City franchisee in which the title might well have been considered clouded . He is as ignorant and short-sighted as the framers of the Ford franchise tax law . Before the state legislature , by imposing a tax , established their property value and permanence , it is not too much to say that any franchise hi New York was revocable . It was granted subject to good behavior . It may have been that the demagogues of twenty years ago were as corrupt as demagogues today and were subtly playing the game of the holders of the franchises . Certainly what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Hylan is fond of denouncing " the interests , " but they should not prove ungrateful for the real benefits he confers upon them , even if only through ignorance of the consequences of his own false reasoning . There is a statue of Civic Virtue in City Hall Park , represented , for some mysterious reason , as a cave man armed with a club . There should be a corresponding figure of Mayor Hylan erected at the end of his term of offlee , &Signed; on similar lines . His characteristic attitude is that of ignorant fury , hitting nothing with a club . ? Significant that there is no quotation for soldiers ' bonus rights .                     