@@691382

txt ? Vice President Charles G. Dawes , in Boston for the celebration of- the one hundredth and fiftieth anniversary of the battle of Concord and Lexington , shoved history into the background in his first public appearance today and renewed his attack on the Senate rules which he , launched in his inaugural address on March 4 . Before a luncheon gathering of 1,000 Boston business men . assembled to honor Roland W. Boyden as the new President of the Chamber of Commerce . Mr. Dawes denounced the present rules of the Senate and declared that he would continue the battle for reform throughout his four years of office . He was greeted with a chorus of cheers when he called upon those present , including Senator William M. Butler , to show their desire for a change by Tonight , in the Old North Church . in the belfry of which lanterns were hung on the eve of the first battle of the Revolution as a warning that the British troops were on the march . the Vice President inaugurated the formal program on the Concord-Lexington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a guiding light for the nation and lauded the New England character as a beacon shining for future generations of the American people whose character still is in the making . Called upon for a speech at the luncheon , at which Owen D. Young and Jeremiah H. Smith . Commissioner-General of the League of Nations in Hungary , also were guests , Mr. Dawes entered at once upon his denunciation of the Senatorial veto , thumping the table vigorously as he thundered his disapproval . " I am going around this country before I get through this four years . then I 'm going out of office . " he said in conclusion , amid laughter and applause , am satisfied that this reform can be accomplished . " Decides to Open Attack at Once . The Vice president had said previously that he would reserve discussion of the Senate rules for his New York speech on Tuesday . It was the presence at the luncheon of Senator Butler . he declared . that led him to change his mind . Alluding to himself as " the best smokerout in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way I said it , not what I said . that gave rise to irritation in Washington . My grief over that irritaton is somewhat tempered by a remark of George - erria.rd Shaw , that no offensive truth is properly presented unless it causes irritation . " And now I am going to say a few things . And I am going to say them because Senator William M. Butler is here to listen . As I see it , unless in my humble way I can act as a conduit to transmit to the Senate and its members the individual reactions of the constituency . I do not see what I am doing in office . So I am going to appeal to you as part of Senator Butler 's constituency to express your opinion on this subject of Senate rules . Here is a principle at stake that our forefathers fought for . " Did our forefathers have in mind when they framed the Constitution the lodging with any one of ninety-six Senators a power greater than the veto power of the President of the United States ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concurrent actian of two houses of Congress , when teey must be subject to the veto power oe the President , and yet again subject to review by the Supreme Court of the United States , that a further check was needed in the shape of power , placed in the hands of one Senator , to block all legislation  --  power that he Might sometimes use for Ws own personal gain ? " Is that the conception they had ? That it is right to have this usurped pourer of a Senator fastened on the couetry , not by the Constitution . not by court , not by good legislation , but by Senate rules built up through the last Jill years , nobody knows how . without any party or any one person being responsible ? " I want Senator Butler to know how you feel about it . All of you who think the Senate rules ought to be changed , Stand up . Come on . Get up and sayso right now . " As the roar which greeted the Vice ? resident 's challenge subsided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Butler , who had risen with the rest , and said : et knew Senator Butler would stand up . Senator Gillett would stand up . too . If her were here . He told me so . " Cheering broke out again as Mr. Dawes finished . He listened for a moment , rose and literally pulling Senator Butler , who sat beside him , from his chair , said : Waht to hear what Senator Butler has to say about this . " Senator Butler 's first remark , " I believe in the reform of the Senate rules . " drew more prolonged applause . " Without detracting an iota from what the Vice President has done to bring this matter to the attention of the public , " he added . " I want to say that last December when I went down to the Senate my experience with Senate rules and the doctrine of seniority taught me that it made no difference what a man 's achievements were or whence he eame he was forced to take the last seat and the lowest position on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe In change and I believe in improvement , and I propose to devote my time in the Senate to the accomplishment of these ends . " Speech in Old North Church . General Dawes spoke tonight at Old North Church . He was introduced by Mrs. Pauline Revere ThaYer , a descendant of Paul Revere . The Vice President said : It is an honor to be introduced by a member of the Revere family , a descendant of the patriot whose famous ride in the cause of American freedom we gather to celebrate We have in Mrs. Thayer herself , and in her family , which for o'er 15 ( 1 years has been identified with all that is best in Boston and New England life , the highest evidence that with a family as with a nation . its continued strength , influence and prestige are based upon character and faithfulness to high ideals . One hundred and fifty years ago tonight . Robert Newman swung in the steeple of this church the lanterns which flashed to Paul Revere and his companions the news that the Britisn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The great story of Revere 's ride , Immortalized by Longfellow. the American people knows and treasures In its heart The hanging of the lanterns was a military event , and the ride of Paul Revere , William Dawes and Doctor Prescott was a military expedition . The start of the march of the British troops had determined this . Thus the war of the revolution started , and with its successful culmination ' it brought freedom to the American people . Then ensued the struggle of conflicting ideas among our people themselves as to a form of self-government , which led finally to the adoption of the Constitution of the United States guaranteeing liberty under law to the individual American citizen . If we think of our nation now and the nation as it was at the time of the adoption of the Constitution In MST . the comparison may well suggest itself to us of the feeble and flickering lantern. ; on this Old North Church which 1 : 11 years ago signaled the start of Paul Revere  --  the first beacons in the contest for emancipation  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night in New York Harbor Sri the Bartholdi statue  --  the enduring light of liberty shining as a guide for the oppressed of the world . Constitution a Beacon Light . ' It , seems well in this quiet church to speak for a moment of the greatest beacon light which still shines in American life and guides the course of the nation  --  the Constitution of the United States . The general recognition by the peoples of the world of the inalienable rights of the individual , referred to in our Declaration of Independence and guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States , is the basis of civilization . Our Constitution has removed from the realm of public conflict those rights of the individual the reasonableness and necessity for which have been demonstratad by warfare as old as the world its , if . Their establishment through the ages has cost the blood of untold millions . By our Government under the Constitution the individual is protected in t he right to peaceful pursuit any proper avocation , the right to worship in the way his conscience - may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to own property . and such rights as protect him in the peaceful pursuit of happiness . No opposing power , either within or without his Government . can deny him these rights , The rock upon which representative constitutional government rests is the fact that the ultimate judgment of the people is sound and Just But our forefathers knew that in the process of forming ultimate judgment public opinion must pass through a. series of changing and temporary ph yes- A ' temporary phase of public opinion , if it was habitually to determine governmental attitude , would result in the destruction of the inalienable rights of the individual . What has destroyed free democracy in history is the fact that under that kind of a government a temporary phase of public opinion would determine governmental attitude . Governmental action having been wrongly taken in response to a teatporary phase of public opinion the ultimate right judgment ... of the people ' , tr.3,3a3 come too late to correct the mistake . By our Constitution , with its system of checks and balances . it Is rendered certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sound judgment of the people C1713-tsnize Into law . Our Constitution has , therefore , established the rule of the people as distinguished from the rule of the mob . Our Government can survive only as long as its policies are generally determined by the ultimate sound judgendit ? of the people and not by a tam . Porary. yulllic opinion as disungulahEl from ultimate public opinion . And the . final guardians of the inalienable rights of the individual , including freedom of the press , the rights of property and religious tolerance , are the courts of the United States , which interpret the laws passed by Congress in relation to those Individual rights upheld by the Constitution . Let the one determination which we carry with us front the celebration of the sacrifices , bloodshed and heroism of our revolutionary ancestors be . to cherish in our hearts respect for the Constitution of the United States which , for 138 years , has given us as a people the best government which the world has known . Let us also remember the solemn warning of George Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your Government and the permanency of your present happy state , it Is requisite not only that you steadily discountenance Irregular opposition to its acknowledged authority , but also that you resist with care the spirit of innovation upon its principles , however specious the pretexts . One method of assault may be to effect in the forms of the Constitution alterations which will impair the energy of the system /and thus to undermine what can not be directly overthrown . " New England Character , But there is one other beacon light which still shines in this country and of which we may well speak in New England in the Old North Church the beacon light- of the old New England character . Great as we are as a people . immense and diversified as is our population .. enormous as is our national wealth , serious as have been the inroads upon the old standards of discipline upheld in the daily life of our forebears , amplified and complete as are our problems when compared to those of the days when Paul Revere . we may well lift our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more so because the American people , measured in history , is yet a young people with its character still in the making . We know what the power of the American people is and what It will ' grow to be . We know our great wealth and what it will grow to be . We know the material achievements which are ours and which still lie before us . But of that incomparably more important thing , the composite moral character of the coming generations of our people . we can but guess . History brings us example atter example of a people who , in suffering and adversity . by self-discipline , frugality and industry have raised themselves to a position of wealth and material prosperity , only to be destroyed because their character could not stand that ultimate and crucial teat which advancement in wealth and material things always brings . And so today in the Vnited States , above all matters of business and material advancement , the one thought which should be uppermost in the minds of us ail is : " What of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long run . What man , no matter how great has been his power and success . does not realize it in those last days of life when , before his failing sight appears the darkness of the shadow of the valley ? The ebbing away of blood in the human body has no more marked a relation to its welfare than the disintegration of character has upon a people . In the coming century American civilization must meet its highest test  --  the test of whether or I not it has followed those beacon lights I of personal character which can . New England forebears lifted on high for the geidance of our people . As they carried out in their daily life the principles of national conduct for which they stood  --  self-deniaI , cleanliness of mind and the subordination of individual interest when op-posed to the common good , - and helped to give us this self-governing RePublic so we of today , to preserve it and our freedom and happiness , ? roust not only treasure in our hearts and consciences the sense of duty to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily life as a people . Signal Lights Anng Out Again . Two lighted lanterns hung on a stand a few feet from the Vice President at the Old North Church services , and after his address and the benediction Paul Revere , great-great-grandson of the Paul Revere of history , carried them down the aisle , climbed the narrow stairs into the belfry and hung the lanterns there . Before he drove away . Mr. Dawes waded across narrow Salem Street through a crowd of yelling urchins and gazed upward at the signal lights , symbolical of those which started his ancestor , William Dawes Jr. , upon his famous ride to ** and Concord . ' TO HOLD PATRIOTIC SERVICE Cathedral to Mark Anniversary of Battle of Lexington . A. service in commemoration of the seesqui-centennial of the Battle of Lexington will be held this afternoon at 4 o'clock in the Cathedral of St. ' John the Divine . It will be under the auspices of the Empire State Society , Sons of the American Revolution . Participating organizations will be the Holland Society in the State of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Order of Foreign Wars , the Order of Founders and Patriots of America . the Society of American Wars . Society of the Cincinnati , Society of the Colonial Dames of America . Society of of Colonial Dames of the State of New York , Society of Colonial Wars in the State of New York . Society of Daughters of the American Revolution . Society of . Daughters of Founders and Patriots of America , Society of Daughters of the Revolution , Society of Mayflower Descendants in the State of New York , Society of Second War with Great Britain . Society of Sons of the American Revolution . Society of Sons of the Revolution . Society of Tammany or Columbian Order , United States- Daughters of 1812 State of New York , Veteran Corps of Artillery and the Washington Continental Guard . All the societies will march with their colors which will be , massed before the altar during the service . An address will be delivered by the Rev. Dr. Joseph Fort Newton , pastor of the Universalist Church of the Divine Paternity , who Is chaplain of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be delivered by Canon H. Adye Prichard , acting dean of the cathedral . Colonel Henry W. Sackett . President of the Empire State Society , S. A. R. , in referring to the service said : " In the light of later battles in that . war and those of other wars that.have torn the world since then ; the Battle of Lexington may not have been much in a military sense , but instorically there have been few battles in the world 's history that have meant more in the determining of human liberties . We do not go beyond the facts , I believe , when we say that Lexington and Its accOMpanying battle at Concord marked a beginning of - civic freedom all out of proportion to the actual occurence , and saying this does riot di count for , one moment the unwavering devotion and courage of that hardy band of Americans who have weetten their names tare on historra hags.                     