@@695287

txt The story of AHMED ZOGU Bey , under whom Albania has attained such unity as the tribal traditions permit , is that of SCANDERBERG , retold after nearly 509 years . Like SCANDERBERG , who was carried away as a boy and kept in Turkish bondage and who in maturity made his escape and came back to lead his own and neighbor clans in a national effort to maintain " the freedom of their hills , " AHMED Bey , exiled to the court of the Sultan at the age of 9 by a brother 's jealousy , returned to take command of the mountain tribes and became the chief figure in the establishment of the modern Albania . It is now a member of the League of Nations though it has a population that does not exceed that of a single borough of New York City . A " dapper gentleman " of urbane manner , he does not as President of the young republic suggest the guerrilla leader of the hills , or the fierce SCANDERBERG , " the Dragon of the Albania , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own hand . Elections are now going forward.1 The voting began before the middle of last month and will continue tilt the middle of this month . There is no doubt what the outcome will be . This young Iskander will find himself continued in power with an " acquiescent " Parliament . Were he electioneering he could claim credit in the short time of his Presidency ? only two years  --  for the building of hundreds of kilometers of roads and of many bridges , the construction of one short but important railroad up from the sea to Tirana and the opening of schools  --  all , or most of which , was made possible by the loans he was able to procure from Italy . The sole question which seems to be raised is whether when the elections are over and the Parliament is convened he will take a regal title , and become in name as practically in fact  --  not a Prince Iskander , as was SCANDERBERG under a foreign suzerainty , nor an imported Prince WILLIAM of WILT , as was his predecessor , but a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The crown has been offered with or without authority to one and another in the turbulent years since 1912 and has been somewhat tarnished in the handling . To the people of the United States , to whom AHMED ZoGu has expressed for himself and his countrymen " undying gratitude , " it would seem a slipping backward and a yielding in the struggle for independent unity and an honorable place among the nations if this young President of the young republic were to take the crown out of storage and lift it to his own head .                     