@@693480

txt Three hungry fishermen , prisoners aboard the Imperial , a small tug caught fast in a huge field of drifting ice ten miles out from Midhigan City , Ind. , were supplied with bags of food shortly before dusk last night by air . Mane . H. C. Little , piloting a piano from Lansing field , was the first to sight the small craft , after a previous at ? tempt by an army flyer was abandoned with the breaking of a water pump . Lieut . Merrill D. Mann , assistant air officer of the Sixth corps area , had taken off at dawn ' with two compan ? rant Officer IV . D. Dodd . Call in Second Plane . For two hours Lieut . Mann flew over the lake searching for the fishermen , who disappeared Sunday when a large ice field broke away from the main ? land , carrying their boat with it . He was forced to turn back when the pump broke . Visibility- was reported as being excellent , so the second plane was summoned immediately . Venturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boat , which had drifted some miles from the point Where it was seen last . He swooped down and dropped ' his load of bread , meat , and cheese . Later a return trip was made with blankets and fuel . As the plane roared over the ' mac . rial , the marooned men , Frank Tent . zen , Harvey Freyer , and Soo Van Kirk , fell with alacrity on the first bag to strike the ice . Soon , Little reported , they had a fire going aboard the fish . ing tug . He interpreted their gesticu ? lations to mean that they were as well off as could be expected . Two Are Married Men . Sentzen and Freyer are married and their families are being cared for by the Edward Lutz Fishing company . Circling the ice which lipids the I ? aerial fast is a stretch of onen water . Beyond that is packed ice again reach . ing to the shore . ' It was estimated that several days may elapse before the ' boat can be.liberated . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became known yester day that trace of the tug had been lost and that planes were coming to the rescue . Charles Miller , manager of the Dun . ham Towing company of Chicago , an ? nounced last night that bis company will send an ice breaking tug to the scene if needed . Lieut . Mann left for Chanute field and will return this morning in a large MIA to continue the work of carrying supplies to the Imperial 's crew . Expect 2,000 Merchants at Convention Here Feb . Two thousand merchant 's from 31 states are expected in Chicago for eleventh semi-annual convention of the Interstate Merchants ' council , to held at the Sherman hotel Feb. 1 and 2                     