@@696566

txt A tragic setting was given Italy 's program for the Schneider cup races when Capt . Joseph Motto , one of the six pilots chosen to represent Italy at the Southampton classic , dived at lightning speed from 100 feet into the deep waters of Lake Garda yesterday afternoon at a speed of 200 miles an hour . Neither Capt . Motta 's body nor the plane has been recovered . The plane , a Macchia seven , was equipped with Isotta-Freschini motors of 1,800 horsepower and was said to be able to develop a speed of 353.97 miles per hour . Capt . Motta had successfully circled the lake and was banking down when the plane suddenly pitched headlong into the lake . A miniature waterspout almost 100 feet high spurted up from the plunging plane . Speed Too Much of Strain . ' Capt . Motta was one of the most skillful racing pilots . The tragedy , which will seriously handicap the Italian team in the races , is thought not to be due to any error in maneuvering but probably to a rupture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named by Gen. Balbo to replace Capt . Motta remains unknown , but it is said an Italian plane will likely be shipped from Desenzano to England Sunday in accordance with the plans . This is the third accident since the speed trials began ten days ago , three planes having been put out of business . Britain Refuses Delay . Chicago Tribune Press Service . ' LONDON , Aug. ** Schneider cup race is not to be postponed , the Royal Aero club tonight announced . Once the entries are received , rules prohibit postponement , it was explained to Italy , which asked a delay of a week or 10 days because of the tragedy . " The race could not be held in English waters in October with the uncertain weather and equinoctial gales , " said an official . " Elaborate arrangements have been made by seaside towns and transport concerns . A postponement would have meant the loss of at least $500,000 to these interests . " U. S. Test Postponed . Annapolis , Md. , Aug. 23 . ? C431 ? Bad weather during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Williams ' test of the Mercury racer plane on the Severn river . FIRE DESTROYS GARAGE , ALARMS T. B. SANITARIUM Fire in a garage at the plant of the Municipal Tuberculosis sanitarium , Bryn Mawr and Crawford avenues , last night destroyed the garage and caused anveslimated $12,000 damage to four ambulances and eight physicians ' cars . Hospital attendants had some trouble quieting the fears of a few of the 1,400 patients , quartered in the main hospital building 200 feet from the flaming garage . They had greater difficulty , however , with some 500 patients who wanted to stand out in the night air for a closer view of the fire fighting . Fire companies extinguished the blaze after half an hour 's work .                     