@@689901

txt Attorney General Daugherty 's refusal to resign from the Cabinet at the behest of a group of regular Republican Senators has produced a remarkable situation in the Republican Party organization . John T. Adams , Chairman of the Republican National Committee , today issued a statement bristling with defiance and denunciation of those who seek to cause Mr. Daugherty 's retirement from public life without giving him the hearing he seeks . His attitude is directly at variance with that I of the Administration Senators who told President Coolidge that he should get rid of his Attorney General . As Chairman of the National Committee , ' Mr. Adams is in the position of speaking for the ' organization . His course stiffens - the- - Asipat of Mr. DaughertrAtitibr 645 portfolio of Justice , and gives opportunity for the crystallization of satiment , both within the party and out , as to ' whether it is fair dealing to condemn a high oficial of the Government without giving him a chance to defend himself against accusations affecting his integrity . Thrust for Senator Lodge .. The statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority leader in the Senate ; Senators Pepper , Lenroot , Fess and Curtis , who attended a series of conferences which resulted in a decision to urge President Coolidge to induce Mr. Daugherty to retire , and Senator Borah , who told Mr. Daugherty at the White House , in the presence of the President , that he should sever his connection with the Administration . There is no direct criticism by Mr. Adams of the course of Senator Lodge and the other Senators , but in the concluding paragraph of the statement what is obviously an admonition to them is contained in the assertion that " the time has come for Republican leadership to stop acting on the defensive and to begin aggressive warfare on political traducers . " This appears to be a thrust aimed particularly at Senator Lodge , in view of the fact that he is the chosen leader of the Senate Republicans . Nor does Mr. Adams confine himself to the Daugherty case . He acquits Secretary Denby of any act that Justified his enforced resignation , and contends that not one of his critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . Altogether , the chairman has taken the bit in his teeth and served notice on the entire party leadership , from the President dawn , that the removal of Daugherty from the Cabinet in response to the attacks of his enemies in the Senate would be regarded by the National Committee , so far as Mr. Adams is able fo speak for it , as an act of injustice and cowardice . The statement was-the most Important development of today , in connection with the series of sensations that have been , Produced by charges affecting prominent men . The , statement gave emphasis to the refusal of the Attorney General to retire from office under fire . Nothing has appeared to indicate that President Coolidge has added his voice to those of the Senators who want Mr. Daugherty to get out for the sake of the party . Weakening Within Party Feared . Information obtained tonigl-t shows that the statement of Chairman Adams has a more important bearing on the present situation than even its sensa , tional utterances suggest . It is under- stsal to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his lieutenants in the organization to array Republicans throughout the country against the effort that is being made within the party to permit members of the Coolidge adminitsration to yield to the demand of Democratic and Republican radical Senators . The Chairman feels that he has back of him the weight of the sentiment of the party throughout the counrty . That there Is such a. sentiment is indicated by communications which are pouring in on the committee from Republicans , who feel that an attempt is being made to wreck the party by the assaults against Secretary Denby and the Attorney General . A number of events preceding announcement of the statement indicate the reasons which impelled him to issue it . These events emphasize that the attack on Mr. Denby is keenly resented by his Republican friends in Michigan and that considerable feeling is being aroused over the effort on the part of leading Republican Senators to have Mr. Daugherty ousted A week ago last Sunday Mr , Adams had a conference in Washington with two Washington Wends of Secretary Denby and two Michigan Repbb/icans , to whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted to resign the Navy portfolio . These friends of Mr. Denby responded that he would not remain in the Cabinet while under the daily fire of Senators making " slanderous " attacks to which he could not - reply when he had no Republican defenders in the Senate . They said , apparently quoting Mr. Denby , that the best any Republican Senator seemed able to say in his defense was that Senator Robinson 's resolution calling for his resignation was not the proper way to go about obtaining his retirement . These Michigan Republicans also told Chairman Adams that the Republican national organization might just as well expect no help from Michigan if Mr. Denby left the Cabinet . Advised Against Denby Action . It became known tonight that Mr. Adams advised President Coolidge not to permit Mr. Denby to resign and asked him not to accept his resignation if it were offered . Since then Mr. Adams has told the President that it would be unwise to permit Mr. Daugherty to be forced out of the Cabinet . President Coolidge was also told by the Chairman that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the members of his Cabinet the assault of the Administration 's political enemies will be carried on ind , finitely , with the campaign against Denby and Daugherty followed by other attacks . Reports from sources regarded as reliable have been brought to the National Committee that those who were behind the attacks on Daugherty and Denby are - malting preparations to attempt to force out of the Cabinet every one of its members except Postmaster General New and Secretary of Labor Davis . According to these reports , there is to be an assault upon Secretary Hughes with relation to his foreign policy as far as it concerns oil fields in foreign and mandate territory . Senator Wheeler of Montana , the author of the resolution aimed at Attorney General Daugherty , already has offered resolutions calling for diplomatic correspondence concerning oil . Seer ; ? tary Hoover is to be attacked , it is claimed , for alleged support of the Administration policy under which the naval oil leases were made , and for his attitude with regard to sugar and furs , so far as these products come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Weeks and Secretary Wallace are also mentioned as down on the list of those upon whose official records it will be sought to throw discredit . Information was obtained tonight that the statement of Chairman Adams issued today is a mere curtain-raiser . It is to be followed by aggressive attacks ' upon the same line from Republican national headquarters . Preparations are being made to go back into the record of the Wilson Administration with a view to finding the genesis of the oil leasing policy . From what was said in informed quarters here this evening , it is gathered that local party leaders and editors of Republican newspapers are urging Chairman Adams to fight back at the Democrats and to go into the records of members of the last Democratic Administration . Mr. Adams 's . statement is interpreted as *peening that if the party leadership In the Senate is to be spineless , and President Coolidge does not intend to defend his Cabinet , the organization will take up the cudgels for those officials who are being attacked and will fight the situation through to a finish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create the impression that he adheres to the response he made to the Senate resolution calling for Secretary Denby 's resignation ; that he will not sacrifice the innocent along with the guilty , but will not spare any one against whom charges of irregularity or dishonesty are proved . Mr. Denby 's reaction to this course of the President was to tender his resignation as an act of appreciation for the President 's rebuff to the Senate , and t3 relieve the President of any possible political embarrassment due to his continuance in the Cabinet ... Mr. Daugherty , however , takes the position that the drive against him has no connection with the charges concerning tae Teapot Dome and California oil leases . He contends that the charges were investigated by the House Committee on the Judiciary impeachment aproceedings last Winter , and that after the committee acquitted him by a vote of 20 to 1 , - the House sustained its findings . In these circumstances Mr. Daugherty declines to get out and demands another investigation . His position , in substance , is that he will not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political liability to the Coolidge Administration . Daugherty Appears in Senate . Mr. Daugherty caused a mild sensation today by appearing on the floor of the Senate . That body was then engaged in its customary observance of Washington 's birthday through the reading of the Farewell Address of the Father of his Country . Senator Willis , of Ohio , Mr. Daugherty 's stanch friend , who had left the Senatorial conference of Wednesday when it was apparent that its object was to bring pressure to bear on President Coolidge and Mr. Daugherty to have the latter resign , had been selected to do the reading . The Attorney General listened to him attentively , and before and after the exercises chatted with Senators Elkins and Moses , who sat near him . He shook hands with Senator Fess of his own State . The explanation given for the Attorney General 's appearance in the midst of a body comprising men who are seeking to disgrace him was that when Senator Willis was chosen to read Washington 's Farewell . Address Mr. Daugherty told Mr. Willis that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no abatement today of the circuration of sensational reports in connection with the investigation of the . oil leases , and the situation In which Mr. Daugherty occupies the centre of the stage . One rumor had it that he had made up his mind to tell many startling things it he were sacrificed by President Coolidge in compliance with the desire of Republican Senators . Mr. Daugherty served notice in his letter to Senator Pepper that If he were use of money disclosed up to date in the oil investigation . raking advantage of this situation , a few political blackguards and scandaimongers have launched a general campaign of slander ' against members of life . the Cabinet and others high in official " One of the victims of this campaign Is Edwin Denby , Secretary of the Navy . The record shows he did not perform a single act in connection with the leasing of the naval oil reserves that was either illegal or immoral  --  much less a betrayal of public trust or inimical to public one faroe . N Secretary Denby 's detractors can quote any official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dare make his accusations outside the halls of Congress , where he claims protection in the prerogative of uttering slander . Now it is being charged that Attorney General Daugherty was a party to the transaction . He had nothing whatever to do with the oil leases , He was not even consulted regarding them . Those making these charges claim they want a Congressional investigation of Mr. Daugherty in order to bring out the facts . But they are not willing to wait for the investigation . What they hope to do is to force Attorney General Daugherty to retire from the Cabinet before such an ' investigation can take place . They hope he will prefer such retirement to the alternative of remaining in office to be harassed and slandered . " The Republican ' Party organization stands unalterably for clean and honest administration of public affairs . It does not condone betrayal of public trust , or seek to protect those of its party guilty of such betrayal . nut it is equally insistent that guilt must be proved or shown by evidence that admits of no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Idle gossip and hearsay scandal are not evidence . To punish innocent men upon such irresponsible and disreputable grounds often results in letting those who are really guilty escape . It is not without the range of possloilities that those who are now making wild charges against public officials seek to sacrifice innocent men In order that guilt which should be ferreted out and properly placed may escape detection . Calls Campaign " Terrorism . " " This is not the time to yield to the threats of those who are conducting this campaign of political terrorism or to the demands of . those who are frightened by such methods . The records show that most of the charges now being made are merely revamped from those made some time ago by a member of the House of Representatives in a demand for Attorney General Daugherty 's impeachment , " These charges were thoroughly investigated by a House Committee , which by a vote of 20 to 1 denounced them as untrue and unwarranted . This decision of the committee the House of Representatives concurred in by an overwhelming vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are nothing but cheap gossip , part of which has already been utterly discredited . " Why should Attorney General Daugherty , resign without a hearing ? That is not the American way of doing things . It is time for officials Of integrity to face their detractors and place the brand of infamy upon those who make their ' public ' once the Mouthpiece of foul calumny . " America , her institutions and her form of government are not now , ana never will be , endangered by enemies from without . Her menace is from those who , for the purpose of elevating themselves Into the limelight of questionable notoriety , or of serving the baser purposes of partisanship , seek to destroy the faith of the American people in their public officials and institutions . The time has come for Republican leadership to stop acting on the defensive and to begin aggressive warfare on political traducers who sat silent , while the greatest , r ? iy. of waste , incompetency and carat:soon- that the world has ever witnessed took- plaice in Washington under the Democratic " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              