@@692107

txt After being in session less than a fortnight the Customs Conference at Peking can report progress under three heads . The threatened Chinese boycott of the conference has not come to pass . On the contrary , the Peking officials are cooperating in good spirit and the provinces are watching proceedings with greater interest than they profess . The rowers have accepted , in principle , China 's demand for tariff autonomy . That in itself v.-culd not be a great deal If , on the part of the United States , principle had not been supplemented by practice . Washington is willing to establish tariff autonomy at the end of three years and Japan seems ready to go along . Great Britain , on the other hand , is expected to ask for a longer ) Postponement . She will emphasize two points  --  the need of adequate time for the readjustment of business to the new scheme , and the uncertainty that any Peking Government will be able to enforce the abolition of the internal duties or likin . Likin is a vital element in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty to a tariff schedule of 5 . per cent. , the reason is that provincial tariff imposts add heavily to the amount of duty which foreign goods must actually pay before reaching the ultimate consumer . But Peking 's fiat does not run in the provinces , where the taxes are precisely the prize for which Ian Governors and military chieftains have been contending . , And yet to exaggerate-the likin feature is to continue the vicious circle . The Central Government is helpless against the provincial satraps because it is poor . The chief argument for an increase in tariffs , aside from the question of national pride , is that Peking , with larger revenues , may be in a position to enforce its will upon the local chieftains . Somewhere a beginning must be made , and the United States and Japan are now ready to take a chance . Great Britain 's reluctance is based on the contention that hers are the principal foreign business interests in China . That is true , but her leadership is not overwhelming . In 1923 imports into China from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , American imports to 154,000,000 taels , Japanese imports to 211,000,000 taels . America and Japan together are thus almost equal toj Great Britain , and can not be assumed to be more Indifferent to their commercial interests than Britain is to hers . Chinese exports , though not affected directly by a customs tariff , nevertheless enter into the general situation . American and Japanese exports together are nearly one and a half times the exports to Great Britain , Hongkong and India . Our own trade with China is far from being so inconsiderable as to permit the charge that we are willing to risk something because we have nothing to lose . The probationary , period of three years suggested by Washington seems long enough for a readjustment of foreign business in China . Whether it is enough for something like political Unity to assert itself is another matter . But as our Peking correspondent points out , if three years hence there is no real Government in China to operate the new system , the Powers will have lost nothing . What they will have gained is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The present Nationalist argument that foreign selfishness stands in the way of China 's restoration will have disappeared .                     