@@689469

txt Anti-American feeling , which has been fanned by the activities of Manuel Quezon and other political opponents of Governor General Wood 's administration in the last few months , has spread through the populace to a greater extent than is commonly I ealized , and the Americans in the islands feel that they are living on a volcano of suppressed passions which may erupt at any moment . Such opinions are expressed by many well-informed Americans who are in a 1position to know . Many of them expect a physical outbreak against American ; sovereignty momentarily . With the assembly of the Legislature only three / days off , that part of the Philippine press which is under Senor Quezon 's control is ' more outspoken than ever in its opposition to General Wood and the exercise of American authority generally . Some of the utterances printed daily would be met with drastic Lakin on the part of sovereign authority elsewhere . Members of the Legislature are constantly making statements about their Plans to oppose General Wood at every turn , and it looks as though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry through his program , nn matter how wise or how constructive . Quezon apparently is determined to fight General Wood to a finish . One manifestation of the popular feeling is the amalgamation of all Filipino secret societies into one unit . Among those in the combination are the Legionnaires of Labor , the Dimas Alang and the Katipunan societies , whose revolutionary principles are well known . The combination now has a membership of 250,000 persons , which is increasing daily , particularly the legionnaires. which is a new organization with a strong anti-American leaning . It is also reported from ordinarily reliable sources that the Philippine Constabulary is rapidly getting out of hand and that the officers are losing control of their men . According to El Debate . General Wood recently made a suggestion that American army officers be detailed for the purpose of reorganizing the constabulary , and it is known that General Rafael Creme , the present Filipino commander , has repeatedly offered his resignation . The Philippine Scouts . who compose a unit of the regular army , also are reported to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign , although the rank and file of this organization are still believed by its American officers to be dependable . Rapid Change in Six Months . Six months ago an armed revolt would have been considered impossible ; but Quezon 's propaganda , Americans here believe , has so worked up the masses that now anything is within possibility . The petition of the Philippine Chamber of Commerce for a reduction in the import duties on foreign products is another indication of the way the wind is blowing . This petition accuses American manufacturers of monopolizing the business of the islands by deliberately keeping prices of foreign goods at a high level . The effort to discredit Americans is apparent in every quarter where Seiler Quezon is influential , and this means , virtually , in every section of Philippine life . When the Legislature meets on Tuesday Senor Quezon will have complete control of the Senate , with eleven Collectivistas and nine NacionalistaS , against four Democrats . In the House , however , he will not have the two-thirds majority necessary for overriding General Wood 's vetoes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's lead . The composition of the House follows : Collectivistas 35 , Nacionalistas 21 , Democratas 27 , Independent 1 , appointive 9 , making a total of 93. with 62 votes necessary for the overriding of a veto . The Quezonists boast that they already have more than two-thirds support , but tl ? 3 Democratas appear solid in opposition to the Quezon-Osmena combination and are Indisposed to provoke a popular revolt , except against the Quezon ists . Representative Vicento Sotto , one of the most prominent Democrats leaders , in his weekly newspaper , The Independent . today says : " The Filipino People , without renouncing their rights nor desisting- from reiterating with more vigor than ever their petition for independence , do not have the least intention of impairing the relations of friendship and goodwill which have existed between the two peoples since the approval of the Jones bill containing the promise of independence , and are far from reopening ra ial questions , or deepening , the abyss of prejudice , hate and suspicion between the Americans and Filipinos , because they know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no telling where they will be led  --  God knows where  --  by a handful of politicians in their attempt to have the people with them . That way the people would only meet defeat . " Carambola Club Riot Deplored . The Quezonist press has been fiercely denouncing the Democrata demonstration at the Carambola . Club last week . wherein an attempt was made to mob Quezon . Maximo Kalaw , Dean of the College of Liberal Arts of the University of the Philippines and exchange Professor of Political Science at the University of Michigan . writes : " To the impartial observer the recent Democrata outburst Is a most backward step , whether taken consciously or unconsciously . Take your onward march toward democracy . This outburst is the greatest single proof which can be used by the opponents of independence against our political capacity . Some doctrines preached at the Democrata meeting , such as the bolo doctrine urged by Senator Sandiko. and the expressions of some other leaders , who regretted that they had not taken advantage of assassination to eliminate some of their political enemies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all because they had failed at the elections , are really a most disquieting symptom . " Representative Sotto. on the other hand , defends the Democratas ' course , saying that these things " are as nothing compared to the magnitude of the crime against the country itself committed by men who would perpetuate themselves in power by means of shameful election frauds . " " To misrepresent the popular will , " Representative Sotto writes , " Is a crime against this country which should be made punishable by death . If our laws do not specify such punishment , the people , judging from what we have seen , show signs of administering that punishment to the cliques who for the last seventeen years have monopolized the power of the Government for their personal interests and those of their ilk . The attempt at violence last week was a mere spark . Sooner or later the real holocaust will come if the little gods now in control should continue to commit the abuses and injustices which can not be brought for correction before the courts of justice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philippine Legislature , controlled by his bitter and powerful political opponent , Quezon , Is electrically charged . The American feeling here is stronger than ever that the outspoken and unqualified support of President Coolidge and Congress for General Wood Is necessary to save American prestige in the islands and avert a very serious situation .                     