@@694492

txt The committee appointed to choose a site for a new Metropolitan Opera House is considering the Century Theatre as a possible site for a new home for the opera . A director admitted this yesterday , although he declined to permit the use of his name in connection with the statement . It was understood that there was no idea of using the Century itself , but that if the site were acquired the building itself- would be demolished to make room for a costly , handsome new one , designed especially to house grand opera . Land Bought by Hahn . Last Winter Otto H. Kahn , Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Opera House and Real Estate Company , selected a site in West Fifty-seventh Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues . He was reported to have paid $3,000,000 for the property , which he offered to his fellow-directors for what it had cost . Opposition to the location developed among influential boxholders , including Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt . Soon after reports of the lack of unanimity regarding a site , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fiftyseventh Street site would be chosen , several suggestions of other sites were forthcoming . Until yesterday 's admission that the Century Theatre site was-being considered , it was not known , however , that the committee was actually taking a serious view of any of them . R. Fulton Cutting , President of the Metropolitan Opera House and Real Estate Company , which owns the present opera house , and Chairman of the committee named by the bondholders and stockholders to select a - new site . said that he had not " heard " that the Century Theatre site was being considered . He declined to commit himself further and referred inquiries to Mr. Kahn . Mr. Kahn said that nothing had been decided with respect to a new site . He denied that there had even been negotiations for the purchase of the Century Theatre site . Since his purchase of the West Fiftyseventh Street property , Mr. Kahn has been holding it for the opera company pending final decision as to a new location . . Century Plan Has Backing . According to information which came last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her nephew , Robert Goelet of 820 Fifth Avenue , are eagerly backing the Century Theatre site . It has als : been reported that Mr. Goelet and Mrs. Vanderbilt have openly taken sides against Mr. Kahn at meetings of the board of the opera company and have expressed the opinion that those who hold the Fifty-seventh Street site in disfavor should stick together and win . It is also known on reliable authority that when estimates for the new building proposed for the Fiftyseventh Street location were received they were found to be so great as to be regarded as prohibitive by some of those most intimately concerned . These , estimates placed the cost of the building beyond the funds the committee had to build the new structure . Mr. Goelet with his wealth is in a position , financially , to further the Century Theatre site project if he so desires , according to one informed person who discussed the latest phase of the situation . It has been pointed out , however , that to purchase the entire block of which the present Century Theatre occupics only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized from the sale of the present opera house on Broadway . Call Location Inconvenient . Opposition to the West Fiftyseventh Street site has been founded in some part on the belief of certain persons connected . with the opera company that it is inconveniently located . In fact . Mr. Cutting in a recent letter agreed with objections to the West Fifty-seventh Street site and said that he hoped that a more appropriate one could be obtained . Some of the objectors were said to feel that the new opera house should be situated nearer Fifth Avenue than the site chosen by Mr. Kahn . In line with this belief , a site at Fifth Avenue and 110th Street was then suggested . Options were taken on parcels making up the suggested site . It was said , however , that directors of the Metropolitan Opera Company were taken back at the suggestion that they should move so far uptown . Further consideration of the problem brought more suggestions of new sites and as recently as Wednesday Mr. Kahn was invited to locate the new opera house in the vicinity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is believed that there is little hope that this suggestion will receive much consideration . The prophetic remark of the late Oscar Hammerstein was recalled by persons discussing the report yesterday . The Century had just been built in 1908 as the New Theatre , designed as a dramatic and " opera comique " expansion of New York 's most exclusive homes of entertainment . It attracted the usual shrewd notice of the late Manhattan Theatre builder and impresario . Mr. Hammerstein walked up to Columbus Circle one day to smoke his cigar and give the new house the " once ove ? . " " Having a look at the New The ? at  --  e ? " asked a friend who met him . " You mean the new Metropolitan Opera House , " said Mr. Hammerstein . Ile believed to his last days that the opera would ultimately take over the palatial house in Central Park West. , ' '  - -   - -                       