@@685557

txt Assuming that today 's conference between Governor Cox and President Wilson would result in their complete agreement , Senator Harding today isstied a statement demanding that the Democratic Presidential nominee declare himself specifically upon all phases of these policies . The statement , which was issued before word had reached Marlon today of the outcome of the meeting in ' Washington , reads as follows : " The President and the Democratic nominee for his successor are in conference today . and at the conclusion it will inevitably be announced that they found themselves in complete accord , ' that harmony reigns , and unity is established in the Democratic Party , " The significance of that announcement will not be missed . There is just one way that can establish accord between himself and the President  --  that is by yielding his own opinion at every Point to that of the President . When the nominee establishes accord with the President , it means that the latter is in charge of the campaign and will be the real force of the next Administration , if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement of harmony between the President and the Democratic nominee , it will be pertinent to inquire the basis of the agreement . The country is very anxious to know if an unqualified acceptance of the League of Nations program is agreed upon . " Second  --  Has Governor Cox pledged himself to ratification of the treaty and League without essential modifications ? " Third  --  Has Article X. been accepted ? It has repeatedly been declared that Article N. is the ' heart of the treaty , ' and that to cut it out would ' break the heart of the world . ' Is the Democratic ticket still for Article X. ? " Fourth  --  The President , naturally , ' has stipulated that Governor Cox must assume , underwrite and liquidate all the international commitments in which the present Administration has involved itself and the nation . " The President could not possibly demand less . A Democratic successor could not possibly grant less , because he stands upon a platform that makes the same guarantees. , " It becomes , therefore , timely to ask : ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligations to which the President has committed us ? ' " Somebody must tell us , because the people are wanting to know . " Has Governor Cox undertaken , in case he is elected , to renew demand that this country take a mandate over Armenia ? Has he undertaken to maintain the Administration policy in the Adriatic , where we have wellnigh forfeited the friendship of the great Italian people , brought Italy to the verge of revolution , and almost wrecked the establishment of peace ? " Has he pledged himself to Insist that , Thrace shall be joined to Bulgaria , in- ' stead of to Greece , regardless of the wishes of the Thracian , the Greeks and our allies ? " Broadly , has the nominee taken over the various and unknown commitments of the present Administration 's foreign policy in order to establish harmony between the President and him-self ? " To these questions the American people are entitled to answer . They will insist on knowing what they are assuming . " It is perfectly apparent that President Wilson 's foreign policy involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration demanded that we build by 1925 a navy equal to Britain 's . It also demanded the creation of a Regular Ann - twice as large as we ever had in peace . " What did the President want of these vast armaments , unless to fight with them ? Governor Cox ' will know now , for he is in complete accord with the President . " It is earnestly to be hoped that Governor Cox will frankly and promptly answer these questions , because the Republican Party wants the country to know it rejects all these ill-considered commitments and pledges its Administration against them . " To what extent the Republican party will oppose - the President 's foreign policy , it is understood , will be ex- plained In Senator Harding 's speech of acceptance . Having previously accepted the Democratic party 's challenge to make the League of Nations " a national referendum , " it is virtually certain that the candidate will commit himself to the Lodge reservations or to peace by declaration and negotiation of a. new treaty . . The statement . issued by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' breach between ; . the Administrati6n and the Democrats who are  --  opposed to many of its policies . It Is understood that it was prompted by Washington dispatches in this morning 's papers stating that Governor Cox said he - was conferring with Mr. Wilson because . the President " ? knows more about international affairs than anyone 1 know in the country . " The Harding men admitted today that they had no hope of attracting Administration supporters to their candidate , but hold that agreement between Governor Cox and the President would give the opportunity they desired to win over Democrats opposed to the President . Senator and Mrs. Harding , accompanied by former Representative J. Adam Bede of Minnesot4 , attended morning services at Trinity Baptist Church , whore Senator Harding is a trustee . The pastor , the Rev. T. H. , made no reference in his sermon to the campaign . On ' his return from church , the Senator was met by ReDresentative C. Bascoin Slemp , Republican Congressman from Virginia and member of the National Committee . Before leaving for Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , of course , been fully formed-as yet , but the action of the Democratic . Convention was a complete surrender of the West to the Republican Party . Their Presidential candidate is . not in accord with the sentiment of the West , nor is this cor ? rected by the selection of their Vice Presidential candidate from the East . " The battle lines should , therefore , he Ohio and the East , where thellepublican Party is stronger than it has been in any campaign since 1008 . " T Just dropped by to pay my re-spects to Senator Harding on my way to Chicago . and T am delighted to see him looking so well in every way , The Republicans begin the campaign with a ! tremendous advantage in popular sentiment . " Senator Harding was a guest at the installation ceremonies of B'nai R'rith this afternoon . in responding tp the greetings of members ' and . guests , Senator Harding said that he hoped " all America would catch the spirit of the organization in campaigning against ignorance . intolerance , defamation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lcitizenship . Fraternity and help- I fulness must be the abiding purpose of our people , and the compensations that come of . the consciousness of helping one 's fellow men contributes more to the happiness of self than success , distinction and all the other triumph of life . " He also spoke of the part played in war and peace by Jewish citizens of Marion . With his speech of acceptance completed , Senator Harding , who has kept close to his headquarters the last few weeks , plans to play golf one or two afternoons before the notification ceremonies .                     