@@686478

txt Things moved at a rapid pace at yesterday 's session of the Mackay legislative investigating committee which is inquiring into the conduct of New Jersey municipalities with special reference to Jersey City and Hoboken . The climax came with the arrest of Robert Armstrong . member of the Hudson County Board of Elections , on a warrant charging him with violating the State registration law , and the bringing of a charge of contempt of court against County Counsel John Fallon by County Judge Richard Doherty . Fallon appeared in defense of Armstrong at a summary hearing at Which Judge Doherty ordered Armstrong 's arrest after hearing the minutes of the testimony taken by the committee a few minutes earlier , testimony Which the Court said " substantially shows the commission of a grave crime . " Fallon 's alleged contempt lay in a remark attributed to him after Judge Doherty had ordered registration books for the Spring primaries impounded as evidence against Armstrong at the close of registration last night . " No ? ? court in the country can get those books , " was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making it . The charge against Armstrong was that he failed to erase from the original Signature copy registration books names of voters transferring to other districts or wards and signed up in other books , leaving the way open for such voters to cast two ballots . Assistant County Prosecutor Vickers , a candidate for the Republican nomination as City Commissioner , brought the charge - before the legislators , saying that Joseph P. O'Connor , another candidate at the primaries next Tuesday , had given him the information . John A. Bernhard , counsel to the committee , called attention to the possibility of repeating involved in the double signatures and Armstrong was brought to the stand . He testified that the practice involved only postponement of the erasures until the close of business to avoid confusion and said the Board of elections had directed such procedure . After consulting with Fallon . Armstrong announced that he would not discontinue the practice . While drawing up the complaint tga.inst Armstrong , Vickers asserted to newspaper men that from the standpoint ) 4 a prosecutor any flagrant violation ) f the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclu5ion ? " contemplated fraud . " Judge Doherty fixed bail for Armtrong at $10,000 over Fallon 's vehement ) roteste . It was furnished .                     