@@688010

txt Another dramatic ' phase in the Irish civil war has followed the four surprise landings of national troops yesterday in Cork County . The rebels , who had prepared- Cork for a long siege , have withdrawn from the . city after having blown up important buildings , including two newspaper offices , the Victoria Hotel and the military barracks. , A battle is in progress a few miles south of Cork between the rebels and the National troops , who boldly sailed up the harbor and landed in tiny boats at Rochestown , three miles from Cork itself . At the moment the actual position is hard to ascertain , because Cork is cut off froth all zommunication 4cept sea . Two landing parties , who were disembarked from troopships near the port , are endeavoring to close in . upon the irregulars . How tar they have reached is not known , but it seems that the irregulars are retreating as usual , leaving . behind them a trail of destruction and desolation . I am Infurmed that the barracks and Victoria Hotel have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which the irregulars have been in possession for a considerable time , and those of The Constitution have been destroyed . People who left Cork by sea just before the harbor was blocked say that several buildings in the city were ablaze and that the sky was red with The glare . of the flames leaping into the air . at four or five different points and dense volumes of smoke enveloping the quay . Admiralty III:rise was picked out as one of the burning buildings . It was said that the great building was blazing fiercely and that nothing could possibly save it . Naval Hospital is Also Afire . Further down the harbor the big naval hospital was also afire , and here as well the flames had gained such a firm foothold that the building was obviously doomed . It was about 2:30 o'clock in the morning that the National troops disembarked . One party landed at Passage West , about seven mites from Cork , and the other , troopship ' penetrated as far as Rochestown , about three miles from the city . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortly before the actual disembarkation that the ships were observed by the irregulars . Heavy fire was then opened from the shore , but the troops preserved perfect discipline and under cover of a heavy barrage they landed without serious loss , but even after they had driven the rebels from the immediate neighborhood the regulars were incessantly sniped by mutineers on the surrounding hills . . Of the two other landings in County Cork both were completely successful . At Youghal the troops arrived in the early hours of the morning just as an all-night dance at the Youghal Golf Club had concluded . Taken completely by surprise the irregulars quickly retreated and the town was taken within seven minutes . Among the buildings which the irregulars had seized* were the military and police barracks , but the men left without doing any damage . Two Dublin ships , the Lady Wicklow and the Amnia , were engaged in the landing operations in Cork Harbor . Leaving Dublin Monday , they steamed through the harbor 's mouth the following night . Queenstown had been evacuated by the irregulars and fierce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the harbor . The ships got up the River Lee , the tire of ' snipers incessantly pestering them from bah banks and the overlooking hills . At 2:30 o'clock in the ? morning the Lady Wicklow had parted with her gallant cargo . She had penetrated as far as Rochestown , where the famous Capuchin monastery is situated and about three miles from the city . She arrived back in Dublin today with the body of one dead soldieii . I have it . on trustworthy , but unofcial , authority that the moment the organized resistance of the irregulars is broken down , as it is now virtually throughout the greater portion of the country , the Government will treat al ) acts of resistance to its authority , such as the destruction of . communications , enforced contributions , looting and the like as acts , punishable by field courtmartial . Fires Follow Dynamite Explosions . DUBLIN , Aug. 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? The national forces entered the City of Cork today , according to an official announcement here tonight . Patrick Street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the newspaper offices are aflame following dynamite explosions , which blew up many buildings The reconvening of the Dail Eireann , ' scheduled for Aug. 12 , was postponed today until . Aug. 26 . BELFAST , Aug. 10 . ? A band of armed men raided the banks in , Kingscourt , I00vsntY Cavan today . The bandits got issvay with booty to the amount of ! 1.2,400. 4. endon . Thinks First Phase Near End . : Copyright , 1922 , b7 The Now York Times company . By.Wireless to Tam NEW Yost TIMES . LONDON , Aug. ** opinion in ' regard to the progress of civil war in ! Ireland is that the first phase in the Aoppression of the rebels  --  the phase of gormally organized warfare ? is now tearing its close . The attack from the Sea n Cork " County and the evacuation ' Of Cork City may . well prove decisive for the success is one , which if properly pursued should soon end the existence of the irregular army as an organized force capable of holding the field . Tho military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the irregulars had absolute control of the whole of Cork County , with Kerry on the west and part of County Waterford on the east . North of this lay the fighting zone , which may be called the front line , and along this the Government troops , with slow but steady pressure , have been pushing southward . The capture of Abbeyfeale and Drumcollogher brings them into Cork County at its northwestern end . while they are evidently attacking near Clonmel , about twenty miles from its northeastern end . The Provisional Government 's success at Cork must make resistance on the principal front hopeless . It takes the enemy in the rear at a geographical , political and military centre . The coup has been carried out by a resolute young officer . Major Gen. Dalton , who distinguished himself in the great war and is now turning Wei military experience to account .                     