@@695823

txt Frank Woodward , a wealthy American manufacturer , kidnapped his two children as they were leaving school today and was believed to be safely over a foreign border With them late tonight . Emery Foster , a teacher in the school . was badly cut when his artu crashed through a limousine window in an attempt to reacue the children . The governess in whose care they were is in hysterics . Mr. Woodward apparently has legality on his side , and the authorities probably could not be asked to take action against him even it he were in France . Little can be learned of the family causes behind the spectacular incident , but it is known that Mrs. Woodward came to Paris eighteen months ago with the two children , Ruth , 12 years old , and Frank , 9 , and placed them in an American private school here . which they attended as day pupils . They went to school each day accompanied by a governess , who took them from their mother 's apartment house to the school gate and called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today a big limousine was waiting outside the gates all morning , and a man who was believed to be Woodward questioned one of the students to learn if Frank Woodward atattended this school . The same man , with three others . rushed to the gate when Frank and Ruth , with their governess , appeared and , seizing the children , tore them away from the screaming governess and hustled them into the waiting car . Mr. Woodward attempted to reassure the governess by telling her the children were his and that he was only taking them for a ride . Mr. Foster , hearing the screams , rushed up and made an effort to rescue his pupils . The car started at this moment and he was hurled against a window , which crashed and Mr. Foster was badly cut . He was taken to the American Hospital suffering from considerable loss of blood , but is not believed to be dangerously hurt . Mrs. Woodward declined to make any statement tonight . Mr. Woodward 's lawyer indicated that his client followed his wife here after he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him custody of the children . Divorce Suit in Bickland County . PARIS , Jan. 22 O. ? Papers in a suit for divorce on statutory grounds returnable in Rockland County , N. Y. , were served on Mrs. Fends Earle Woodward , the children 's mother . tonight by Herbert C. Smythe , attorney , of 30 FBroad Street , New York , who had accompanied his client to Paris . The abduction was carried out without a hitch . When Ruth and Frank appeared with their governess they were gently seized and placed in the automobile ; whose motor was already running . Little Ruth in her surprise at first started to scream , but said , " Hello , father , " as soon as she caught sight of Mr. Woodward . Mrs. Woodward made no complaint to the French police , but the school authorities took immediate action . Mr. Woodward sought the aseista-nee of the Paris police last night in obtaining possession of the children whose mother , he said , was " keeping the children in Paris without his consent or permission . " Late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Naeftzer , an American lawyer in Paris , to appear before the commissioner of the Sixteenth Ward at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning to be " questioned as to what they know about the kidnapping . " The attorney of Ars . Woodward , who has been separated from her husband about a year , is Dudley Field Malone of New York .                     