@@686497

txt The American counter-questions reached the German Government at 11 o'clock this morning , whereupon a Cabinet session took place in the presence of several members of the Government 's Advisory Committee of Economic and Financial Experts . They were told by Fehrenbach that America could not transmit the German proposals in their present shape to the Allied powers unless the final sum of compensations was fixed in a manner excluding all doubt of their amount . On ? other points the American 66-srer. hinent desired further elucidation . THE TIMES correspondent hears that the authorities and experts believe they can give a satisfactory answer , which will reach Washington tonight . ' Members of the Cabinet congratulated Dr. Simons for having selected a way through Washington since , as they thought , with any excuse welcome to France she would have rejected the new German proposals , had she been approached directly . It is generally believed here now that no effort and sacrifice must be spared , but that the present negotiations with America 's aid may lead to tangible results . Hughes Made Informal Inquiries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April ** rejection of the German proposals on reparations by the French Government would naturally be followed by a communication from Secretary Hughes to the German Government explaining that the proposals are unsatisfactory and that the United States does not feel at liberty to transmit them formally to the allied powers . As the communications which passed today between Secretary Hughes and the allied Governments through their Ambassadors in Washington have been entirely " informal " they have constructively never taken place . In these circumstances Mr. Hughes is at liberty to say to ; the German Government on the responsibility of the Government of the United States without mentioning the veto of the French Government in any way , that the United States regards the German proposals as unsatisfactoryand does not care to submit them to the allied poyers . In his informal memorandum responding to the request of the German Government that the United States act as arbitrator or mediator in the reparations issue , Secretary Hughes said that the United States would " consider " whether it would transmit to the Allies any proposals for an adjustment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German note to the Allies . ? That the Harding Administration will not drop its effort to bring about a settlement because of the French veto is rather generally believed here , where the feeling is that this Government considers the situation as justifying every effort that may properly be made to end the perturbing situation that has arisen through the failure of the Allies and Germany to reach an underst.nding as to the amount of the reparations and the manner of their payment . There is no authoritative statement in this connecion , however , and the theory that Mr. Hughes will continue his efforts is based upon general knowledge or the strong desire ? of the Administration to have the reparations question adjusted . Felt France Would Not Accept . A summary of the German note as published here satisfied those who had some knowledge of the allied position that it would not be satisfactory to France , at least ; but there - was a strong opinion that it might serve as the basis of further informal conversations between the Secretary of State and the Ambassadors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further proposals from Germany which the Allies might regard as worthy of consideration . Those best acquainted with The French position , however , were certain that , . whatever the attitude of the Allies toward the German proposals , the French Government would not postpone its plan for the invasion of the Ruhr region on May 1 . It was pointed out in this connection that the advance into the Ruhr would not interefere with the continuation of exchanges between Germany and the United States in the endeavor to find a basis of settlement that the Allies might accept . As the situation is presented tonight , in the light of the French rejection of the German proposals , the occupation of the Ruhr region will be carried out according to schedule , with the British probably joining the French in military action , but this will not cause the United States to suspend ' its efforts to bring 1 about a settlement If the . German Goyernment has other concessions to offer : The , reeling exists in some quarters here that the German Government has been led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Aro etica.n ' citizens ? now in Berlin who have been endeavoring co persuade prominent Republicans in Washington to use their influence with the Harding Administration to bring about an acceptance of the recent German proposal . that the United States consent to serve as arbitrator or mediator between Germany and the allied . powers . This German proi : ? esal was promptly rejected by Secretary Hughes , but it is evident that the members of the American group have been placing great reliance in the assurance of Mr. Hughes that this Government would " consier " whether it would transmit any proposals of new terms of settlement that Germany might send to Washington . The circumstances of the activities of the American group are looked upon here as giving warrant far the : : report ' States Might be influenced to intervene in Germany 's behalf . The note from Germany containing her latest proposals for a settlement of the reparations question , received here late last night , was laid before the Cabinet today . Later Secretary Hughes conferred separately with . the envoys of Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he handed copies of the note . The first to receive - copies of the German communication from Secretary Hughes were Jules J. jusserand , the French ' Ambassador , and Sir Auckland Geddes , the British Ambassador . It is not known under precisely what circumstances the copies were handed to them , as close secrecy was maintained on that point at the State Department . It is known , however , that the French and British ' Ambassadors did not personally visit the department , as did the other three allied Ambassadors , to receive the communications from Mr. Hughes . There was au unofficial report that Mr. Hughes had conferences with Sir Auckland Geddes and M .. Jusserand outside the department . Late in the afternoon Secretary Hughes received , at the State Department Baron B. de Cartier de Marchienne , the Belgian Ambassador ; Baron Rolandi Ricci , the Italian Ambassador , and Baron Kijuto Shidehara , the Japanese Ambassador . They went to the department in the order named , and were received separately . Secretary Hughes then handed to each of them a copy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Secceratry Hughes about ' twenty minutes eneh and t the Japanese Ambassador about five minutes . France is interested to the extent of il5 per cent of the payments to be made by Germany . The rest of the money obtained from Germany will be divided so that 25 per cent . will go to England and 10 per , cent , to Belgium and . Italy . No reparations payments go to Japan . The text of the German proposals reached the State Department in sections . There Is no explanation of the delay in its transmission . It was delivered in Berlin on Sunday to the American Commissioner and should ordinarily have reached the State Department by daylight Monday morning , allowing the usual twelve hours for cable transmission . WASHINGTON , April 211 ( Associated Press )  - -  - No official explanation of the le  --  ision not to make the German note public here was forthcoming tonight , Out unofficially it was explained that its publication at this time might give rise to a suggeston that the United States was endeavoring to , nfluence public opinion and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the contro1 versy.                     