@@695394

txt Another of those beautiful May-November friend . ships of the sport business , like the one between Gene Tunny and old Mr. Will McCabe , . so recently dissolved , has now been abrogated , leaving young Mr. Stanley Harris , manager of the Washington ball club , and old Mr. Clark Griffith , proprietor of the same , on terms of acquaintance and mutual respect , but not of filial and paternal devotion as before . /tang air . Harris is serving his last season as manager and second baseman of the Washington team and he is making a special effort to do violent things to the New York Yankees in their current series as part of a general , though belated , effort to land his squad in first division for the fifth time in five years . He has been so bold as to say that the present fight between the Yankees and the Philadelphia team may be decided . not by one or the other of the combatants , but by his own otherwise negligible athletes in two games tomorrow and another one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's duration , Mr. Harris ' men have won every series they have played against the teams of both the east and the west , with the exception of one four game engagement with the Cleveland Indians in which they broke even at two games apiece . Wednesday they played two games against the Yankees , winning and losing , and they expect to do no worse and perhaps some better in two games tomorrow and then to fight for the fifth game of the group Saturday afternoon . After the season has closed . Mr. Harris will turn in his flannels to Mr. Griffith , speak a piece about having fought the good fight for five years , including reminders of the two pennants and one world series won under his administration , and prepare himself to go wherever Mr. Griffith shall elect to send him , only trusting , I suppose , that Mr. Griffith would not send an old friend to the White Sox . However , I do not think Mr. Harris need thrash upon his cot of nights in worry about this because old Mr. Griffith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did when business was better in Washington . has not exactly come to hate him . Ho probably will come up to the winter meetings in New York and market him to some gentle proprietor who will make him happy and pay a pleasant price for him in cash , ivory , and soap wrappers . At any rate , this cooling of an affection which served its day as a topic for tremulant winter ** pieces on the sport pages three years ago , is definite and final and those who wish to be disillusioned may start to be now . It was a beautiful devotion while it lasted , with old . Griffith , the tiring magnate , sitting in his office in the gloaming and seeing the Griffith ideals living another span in tho career of Stanley ilartis , whom he loved as a son and who loved him not as an employer , but as a father . It was of a. piece with the poetic attachment betwieen Mr. Tunnel and Mr. McCabe , that fine old stalwart or splendid old chap , as , fr . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ring in Philadelphia wet from the rain of his own tears and said he had seen his boy win the championship and was ready now to die . Mr. Griffith loved Mr. Harris so well that he allowed htm to acquire stock in the Washington ball club , and I recollect toe , e. tors won their second pennant that stock paid Mr. Harris a dividend of 160 per cent . Since then , however . Stanley has disposed of his shares , and now that his contractWas has expired and his popularity in hington has waned somewhat the father and son relationship has undergone a corresponding readjustment I am going to believe in these rater et fillus affairs with great hesitancy and caution henceforth , being sentimental by nature and no longer up to the strain of these sunderings for revenue only .                     