@@693913

txt " Everything goes , boys , " said Mayor N. L. Hunt ; " the lid 's off , " proclaimed Sheriff Green . Thus assured , Denison today went gleefully and noisily about the business of celebrating the achievement of its native son , Clarence Duncan Chamberlin , in making his non-stop transatlantic flight . Denison had but little sleep last night , for it was confronted with the task of staging two impromptu celebrations during the night , the first prompted by a false report that its own Clarence ( " Chink " as Ye was known to his boyhood friends ) had landed in Berlin . It was only a half hour after miinight that the report came , and Denison immediately proceeded to blast the roof off its small-town decorum with dynamite , fireworks and firearms of every description . Then there was an impromptu parade and hand playing and singing . Staid business men slapped each other on the backs , buxom housewives danced about on the street corners , and a huge bonfire flared at the intersection of the two main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , still convinced that Clarence had landed in Berlin . sleepily went to bed . It was after 4 o'clock in the morning when Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Chamberlin , parents of the transatlantic flier , who had gone to Omaha to watch press reporLs of their son 's orngress throughout , telephoned . hey izld landed 53 fely near Eisleben , Germany . The few Denison folks who were still awake routed others from their beds. and soon a fourth of the town 's population of 3,600 were again crlebrating . Send Message to Flier . A cablegram was hurriedly dispatched to Chamberlin this morning . " Attaboy , Clarence , " it read . " Congratulations . royal welcome awaits you in your home town . Denison , Iowa . " Shortly after noon today Denison. hoarse from the celebration of the night before , but apparently unwearied , began its formal jubilee . High school musicians from four towns in the county assembled and , with the Denison band led a tri- ' umphant parade through the town . Charnherlin 's rise to fame was portrayed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed successively by a velocipede. a bicycle , an antiquated automobile , a motorcycle and finally a miniature airplane . On the Court House lawn all Denison and most of the countryside assembled after the parade to hear Clem F. Kimball , Lieutenant Governor of Iowa . eulogize its famous son and praise his achievement . Governor . Tohn Hammill , who also ' . ? . " P.S invited to attend the celebration , sent his regrets at his inability to he present and added his congratulations to the hundreds which poured into the town . Ovation for Aviator 's Parents . An ovation greeted the automobile of Chamberlin 's parents as they returned to their home in Denison from Omaha early this afternoon , arriving while the celebration was at its height . Townsfolk crowded forward to shake the Chamberlins by the hand ' and to congratulate their neighbors on their son 's spectacular and heroic flight . Denison was weary from celebrating as the sun went down tonight but already it was making plans for a " Chamberlin Day " during its threeday festival next October , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town and be its honored guest . And Armistice Day . Nov. 11 , will be the occasion for still another celebration . for it is the birthday of the transatlantic flier .                     