@@689436

txt Professor ROSTOVTSEFF , a famous Russian expert on classical antiquities , now a member of the ' Faculty of the University of Wisconsin , has found or thinks he has found in the Street of Abundance in Pompeii the underground library of a Homerist . The upper part of the walls of the subterranean portico , which ran around a garden , are decorated with a frieze some two hundred yards ' Ong , illustrating the story of the Iliad , probably of the Odyssey and the poems of the Homeric cycle . The pictorial Iliad narrative is nearly all preserved . Professor ROSTOVTSEFF is sure that the style of the frieze is " clearly copied from " pictures in a Greek illuminated manu " script of the first century B. C. , or " A. D. " Fragmentary ' decorations of such scenes from miniatures were already known , but ' this is the first copy from an entire manuscript . The owner of the house must have been " a Homer enthusiast . " This appears from the decorations of the rooms opening from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenes from the Iliad alternate with scenes " probably from the Attic comedy . " So the Homer enthusiast was also a Menander enthusiast , it may be allowed to guess . PETRoNrus 's fabulously rich and vulgar freedman Trimalchio had the hall of his house decorated with scenes from Homer as well as from the career of his favorite gladiator . If Trimalchio ? had been an actual person in some old Southern Italian town and his house had been preserved , doubtless the archaeologists would have surmised that he was an enthusiastic Homerist . The whole house , to the professor 's mind , " is , so to speak , Homeric . " Near one of the halls in the upper part is " a little " alcove . What it was meant for it is " difficult-to guess " ; but the professor guesses : The ceiling is covered with wonderfully beautiful moldings , and just below the ceiling runs a molded frieze representing the most familiar and the most dramatic scenes of . the Iliad . There is one particularly remarkable scene in which Priam begs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Below the frieze the wall is absolutely bare. , What does this signify ? I have not ' the slightest doubt that shelves ran along these walls , shelves for manuscripts of HOMER 'S works  --  in fact , the private library of our libmerist , which he took away with him when he sold the house . The professor 's process of elimination is rather summary . Remembering , however , photographs of the " libraries " of some of our purple citizens , it may be that the absence of books and manuscripts from a room proves that it is a " library . " These identifications are sometimes a little rash . The well-known ' ' House of the Tragic Poet is a case in point . One likes to believe , however , that there were " literary fellows " in Pompeii . We know that there was Z , book shop there , apparently kept by four partners , but the absence of papyrus rolls has been explained as due to the character of the eruption . They were burned by the hot ash , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banker 's tablet-receipts are , if we are not mistaken , the only " library " found in Pompeii . Of " libraries " without shelves we may now have hope , from the excavations made in the last ten years and as yet imperfectly reported . Professor ROSTOVTSEFF must have submitted his " library " alcove to the Vitruvian test . It must face the morning light , if that test applies to underground " libraries . " It must have been ornamented with portrait busts of illustrious men  --  PLATO , HOD.IER , and so on . " I love " better to be seated at your little house " under the bust of ARISTOTLE than in " their " the wicked anti-Ciceronians " curule chairs , " wrote CICERO to ATTicus , lying as usual .                     