@@687204

txt It is expected that the British , American and Japanese delegations will reach an agreement on capital ships in the corning week and that this agreement will adhere very closely to the 5-3-3 ratio laid down in Secretary Hughes 's original proposals as a measure of the fighting strength of the three navies . However , it is understood that the British Government will withhold its assent to the final naval arrangement until there has been an agreement as to auxiliary ships and especially submarines . Bluntly , this means that England wants assurances on what submarine strength France and Italy will have before she consents.to reduce her navy . The expectation expressed early . in the week and shared by the American delegates that the conference would end before Christmas appeared less bright today . While other delegates continue to speak of sailing before the 20th December , the opinion was expressed today in a h ! ? .. American quarter that it was " altogether likely that the conference would take a recess for Christmas . " Last Tuesday , in the'same American quarter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why the conference should not be finished before Christmas . Much Work to Be Done . It is undoubtedly true that the American delegation is coming to a better realization of the difficulties and the immense amount of work to ' be done before the results of the conference can take final form . After general lines are decided upon there remains the application of the principles , and after that is agreed upon there remain the detailed interpretations . American spokesmen point out at almost every opportunity that the big thing is the question of capital ships , and that once that is regulated the other matters relating to naval limitation are details . It is the guiding idea of the American delegation , as authors of the naval limitation plan , that all auxiliary craft , including submarines , bear a sonlei  --  itat constant relation to capital ships . This is where the French naval demands ... we in rind complicate the situation . he French want a goodly equipment of submarines ; they would like to have a great many submarines ; they would like to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American delegation might regard as the proper ratio between their capital tonnage and auxiliary craft . It was in realization of this that the French planned to ask for as many capital ships as Japan , as that would give them more auxiliary craft . French Stand Worries British . When the French also talked of asking for as many submarines as Britain or America , it is possible they were asking for more than they expected to get ; but they made it plain , as M. Briand has since confirmed , that they intended to maintain an important underseas force . There is rio doubt of that intention in any quarter . Nod the French demand for submarines worries the British . They would like to - abolish submarines , because , they say , tney represent inhumane warfare and also because they are the war weapons most dangerous to Britain 's long lines of communication . Without saying in open meeting that Britain fears France 's submarines would be directed against her , the British put the ease on the basis of preparing against general eventualities . And there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only too many of them , which were not confined to exchange of notes . So serious is Britain about the submarine business that it is stated unofficially today that she will not regard herself as axle to make any final agreement with regard to capital ships until France 's submarine allowance is fixed la a manner she regards as just . The situation is further complicated by the Italian stand . The Italians are taking a very skillful attitude . They are willing to do anything France will do about naval disarmament ; but they do not wish to ' do more than France . As a sister Mediterranean power , they Wish a naval force to compare with that of France . Threatens Mediterranean Power . Now diplomatic calculations being based less on memories of war brotherhood than on hard , cold considerations , Britain at once sees that too strong zubmarine forces in the Mediterranean would be threatening her political power there , since , in the last analysis , political strength of European nations is In direct ratio to their fighting strength . It is well known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Britain and America , as provided in Hughes 's plan , as too much . No nation now has such a tonnage and , therefore , as the British figure it , to increase tonnage of any branch of the naval service is not the right way to reduce armament . ' When it is reported that France wishes 90,000 tons of submarines , the British get all stirred up . They point out that Germany at no time of the war had so many undersea craft and , as one Englishman expressed it today , " If Germany had had as many submarines as we hear France will ask for , we should have been beaten in the war . " The French , somewhat displeased at the row Britain is raising over her naval position , are not saying publicly what they will ask for . As a matter of fact , they will probably of their own initiative make no naval suggestions , for if nothing were done at the conference with regard to French naval strength , the French naturally would be left free to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the way of constructing a fleet . But it goes withoi:t saying that the subject of the size of the French and Italian fleets will be brought up at the conference and France 's desires probably will be stated in reply to a question as to what she regards as necessary . There are just , two ways for France to get a heavy submarine equipment . One is to be allowed a large capital ship tonnage under the application of the ratio of the general relation of underseas craft to so many capital ships , as applied to the three big fleets ; the other would be to except her from the working of the said ratio . Neither method opens a field for international political debate . It is entirely likely that the French and British will take opposing sides on the question of the control of the use of submarines . It is believed that the British delegates intend to bring before the board which is considering laws of war a suggestion that it be declared against international law for a submarine to attack a merchantman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the French would quickly agree to this on the ground that one step would lead to another in opening the possibility of too much limiting of a nation 's use of its means of defense . Although it appears altogether likely that eventually an agreement will be worked out , it seems fair to say that the expected French naval demands now appear as the biggest problem to be solved before a successful plan for the limitation of naval armament can grow out of the present conference . There is a distinct inclination on the part of the American delegates to regret the airing of the differences between Britain and France at present going on in Paris and London as well as in America . But it le rather difficult to see the danger of any impending calamity in the publication now of words and sentiments which Britons and Frenchmen at home are used to getting in their newspapers every morning . The mere fact that yesterday 's , today 's or tomorrow 's newspapers happen to publish indication of those two nations ' rivalries  --  which is n't news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out whatever policies are agreed upon as the result of this conference  --  ought not to make any fundamental difference in the results of the Washington negotiations . It might help .                     