@@693920

txt Any chance shot by a bandit on the Albanian frontier , according to the French view of the present state of feeling , might easily precipitate a new war in the Balkans , almost inevitably involving Italy and Yugoslavia . As a result of the precipitate action of the Yugoslav Government in withdrawing its legation from Tirana . and the excitement which the incident has caused on both sides of the Adriatic . counsels of moderation have been sent from Paris to Belerade. but these counsels , though They may prevent further development of danger , this time have been sent too late to prevent the Belgrade ; but these counsels , though self in a diplomatic position greatly inferior to that which it held some months ago . There is disposition here to thine that Bel retie , by its preeloitaney. has fallen into a trap v-i- ? , - ! h -. vas more or less deliberately laid for it . or . at least . that it has been the victim of quicker witted Italian diplomats in the situation which offered itself . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subtle to be Albanian inspiration . has immediately presented its case to the League of Nations . Mussolini Regarded as Victor . Only a few months ago , when it seemed that Yugoslavia was in the right and Italy was in the wrong in the Albanian affair , it was Belgrade which was anxious to have the case heard at Geneva . Mussolini refused , and after month of unsatisfactory negotiations the matter had et last reached a point where direct ) negotiations were about to begin . Now , as result of this latest incident . Albania herself has presented the whole case for discussion by the League Council , with Yugoslavia instead of Italy , if not in the wrong . at least in the position of a defendant before the council and Italy in the position of one of the board of judges . This situation is believed to be exactly to Mussolini 's liking . His qwq and this sudden reversal of the roles of his own country and Yugoslavia in Albanian affairs must in itself he counted a victory for him . Trifling incident at Root @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An interpreter with some vague connection with the Yugoslav Lee:et:on was arrested on a charge of consniracy and espionage . The Belgrade Government demanded in terms . which Ahmed Zogu 's t over considered far ton strong . the ? elease of the man on the ground that warning should have been given of the intention to arrest any one in its employ . The Albanians declare that had this summons been in more courteous language they would have consented , but national pride prevented their yielding to so peremptory a note . Belgrade alleges that the arrest of the interpreter was just one more instance of a pin-pricking policy which has been carried on in Albania ever since the Treaty of Tirana gave to Italy a kind of tutorial power in the border Sate . Hastily and without balancing the consequences . Belgrade ordered the withdrawal of its diplomatic personnel . Italy in Role of Adjudicator . In the whole incident , Italy does not appear as involved in any way . It seems to be a matter solely between Albania and Yugoslavia . and as such has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will seek to play at Geneva with absolute impartiality , the role of peaceful adjudicators. and so at the same time will avoid being the defendants , as they would have been had Belgrade brought the Albanian question before the League . and will force Yugoslavia to accept Italian authority in Albanian matters . So far the game has been prettily played . It will give to Italy an excellent opportunity for showing how she wishes to exercise peaceful authority and at the same time act in concert with the other great European nations . The only danger is that in that frontier land , where no Government 's authority is ever long or strictly recognised ane are always loaded , some one friendly to neither side may start shooting before the diplomatic game has been played out .                     