@@694629

txt Radio set owners who are interested In making their own radio plc-hire recording apparatus to use in connection with the proposed broadcast of photographs from WOR after Jan. 1 may easily obtain the necessary parts for home construction , said a representative of Austin G. Cooley , inventor , yesterday . The system is known as the Cooley Rayfoto . " The first essential of the home constructed apparatus , " said Mr. Cooley 's representative , " is a good shielded broadcast receiver , or one that has a good audio amplifying system . The next essential is an ordinary phonograph turntable which will revolve with constant speed at about the phonograph standard speed of seventy-eight revolutions a minute . " Other necessary parts are a third stage audio transformer attached to the set 's output ; a relay , modulation transformer , corona coil and needle , extra receiving tubes , switches and local oscillator device . The whole apparatus will cost less than t100 , it was said . The printing of the picture Is accomplished on . regular four-by-fiveinch sensitized photographic paper , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phonograph turntable and made to revolve in synchronism with the transmitting apparatus at the broadcaster . Corona needle impulses , or high-frequency discharges , pass from the needle through the paper and leave an impression thereon in accordance with the light and dark sections of the photograph being transmitted . A concert by the band of the Wall Street Branch of the Boys ' Y. M. C. A. will be broadcast today beginning at 12:15 P. M. over WNYC from the " heart of Wall Street . Carols and songs also will be broadcast from a microphone placed in front of the Stock Exchange . The ownership of Station WM1G , in Madison Square Garden , is about to change hands , it was learned yesterday . A representative said final papers for transfer of the station would be signed by today , but he declined to reveal the new owners He said that under the new management a more advantageous arrangement with George L. ( . ex ) Rickard , owner of the Garden , was expected , which would result in the broadcasting of more of the Garden 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be sought on Tuesday by the Society of Authors , Composers and Publishers to restrain WMSG from broadcasting current theatrical music would be adjusted soon . The statiowill be moved to the fifth floor of the Garden 's offices . Dr. Roger H. Dennett , Professor of Children 's Diseases at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital , will speak at 8:30 o'clock tonight over WRNY on " The Sun-Kissed Babe , " under the auspices of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association , and in connection with the twentieth annual Christmas Seal sale now in progress . An organ recital in St. Thomas 's Church will be broadcast beginning at 8:15 o'clock tonight over WABC by E. Rupert Sitcom , organist of the church . " Why Adopt a Baby ? " is the title of an address to be given at 5:50 o'clock this afternoon by Mrs. Richard Lockridge , Assistant Secretary , Committee on Child Placing , State Charities Aid Association . Cecil Lean and Cleo Mayfield , musical comedians , will be heard tonight at 10 o'clock over WEAF and twentynine associated stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and " Sid " Terris and the preceding semi-final bout will be broadcast tonight beginning at 9 o'clock over WABC direct from Madison Square Garden .                     