@@695508

txt Police believe that Joe Saltis ' gang or other enemies of Spike O'Donnell , 1 member of a family which gained no-1 toriety in the Chicago beer running industry several years ago , attempted to assassinate him last night In front of the garage operated by his brother , Steve , at 5401 South , Wood street . Shortly before midnight a number of men riding in four automobiles swept past another car parked in front of the garage and raked the machine and the front of the building with a volley of machine gun and pistol fire . From the stories told by witnesses of the shooting the police believe the target automobile contained Spike O'Donnell and another man , His Car Bullet Riddled . O'Donnell 's car , riddled with 24 machine gun bullets , was found in the rear of his mother 's home at 83d and streets . O'Donnell was found in the house and was taken to the detective bureau for questioning . He denied any knowledge of the shooting , although the police observed there was a hole in his coat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that as the attackers ' guns blazed in front of the garage answering shots came from the car at the curb and from the adjacent alley . The police reasoned from this that O'Donnell evidently had been expecting his enemies . NVho these enemies were they failed to learn , but one theory was that they were members of Saltis ' gang , which was long it war with the O'Donnells over beer selling privileges . Believe One Man Killed . A woman resident declared that Immediately after the firing she heard a man shout from Inside the attacked automobile : " He 's riddled . He 's through . " It was believed from this that perhaps one man was killed by the volley and his body will be found la ter . Several bullets crashed into the door and windows of the garage and one broke a pane in The home of Mrs. Sophie Golombiewski , 6348 South Hermitage avenue , niece of former Ald. Golombiewski . Shortly after the shooting an abandoned automobile with a stolen license plate was found at 64th street and Hermitage avenue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the gunmen . In it was found a speeding arrest slip issued to a man named Waite , 8258 South Morgan street . lie was being sought . O'Donnell was released under an agreement to return today for questioning by Chief of Detectives John Lgan.                     