@@694721

txt The ordinance against loop parking has been in effect e. little leas than two weeks and already it is under heavy fire . On the one hand , engineers and throughbound motorists say that It is a success . On the other , owners of the smaller stores say it has hurt trade . The big merchants have yet to voice a definite opinion . - Fortunately , the hearings on the ordinance before the council traffic committee will occupy con. siderable time , ' and the court into which a milt was brought insisted on hearinglboth sides of the ease . Before the bearings are over the ordinance will have been given a worth while test . It Is unfortunate that the criticism began ? eo early . Every innovation Is bold to cause confusion and some discomfort . The buying public should be given plenty of chance to get used to the nonparking rule , and the ordinance should be extended over a long enough period for other causes of buying fluctuation to be measured'and discounted . Tho testimony presented two weeks or a month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hasty pronouncements. - THE BIG BILL BLUES . The Big Bull rag of Glasgow students seems to have been just such a success as Big . Bill himself would have asked that it be . He is the first American mayor who ever entertained any large Euro-I pean city an entire day and night without stirring from his oftico or fireside . And who is the mayor of Glasgow ? Diana . ken . The only known Scotch-man other than Harry Lauder is the man who ' spent the ma-pence . Bill himself loves a rag . lie has been having a good one in the school beard , where no attention paid to the tact that the term of Supt. is up . For trial purposes be Is the best superintendent of schools Chicago ever had , and the board members ca n't bear to part with him definitely and forever . The Glasgow fun may Inspire Bill to a return of courtesy . A few floats in a carnival are obvious : A tablet in Westminster pursuing an American ambassador . An American matron entrenched at the ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A cheerful British man of property paying the American debt . A British admiral discussing the American navy . A British author preparing to lecture In the United States . An English gentleman meeting an American ( a ) In New York , ( b ) In London . An American member of the EnglishSpeaking union at work ( a ) for Sulgrave manor , ( b ) fora statue of John Paul Jones . ' /dr . Berlin might write some trinste for it  --  the International Rag or the Big Bill Blum.                     