@@688175

txt The Bethlehem Steel Corporation , as a result of the taking over of the Lackawanna Steel Company . which will give it control of more than 10 per cent . of the steel-producing capacity of the country , is contemplating the formation of a new export organization to handle its foreign business and advance the sale of the company 's products in all parts of the world , according to reports in the financial district yesterday . The organization . it is said , will probably be similar to the United States Steel Products Company organized by the United States Steel Corporation in The Bethlehem reports originated in steel circles following the announcement by the Consolidated Steel Corporation that it would liquidate and that it had already ceased selling steel Cm- foreign ' account in the name Of independent companies . The Consolidated Corporation handled the export bueincss of about eleven companies . but following the merger of the Elethlehem-LIIckaWanna companies and the contemplated merger of MidVale-Hepublic and Inland . it expected to lose the business of the larger of the companies . The merger of Bethlehem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization . but has added considerably to the number of products produced . Wire and wire nails are about the only products not produced . but it has been reported that eventually Bethlehem would take over one of the larger wire companies to round out its production program and place it on a par with the Steel Corporation . The diversity of the products manufactured by the consolidated companygives it a strong position in the export field and the steel trade has long been . discussing the export value of the merger . B. A. S. Clarke . President of the Consolidated Steel Corporation . yesterdayconfirmed the reports of last Nveek that the company was about to liquidate as a result of the merger and contemplated mergers of the is ** iildPpetidt'llt. companies . The Clarke 's statement follows : The reports in regard to the liquidation of Consolidated Steel Corporation appearing in the principal e R- York pipers of last Saturday . Sept. 16 , while premature . were in the ii hi correct . The company has ceased selling . and will liquidate its affairs as rapidly as consistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoting directly for their own account for export . Liquidation . naturally , involves ' drastic reduction of personnel . The directors may later consider it modified plan which will enable them to avail of the provisions of the Webb law . "                     