@@695783

txt Announcement is made today by NEWTON D. BAKER of the appointment of a special committee under the National Crime Commission , of which he is chairman . The subcommittee will devote itself to just one kind of crime  --  the hold-up of persons transporting cash tor a payroll from the bank to the business firm requiring the money . This offense is occurring more frequently , and it is also felt that it draws fresh material into the criminal class . Young men who perhaps would not commit any other crime are fascinated by the idea of getting their hands on a large sum V money and running very little risk of being caught . It is particularly difficult to apprehend this type of criminal for several rea- sons . Because the transfer of the payroll cash occurs regularly and goes over an accustomed route the robbers can lay . their plans carefully . They can effect an organization which makes their capture almost impossible . Therefore the committee is attacking the problem from the other end . Instead of trying to devise means of capturing these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing away with the regular transfer of large sums by business concerns . The possibility of a hold-up can be eliminated if actual cash does not change hands . Many employe ... realize that their workers object to being paid by check or with warrants of some kind . On pay day they want their wages in cash . It is said by some of them that merchants are reluctant to cash their paper , and in some instances that they will not do so except at a discount . An important part of the new committee 's work is to solve this problem in a way that will be satisfactory to the employes . Checks can be and are drawn in such a way as to permit the payee to identify himself automatically . Arrangements for this kind of payment can be and have been made acceptable to the banks and insurance companies . It is a practice long since adopted by THE TIMES . A problem similar in the temptation it offers to robbers , but apparently much more difficult of solution , is that of the business house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be removed to a bank . We read often of the hold-up of a theatre or movie box office or filling station , particularly in the outlying districts , when the day 's takings are being prepared for safekeeping either in the safe in the office or by a bank . To get around this will require more ingenuity than the reverse of the matter . Cash dribbling in all day long may amount to a sum sufficient to tempt bold criminals . It can not be moved to a bank by any means except in its own physical content . In the regularity of its travel over a given road it presents the same conditions as the cash payroll . While the committee has the one problem in hand , it would do well to consider the other , so like it , and so much knottier.                     