@@694643

txt ? With smooth weather prevailing , four divers went below today to cut away the wreckage from the sunken submarine S-4 in preparation for further salvage work on the craft , lying seventeen fathoms in the mud outside this harbor . While the divers worked in the afternoon , a delegation of Masons visited the scene where the submarine was sunk with forty men aboard , held a short service and cast wreaths on the water.above the spot . The salvage fleet here , under the command of Rear Admiral Frank H. Brumby , has been ordered by Secretary of the Navy Wilbur to stand by and work whenever the weather is good . Yesterday three of the most experienced men on the job expressed the opinion that the vessel would not come up until Spring because the task was such a long one and the chances of good weather for it so doubtful . Today another diver expressed a similar opinion . He was Joseph Eiben , and he added that it might be June before the task would be completed . Treads Amid Tangled Wreckage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rough seas having interfered meanwhile . He dropped over the side of the Falcon shortly before 10 o'clock . The four additional permanent moorings for the Falcon , four 6,000-pound anchors with cables leading to spruce buoys , had been put in place earlier . Two 8,000-pound anchors to serve for moorings were set yesterday . Eiben found the deck of the submarine , which was rammed and sunk by the Coast Guard destroyer Paulding , cluttered with a mass of wires , ropes and other wreckage . The radio antenna , the hand lines and various other snarled cables made diving hazardous , as their jagged breaks might at any moment rip the , lines . Eiben also found in the wrckage several of the twelve-foot plates torn from the Coast Guard boat at the collision . Eiben and the three other divers , Thomas Eadie , Thomas Campbell and Frank Crilly , spent about forty-1 five minutes each laboring to unsnarl the wreckage . A hooked knife , a line and winch helped the divers to cut through some of the tangle . Unable to lift the clutter tonight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Explains Diving Difficulties . Eiben said cold water hampered the divers today . The temperature was about 48 degrees . " You had to keep working fast . Your hands and feet would get very cold , " he said , adding that the mud around the wrecked craft was about knee deep . Explaining why he did not think the S4 would be raised before June , he said : " If it were a matter of saving life it would be differmt . Nov , that there is no life you are going to kill I some more men  --  some divers  --  if you try to work in rouga weather . You are trying to accomplish the impossible . " For instance , if a man were working inside the hull of the submarine when a storm came up suddenly , as they often do , the moorings of the Falcon would drag and the Falcon would swing away . It 's a very muddy bottom . This is a bad position in that regard . As the Falcon swung away , the life line of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done for instantly . " These are things people on the ' outside ca n't understand . This is my fourth submarine diving experience . I worked on the S-5 when she went down off Cape May in 1920 ; the German submarine V-111 at Lynhaven Roads , Va. , and the 5-51 . I have had a lot of experience in this work . " When the ship rolls , " he went on , " there is a change of pressure on the diver . The pressure does not equal-1 ize on both sides of the ear drums . That 's bad . When down there in this / cold weather you get saturated with nitrogen . " Nitrogen , he explained , accumulates in the diver 's helmet and breathed back into the lungs forms bubbles in the blood stream and induces the " bends . " " It takes longer in this weather to desaturate , " the diver added , " because the circulation is slower , and that brings on the ' bends . ' The longer you work the more chance you have of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty ' eight hours with the nitrogen bubbles especially present the fat tissues . " Broadside to Northwesters . Captain Ernest J. King , Chief Aide I to Admiral Brumby , also spoke about the danger - in bad weather . " The Falcon is protected from easterly and westerly winds , but if a northwester hits us we are broadside to it , " he said . Captain . King said the fact that the " back of the S-4 was not broken " was an advantage in the salvage work , ' permitting the entire hull to_the come up with three pairs of pontoons without any danger of breaking in two . Commander Harold E. Saunders of the Portsmouth Navy Yard , who has had many years of experience in building submarines , has become the Masons of Providence sent a wreath for the ceremonies and the King Hiram Lodge of Provincetown provided another . The delegation , composed of Edward and James Rich , ' Harry W. Jordon , James Dwyer , Ephraim Reyard and the Rev. C. Chase Davis , pastor of the Centre Methodist Church here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast Guard cutter 154 . The cutter was made fast to the stern of the Falcon directly over the grave of the forty men . The Rev. Mr. Davis pronounced the following prayer : " Have mercy upon us , 0 Lord our God , as We stand with bowed heads over this sacred water hallowed by the death of brave men . May we have more - of. the spirit of service and willingness to sacrifice . May the peace of God be upon us all . Amen . " The members of the party stood silent a moment . Then the wreaths were solemnly placed overboard and floated slowly away with their red berries glistening in the sun . chief salvage , officer here . He - was in active- charge- of the divers during the day . The services conducted by the Masons were arranged by the Anchor - and Ark Club , - a Masonic organization here . The Overseas Lodge of                     