@@695412

txt In the preceding article reference is made to air . Clark 's article wherein he discussed the Reales Ordinanzas. a mining code issued by Charles III of Spain in 1783 . " These Reales Ordinanzas remained in force in Mexico until 1884 . " This statement he makes without qualification . But even a superficial examination will reveal the fact that prior to 1884 there was great question as to whether the mining code of 1783 was in force it Mexico or had ever been in force in Mexico since some time prior to Mexican independence in 1821 . The facts are as follows : Three years before this decree of 1783. the King of Spain had issued a royal decree declaring coal deposits to be the property of the crown . Issuance of this decree precipitated a discussion in Spain as to whether coal deposits did , in fact , belong to the crown or , on the contrary , belonged to the surface owner of the land . This discussion had nothing to do with the question of governmental policy . but revolved wholly around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to declare that coal deposits belonged to the crown . Omits an Important Fact As a result of this discussion the king became convinced that he had " got off on the wrong foot " and , accordingly , in 1789 , issued another decree declaring that since coal is neither a metal nor a semi-metal it belongs to the surface land-owner and not to the crown . " Strange that the writer did not mention this . From the time of Mexico 's independence down to the present there has been a question in the minds of some students as to whether the decree of 1789 modified the one of 1783 with respect to coal and other substances that were neither metals nor semi-metals . In other words , the question upon which there has been and is disagreement , is whether the decree of 1789 was applicable to , or ever had force in Mexico prior to Mexico 's independence . It is conceded that whatever the status of these substances was under Spanish rule the moment before Mexico 's independence , continued to be their status until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code was the one enacted in 1884 . The decree of 1783 was made specifically applicable to Mexico . There was nothing in the decree of 1789 expressly making it applicable to Mexico . neither was there anything in it expressly providing that it should not be applicable to Mexico . About the latter part of the 1870 's considerable attention began to be given to coal and coal deposits in Mexico-It was then found that as a result of the uncertainty that had always existed regarding the effect of the decree of 1789 there was a complete lack of uniformity in the rules prevailing in the several states of Mexico regarding the manner in which coal deposits could be exploited . As a result of this diversity of legal opinion as to whether the decree of 17 89 modified the one of 1783 , some official rulings held that coal deposits were the property of the surface land owner , and other official rulings held that coal deposits were subject to denouncement as belonging to the sovereign ( the state ) . In some states the law declared one way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary way . So . the decree cf 1783 was applicable in some states of Mexico and the decree of 1789 modifying the one of 1783 was applicable in other states of Mexico . Right here , and for there reasons , came the important development that the writer s " iled over without touching when he took his flying leap from the decree of 1783 to the statute of 1884 . The Omitted Fundamental Fact Here is the development that was not mentioned , although of tremendous importance : In 1883 an amendment was added to Article 72 of the Mexican constitution vesting the federal congress with power to enact a mining code " which shall be binding throughout the whole Republic . " Thus , the states , which had succeeded to all the rights of the Spanish crown , vested in the federal government the authority to legislate uniform and binding mining laws . It was under the authority of this constitutional amendment that the mining code of 1884 to which the writer refers , was promulgated . Without that amendment the code of 1884 could not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have remained vested where it had been ever since Mexican independence in 1821. that is. with the several states . The writer did not mention this fact on v.-hich mining titles in Mexico rest today . Titles Begin Here Speaking of this mining code which Mexico promulgated in 1884 , the writer says : " This code was interpreted by some as divesting the sovereign ( the nations of its title to gas and petroleum on privately owned lands , and as lodging such title in the private owners of the soil . " This code can be so interpreted only by those who take the view that these substances under the Spanish regime belonged to the crown notwithstanding the decree of 1789 . If one takes the view held by many students and Mexican legal authorities , that the decree of 1789 modified the one of 1783. this code can not be interpreted as divesting the sovereign of anything . Moreover , the wording of the code itself throws much light on its proper interpretation . This code , he it always remembered . was enacted by the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When it comes to treating of the substances in which we are now interested  --  coal , petroleum , etc.  --  the code does not say that the nation " divests " itself of these substances Instead , in the simplest language possible , it declares that these substances are the " exclusive property " of the land owner . No matter what interpretation one may put upon the Spanish ordinances , it is from this code of 1884 and subsequent ones enacted in accordance with the constitutional amendment of 1883. that the titles to subsoil rights in the petroleum controversy receive their sanction . The Mexican government itself declared those rights to be private property . It has neither legal nor moral right , a generation later , to nationalize and confiscate them .                     