@@694881

txt Coincident with an announcement that be had tendered his resignation as a member of the Tariff Commission , Commissioner Edward P. Costigan of Colorado made public today a long letter to Senator Robinson of Arkansas , in which President Coolidge is attacked and surprising accusations are made in connection with the Tariff Commission administration . Mr. Costigan charges that Thomas 0 . Marvin of Massachusetts , Chairman of the commission , is an " exalted tariff lobbyist " and that two of the Commissioners , Edgar G. Brossard of Utah and Sherman J. Lowell of New York , have formed a combination with Chairman Marvin , which has prevented the lowering of tariff duties and so divided the commission that " it is incapable of performing its duties under the law . " Mr. Costigan is the oldest member of the commission in point of service . He was appointed by President Wilson in 1917 . The letter he gave to the press is addressed to Senator Robinson , because the latter is the Chairman of a Senate committee appointed two years ago to investigate the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its findings to the Senate . Says Division Continues . It is insisted by Commissioner Costigan that the commission is as badly divided as ever . This division has been apparent since December , 1925 , when Commissioner Costigan , in an address before the American Economic Association in New York , publicly charged that the commission had been interfered with and manipulated by public officials and private interests in violation of the spirit and purpose of the law creating it . He urged a Congressional investigation and the Senate subsequently adopted that suggestion . The present condition in the commission , according to Mr. Costigan , " rests entirely with President Coolidge , former President Harding and the ' Marvin group . ' " He says that out of thirty-two reports by the commission concerning proposals to change tariff rates , President Coolidge has proclaimed eighteen increases and five decreases of " little tariff importance , " among the articles on which the duty is lowered being bob-white quail , millfeed and paint brush handles . " That , as a rule , tariff duties are more advantageous to most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that tariff duties are not likely to bestow equal benefits on both ; and that , so far as the articles produced by the great majority of our farmers are concerned , prices are usually determined by market , especially world-market con-. ditions , rather than by tariff barriers . " This country has nothing to fear through discovering that her rank among industrial nations tends to be advanced rather than retarded under tariff policies of greater liberality than those now in force , permitting , within the limits of fair practices , the reasonable operation of fundamental economic laws . " Calls Marvin " Fanatical . " Describing Commissioner Marvin as a " tireless and fanatical protectionist , known in Washington as a tariff lobbyist for New England protected interests , " Commissioner Costigan pays his respects to Mr. Marvin further as follows : " I must add my confirmed judgment , which the Senate Investigating Committee has had ample opportunity to verify , that his membership seriously impairs the usefulness of the commission which will not have proper credit or respect , either at home or abroad , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as he remains its Chairman . " Without a background of public service justifying his selection , his position as Commissioner and as Chairman has exalted a tariff lobbyist at the public 's expense . " Incomparable opportunities for a former lobbyist have now for years been thrust into his hands through his repeated annual designations for that strategic post by Presidents Harding and Coolidge . No exposures , however discrediting , of bias , partisanship and thr distrust of his associates , have sufficed to break this New England slate . " Strangest of all , the strangle hold on the commission is continued by hidden influences . It is well known in Washington that President ' Coolidge has long ceased personally to consult or place confidence in his own designated Tariff Commission Chairman . " Commissioner Costigan criticizes Commissioner Brossard as biased and Commissioner Lowell as " lack- ing equipment " for his duties 0:1 the commission . Declares Labor 15 Dt'ee:Vrfl . Arguing that labor has been deceived by the protection principle , Mr. Costigan says : " American wages , though relatively higher than foreign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but rather of the remarkable skill which human and other power has applied to the enormously rich natural resources of the United States . Some highly protected industries pay wretched wages ; and constantly before the commission are such familiar facts as the higher wages paid in the boot and shoe industry , which enjoys no tariff subsidy , than in the highly protected woolen and worsted industries . Mr. Costigan asserts that President Coolidge has declined to act on decisive evidence that there should be a substantial lowering of duties on sugar , linseed oil and halibut , and if the " Marvin group " has its way , a like fate will be meted out to the logs of fir , spruce , cedar and Western hemlock , which have been under investigation five years . Discounts Aid to Farmers . Much of the letter is devoted to supporting Mr. Costigan 's contention that the protective tariff does not accomplish what is claimed for it . He holds that if the commission had been properly constituted it would have pointed out the limited benefits given to farmers from many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an example , lie says that American hard Spring wheat of the Northwest has been selling at prices representing about 10 cents loss per bushel , as compared with Canadian wheat against which the American wheat is protected by the tariff . In maintaining that the protective tariff is based on a fallacious principle , Mr Costigan says : " It is unnecessary to add that a scientific tariff commission would not hesitate to show , to the extent statistically determinable that , while excessive tariffs at times enrich private interests other tariffs are deceptively meaningless . " Similarly , it is common information , the significance of which is. however , often forgotten , that the automobile industry  --  which recently asked that the tariff be completely removed from motor cars , since the industry fears no world competition whatever  --  pays much higher wages than highly protected United States industries such as pottery and meat packing . " In fact , novelty no longer attaches to the story of efficient mass production . Relatively high wages can be and are paid in our automobile factories , yet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the product of American factories can usually be sold cheaper than the comparable product of for-i eign countries , in spite of the lower wages peid in such foreign countries . " Nor does this experience differ widely from cases of mass production in other domestic industries in which the output is aided by especially valuable natural resources . Indeed , our natural advantages for production have brought such comparative results through all our history , even in Colonial times , as shown by higher wages in many enterprises here than abroad , with or without tariffs , and with low tariffs as well as high . " TIC ? : Inli rile LeWis Case . Part of Commissioner Costigan 's letter to Senator Robinson is devoted to the case of former Tariff Commissioner David J. Lewis , a Maryland Democrat who , according to charges often made , was dropped from the commission by President Coolidge because of the latter 's attitude in the commission 's report on sugar . In a summery of the letter elven to the press Commissioner Costigan thus refers to this incident after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Mr. Coolidge was a candidate for President : " The letter directs attention to the special request said to have been made by President Coolidge to Tariff Commissioner David J. Lewis of Maryland , and refused by him , for a blanket resignation from the commission , to he used by President Coolidge at any time . This request is said to have been made on the very day when President Coolidge was said to he considering reappointing Lewis to the Tariff Commission . " Costigan says in his letter of Lewis , whom President Coolidge allowed to leave the Tariff Commission without reappointment a few months later , that he was ' a faithful and incorruptible official who merited reappointment. ' and continues : " ' It . may be added , though not in the published testimony , that on leaving the White House on Sept. 8 , 124 , Commissioner Lewis said to a friend : " I have been in public life twentyfive years . Once only in that time have I been appointed with a view to my weakness , and that was by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for " Upright Successor . " Commissioner Cost:gait expresses the hope that his resignation at this time will call attention to the situatirn in the Tariff Commission , and will require that the nomination of his successor be sent to the Senate . Instead of permitting the President to make a. recess appointment . The Senate , he contends , will be better ebic to insist on an able and upright successes . He is " hopeless about Congress grappling with the Tariff Commission problem and making the accessary corrections at this sessic 0 . " " In conclusion , " Mr. Costigan says , " may I ray that I do not exaggerate the present issue ? I fully realize that the manipulation of the Tariff Commission since 1922 is but part of the total picture of present-day Washington . " In an era which history may yet summarize as the age of Daugherty , Fall and Sinclair ? in which another governmental body , the Federal Trade Commission , is widely looked upon as the legitimate prey of those who deal hi the unfair practices that commission was created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not immune against the trespass and dictates of powerful lobbies  --  the fate and fortunes of the Tariff Commission may be thought unimportant . " Yet no part of the public edifice can be undermined without danger to the whole structure . Public service still demands public fidelity . And the ancient right of remonstrance remains . An official witness of law violations , I have successively appealed to the President and to Congress . One further dissent is in order . I am therefore returning my official commission to the Government . "                     