@@696142

txt By a decisive vote in each instance the Illinois house of representatives today overruled Its committee on banks and banking , which last week sought to kill two bills exempting from the operations of the state blue sky law all securities listed by the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago curb exchange . Largely because of the opposition of David H. Jackson , had of the securities department of Secretary of State Straton 's office , the committee reported the bills out with recommendations that they do not pass . Sullivan 's Argument . When the report was formally submitted today their author , Representativo Timothy 3 . Sullivan of Spring . field , moved that the house do not concur in the committee 's recommendations . His motion in connection with the Board ' of Trade bill was passed by a vote of 92 to 12 , and the vote on his second motion was 76 to 28. iris argument , empnasizea ay a number of other speakers including Elmer J. Schnackenberg , Frank Ryan and Michael L. Igoe of Chicago , M. P. Rice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the state law exempts from the necessity of license the securities listed by the Chicago Stock exchange , and the stock exchanges of New York and Boston . Most of the speakers talked about the Chicago Board of Trade bill and stressed the contention that the 1111-riots Institution has as high a standing ' , as any organization of its kind in the country . Representative Mee cow ? mented on the fact that New York itself recently has admitted the ad.1 Vance of Chicago as a financial center , and charged that to hamper progress of that character would be an Injury not only to the metropolis but to the entire state . Cr ) of Opposition . Such opposition as there was to overriding the banking committee and the secretary of state 's office found its voice in the arguments of Rdbert ; J. Branson of Centralia and Karl R. I Hair of Paris . They insisted that the passage of the bills would amount to ! almost a nullification of the blue sky ! law because of the large  --  number and variety of securities to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sullivan and his supporters replied that the number of securities now licensed under the blue sky law which would be exempted front that process by his bills would be small . Board of Trade and curb exchange ! members were gratified at the action of the house , it was asserted in Chicago . It was taken as meaning that opening of trading In securities on the , Board of Trade will possibly be at an I earlier date than was expected . " I am pleased with the vote , but not surprised , " said President Samuel P. Arnot of the Board of Trade . " other action of such an eminently fair measure could be anticipated . "                     