@@688344

txt As the election campaign closes and polls are about to open the . best political experts confess themselves at sea . The impression is strong that tile Conservatives will gain t victory , but no one is willing to make a confident prediction as to the probability of Premier Bonar Law 's Government obtaining a sufficient majority to enable it to carry on successfully in the house of Commons . The reasons for this uncertainty are many . In the first place the election has come about not because there has been any strong alternative party to the Coalition . but through weariness with - Mr . Lloyd George 's Cabinet . The exPremier has still much of his old personal popularity , but by his Irish , Indian and reparations policies he has aroused strong antagonisms among the influential classes . Moreover his chief lieutenants , like Lord Birkenhead and Winston Churchill , have been the reverse of helpful to him . On the other hand , Mr. Bonar Law by his campaigning tactics has deliberately refrained from stirring the enthusiasm of those who demanded a change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program . He has made not a single ringing speech against the Coalition , and ho has based his appeal purely on the need of the country for a quiet and steady Government . Then , in the second place , there is an extraordinarily large proportion of new voters . Not since 1011 has there been a normal election , and the traditional party labels of that period have lost all meaning . Moreover , the election laws have been amended to include a very reueh larger number of voters and constituencies are now so large that the oldfashioned canvassing with a careful ticking off of each name on the register as friendly or hostile has been almost entirely abandoned . Woman Vote Is a Big Factor . Finally , there is the woman 's vote . They were enfranchised for the khaki election of 1018 , but that , it is recognized , was not a fair test , and no one can say for certain how the feminine vote in any constituency will react tomorroe'v . At the same time , there is a general belief that on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. number of postcard messages from women collected by a London newspaper show how largely economy and lower taxes bulk in their eyes , and it seems likely that a great number of them will support the Conservatives in the belief that the Coalition was wilfully extravagant . In the same way it is reckoned that the women will vote against the Labor Party . They are , it is maintained , conservative by nature . They have learned bitterly what the forward Labor policy with its strikes and lockouts means to the workers ' homes and they have no desire to play with doctrinaire devices like the capital levy and nationalization of industries , which form a large part of the Labor Party 's program . So when Mr. Bonar Law declared today at Glasgow that he was confident of a majority he has practically all the political prophets with him . There are 615 members in the House of Commons , now that Southern Ireland has a Parliament of its own , and it is generally conceded that the conservatives ought to carry at least 320 seats . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government a working majority without alliances , but even so strong a Lloyd George organ as The Daily Chronicle has expressed the view that the . Conservatives might be returned with from thirty to forty majority over all the other parties in the house . The real interest in the election lies In the accuracy of that estimate . If it is right then Premier Bonar Law might look for a fairly long tenure of power , relying on Conservative votes alone . If it is too high he must make the best bargain he can with the group moat willing to work with him . Naturally that would be the National Liberals , and as to the prospects of Mr. Lloyd George 's followers there is more difference of opinion than about any other group . They have nominated 13S candidates and held in the last Parliament 118 seats , but they are not really looking for anything like as great a success again . Many of their former members had been elected by the aid of Conservative votes , which now have been turned against them , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Asquith Wee Frees . Lloyd George May Have Block of 75. if Mr. Lloyd George finds himself at the head of a solid block of seventy-five members he will probably be realizing his highest expectations , and he may easily find he has only forty or fifty to accept his whip . On the showing the National Liberals make depends in a great measure the strength with which the old Liberal ! ' arty comes back . It will undoubtedly improve greatly on the miserable thirty- six who formed the Wee Frees in the old House , and it has bestirred itself greatly during the elections by putting up 339 candidates . It is likely to make considerable gains in Scotland , which is traditionally Liberal , and It will do well in Wales and the north of England . It hopes to gain 145 seats , but will have nothing to complain of if it ends with anything in excess of 100 . Then comes labor , which in spite of all the conservative confidence remains the dark horse of the political race . It seems very unlikely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agent remembering tenement houses filled with new voters to whom he has never spoken will be quite happy until he has seen their ballots counted . Labor of all the parties Is the worst off for newspaper representation , and until it becomes more articulate it will always be capable of surprises . Still , in spite of its 412 candidates it is not expected to du more than improve its position . In the last House it had 77 seats and , though it likes to talk of taking 200 , it would be considered ' to have done remarkably well if it captures 150 , and Its sanguine opponents grant it only 120 or even 100 . But so long as Mr. Bonar Law does not obtain his clear working majority the precise number of seats each party wins does not much matter . Once a new coalition is necessary to carry on the government a period of bargaining between leaders and groups will begin , which will make all the pre-election forecasts completely illusory . Many Changes in New Hansa . The new Parliament will , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conservative Minister for whose seat there is most fear is Mr. Sonar Law himself . He has had little time to attend to his own constituency , and he has to face a desperate attack from the Labor candidate , ' with Sir George Paish , the Liberal candidate just strong enough to bother him a bit . Mr. Asquith is expected to increase his majority at Paisley , but several of Mr. Lloyd George 's old colleagues may disappear from the scene . Sir Hamar Greenwood , Sir Alfred Mond and Captain Frederick Guest are all fighting for their political lives , and ex-Postmaster General F. G. Kellaway Is so had put to it that Mr. Lloyd George Is taking the desperate measure of going down to Bedford to make a noonday speech in his behalf tomorrow in the midst of the election . On the other hand four well-known men may reappear at Westminster  --  Sir John Simon and Walter Runciman , Asquithlan Ministers , and Sidney Webb and Philip Snowden , Labor Party champions . Some of the other well-known Labor leaders , however , are being unusually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and John R. Clines are extraordinarily optimistic . Mr. Honor Law this afternoon visited the Glasgow Conservative Club , and some surprise was occasioned by the fact that he was accompanied by Sir Robert Horne , ex-Chancellor of the Exchequer , who only a fortnight ago appeared in Glasgow on the same platform as Mr. Lloyd George . In a brief address Mr. Bonar L'aw said he had a very considerable confidence that the result of the polls would give him a working majority on which he could depend . Campaign Bail Been Uneventful . LONDON , Nov. 14 ( Associated Press ) . ? The most uneventful British election campaign in modern time and also the most orderly  --  for there has been but little of the usual accompaniment of disorderly or interrupted meetings  --  came to an end tonight with the leading figures in the struggle engaged in speechmaking up to the last moment . The campaign has been unique , in that there is no great clear-cut question before the public . Therefore the electors who will record their votes tomorrow must be in a puzzled mood , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the present perplexing divided condition of the political parties they can not base their decisions on mere party predilections . The election canvassers confess themselves hopelessly unable to make forecasts on account of the unprecedented reticence of the electors concerning their preferences . This Is usually attributed to the desire to hide their sentiments , but it more likely is due to the fact that the electors themselves are unable to express an opinion.where there are no plain issues . If the elections themselves have not greatly excited the country , there Is almost unprecedented curiosity to know the results of the polling , which begins at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning , closing , in most cases , at 8 o'clock in the evening , but in many of the urban districts at 9 o'clock , in order to give the workers ample time to vote . In more than half the constituencies the ballots will not he completely counted or announced until Thursday , but the figures from more than 200 constituencies will be declared Wednesday night between 9 o'clock and midnight . These should be sufficient to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more especially as these announcements will include some rural districts , as well as urban constituencies . The complexion of the new Parliament , however , will not bo definitely known until Thursday . London will be a busy and exciting city until long after midnight tomorrow : excitement promises to be high at political clubs , while hotels and restaurants are preparing special election dinners and suppers . Perhaps what is being decided , above ail , in the polling booths tomorrow is whether Great Britain shall return to tho party system in politics , or follow most of the European countries in the adoption of a group system . Tories Depend on Rural Votes . Premier Bonar Law and his adherents profess great confidence in the return of their party with a working majority , but this confidence is not shared in other quarters . It is based to a large extent on the belief that the rural voters will , as in the past , remain true to Conservative traditions . This , however , is one of the uncertainties of the election . The exigencies of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyed in the past , and thereby gave them new standards of life and a new outlook . They were placed in an almost similar position as the town industrial workers , with wagee boards to regulate the scale of wages . In the past year , in conformity with the universal fall in wages and a great reduction in the price of wheat and other agricultural produce , agricultural laborers lost these advantages . The wages boards disappeared and conditions reverted to something approximating prewar conditions . It remains to bo seen whether these disadvantages suffered under the Coalition Government will draw the rural voter from his time-honored allegiance to the Conservative Party . If so , It will be the Asquithinn Liberals who will benefit , as the Labor Party concentrates its attention on urban constituencies beeauee the appeal of labor is mostly to the Industrial worker in the town . The dense fog which has hung over England W a pall since Sunday became a potent factor today to he taken into consideration by those who have most at stoke in tomorrow 's general elections . Election agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a breeze to lift the gloom , because there is little doubt that if the fog continues tomorrow it will have a vital effect on the number of votes cast . The mist has been so thick at times in the past three days that people have actually become lost and In some sections traffic has been halted . Should a real " pea simper " descend tomorrow runny people would be kept from the polls . Weather experts offered little solace to anxious inquirers . It was probable , they said , that the fog would continue ,                     