@@690279

txt " Southern Railway . ' is a name with which to conjure in the south . It might have been the South Atlantic , or the Southern &; Gulf , or the Southern &; Mississippi , but these would not have answered the purpose . There is only one railway system that coveis the whole South from the Potomac to the Gulf , of Mexico and it is properly designated as the " Southern ? ' The Southern of 1924 , an outgrowth of the Southern of 1894 , has been made by the men of the south , and the whole south , takes a modest pride in their achievement . Many of the , officials , including President Fairfax Harrison , are men of distinguished Confederate lineage , and they have dedicated their lives with marked success to the policy of converting-a sectionalism which nursed a grievance into a sectionalism which fosters enterprise and development . The sectionalism in the south today is just the same local pride in achievement that exists elsewhere . Southern Railway , the south 's largest industry , is probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are understood in the south better than in ' Wall Street , where a sectional pride . in a railroad might not be easily understood : Such a pride actually exists , and is a potent factor in preserving harmonious relations between Southern Railway and the people of the vast area served by the system . ? SOILTICH IS coNsmrtv.a.rxva : A great majority of southerners are old-line Americans , who still believe in the rights of property . This fact , together with the conditions just mentioned , results in a minimum of agitation for the confiscation of railroad property through the indirect medium of unremunerative rates . In short , the south , unlike the middle west . is not clamoring for a ... free ride . Southern politicians do not find it expedient - to ride into office mounted on Southern ' Railway disguised as a voracious octopus whose tentacles need amputation . Indeed , there is- no incentive for rate agitation in the south . The western farmer may be nettled by freight rates that equal 14% of the price he gets for grain at his gate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only 2% of the price Tie gets for his cotton and tobacco . The strength of Southern 's position , so far as rates are concerned , is appprent when one considers that while the average rate per ton-mile for Class 1 railroads increased 55% from 1913 to 1923 , the average rate on the Southern increased only 32% . These factors all serve to preserve good relations be- ' tween the railroad and its customers and also tend to maintain friendly relations between the officials and the employes . Most of the workers are southerners , and there exists between them and the officers a sectional sympathy : deeply rooted in traditions , that does not exist in other regions more recently populated by migration or immigration . Through the industrial branch of its development service , the Southern helps to locate industries on its lines and to develop the resources of the south . It has for years by practical and concrete means encouraged the farmers in its territory to produce their own food , as well as feedstuffs for their live stock , and thus to supplement the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crop by income throughout the year from the dairy cow , the hog and the hen . Thus it occurs that shippers , passengers , officers and workers have joined in a chorus to make real the slogan " The Southern Serves the South . " stx  --  remsr OF SYSTEM With the exception of West Virginia , Southern Railway system serves every state in the region south of the Ohio and Potomac and east of the Mississippi rivers , with a line across Indiana and Illinois to St. Louis . The system 's lines reach from the northern gateways at Washington , Cincinnati and Louisville and from the western gateways at St. Louis and Memphis , to the ocean ports of Norfolk , Charleston , Savannah , Brunswick and Jacksonville and to the Gulf ports of Mobile and New Orleans , passing through the largest cities and nearly every important community in the south . Southern Railway , being the short line between most of the important cities and traffic gateways , has a decided advantage in getting traffic and in handling it profitably . The mileage comparison between important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 comparisons in the foregoing tables , Southern has the advantage of shortest distance in 20 instances . RAILROAD CONSOLIDATIONS Southern Railway has little to gain or lose by proposed railroad consolidations . In his report to the Interstate Commerce Commission , Professor Ripley commented on the " separateness of interest which formerly obtained between the eastern and western groups of roads " in the south , and pointed out that " since 1900 , for transportation purposes , the south has developed a far greater territorial unity than it possessed before that time , " and that " each half of the south , east and west , is today much more closely bound to the other by the ties of trade than a generation ago . And the great railway companies have followed these lines of commerce , extending their systems from either cliiection to cover the entire region with  --  a single railway net . Thus , conformably to the trade relationships above described , the Southern Railway was the first to emerge as a group , ramifying throughout.the entire extent of the southeast . Beginning in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time it reaches every important section , with the sole exception of parts of Florida . Its system is in nowise separable in interest into an eastern or a western half ; but its important through lines connect all of the extremities of this vast territory . " Professor Ripley further stated : " The Southern Railway system as at present constituted has so admirably restrained itself against over-expansion , so thoroughly consolidated its hold upon the field within which it is best fitted to serve , and has so far contributed to the upbuilding of the south , incidentally increasing its own revenues thereby , that it will be little disturbed by this general plan for railway consolidation . " ? In view of the foregoing , there is little likelihood that the existing system will be greatly changed , either by additions or subtractions.                     