@@690172

txt The Argentine Olympic Committee today announced that it would enter a. yacht of eight meters , international rating , for the Olympic contests in France . The boat is now in England , where she was recently built for an - Argentine sportsman , anew will be sailed in the Olympic competition under the auspices of the Argentine Yacht Club . which is affiliated with the International Yachting Federation . Field seats at the boxing bouts to be held during the outdoor season at the Yankee Stadium and the Polo Grounds will not be limited by order of the State Athletic Commission , according to an announcement yesterday by Chairman George E. Brower after the weekly meeting of the board . Reports that the commission was contemplating limiting the field seats at ball-park fights were denied by Chairman Brower when he announced , on behalf of the commission , that the club license of the Polo Grounds A. C. will be renewed either today or tomorrow . The application for this renewal has been approved , but it will not be formally granted until the commission and club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Giants ' playground . Jimmy Johnston . whose application for a license as matchmaker for the Polo Grounds and the Yankee Stadium was approved . discussed the seating arrangements for the National League park with the commission and , according to Chairman Brower , announced a plan for a graded field seat section which is calculated to end complaints such as were received by the commission from dissatisfied spectators at the Dempsey-Firpo bout last September . Johnston also discussed with the commission the location of the ' ring , which , ordinarily , is placed near what is the Aitchbr 's box at baseball games . , William Muldoon , former Chairman of the commission , favored placing the ring at a point over or near second base , in order that the spectators in the bleacher or rear-field seat section might have a better view of the ring . This matter , too , Chairman Brower said , will be satisfactorily adjusted before the club 's license is renewed . The commission accepted a certified check for $2,1100 from Jimmy Bronson. manager of Johnny Leonard . Allentown featherweight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Champion Johnny Dundee for a world 's featherweight title match . Because the draft was made out to the commission instead of to Dundee the board returned the check with instructions to Ronson to file it at headquarters after making the desired change . I Officials of the Syracuse Arena were reprimanded for failure to comply with the regulations of the commission with respect to ticket distribution . It was found on investigation , Chairman Brower said , that tickets were sold in excess of the printed supply contained in the manifesto submitted to the commission . Chairman Brower added that no irregularities existed with respect to the Payment of the State tax , but added that the situation was in violation of the commission 's requirements , and warned the Salt City club officials to discontinue the practice of selling what he termed temporary tickets . Frankie Fasano. boxer , was reprimanded for engaging in a bout at Newark against Buck Josephs , after the latter had been suspended by the local board . Pleading ignorance of local boxing rules , Tom Gardner , recent boxing arrival from California , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent bout against Frankie Carpenter at the Broadway Exhibition Association , Brooklyn . was let off with a reprimand . Ray Davis , former amateur boxer , also was reprimanded , his offense being the employment of wrestling tactics in a bout at the Ridgewood Grove S. C. , Brooklyn.                     