@@685502

txt GREATNEtS OF LOS ANGELES Not All Due to Climate ; Citizens Claim a Share . This is to express appreciation of the editorial article appearing in your issue of June 13 last , under the caption " Los Angeles . " In the various kind comments that have come to Los Angeles since announcement was made of the census returns we who have worked for a harmonious , balanced city , notice that our growth in the last decade is traced chiefly to our climate , our motion pictures , oranges , oil and tourists . While these doubtless are factors , it is also true  --  popular understanding to the contrary  --  that our industrial development has been marked , and we have assumed a " place in the sun " as foreign traders . The delightful climate that attracts the tourist at all seasons also promotes efficiency in manufacturing . The toiler is never half frozen or overheated . The even temperature permits open factory windows practically the year around and reduces overhead and factory costs , so that in recent years Los Angeles may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1919 of some 2,700 industrial establishments in the metropolitan manufacturing district was estimated at $618,000,000 ? an increase of more than 60 per cent . over the preceding year . Within the fast year , too , we have opened up trade with Oriental ports , with ships built in Los Angeles Harbor and sailing Los Angeles flags . When the armistice was signed there was no ship on the " seven seas rr that could call Los Angeles its home port . Today Los Angeles ships are distributing Los Angeles products from the Panama Canal to Seattle and the principal ports of . China , Japan , the Straits Settlements and the Philippines , and lines are projected to Australia and New Zealand . Recently Los Angeles cargo was leaded for the east coast of South America . via the Cape of Good Hope on a Pacific Coast line . Our good citizens enjoy our climate , but may take no pride in it , as we had no part in the making of it . We are a bit chesty , however , over having built a harbor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. mighty aqueduct to bring the melted snows of the high Sierras 2:10 miles to supply nature 's deficit in rainfall . We are proud , too , of the hundreds of miles of paved boulevards that radiate from our city like the spokes of a cartwheel and of the miles of flower-bedecked homes housing contented workers . Sometimes we become a trifle peeved when commentators give nature alone credit for having made Los Angeles the fine city it is , but we cherish the hope that some day our sister city will know us sufficiently to learn that brain and brawn and toll and sweat aided and abetted nature materially in the making of the largest city in the western Amerleap . Trusting that we may have opportunity in the near future of showing you these works of ambitious humans set in nature 's flower-shaded sun parlor , we are LOS ANGSLES CHAMBER OF COM- . MERCE , FRANK WIGGINS , Secretary . Los Angeles , June 23 , 1920.                     