@@696185

txt Albert Kahn , architect , of Detroit , has been engaged by the Soviet Government to plan and supervise the construction of a large group of manufacturing plants at Stalingrad , at the mouth of the , Volga River in Southern Russia , it was made known yesterday . The bUildings will be of American architecture and will cost about $4 , - 000,000 . The first one , to be erected for the manufacture of tractors , will employ about 2,000 men and have a capacity of 40.000 tractors annually . This plant will be followed by automobile ? factories , cotton mills and other industrial buildings . Mr. Kahn expects that his brother , Moritz Kahn , with a small group of men , will depart for Russia in four weeks to-begin the preliminary work . While the construction of such a plant could be accomplished in four or five months in this country , it is estimated that it will require about eighteen months in Southern Russia because of the probability that materials will be inaccessible and skilled . labor scarce . Soviet Engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the beginning of a commercial relationship between the Soviet Government and the Kahn architectural firm of great magni tude . Four Soviet engineers began a tour of this country . several months ago , to inspect American machinery and methods . The selection of Mr. Kahn followed a thorough inspection of the big automotive plants in Detroit . Henry Ford called Mr. Kahn to Dearborn when he learned of the contract a few days ago , and told the architect that any information in the Ford Motor Company 's possession was at his disposal and also would be given freely to the Soviet Government 's representatives in the United States . " We are willing to be of any help in this matter , " Mr. Ford told the architect . " I wish you would tell the Russian commission that anything we have is theirs , our designs , our work methods , our steel specifications . The morn industry we create . no matter where it may be in the world , the more all the people of all the world will benefit . The more ' industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more comfort and the more profit there will be for every one , including us . " Mr. Kahn said yesterday that Mr. Ford Is not interested financially but would back the proposition with plans , specifications , tools and other equipment in the Ford factories . . Fmind American Methods Best . The chief concern of the iRussiasi commission was a tractor plant to produce machinery for the ' : agiicul ; tural areas in ' Southern Russia . This was found to be a necessity not only to meet the difficulty in getting tractors and parts since the Ford Company 's tractor operations were ' transferred to Cork , Ireland , but , Mr. Kahn said yesterday , to realize . the Soviet Government 's ambition to put into operatiOn as soon as possible its own plans for production in as many fields as possible . The Soviet commission learned that : the Kahn firm designed the Ford . Packard . Hudson and other motor plants , Mr. Kahn said , and then made its selection . - " Thee commission simply found , " Mr. Kahn said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best products by the use of the best methods and best machinery . It seems to me to be a fair compliment to American manufacturing methods . " ' There will be six or seven buildings in the plant to be erected just ou of Stalingrad . They will include a shop 1,400 by 350 feet , or about the same size as a Ford assembly plant ; a foundry. 500 by 400 ' feet . and a I ' forge , 300 by 200 feet , in addition to administration buildings . The works will function as a branch of the government operation of industry .                     