@@694516

txt Chicago mit night joined the ranks of the midwest 's snowbound cities . A heavy pall of snow , driven by a brisk northwest wind , began to fall early in the evening and continued steadily into the early morning hours . The total depth downtown reached several inches In places . One death was attributed directly to the storm . Almost burled under the snow , the body of a man believed to be George Wallace , 55 years old , was Podia ! in the rear of 611 West Madison street early today . Today 's Weather ' bureau prediction was for clouded skies and snow flurries , with the temperature remaining somewhere near yesterday 's below freezing mark . From the Rocky mountains eostward below normal mercury readings were reported last night and a3 change to warmer here is expected for several days , Below Zero in Dakota . Points in North Dakota had temperatures below zero . In the Wisconsin and Michigan woods hunters who had been snowbound for twenty-four to forty-eight hours began arriving in the towns , Many had stories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The storm battered Canadian tug , ' Butterfield , arrived at Ashland , Wis. , with all hands safe . The vessel had been missing for three days and It was feared she had met with disaster . TORNADO TORNADO SWEEPS CAPITAL Washington , D. C. , Nov. 17 . ? SpeWah7 ? A tornado followed by drenching rains swept over Washington and surrounding cities today , . causing one death , the injury of 200 or more persons and property damage that will reach several million dollars . The twister was first observed at Alexandria , Va. , eight miles away . Sweeping over the eastern part of Washington it continued to Hyattsville , Md. , where its destructive force ceased . At Alexandria , where seventy-five buildings were destroyed or damaged , the . number of injured was placed at 125 . In one factory a welding machine weighing a ton was lifted by the tornado and carried hat a block Freight cars were , lifted from the tracks and the front of the historic Hotel Jackson was blown away . 340 Buildings Unroofed . In Washington more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerous others were under the care of physicians at their homes . More than 100 buildings were unroofed in the capital . The wind tore the roof from a portable school , but all the children escaped unhurt .                     