@@696580

txt A drastic change in governmental policy in dealing with much of the great national domain in the West is contemplated by President Hoover . It embodies transferring to - the States about 200,000,000 or more acres of public lands and restricting the present activities of the Federal Reclamation Service with a view to having the individual States take over important irrigation and other water rights functions now exercised by the Federal Government . The proposed change in policy was made known today at the conference of Governors of public land States which assembled at Salt Lake City . Former Senator and former Governor Joseph M. Dixon of Montana , who is now Assistant Secretary of the Interior , read to the . Governors a long letter to him from President . Hoover in which the President out- , lined his ideas and asked for . their1 consideration by the dii.reinor.s. - Fundamentally , the letter of ' the President is a strong States ' rights document . It holds that individual States are better able than . the Federal Government to administer activities within their boundaries now exercised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostility to the growth of Federal bureaucracy . Will same a Commission . The President said in his letter that in order that he might be advised intelligently he purposed to appoint a commission of nine or ten members , five of whom should be chosen from leading citizens of public land States , and he asked the Governors to suggest names for this body . The public lands which the President desires to turn over to the States do not include Governmentowned oil and mineral areas and forest reserves . In explaining what lands he had in mind the President 's letter said : " At the present time these unappropriated lands aggregate in the neighborhood of 190,000,000 acres , and in addition some 10.000,000 acres have been withdrawn for purposes of stock watering places and stock drives , which might be transferred as a part of a program of range preservation . In addition some 35. - 000,000 acres have been withdrawn for coal and shale reserves , the surface rights of which , with proper reservations , might . be added to this program of range development in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For years there has been a strong movement in the West to have the range lands turned over to the States in which they are located , but at the same time there has been much opposition to any transfer and it is likely that the President 's proposal will arouse widespread controversies . One line of contention has been that it would be a grave error for the Federal Government to give control of these lands into the hands of State governments with the prospect that local politics would play a large part in their exploitation . Just what will be the reaction of supporters of a national conservation policy remains to be seen . To Reduce " Federal Interference . " In his letter the " President takes a position indicative of a strong belief that the States should have a greater measure of control over their own affairs and that the hold of the Federal Government on lands within States ? should be loosened . In the concluding paragraph he said that in suggesting the proposed policy it is his desire " to work out more constructive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storage and . our mineral resources ; at the same time check the growth of Federal bureaucracy , reduce Federal interference in affairs of essentially local interest , thereby increasing the opportunity of the States to govern themselves , and , in all , obtain better government . " At the outset of the letter he said that " our Western States have long since passed from their swaddling clothes and are today more competent to manage much of these affairs than is the Federal Government . " To this he added that " we must seek every opportunity to ' retard the expansion of Federal bureaucracy and to place ? our communities . in control of their own destinies . " The President stressed that all his suggestions were tentative . He proposed that the surface rights of 190 , - 000.000 acres of public lands and the additional 10,000,000 acres mentioned be transferred to the State Governments for public school purposes and thus be placed under States ' jurisdiction . This means that the States should have the revenue of these lands for supporting their public schools . Deteriorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's letter explains , have steadily deteriorated for grazing purposes due to overgrazing . - and their deterioration , aside from their decreased value in the production of herds , is likely to have a marked effect upon the destruction of the soil and ultimately upon the water supply . " They bring no revenue to the Federal Government , which , the President declares " is incapable of the adequate administration of . matters which ' require so large a matter of local understanding . ' He contends that the ? capacity the individual States have shown in handling school lands is proof that they will be able to better manage these lands than the Federal Government . With respect to modifying the Federal Government 's functions in the reclamation and irrigation of arid lands , the President suggests that its activities could ? be devoted to the creation of water storage and a reduction of other activities within the State , and that the States could have the entire Magagement of all new reclamation pro iects and could themselves deal with irrigation land questions and land settlements . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlined in a recent article in THE NEw ' YORK TIMES by Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur , the Secretary of the Interior . They are regarded ? as certain to produce widespread discussion in the States affected . Text of the Hoover Letter . The President 's letter follows : Hon. Joseph M. Dixon . ? Assistant Secretary of the Interior , Washington , D. C. My dear Secretary Dixon : I have for some . years given thought to the ' necessity and desirability for a further step in development of the relations between the Federal and State governments in respect to the Public Lands and the Reclamation Service . The meeting of the Governors of the public land States at Salt Lake City which you are attending offers an opportunity for consideration of some phases of these questions , and I should appreciate it if . you would present them to . the Governors . It may be stated at once that our Western States have long since passed from their swaddling clothes and are today more competent to manage much of these affairs than is the Federal Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expansion of Federal bureaucracy and to place our communities in control of their own destinies . The problems are in large degree administrative in character . both as they affect the Federal Government and the governments of the States . Time to Determine the Facts . It seems to me that the time has come when we should determine the facts in the present situation , should consider the policies now being pursued and the changes which I might recommend to Congress . That these matters may be gone into exhaustively and that I may be advised intelligently , I propose to appoint a commission of nine or ten members , at least five of whom should be chosen from leading citizens of the public land States , and I should like to secure the cooperation of the Governors by submission from them of names for such a commission . This commission would naturally cooperate with the Department of the Interior . As an indication of the far-reaching character of the subjects which could come before such a commission , I may recount certain tentative suggestions for its consideration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PUBLIC LANDS . The most vital question in. respect to the remaining free public lands for both the individual States and the- nation- is the preservation of their most important value  --  that is , grazing . The remaining free lands of the public domain ( that is , not including lands , reserved for parks , forests , Indians , minerals , power sites and other minor reserves ) are valuable in the main only for that purpose . The first of the tentative suggestions , therefore , is that the surface rights of the remaining unappropriated , unreserved public lands should , subject to ? certain details for protection of homesteaders and the smaller stockmen , be transferred to the State governments for public school purposes and thus be placed under State administration . At the present time these unappropriated lands aggregate in the neighborhood of 190,000,000 acres and in addition some ten million acres have been withdrawn for purposes of stock watering places and stock drives which might be transferred as a part of a program of range preservation . In addition , some 35,000,000 acres have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , with proper reservations , might be added to this program of range development in the hands of the States . Reports which I have received indicate that due to lack of constructive regulation the grazing value of these lands is steadily decreasing due to over-grazing and their deterioration , . aside from their decreased value in the production of herds , is likely to have a marked effect upon the destruction of the soil and ultimately upon the water supply . State Action ' More Efficient . They bring no revenue to the Federal Government . The Federal Government is incapable of . the adequate administration of matters which require so large a matter of local understanding . Practically none of these lands can be commercially afforested ; but in any event the forest reserves could be rounded out from ? them where this is desirable . Therefore , for the best interest of the people as a whole , and people of the Western States and The small farmers and stockmen by whom they are primarily used , they should be managed and the policies for their use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual States have shown in handling school lands already , ceded out of every township which are of the same character is in. itself proof of this , and most of the individual States already maintain administrative organization- for this purpose so that but little added burden would thus be . imposed . They could , to the advantage of the animal industry , be made to ultimately yield some proper return to the States for school purposes and the fundamental values could be safeguarded in a fashion not Possible by the Federal Government . They . would also increase the tax base of the State Governments . A question might arise upon the allotment of the Federal road fund as a result of a shift of the public land ownership . It would only be just if this allotment could be undisturbed for at least ten years , while ? the States were organizing their range conservation measures . It is not proposed to transfer forest , park , Indian and other existing reservations which have a distinctly national as well as local importance . Inasmuch as the royalties from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or through the Reclamation Fund , their reservation to the Federal control is not of the nature of a deprival . RECLAMATION SERVICE : It seems to me that the vital questions here are to reorient the direction of the Reclamation Service primarily to the storage of water and to simplify its administration . The Reclamation Fund and the Reclamation Service were created in 1902 and the situation has since changed materially . The present plan . as you are aware . is that receipts from sale of public lands , mineral . royalties and repayments by the beneficiaries for expenditure upon projects all accrue to this fund . The Reclamation Service undertakes special projects upon the authorization of ' ' Cone-ress. which are financed from the fund on the basis of return by the land owners or purchasers of the cost of the project , but without interest . ' for a term of years . A total of approximately 5182,000.000 has been expended from the fund . The present reclamation act is based fundamentally on the reclamation of government-owned lands . Possible areas available for reclamation have now passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reclamation Fund for further projects may be legally criticized owing to - the fact that the land is no longer part of the public domain and circumlocution by voluntary agreements may not always be possible . Moreover , the application of . the fund under the . present organization results in very large Federal administrative activities within the States of a character which was never originally contemplated and which could be much better administered by the local State governments themselves . In many ways it duplicates the State water administrations . Several Suggestions for Changes . There are . several tentative suggestions ? for more effective handling of the fund . For instance , the Reclamation Service for all new projects might well be confined to the construction of permanent works ; that is , dams and such construction as results in water storage  --  and at the completion of such construction the entire : works be handed ' over to the States , with no obligation for repayment to the Reclamation Fund , except such revenues as might arise from electrical power and , . possibly , in some cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been repaid , or , in any event , for not longer than , say , fifty years . Again , there are certain instances of insufficiently capitalized community-owned irrigation projects which are at the point of failure , for whom the . Reclamation Fund might be made a proper vehicle to rescue homes that are now . in jeopardy . A further activity which might . be considered for incorporation ? in the Reclamation Service would be the authorization to join with the States and local communities or private individuals for the creation of water storage for irrigation purposes . The primary purpose of these suggestions is thus to devote the Federal Government activities to the creation of water storage and a reduction of other activities within the States . ' Under such arrangements the States would have the entire management of all new reclamation projects and would themselves deal with the irrigation land questions and land settlements . It is only through the powers of the States that , reclamation districts , can legally be organized which would incorporate the liability of privately owned lands for irrigation'expenditure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to finance the subsidiary works . Water Storage Essential . By , direction ? the Reclamation Service in some such ' manner - the large provision of water storage would ultimately secure a very large increase in the irrigable area of the various States . It is evident to every engineer that water storage is not always ' directly connected with an irrigation project but vital to expansion of irrigation . This emphasis and this direction of Federal activities to water storage rather than- land - development also has an incidental importance - to flood control and navigation . It is not suggested that the States should take . over the administration of the established projects , - but that the system should be ? set up for future undertakings . If it were instituted it ? would , of course , , be necessary to set up some safeguards to cover interstate projects . No doubt each new , project as at present should ? be specifically authorized by Congress . It must be understood that these suggestions are only tentative ; that they have no application to , dealing with power questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrigation or its further incidental use in navigation and flood control . Moreover , the question of the advisability or inadvisability of opening new areas of land for cultivation in the face of present obvious surplus of farm products does not arise because the activities outlined herein will only affect farm ' production ten or twenty years hence , by which time we shall probably need more agricultural land , MINERAL RESOURCES . The policies to be pursued in development and conservation of mineral resources of the public domain present many problems . They are problems of a national as well as a local character . I know that the Western as well as the Eastern States agree - that abuse of permits for mineral development or unnecessary production and . waste in our national resources of minerals is a matter of deepest concern and must be vigorously prevented . Because of such abuse and waste I recently instituted measures to suspend further issue of oil prospecting permits on public land : : and to clean up the misuse of outstanding permits and thereby to clear the way for constructive conservation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this decision was taken on the 12th of March there were prospecting permits in force covering over 40,000,000 acres of the public domain . We have now determined that over 40 per cent of these holders had not complied with the requirements of the law , that the large portion of these licenses were being used for the purpose of preventing others from engaging in honest development and some even as a basis of " blue-sky " promotions . After yielding to the claimants the widest latitude to show any genuine effort at development under the outstanding prospecting permits the total will probably be reduced ? to about 1 ? 000.000 acres upon which genuine development is now in progress . The public domain is , therefore . being rapidly cleared of this . abuse . The position is already - restored to a point where measures can be discussed which will further effectually ? coneerve the national resources and at the same.time take account of any necessity for local supplies . GENERAL . These suggestions are . of course , tentative pending investigation of the full facts . but generally I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more constructive policies for conservation in our grazing lands . our water storage and out mineral resources , at the same time ? check the growth of Federal bureaucracy . reduce Federal interference in affairs of essentially ' peal interest and thereby increase the opportunity nr. the States to govern themselves and in all obtain better government . Yours faithfully , HERBERT HOOVER . Borah Against Such a Change . That the suggestions of the President will meet with hostility was indicated tonight when Senator Borah of Idaho expressed himself as opposed to the President 's new polity . " I am not in favor of the scheme to turn the public lands over to the States , " Senator Borah said . " This is no new question with us in the West . We have lived with it for years . We know it . The National Government inaugurated its public land and conservation policy years ago . The West adapted itself to it , and , in my opinion , does not want , under the circumstances , to see a change . There was a time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but , as conditions now exist , speaking for myself , I do not care to see these lands turned over to the States . " Other Senators from Western States . who declined to permit the use of their names , were critical also . One of them said that the transfer of these public lands from the Federal Government to the States would make them the playthings of local politics in the States concerned . Another expressed the view that the President was proposing a backward step in our established policy for the conservation of natural resources and intimated that valuable water rights would be sacrificed by the government if the new policy became effective . Conferees Hesitant About Project . SALT LAKE CITY . Aug. 26 ( AI ) .  -- Representatives of eleven Western States meeting here today received from the Federal Government a proffer ofa gift of some 200,000,000 acres of public lands . regarded it askance and decided to think it over until tomorrow . Governor Dern of . ITtah , who took the floor after Assistant Secretary Dixon of the Interior Department had made the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " what looks at a distance like a fine , large horse , " might turn out on closer inspection to be a white elephant . The difference of opinion arose ? over the proposal of the President that mineral rights to the lands . together with the forests and other acreage set aside for specific purposes , such as national parks and Indian reservations , be withheld from the grant to the States . Without the forest lands and the minerals , Governor Dern insisted . the land would be more of a liability than an ? asset to the States which would have to administer it .                     