@@686319

txt RICE HERE FOR CHINA . California 's Surplus Available to Relieve Famine Sufferers . To the Editor of The New York Times : After the 1920 California rice crop was planted , the Interstate Commerce Commission revised the classification of some of the commodities , and rice , which up to that time had been carried at the rate of grain , was classified to take in future a rate of 25 per cent . higher than wheat . Then when the general increase of freight rates was made last - August all zones except the intermountain zone were raised 20 per cent .. whereas the intermountain zone was raised ' 35 per cent . ' The reclassification and large intermountain zone - rate increase has cut California rice completely off from the Middle West , its former chief market , and as there is ample rice in the South , ' owing to a large Crop , to take care of . the Atlantic States there is no outlet or market for California rice . Therefore , practically the entire 1920 crop is still in the growers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to climatic conditions , there is a terrible famine raging in a large district of China , so terrible that people are dying by thousands . The famine situation was intensified by Japan 's having bought up at low prices and stripped the famine districts of all foodstuffs during the war so that when the crops failed there was no surplus to fall back upon by the inhabitants . We are told that there are plenty foodstuffs in the provinces surrounding the stricken districts , but these foodstuffs have been bought up by ' speculators who are holding these supplies so high that they are practically a luxury tor those of the ' inhabitants who still have some means to support themselves . In fact , it is stated by returning travelers that speculators are assisted in maintaining these high prices through purchases made by the American Chi- , nese Famine Relief and similar committees , and that if the American committee would stop making local purchases and ship foodstuffs from America instead , the speculators would be obliged to lower their prices , thereby making it possible for a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Francisco Bay , at the present time , are tied up over a. dozen large vessels belonging to the Shipping Board which could well be utilized in carrying relief to stricken China . Now , if this American-grown rice were bought with American . relief , money , put in , American ships now idle in San Francisco Harbor , and carried to a Chinese port , whence the Chinese Government is eager to transport it free to the famine districts , four useful results would fol-low : Many American farmers on the Pacific Coast would be saved from bankruptcy . Idle American ships would be saved from stagnation . Thousands of hungry Chinese would be saved from starvation . At least 5,000 men would find profitable employment in the raising of another rice crop in 1921 , which crop would not be raised if the 1920 crop remained unsold , thereby increasing unemployment on*the Pacific Coast considerably . ? Furthermore , rice is the principal food to which these starving people have been accustomed from infancy . Therefore no other product is equal in food value to California rice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned , one more , and that a very important one , should be added .. California is not a manufacturing State , but obtains nearly all of its clothing , shoes , furniture , machinery , &c.,; from the East . Therefore every dollar of relief money spent for California rice would make at least that much more business throughout the rest of the United States . CHARLES S. JURGES . New York , March 1 , 1921 . Provision for Ex-Presidents . To the Editor of The New York Times : The writer would like to suggest that the Presidential term be lengthened to six or eight years , and the President and Vice President not be eligible for reelection ; that both be retired on an advisory board for life at a salary of $25,000 a year , subject to the call of the Executive and Congress , in an advisory capacity . The thought ' in my mind is that in this way it would give the country the benefit of the experience which the President and Vice President gain during their tenure of office . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest position and then turn him loose at the end of four or eight years . We believe that his ability increases very materially during his experience , and that he is worth more in the later years of his life than he is in the earlier years . The writer believes that this would make the position witch an honorable one and so well paid that we would be able to secure a very much higher grade of men and more efficient men for the office . It would take away the question of playing politics for the benefit of a second term , leaving the Executives entirely free to attend to national business . There never have been enough Presidents , and Vice Presidents living at any one time to make it a financial strain , and , their not having any appointive or political power , I do not believe it would create a - clique which might some time in the future attempt to turn this country from a republic into a monarchy . CHARLES D. BOYLES . Chicago , Ill. , March 4 , ' 1921 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New York Tines : I read with surprise that Senator Johnson of California had accepted the post of special counsel to oppose Governor Miller 's recommendation for a commission to supervise - all public utilities in New York State , while he himself was the author of a similar recommendation in the State of California . During Senator Johnson 's term as Governor of California he established the socalled Railway Commission to supervise all youblic utilities , with the complete and final authority over the rates and charges of all public service corporations of the State to allow reasonable return , which has proved quite a success and has put an end to the political privileges with the public utilities , and this is what Governor Miller purposes . S. CAITSUS . San Francisco , Feb. 23 , 1921 . ? Strolls About Manhattan . To the Editor of The New York Times : I wonder if you realize the amount of keen enjoyment which at least one of your readers , an " outlander , " derives from the literary strolls'of Ernest Harvier about Manhattan Island and environs . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fund ' of information , which might well be incorporated in more permanent form , in which event I should be the willing and eager possessor ' of such a volume . To the stranger , no-less than to the hundreds of thousands of locally unsophisticated . a careful reading of Mr. Harrier 's articles will qualify them for intelligent guidance in their future rambles among the haunts of Father Knickerbocker . D. ARTHUR BOWMAN . St. Louis , Feb. 21 , 1921.                     