@@695032

txt Foresight is an eminently desirable quality , especially for statesmen and the managers of large enterprises , but there is a kind of foresight which tends to defeat . ts own end . It not only looks too far ahead ; it assumes a number of possibilities which may never develop at all and . what is much more dq.rtgerous , it tends to lay out a program not authorized by Congress or countersigned by the serious business of the country One prophet notes the rapid rate at which our national debt is being reduced . He expects to see it practically extinguished in about fifteen years and wants to know what we are prepared to concede to our foreign debtors when we can no longer plead that debt payments are earmarked for our cu-n internal debt reduction . Suppose we cross that briclr'e when we come to it ? Past experience should give us a healthy confidence in the extravagance of Congress . If farm relief , flood protection , ship subsidies , Colorado River gambles and throwing good money after bad at Muscle Shoals can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be many years before we make further materia , reduction in our national debt . Another prophet is worried about the world 's gold production dwindling to a point insufficient for the world 's needs . Profess- r Cassel , like at least one of our believers in a rubber dollar and a like-minded English professor , has long been committed to a - managed " currency . In the years when that kind of talk was economically fashionable we %vete assured that even in Britain the gold basis had gone forever . It has been steadily coming back and France will probably establish a gold redemptum rate for the franc within the next few months . The French elections have given Poincare carte blanche in that matter . That is another bridge so far away that we need not worry for a long time to come about the crossini. of it . It may prove to be no bridge at all . It was not new discoveries of gold but the success of the cyanide process in the treatment of refractory ores which stimulated the advance in commodity prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world 's gold supply would undoubtedly have the effect of deflating those prices . just as Professor Cassel supposes . But our own gold reserves are far larger than we really need : it is not too much to say that we have scarcely begun to realize the possible volume of lawful inflation in the Federal Reserve System itself with less gold than we have now . It is as wed to remember the difference between conjecture and foresight . Discussions of the kind indicated are really attempts by academic economists to mould the banking and Treasury policy of the United States without regard to the will of Congress or the wishes of the president . whoever he may be . With cosmetics the rage . appears that in the lexicon of feminine youth there is no such word as " pale . '                     