@@695578

txt YALE ESTIMATE OF HOOVER . One Wonders in What Way the Can ? didate Stands for ' Higher Things . ' To the Editor of The New York Times : As a Yale graduate , I have received a letter from the Hoover-Curtis University Committee for ? Connecticut recommending that university men should support . Hoover because , as the- letter says , he believes passionately in education and other higher things of life for all our people . This is interesting , if true . To my mind it is true , but only in a Pickwickian if not a Jesuitical sense . The question is , What are the higher things of life ? Apparently these include securing the Republican nomination by the usual political methods . Has Mr. Hoover protested against the use of patronage in the post offices of the South , whereby solid delegations are secured for use at the nominating conventions ? The higher things of life evidently do not include helping to bring criminals to justice , for did he raise a finger to protest against the great criminals of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a colleague in the Cabinet ? Nor do the higher things of life include protecting the Government against exploitation of its resources by private interests , for he apparently sees nothing wrong in the illegal renewal to the Sinclair Company of the Government oil lease because he selected the official responsible for the act to be the Chairman of his committee . High professions do not make up for such actions or inactions . Try to apply the noble aspirations to any vital spot and the bubble is pricked . The letter of the committee also states that Mr. Hoover 's public utterances have been confined to clear , sincere statements of principles rather than attacks on the opposite party . In what , let me ask , has he been clear or sincere ? Has he been so in regard to farm relief , or in regard to water power development , or in regard to the tariff , or in regard to prohibition ? Forced into a corner by his opponent , he has finally stated that he favors calling an extra session of Congress to consider farm relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispose of it , but without any definite proposal of what it should do . Forced into a corner as to water power development , he has finally come out against Government ownership and control . As to the tariff , he has offered no suggestion except inferentially that it ought to be higher . As to prohibition , not a word , except to call it a noble experiment . The letter also says that he has not confined himself to attacks on the opposite party . Perhaps not altogether , but was not the whole burden of his speech in New York an attack on Governor Smith 's proposals about water power development , which he was pleased to call State socialism , and did he not deliberately attempt to mislead the public about Governor Smith 's views on the Tariff Commission , trying to make it appear- that he advocated taking away from Congress one of its constitutional functions ? What does Mr. Hoover , in fact , offer to the American people if elected but the continuation of the chauvinism of Coolidge with perhaps higher tariffs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this , Governor Smith is not afraid to tell the truth . He , at least , has had the courage to attack the real citadel of corruption and crime . There is much patronage attached to prohibition , and there is much in the innumerable overlapping commissions and bureaus of the Federal Government , and has Mr. Hoover , the supposed apostle of efficiency and economy , raised his voice about them ? His opponent has set him an example in New York State of what could be done to reduce unnecessary jobs and promote efficiency and economy . But reducing party patronage is not dreamt of in Mr. Hoover 's philosophy . The exigencies of the campaign ' are too great for some of the higher things . The sad . spectacle is offered of a good man trying to play politics and going irretrievably wrong . There is only left the picture of . the typical politician faithful to his standards , sham efficiency , sham economy , Awn morality ; sham everything . With apologies to Wordsworth : This is the canny politician , this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . JOHN CADWALADER Jr . Philadelphia , Pa. , Oct. 29 , 1928 . A Journalistic Candidate . To the Editor of The ew torte miss . - ln the next Assembly of the State of Nen " York there will be twenty-three Assemblymen from ' New York County . ' Looking over the nominations and the probable results , it - is a certainty that twenty-one of these will be lawyers , one not a member of the bar , while the remaining district is in doubt . . This territory is the Tenth Assembly District , for five years represented by the picturesque and colorful Phelps Phelps . The Republican Party has named as his successor a lawyer , while the Democratic nominee is Langdon Post , newspaper man and member of one of the city 's best known and respected families . Mr. Post has made an active campaign and has impressed the voters of this district by his earnestness and undoubted knowledge of what should be done by a city representative in Albany . I believe he should be elected , and one of my reasons is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Fourth Estate is certainly entitled to have a vote as well as a voice in government . I say this as a member of the bar of this community and as a former member of the Fourth Estate , ANDREW TEN EYCSc . New York . Oct. 30. 1925 . Latin-American News . To the Editor of The New York Times : I have been observing , for quite some time , the special attention and cooperation which your paper has been giving of late to Latin America at large and Chile . Allow xne.to congratulate you on this score , and to say that I greatly admire your broad-minded ran-Arnericanistic spirit in so doing . I feel and might say that I am sure that this policy wilt increase good-will , knowledge , greater friendship and better business between the United States of America . and Chile . HELEN LEA.I-IY . New York . Oct. 30 , 1928.                     