@@687494

txt The American Legion is in luck . It bade fair to become the most unpopular body in the country . But Congress has stepped forward to claim that odium for itself . People arc leaving off talking about the demands of the Legion , and are saving up their amazement and reproaches for Congress . This may be inferred from the deliberate Statement made by that steadfast Republican neWspaper , The Boston Transcript , that " this Con " congress is the worst we have had for " twenty years . " Truly , the spectacle which it presents is pitiful . Members of the House of Representatives rush from one device or trick in behalf of the bonus to another . And throughout they make no pretense that they are actuated by any but the lowest political motives . They are visibly In a panic over the possibility of losing the soldier vote , and cynically treat it as if it were merely a commodity to be sold at auction to the highest bidder . All the proposals for bonus legislation , changing as they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixture of fear and selfishness . Now , however , comes another panic to affright spineless Congressmen . They are finding that the matter is not so simple as they thought . Their belief was that it was all a question of votes . But now they discover that they may have to choose between votes and a campaign fund . The Republican Chairmen already organizing for this year 's Congressional elections are getting sonic surmising replies from Republicans of standing from whom they have requested contributions . Blunt refusals are the rule . And the reason is plainly stated in such a letter as the following : I ha ve your peremptory request for a donation to our party . On former occasions I have always been glad to sett ( ' in my check . I am a born Republican . My father was an Elector in Grant 's second election . But I have no use for the Republican Party if tht:y are going to pass the bonus bill . Two of my own were in the war , and-they . feel keenly the insult of the bonus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a minority of the soldier vote and to lose a great body of its leng-time financial supporters ? The longer the plan of deferred payment for the bonus is before the public the more severe is the condemnation ? poured upon it . Treasury officials , bankers , business men , skilled experts in finance unite in denouncing It as the most vicious schenre that coati devised , That it is an unscrupulous political stratagem is not denied. - But it is worse than that , It is a formidable Menace to sound public finance . No one can speak on this question with more authority than Senator Gi.ass of Virginia , and his attack upon the project is unsparing . He gives his reasons . This great new mass of certificates of indebtedness , if the banks could be compelled to take them , would simply pile up in their vaults as three or four billions more of frozen credits . The country has for nearly two years been struggiing to free its banking and business from that great burden . And now it is proposed to heap one still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the certificate plan , if it could be made to Work at all , would cagy lead to " unsafe banking " but would produce a marked ' inflation of values : * burdensome to all , and perhaps ruinous to many . The conclusion which Senator ( : ; . Ass reaches is that the issue of billions of deferred certificates would " desper " ately cr.ipple the business interests : " of the country , " While , if the banks should refuse to take such securities that would not be liquid , the ex-s44. -1 rite " men would in the end find that they have received " a gold brick in stead of a beneficence . " . The pressing question is whether VII Republican Party can possibly : stani for such a reckless scheme . , Can Secre tary ltIELLoN allow it to proceed with out the most vehement protest ? Car President HARDIN() permit so great ai injury to be One not only to the coun ? try but to the reputation of his party ' No Republican boast has been prouder than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation . That car never be heard again if - the party adopts a measure open.to such damaging criticism as that of a Democratic Senator , CARTER GLASS . It is industriously put about at Washington that the President will be won over to sign the hill as agreed upon by the Republicans of the Ways and Means Committee . This seems to us flatly incredible . It " may be that the President 's policy Is to await developments and to hose that the bill , even if it panes the House , will be put to death In the Senate . But It the measure comes squarely before him for action , there ought to be no possible doubt what he will do . The Republican President can not stand by consenting when so great a danger threatens the country and when his party is  --  starting out to run down a steep place into the sea .                     