@@689624

txt Presidtnt . Coolidge probably will pardon Controller i Charles . L. Craig of New York City . who has been sentenced by Federal Judge ' Julius Mayi.r to sixty days In the Essex County jail for contempt of court . No action in that direction will be taken until after the return to Washington on Thursday of Attorney General Harry M. Daugherty from Columbus . Ohio . but it was learned in a responsible Quarter today that it was highly likely Ithe : President would take advantage of his constitutional prerogatives and grant hi .. C  --  aig Ow pardon . i W'asl.ing ten was int ! r  --  t.ted tonight to I learn that the Board el Estimate of New Y.Jrli City had prepared a letter to the President asking for a pardon lc . Mr. Craig . It is understood here that Acting Mayor Murray Hulbert will ask the White House for an appointment with the President to enable the members of the board to present their application in person . Developments in the Craig case were rapid today , although the matter has I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were : ! First  - -  Th. : I ' reside , : t eenferred with Solicitor General James M. Deck in connection with certain information he asked ' iron , the . pepartment. : ... er- , 4 ? 128 : , tice with respect to the legal aspects of the case . ICopeland Urged a Pardon . Second  --  The President also conferral with Senator Royal S. Copeland of isrew York . who explained the situation in 1 New York City as a result of the sontencing of Controller Craig for conItempt. and was urged by the Senator to grant a pardon to Mr. Craig . Third -- Senator Copeland announced that he would make formal application to the President for a pardon for Mr. Craig . and the Senator took steps to obtain from the Department of Justice a blank form to be used in making his application for executive clemency . Indications now are that the Presid  --  nt 's action will be based on the formal application for pardon to be submitted by Senator Copeland , who feels that he eats very properly ask the President I , ) take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the 4 Cabinet of the Mayor of New York City as Commissioner of Health . The Senator 's application will he addressed to the President . but will be submitted to Attorney General Daugherty , who will stiortilt it , with the ' result of the department 's investigation into legal aspects of the ease , to the President . President Coolidge has taken a deep interest in the Craig case . He communicated several clays ago with his Attorney General , who replied from Columbus that the . Department of Justice ! would make a thorough investigation of the legal questions involved . That investigation has been substantially completed . It is also understood that certain facts which the President desired to know regarding legal aspects of the case were given him today by Solicitor General Beck when the latter called at the White House . . Political Views Obtained . The political aspects of the Craig case have also been gone into by the Ad , I ministration , and the President is aware ithat Republican Party leaders in New York State think it tvould be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pardon to Mr. Craig if that is constitutionally possible . C. Bascom Slemp , private secretary to the President . when in New York to attend the Army-Navy football game . conferred with leading New York ReI ' publican politicians and others . From them he learned that they thought it woulad be a great error for the President to fail to align himself with those who think the Craig sentence was harsh and excessive . The investigation by the Department of Justice , it has been learned , has reached the point where there is no doubt whatever of the President 's power to pardon Craig . If the view of the department were otherwise the President could hardly undertake to grant a pardon . With the clearing of this obstacle it will be possible for the President for any given reason . or without giving reasons at all , to grant the pardon . Probabilities are that he will act on the ground that the sentence was excessive and because of the effect execution of the sentence would have on the work of the Controller 's office . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Controller 's office and the relationship between the Controller and the Bokd or Estimate . He told the Presi- ; dent that the Craig case arose out of the controversy over the conduct of Brooklyn rapid transit matters in which the municipality was vitally concerned . The municipality , he said , has an interest of some 5110,000.000 involved in the controversy and the Board of Estimate had thought it only proper that the city , should be represented in the receivership . iSenator Copeland explained that the demand which had-been made by Corttroller  --  Craig was made by , himas , representatpia .4. the LUielzkag WriktiOas.teio4ot that if the Controller had done anything warranting his going to jail then the Whole board ( ight to be jailed . " I am going to formally petition the President to pardon Controller Craig , " the Senator said after the conference . The Senator saw the President after the latter had learned from Solicitor General Beck that the legal experts of the Department of Justice had found s. way by which Craig could be pardoned if the President so desired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is stated , will be gone through by the department , however , when Senator Copeland files his formal application . La Guardia Hopes to Save Craig . Representative Fiorello H. La Guardia , former President of the New York Board of Aldermen , manifested his active interest in the direction of a pardon for Controller Craig when he called at the White House this afternoon and conferred with Secretary Slemp . Mr. Da Guardia regards the Craig case as inSolving important matters of principle and stands prepared to initiate any legislation necessary , he said , - to prevent Controller Craig serving the sentence for contempt " I do not care to discuss my visit to the ' White House , " said Mr. LaGuardia , " beyond saying that where there is life there 's hope , and that I have hope of saving Mr. Craig from going to jail . " When told that Senator Copeland intended making tormal application for a pardon Mr. LaGuardia replied : " I would be glad to join in signing it ; you can always count on my service in this case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being granted Craig by the President I will introduce a bill to remove that obstasle . In any event I shall introduce a bill for legislation making it illegal for Federal Juiges to sentence officials for contempt ? - , f court when the alleged contempt is merely an official se  --  laration or communication by such official . " Mr. LaGuardia , like Senator Copeland , said after leaving the White Tiouse , that he had na doubt of the power of the President to parlon . Mr. LaGuardia said he intended to bring to the attention of Congress soon after it convenes , with a view to investigation , the whole question of the Federal judicial system in the Southern District of New York and its methods . He declared he would fight for such an investigation by the Judiciary Committee . He said that something had been " started " when the sentence for contempt was imposed on Controller Craig and that he , LaGuardia , would use his best efforts to have that something " finished " by ' Congressional investigation , with a " sew to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Craig are moving rapidly , and there is every indication that the pardon will be granted before Als.straig serves any part of his sentence . Twenty-three days remain before the " mandate order " of the United States Supreme Court will be sent to the lower court for execution of the sentence . Meanwhile the formal application for pardon will have been received and action taken by the Presi-dent FOUR CHARGES AGAINST CRAIG . Record Shows Controller 's Conviction on All , Lawyer Says . . A lawyer who was prominently cons fleeted with the Federal Government during the trial of the ease ? against Controller Craig pointed out yesterday that the complaint against Mr. Craig contained four specific charges , all of them based on statements in his letter to Louis Nixon , and that Mr. Craig Was found guilty on all four charges . Accurate information on this subject , this lawyer argued , would result in a clearer understanding of the situation . The four charges , as shown by the rscOrd. were as follows : 1 . in said letter it was stated that this court in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of denying to the defendant ands to other members of the board of ESti- ' ? mate and Apportionment of the City of New York any access to original sources of information concerning the property and affairs of the various public utility corporations in the hands of receivers appointed by this Court and holding franchises to operate in the streets of .. New York ; wher- ... - as . in truth and in fact , this Court never adopted such a policy , but on the contrary , afforded to the defendant and to all members of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment of the City of New York access to the said original sources of information and every facility for obtaining information concerning the property and affairs of the said corporations and expressly directed that the City of New York and its officials should have access to such information , and in truth and in fact at no time since this court . assumed jurisdiction of any of said corporations as aforesaid has this court or any one acting under its authority ever denied to the defendant or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to any authorized representative of the City of New York or of any of its officials access to original or to any other sources of information concerning the property cr affairs of any of said corporations . 2 . In said letter it was stated that this court made orders which precluded any application being made by the authorities of the City of New York to any other court or Judge for any right of examination into the affairs or conditions of the said public utility corporations : whereas . in truth and In fact this court has never made any such order , and on the contrary , prior to the writing of said letter , this court expressly ordered and directed that there should be given to the authorities of the City of New York every opportunity and facility for making such examination . 3 . In said letter it was stated that ? the orders of this court denied to the authorities of the City of New York the opportunity to ascertain the truth : whereas . in truth and in fact , this court has never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has , has had or could have such effect , but on the contrary , prior to the writing of said letter this court ordered and directed that there should be afforded to the authorities of the City of New York every opportunity iand facility for ascertaining the truth . 4 . In said letter it was stated that an order of this court stands between the public and the truth : whereas , m truth and in fact , no order that this court has made has , has had or could have such effect , but on the contrary , every order in the above mentioned suits and proceeding tended and was designed to place the public in possession of the truth , and prior to the writing of said letter this court expressly ordered and directed , that every facility be afforded to public officials and citizens ' associations to satisfy themselves in respect of the financial and other conditions existing in relation to the corporations in charge of said receivers . All of the foregoing statements in said letter , numbered from 1 to 4 inclusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were known by the defendant to be false when made and were made in reckless disregard of the truth . As to the circulation of the letter through the press , the lawyer already quoted pointed out that the information also charged that the dsfendant " did cause the same to be published in various newspapers . " naming seven evening and five morning papers . " all of which newspapers then were and long prior thereto had been of general circulation and widely read by the public within and throughout " the district covered by the court .                     