@@696270

txt THE NEW UNEMPLOYMENT . The Case of Men Thrown Out of Work During Prosperity . To the Editor of The Nay York Times : The report of President Hoover 's Committee on Recent Economic Changes not only focuses on those forces which have made for continued prosperity but frankly discusses some of its seamy sides , notably the persistence even in good times of a disturbing amount of broken employment . I heard a business man quoted the other day . " Unemployment in good times , " he said , " is bad business . " He was recognizing what we are all awakened to , and that is that the efficiency , the invention , the technological changes going forward in American manufacturing are creating a new type of unemployment . More than that , he is one of the growing group of employers who are recognizing not only that it is unjust to let the whole burden of these changes come down on wage earners who are dropped in the process , but that much of this human waste is preventable , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other modern industrial nations so long as we fail to develop an American system of unemployment reserves which will afford as much protection to our working people as the English ; German and other Continental insurance systems do to theirs , The new unemployment is not like a drought ; it is like a wet cellar , and we can and should control it like any other industrial hazard . In New York and in Philadelphia  --  and the same thing is true in Chicago , St. Louis and the other industrial cities ? the family welfare societies are staggering under an increasing load of relief which industry throws back on the community . Not in years have charitable organizations been so burdened with the care of needy families in their own homes . I speak from my knowledge as executive director of the Federation of Jewish Charities in Philadelphia . These increasing relief expenditures have become quite characteristic of our prosperity . To give money to charities to carry this load may be all right as a temporary expedient , but it is not adequate as a permanent method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as it does its fire hazards , its depreciation of machinery and its work accident . Prosperous Americans may be unconscious of what is going on about them . 1 suggest that they owe it to their times to read the recent number of Survey Graphic , which takes up the subject in a way which will hit their imagination on a fresh side . One of the opening articles is by William Leiserson , who is widely known in New York and the other clothing centres for his work as impartial chairman in the garment trades . He sums up the work prospects for 1929 in two phrases : Those who are employed ' shall earn more than ever before . But fewer shall be called to work and more shall be unemployed . " We are so accustomed , " says Mr. Leiserson , " to associate unemployment with prostrate industry , closed factories and universal profound depression that it is hard to revise our ideas and grasp the fact that we must also grapple with an unemployment problem that is the direct outcome of prosperity . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor , recently from the press , Isador Lubin of the staff of the Institute of Economics , gives the results of a study of 745 workers " let out " during the twelve months preceding September , 1928 . Let me quote his findings : Three hundred and forty-four of these 745 workers  --  that is , 45.5 per cent  --  were still out of employment when interviewed late last Summer . Twenty-nine of them , 3.8 per cent , had for more than a year been unable to find permanent jobs . Sixty-three had been without regular work for over eight months , and approximately one-third had been idle for more than three months . ? ? The experiences of the fortunate workers who found permanent employment were , in many respects , similar to those of the workers still unemployed when interviewed . Getting a new job was not in any sense a simple matter . Of the 410 persons who had found permanent work by Sept. 1 nine had secured their jobs only after eleven months of searching . Seventy had been unemployed for six months or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty-seven had been out of work for less than a month between jobs . That is to say , only 11.5 per cent of the workers who had been able to get steady employment found it possible to do so within thirty days after their discharge . Approximately 52 per cent , on the other hand , had been forced to remain idle for more than a fourth of the year before getting relocated . That American managements are waking up to the possibilities of stabilizing work is brought home by a symposium of industrial presidents and vice presidents in the Survey Graphic for April . Every employer in New York should read what they have to say , and every householder should read the stories gathered by the National Federation of Settlements showing just what this recurrent and preventable unemployment means to mothers and children . Bryce M. Stewart of the Industrial Relations Counselors analyzes the various American experiments with employment reserves . They are only a beginning . If President Hoover should do what Secretary Hoover prompted President . Harding to do eight years ago , lie would call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graphically portrayed in the report of the Senate Committee on Education and Labor , the Unemployment number of Survey Graphic , and the report of the President 's Committee on Recent Kereassass Changes . JACOB BILLIKOPF . New York , May 24 , 1920 . ? To Be Used With Care To the Editor of The New York Times : A word of caution to those who here road A. lieckscher 's letter on tho fresh-water treatment for eyes and ears . Water , salt and fresh , inhaled into the nose and then strenuously expelled . 13 responsible for much ear and mastoid Infection , with resulting deafness . Cold water on the face with the eyes closed is an excellent tonic for . the skin and superficial circulation . It the eyes are open , injury and infection of the delicate surface ' of the eyeball may result . JOSEPH alts ) 30 , 1921                     