@@690559

txt Chief Justice John R. Caverly will begin his deliberations today on the fates Which await Nathan F. Leopold Jr . and Richard Loeb as payment for the " thrill they experienced " in the kidnaping and murder or Bobby Franks . The last words In prosecution and defense of the two boys will be said shortly after 12 o'clock , it was predicted last night , and court will adjourn for the last time . The famed trial will be over . Prison Cells or Gallows . After that will remain only one short step for Judge Caverly to take  --  to sentence the two youths to a life of labor behind the walls of Joliet penitentiary or start them on the road to the gallows . Not only will the judge have to decide on the punishment for the murder of Debby Franks , which carries the death penalty , but also a charge of kidnaping for ransom , which carries a similar penalty . Loeb and Leopold have been on trial for the last five weeks on the state 's ' indictment charging them with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Judge Caverly by State 's Attorney Crowe and his staff 1 of assistants and circumstances in mitigation have been urged by Atter ' neys Clarence S. Darrow , Benjamin and Walter Bachrach . Kidnaping Charge Next . When Mr. Crowe shouts his final demand this morning that the boys be hanged on the gallows the boys will be placed on trial on the kidnaping charge . It was announced by Mr. Crowe that he will place Jacob Franks on the witness stand to testify regarding the kidnaping of his son as well as the ransom letter written by Nathan Leopold Jr . Capt . Viilliam Schoemaker will testify that he heard the confessions of the defendants shortly atter their arrest last June . Argument will be waived and no rebuttal will be put in by the defense . The defendants pleaded guilty to both indictments at the beginning . Judge Caverly probably will take ten days for his deliberations. lie will remain in Chicago for seven or eight days , and when the time comes for him to write his decision he will go " to a. quiet place " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I will take the confessions of the boys to my home and read them over carefully . I also will read the report of Drs . Hulbert and Bowman , the conclusions of too alionists , many Sutpreme court decisions , the coroner 's t report , and all ether evidence I con- l eider Important , " Judge Caverly said last night . " I will give myself plenty of tirne1 believe about ten days , at least . Then I will sneak away to some quiet place where there will be a stenographer and a typewriter , and we will r write the decision . It wo n't be very 1/4long  --  Perhaps a thousand words or so . To Insist on Privacy . " I will not allow myself to be interfered with and any one who attempts to bother me in any way whatsoever                     