@@693117

txt President Coolidge reached Washington just before midnight tonight on his special train after ten weeks ' vacation spe:it in the Adirondack Mountains . The President and Mrs. Coolidge made the 600-mile trip mostly by daylight and were the recipients of notable demonstrations by thousands of people along the route ; Passing through the populous New York towns and villages , the President was greeted by large crowds at-the stations and along the tracks as he and Mrs. Coolidge sat on the rear platform of their car . Starting early this ' morning from Gabriels , near White Pines Camp , ' where he spent his vacation , Mr. Coolidge 's trip by daylight down the Mountains through the rich agricultural Mohawk Valley and along the historic Hudson was one continuous ovation for the President . who made this his first day journey in many years . At Utica . Nxhere the tram halted for five minutes . Republican leaders of that city and ' adjoining counties mingled in the station crowd numbering 2,500 jammed arctincl , toe train , and forced the frehident -- -and Mrs. Coolidge to shake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children and hundreds of toys perched on the train shed . At Ravena , fifteen miles outside of Albany , the crowds were even larger and enthusiastic . Under the lea.clership of Edward Easton , Chairman ef the Albany County Republican Committee , the stalwart Republicans were marshaled in force , while school children and men and women in all walks of life surrounded the train and paid respects to the Chief Executive and the First Lady of the Land . Little schoolgirls presented Mrs. Coolidge with gladioli and fresh , Fall blooms , while the politicians stood not far distant and led the cheering . President Up Early for Start . President Coolidge was he first to arise at White Pine Camp this OW:Ring , where for the hot Summer months he has spent a vacation in the bracing climate that restored him and use wife to perfect health and gave eact a touch of tan and color that betcitens vigor and refreshed nerves . At 5:45 o'clock the President walked from his cabin bedroom to find St. Regis Mountain still covered with fog.9 He strolled about the walks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 311 flowers before wakening Mrs. Coolidge . Both were dressed and ready to start for the station at Gabriels , three miles away , before the Secret Service men quartered at Paul Smith 's Hotel had reached camp . Apparently so eager to get started on his fifteen-hour journey to the capital was the President that he departed from his arranged schedule 9. nd left the retreat in the woods fifteen minutes earlier than- planned . roe kitchen force had ended its work the night before and Mr. and Mrs. Coolidge were driven to the station without their morning coffee . Their car has almost passed out of the private road leading to the main highway before Colonel A. S. Cheney , military aid , and Major James F. Coupal , hurrying to the camp to accompany them to the station . met- the early travelers . President Coolidge smiled and told them to hurry along . The departure was made so long before schedule time that even the marines were not at the gateway ? to . ? show honors . " The Presidential flag at White Pines Camp , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulled down at sunset last night and at 6:45 this morning the palatial cabins sank back again to mere empty structures that will wait another season to entertain Summer visitors , but never again the present bead of the nation , as according to his latest plans he will seek new scenes for his next Summer 's vacation and perhaps spend it in the West . Bids Farewell to Townsfolk . The special train of six cars , including an observation car , diner , two parlor cars , a club car and a baggage car , was still on the siding when the President . aid his party , which included Bruce Barton , the writer , and Mrs. Barton , appeared at the station . The train was to be ready for occupancy at 7:15 , but President Coolidge had arrived fifteen minutes ahead of time . He and Mrs. Coolidge sat in their automobile . surrounded by the two dogs and the four bird cages , Mrs. Coolidge had brought from Washington , until the train was made ready for them . Occasionally the President recognized an old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of his car to shake hands . As soon as the train , was made up the hungry early morning risers went into ' the dining car and had breakfast . Seated facing the station the President and Mrs. Coolidge exchanged greetings with the station crowd which numbered several hundreds . . The train did not depart until 7:40 , by which time they had ended their meal , which for the President consisted of ham and eggs and hot cakes . As the train slowly left the station , amidst tooting automobile horns , President Coolidge waved good-bye on the rear platform , while - Mrs . Coolidge operated a hand moving picture machine . She has become an expert operator and during the Summer made films of intimate scenes at the camp which will be reproduced during the Winter season in Washington . The trip started in a cool atmosphere , and under dull skies the train slowly traveled down the mountain , passing at the rate of ten miles an hour the more important statiois where there were gathered cheering men , women and children . ? Sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sun came out strongly , dispelling the fog and uncovering the mountains with their brilliantly colored Autumnal leaves . After the first forty miles was traversed the sun began to get In its work . When the Adironcacxs region was left behind at Thendara the President had passed out of an atmosphere of 50 degrees to encounter a rising temperature , which continued as the train sped through the valleys and growing orchards . At 2 o'clock the temperature at Ravens , was 83 degrees . In six hours the special train bearing the returning vacationists had passed from high altitude and wooded mountains to the rich agricultural sections . It had come through an ever-changing panorama of beauty , from vast mountains and green vistas to cultivation , growing cornfields and orchards . The drop from the mountains to the valley was sudden and the President remarked that the weather appeared to be taking on the atmosphere of Washington . The President began his trip wearing a heavy overcoat , as he and Mrs. Coolidge sat on the platform to get a glimpse of scenery and see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gassing Tupper Lake , Herkimer and other places so that the vacationists were easily seen by those gathered in the stations and along the tracks . The first stop was made at Beaver River for water . A few natives surrounded the rear platform , and the dogs , Rob Roy and Prudence Print ; leaped from the train as a German foxhound began to bark and rush across the fields to the train . The dogs quickly jumped back on the train and when the hound got there they were safely within keeping of the President and Mrs. Coolidge . The hound looked the other two dogs ' over carefully , and as they set up a threatening bark dashed away , apparently unwilling to tackle two such lusty animals . Ovation for President at Utica . Utica , reached shortly before noon , gave the President and Mrs. Coolidge a real ovation while the train rested in the station less than ten minutes . Flowers were presented to Mrs. Coolidge by Chambers of Commerce of Utica and Herkimer and several young girls . There fully 2,500 persons greeted them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand of the Chief Executive , who immediately warmed to the generous reception . A more adventurous boy perched on the train shed , where he had a seat of vantage , shouted and cheered . Hrs . Coolidge was the first to see him and waved . Grasping the right arm of the President she directed his attention to the waving boy . ' That was the signal for other clamorous greetings from the roof shed and the President was kept busy waving and shaking hands with the lads who climbed on - the platform of his train . As the train came into the station the band accompanying the Republican Club of Utica , headed by its President , William Rosslee ? played " Hail to the Chief . " Earl T. Clark , President of the Chamber of Commerce , and Charles Green Brainerd chatted with the President , while an old woman , dressed in black , presented Mrs. Coolidge with a small bunch of garden flowers that contrasted strikingly with the rich cultivated flowers that had been previously showered upon her . Mrs. Coolidge thanked her generously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Mrs. Moran and had once made a linen handkerchief and sent it to the President . The crowds there cheered Mrs. Coolidge lustily , she having captured their imagination when she became the President 's manager in directing his exchange of greetings with the boys on the train shed roof . As the train drew away Mrs. Cool -- lege again moved her hand moving picture machine and caught the scene which brought forth from her youthful admirers a ripping " three cheers for Mrs. Coolidge . " The train slackened its pace as it passed a mile of people on either side of the tracks at Little Paurls , home of ex-Representative Homer P. Snyder . When Ravena was reached at 2 o'clock the heat had forced the President to discard his top . coat and the crowds all appeared wearing Summer garments instead of the heavy woolens that had been necessary all Summer in the mountains . There Edward Easton , Chairman of the Albany County Republican Committee , with ' other Republicans , met the President , while three schoolgirls who had received the prizes in the Albany school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crowd at Kingston Station . Kingston , at the foothills of Catskills , was passed at 2:55 . There and at Newburgh the station platforms ' were filled with people who were able to see the President and Mrs. Coolidge while the train journeyed along slowly . There were stops for water at Cornwall . At West Point there was another good-sized crowd . After passing the latter place at 4 o'clock the train took on speed and arrived at Weehawken ' shortly before 5 o'clock . At Jersey City the windows of /Muses along the railroad were jammed with people , the largest outpouring accorded the Presidential special . Both the President and Mrs. Coolidge showed themselves to the tenement crowds that hung out of the windows . There was a small crowd in the yard to watch the special as it passed through West Philadelphia . The Pennsylvania crew took over the special at Pennsylvania Junction , and the train continued its way to Washington . At Baltimore the train was delayed a few minutes owing to the failure of John Mays , the President 's valet , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an airing , to return before the signal to proceed was given . The train had gone but a short distance when the President missed the dogs , one of them was the white collie Rob Roy . The President ordered the train to stop and a minute or so later Mays and has charges were aboard again . In their vacation , President and Mrs. Coolidge both received the greatest physical benefits . Mr. Coolidge reached the normal weight 153 pounds for one a his height and age . Mrs. Coolidge gained but two pounds and returns weighing 119 pounds , her heaviest weight since she began her duties as mistress of the White House . She did no fishing while away , her only recreation was canoeing and long walks , She . too , found a fad , the making of moving pictures . The President learned to play , taking his recreation and fishing , which he proposes to continue in the Potomac River , which is one of the best bass fishing streams in the East . On Monday he will resume his work here with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vacancy as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury anti the naming of a Democrat to succeed Huston Thompson , whose term as a Federal Trade Commissioner expires this week .                     