@@694477

txt The renewed proposal to conduct a German owned air line from South to Central America by way of the Panama Canal Zone rightfully arouses an American uneasiness . One of the line 's bases , it Is reported , is to be in the Zone itself . Demands are being made that the United States government take steps to halt the German venture , and that foreign competition be permanently discouraged , by the establishment of a United States mail line or , if neeessarY , a subsidized American line connecting the United States with Central and South America . Unless the United States wishes to withdraw from the position it has maintained and'expanded upon since 1323 , there is only one course to follow . It was found necessary in 1912 to extend the provisions of the Monroe Doctrine , which did not foresee the day when governmental influences might be vicariously exercised through commercial enterprises and corporations . ' A Japanese company sought to take over Magdalena bay on the west coast of Mexican California . The resolution Idrawn up by Senators Lodge and Root @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the result . When a similar attempt was talked of in the spring of 1926. ? the Lodge resolution was again quoted and again proved its , potency . It is time for the Lodge resolution to be read once more : " Resolved , That when any harbor or other Place in the American continents is so situated that the occupation thereof for naval or military pun poses might threaten the communications or the safety of the United States , the government of the United States could not see , without grave concern , the possession of such harbor or other place by any corporation or association . which has such relation to another government not American as to give that government practical power of control for naval or military purposes . " " Harbor or other place , " the resolution saYs . It is as applicable now to the situation in the Canal Zone as It was fifteen years ago , and nineteen months ago in the case of Magdalena bay . We can imagine no power in the eastern hemisphere , occidental or oriental , permitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based near the key position of its scheme of I national defense . We should not regard any move : made by a foreign power to prevent such an establishment as anything more hostile than an exercise of common sense in the business of selfpreservation . The doctrine of self-preservation is older even ' than that enunciated by President Monroe , 1041 years ago . The safety of the Panama canal is essential to the safety of the United States . By its nature the canal is peculiarly susceptible to attack from the air . This government can not contemplate , " without grave concern , " the establishment of an air route by any non-American foreign government in the strategic vicinity of the Panama canal . The administration , and perhaps the congress , ' should make clear that new inventions and new institutions creating new sets of circumstances do not alter the traditional position of the United States on the question of non-American intrusions into the western hemisphere . The administration and the congress ought also to further any plan for extending an American air routo through Central to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be granted . It will be an investment In selfprotection.                     