@@696070

txt This is the seventh of a series of articles describing the 1929 line of American and foreign made airplanes . Another make of plane will be described nest Sunday . The Ireland flying boat offers a com ? bination sport and commercial plane of the amphibian type . In Its pro ? duction the Ireland Aircraft company has aimed to meet the requirements of the sportsman and the aerial commuter for a ship easy to handle on water surfaces . The general design is the biplane well staggered . The single Wright whirlwind motor is mounted aft between the wings , to protect the occupants of the craft , as the propeller is out of the way . The pusher type of engine is used to give maneuverability , as the full power of the propeller air stream is applied directly to the rudder and elevators . The boat can be swung in little more than Its own length and can take of from water in 25 seconds with a full load . The two cockpits , with wide wind ? shields and comfortable seats for pilot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The forward cockpit , for a pilot and one passenger , has dual aide by side control , with right ' hand or relief control detachable . riving control mechanism is out of the way behind the Instrument panel , which has indirect lighting . Engine controls are within easy reach of both seats . The rear cockpit- seats three pasiengers and Is furnished In leather upholstering . ? The hull of the Ireland flying boat is all metal and streamlined , to afford easy handling on water . The boat is of the two step design with a V type bottom . The nose of the hull Is clear to facilitate mooring . The wings are built of wood . The ribs are built up into a truss reinforced with spruce strips and braces . The fabric wing cover is finished with six coats of " dope " and two coats of lacquer . - The struts are of streamline duralumin and the engine mounting is of tubular steel . There are steps for engine repair . Wing tip floats are attached to the end of the lower wing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the top center section . The main fuel tank , holding 60 gallons , is in the hull at the rear of the cockpit , with an emergency gravity tank of five gallons capacity in the center section . Ailerons and tall surfaces arc of welded steel construction . The horizontal stabilizer is adjustable from the cockpit in flight . The specifications follow : Span upper wing to it . Span lower wing 14 ft . Length overall 10 ft. it 1th Bull beam ? at forward step ...... ....... 5 ft . Weight . empty .. Pay load Useful load Normall gross weight . full load lllgh speed . full load Cruising speed , full load Landing speed . full load Ceiling Climb at sea level , full load Tests on lakes : rivers , and inlets have snown that a 45 minute taxi run on the water develops DO eXCOSS heat with normal lubrication , according to the makers of the plane .                     