@@693924

txt Hundreds of persons were driven to cover this evening when a drunken member of the United States coast guard opened tire on crowds of men , women and children from the deck of a federal rum chaser , stationed here to keep liquor from crossing Lake Erie from Canada . Several hundred shots were directed at townspeople taking an evening stroll along the pier , others were fired at a passing tug , and forty or fifty bullets were poured into the coast guard station itself . A storming party which rushed the i prohibition boat finally overpowered the coast guardsman when ho took a ? brief respite in his firing in order to bring up a machine gun so he could do more efficient work . Held for Federal Action . Captured by a sheriff and his deputies , the federal battler who thus ter- - rorized the town will be held for , fed ? eral authorities . No charges will be placed against him until the United States acts , because of the frequency with which the federal officials step I into cases where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law enforcers . It is not expected the federal authorities will defend this par . ticular enforcement officer , although that has been tho continuing policy of the department of justice . The coast guardsman was John E. Sadlowsky . Ile had spent -a day of leave collecting moonshine in Eastport , not for evidence , but for personal consumption . Ho returned to the station and slipped aboard the rum chaser moored at the west pier . Uses High Power Rifles . Breaking open a locker , he took three rapid fire , high power rifles and began his spectacular demonstration of rum chaser activity . His first target was the crowds on the east pier . They were mostly women and children . Tho first volley spurted Into the water around the pier , sending splinters of wood flying through the air . Had Sadlowsky aimed higher be would have killed a num ? ber of women and children . The burst of fire caused a panic in which several persons were trampled and bruised . Other members . of the coast guard station , aroused by the shots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ driven back when Sadlowsky pumped thirty or forty shots Into the station house . From then ' on the drunken guardsman swept the west pier with a storm of bullets each time any one ventured from the station . The harbor tug Ohio , owned by the Great Lakes Towing company of Clevelapd , steamed out of the river and Sadlowsky fired a volley at it , evidently thinking the tug had been sent out to capture him . The crew took refuge and the tug , being of steel construction , was not damaged by the bullets . Sheriff Edward Rasmussen arrived with Deputies E. II . Larnos and George Deval while Sadlowsky was peppering the tug . They were received by a shower of steel . A little later , during a lull , Rasmussen and his deputies rushed aboard the vessel . They seized the man while he was dragging the machine gun Into position to sweep the harbor and piers.                     