@@689376

txt A clash between members of the State Legislature and Governor J. C. Walton over martial law was imminent today . Despite the Governor 's warning that he will jail any legislators ' that attempt to convene themselves in extraordinary session , the movement for an out-and-gut test of the Executive 's authority took definite form . Soldiers are still on guard at the Capitol to prevent a session there , and the military continues to uphold the Executive 's order suppressing the special Grand Jury i called to investigate the Governor 's conduct in office . Legislative opponents of Governor Walton were going ahead secretly with Plans for the special session attempt and it was indicated that if a majority of each house can be recruited to the cause the law-makers will defy Walton . Sixty-two house members have expressed willingness to meet without any eservations , leaders of the movement stated . This would give a clear majority . It was announced that petitions are being circulated among the house members " to have the Legislature convene and investigate conditions now existing . " When a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convene for business . Those behind the movement make no secret of the fact that they will bring impeachment proceedings against the executive if , after convening . sufficient evidence to warrant subh action is presented . Assurance that " no further mobilization of State guard units is contemplated at ' present and no troop movements are at present in view , " was given late today by Captain E. A. Wallis at military headquarters in Tulsa . Captain Wallis said that he spoke . , or Adjt . Gen. B. H. Markham . Machine guns trained on the city and county buildings have been withdrawn following the reinstatement of police officials by the military ' when Major Cargill threatened to call off the whole force yesterday . Meanwhile the military courts continued their investigations into alleged floggings in Tulsa and Oklahoma . counties . Throughout all parts of the State except Tulsa and Oklahoma City , toe military rule continued in name only . Withdraws Ilan on State Fair . Governor Walton today withdrew his ban on the Oklahoma . State Fair . scheduled to open here Saturday . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city authorities would , make every effort to see that peace was maintained . The legislators directing the special session fight would not permit the use 1 of their names . When the movement i reaches the proper stage they said they ' would be glad to make their names public . Meeting ' in a : . downtown hotel . they were very careful not to allow more than three persons to be rpesent in their room at the same time . Mile precaution was . taken in fear that the room might be raided by the military . Tinder the statute , three ; or more persons constitute a . Mob . ' - " This is not a fight for or against any - Organization , " said the s pokesman . " It Is  --  ti'fight to determine whether the Gov- , governor is a. dietotor , , or , Whether this is a State of eXecutive , , : pudicial and IegislalliTe made against law violators , both in private and public . It is not the purpose or intention of the Legislature and no member has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wires Call Members to Capital . Members of the House were being asked by telephone and telegraph to come to Oklahoma City . Upon arrival thy will be requested to sign the pet ! - tion providing for the call . The leaders declared they considered there was ample legal authority for the convening of the Legislature without the ' Governor 's consent . The session advocates are considering placing the mat ' ter before the State Supreme Court for a decision as to the legality of the move . A favorable ruling , it was believed , would prevent Governor Walton from carrying out his threat to prevent the session by force . However , many House members declared they are ready to go to jail if it comes to a showdown . The session will be held In Oklahoma City , if plans of the leaders are carried out . As plans for the clash took shape , the guard at the Capitol was increased . Four armed guardsmen stood post before each chamber door . Rumors that the legislators would attempt to meet in the Federal building where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ martial law , brought the statement from United States officials that no meeting would be permitted there .                     