@@687056

txt Crimes of an unprecedented nature are charged against the Mullan-Gage Prohibition Enforcement act in a presentment handed up to Supreme Court Justice O'Malley . yesterday by the regular Grand Jury of Bronx County . The statute is held responsible for " acts of unprecedented violence and lawlessness , " for the " more general use of drugs and narcotics " and for the organization of " bands Of men akin to pirates " who break into the , homes of respectable citizens in their wide quest for alcoholic liquors. ? Because the Mullan-Gage law is believed to have led up to-all these evils , its repeal is urgently recommended to the next Legislature . The Grand Jury reached its conclusion after considering , not only all the evidence brought before it , but also the facts presented to other Grand Juries on which some of its members had served in ' the last ten months . The recommendations for the repeal of the statute , in the ordinary procedure of the courts , will not go beyond Justice O'Malley . But it is the hope of members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assemblymen from that county will insist on taking a copy of the document to Albany early next January and lay it before the Legislature . The presentment heartily commends the New York Pence Department 's activities to enforce prohibition , but says this task is an impossible one under the Mullan-Gage act , which imposed upon the State and city enforcement obligations assumed by the Federal Government under the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead act . So the Grand Jury holds that the State law has merely handicapped the police in their regular duties by placing unnecessary burdens on the department . Enright and Yellowley Questioned . It is assumed that the Grand Jury learned a great deal about the difficulties of the New York Police Department when it heard Police Commissidner Enright and E. C. Yellowley , Acting Prohibition Enforcement Director . The presentment said : " For a period of over two months we have conducted an extended examination into the enforcement of the prohibition laws by Federal and city officials . " We hereby express our approval of the conduct of the Police Department of the City of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method adopted by the police has been accompanied by as little invasion of personal rights as possible , although the law itself clearly invites public officials to annoy ' and harass the citizen in the conduct of his personal affairs . Under all of the circumstances , the Police Department of the City of New York has enforced the prohibition laws fairly and with a minimum of inconvenience to the public at large . " This has been done without the aid of the Federal Administration . The members of this Grand ' Jury are unable to understand why the Federal Government , which inaugurated prohibition , has practically ceased to enforce it . The special squads employed by the Federal Government to do this work only have abandoned their duties in the City of New York . Puts Pollee on " Wasteful Work . " " By doing so they have turned over to an already overworked Police Department this unple4sant and unpopular duty . Instead of spending its energy in the prevention and detection of crimes , in the regulation of traffic and the enforcement of other laws which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5,000,000 people , great numbers of the uniformed force have been taken away from important and much needed police activities and have been assigned to the work of visiting saloons and searching for citizens carrying liquor upon their persons . " We deplore the necessity for the assignment of trained police officers to this wasteful Work . The Federal Government or the State Government should assume the burdens that they have now turned over to the police of the City of New York . Under all of the circumstances , this Grand Jury is satisfied that the Police Department of the City of New York has wisely and skillfully administered its duties under this harsh and undesirable statute . " From the evidence presented to this body we are drought to the conclusion that the repeal of the Prohibition Act by the State Legislature would be of benefit to the community . Its passage has led to acts of unprecedented violence and lawlessness and the more general use of drugs and narcotics . Bands of men akin to pirates are robbing each other and breaking into the homes of respectable citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beverages secretly manufactured at points outside of the city have been smuggled in and spread among our citizenry at enormous profits to illicit traders . Failure Not Ione to Pollee . " The effort to control by law the personal habits of the great cosmopolitan population of New York City has been attended by ' failure in nowise attributable to the police administration of New York . Because the law has been forced upon the people of the city without opportunity for the expression of their opinion on either its wisdom or the method of its enforcement this Grand Jury asks that the Legislature at its next . session repeal the present act . " The Federal Government cad then reassume the duties it originally chose for itself and permit the release of the police of this city to the discharge of duties demanded by and consented to by our populace . " The foreman of the Grand Jury is John StrattowO'Leary , a retired policeman , of 2.218 University Avenue , the Bronx . Six indictments for alleged vio ? 1ations of the Prohibition Laws have been returned by . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When Commissioner Enright appeared am a witness he was questioned about alleged illegal acts on the part of Bronx policemen in making searches and seizures . It is understood that Commissioner Enright maintained that the police were merely trying to enforce the law for which he held Governor Miller responsible . . Gets Six Months and $500 Fine . It took a jury in the United States Court in Brooklyn yesterday just two minutes to find Joseph Laski , owner of a saloon at 1150 Third Avenue , guilty of selling liquor ? to Izzy Einstein , Moe Smith and Peter Reager , Federal prohibition agents , on June 23 last . The trial had been in progress for two days . Judge Edwin L. Garvin sentenced the defendant to serve six months in the Essex County penitentiary and fined him $500 . The sentence is one of the most severe meted out here under the Volstead act . Dressed as fish vendors , Einstein . Smith and Reager visited several saloons yesterday . As a result James Duffy , 518 Canal Street ; William Markowitz , Fourteenth Street and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jerry Morrano , 63 Catharine Street ; Andrew Monahan , 107 East Ninetieth Street , and Daniel Monahan , 720 Washington Street , were summoned to appear before United States Commis ; sioner Hitchcock Monday . Dealers in malts and hops and " home brew " apparatus did a brisk businebs , following the announcement from Washington that Prohibition Commissioner Haynes had ordered the seizure of all " home brew " ingredients and appliances found in stores . At least one dealer got so frightened that he dismantled his model " home brew " outfit which had been conspicuously on display in his lone show window . However . Mr. Yellowley said he had received no orders from Washington with regard to " home brew " outfits and that until he did no steps would . be taken against the dealers .                     