@@688534

txt One of the most audacious fakes ever peipetrated in Wall Street was the circulation of a letter mineographed in typewriter , size paper bearing the letter-head of the Baldwin Locomotive Works and carrying the alleged signature of S. M. Vauclain . Mr. Vauclain , who was on his way to New York when the letter became public , when interviewed en route by The Wall Street Journal , branded the communication as a " flimsy forgery " and declared that " everything from the paper it is written on to the signature , including the statements , is false . " This letter was received by leading brokerage houses through the mail yesterday and the cleverness of its get-up fooled many people . There was heavy selling of the stock in houses where its authenticity was not doubted , and these shorts and sold-out longs paid for the deception . That the letter was written by somebody who was anxious . to see the stock go down is without question for it was handled in an expert manner except for the cheapness of the paper and poorly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letterhead was hardly dry indicating the hurried work of the sender . The letter , among other things stated that Baldwin had received no order from the Pennsylvania Railroad for three months and intimated that the company would have to make a write-off against its foreign security holdings which were characterized as " of questionable value . " Discussing the details of the letter , Mr. Vauclain stated that Baldwin had received an order from the Pennsylvania Railroad for 100 engines , only last week . He said that he considered none of the company 's holdings of foreign securities as of questionable nature . The only truthful statement in , the letter was that the Baldwin Philadelphia plant had not ben sold , Mr. Vauclain said . He intimated that he would take some action to discover the perpetrator . : The Street feels that the sender fake ought to be cjiacesteed ? r at any-cost as **27;174;TOOLONG might feel disposed to try such a stunt again . Circulation of the letter was evidently " planted " where the writer thought it would have the most effect . In many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house to whom it was sent , but in other instances where important traders on the floor were concerned the letter head actually bore the formal name and address to whom it was sent , thus emphasizing its'importance . " Some of the letters ' Were received before 10 a. m. ; having been mailed late Thursday night , and still others were being ' delivered to the leading.brokerage houses late in the. , afternoon having been mailed as late as 9:30 a. m . Friday . letters bo , the City Hall station post-mark . They were mailed in long envelopes bearing the Baldwin Locomotive Works and the ' 120 Broadway address printed in the corner . Circulation of the Baldwin letter among the Stock Exchange houses brought considerable selling around twelve o'clock , when the stock dropped to 13234 , compared with its early high of 134% . But activity at rising - prices developed when Dow-Jones questioned the authenticity of the letter , and Baldwin spurted to 135 on heavy volume . A committee of Stock Exchange governors has begun an investigation in an endeavor to ascertain the source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been written by S. M. Vauclain . It bears the caption New York Offices , The Baldwin Locomotive Works , 120 Broadway , New York City , but is undated : Gentlemen : ? Various unscrupulous stock jobbers and pools through the medium of questionable news agencies and metropolitan dailies are circulating false news , in order to bolster up Baldwin stock or to unload it and I want to use this opportunity of notifying the prominent members of the New York Stock Exchange that my attention has been called to statements being made which would have a tendency to lead the public to believe officers of this company are in a pool on Baldwin stock and sanction ' this propaganda . I , personally , according to metropolitan dailies and news agencies have been quoted as having said , we would not charge off to profit and loss the $8,000,000.00 we hold in Polish and other foreign bonds . I have ' given no such interview and if I did not use this method of denying it and we then charged them off after failure , to deny it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our officers and directors had issued those interviews to bolster up our stock . To sum up , the tales being reduced to print by news agencies which have no foundations are : That : Baldwin just received an order from the Pennsylvania R.R. for one hundred locomotives . THIS IS FALSE , for we have received no orders from this railroad for three months . That : Baldwin will not charge off its holdings of Polish and other foreign bends this year . THIS IS FALSE . That : ? Our Philadelphia plant has been sold for a large sum . We have not sold it and have no intention of selling it . Quoted interviews with our officers in which the above details are stated facts ARE FALSE . The statement appearing in ' Various metropolitan dailies tending to show . we would increase our dividend or pay stock dividends , by virtue of not charging off our losses on foreign bonds IS FALSE . We on the contrary can see no reason to increase this year what we consider a very substantial return on the par value of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of these foreign securities held by us . Your very truly , ( signed ) S. M. Vauclain , S WV /J President . Philadelphia  --  When inquiry regarding the alleged Vauclain letter in which it was denied that Pennsylvania Railroad had placed order for 100 locomotive 's with Baldwin was made at the general offices of the Pennsylvania , it was stated that on January 10 Pennsylvania had authorized the placing of orders for 300 new locomotives , of which 125 will be constructed at the company 's shops at Altoona , and Of the balance an order for 100 had been placed with Baldwin Locomotive .                     