@@690378

txt An anneal to voters , irrespective of class or party . to east their ballots in the coming campaign , was issued yesterday by the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Industrial Council , in which there are room than 300 affiliated bodies having a membership or 100,000 manufacturers . In making the appeal John E. Edgerton , President of the National Association of Manufacturers , pointed out that fewer than half of those eligible to vote in the last Presidential election cast their ballots . 26.632,614 voting as against 27,556,901 who did not vote . The statement indicates that the apathy of the voter is on the increase . In 1898 80 per cent . of the voters cast their ballots , in 1000 the figure was 73 per cent , . In 1908 86 per cent. , in 1912 62 per cent and in 1920 less than 50 per . eept . In makisig the appeal , Mr. Edgerton announced the association would itntne ? diately enter upon a Get-cnt , t41 ; 1e-vote campaign . This effort , he said . Would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit of " urging every one to go to the polls and vote --  ? vote as they please  --  but vote . " Mr. Edgerton 's announcement after referring to the 49 per cent . vote in the election of 1920. said : " This situation is one that should arouse every thinking person to the necessity of performing his obligation of exercising his franchise The figures clearly demonstrate that the great danger to the nation is not the attacks of the radicals and Bolshevik ! from without , but the dwindling of civi0 performance within . This apathetic condition is unsound and carries with it great danger to our Government and our institutions . " It is neither our disposition nor out ' intention to suggest to any one What party ticket he shall vote , nor for what man on any ticket he shall vote . Our thought is non-partisan our activity will be equally non-partisan . We do and shall appeal for a citizenship which performs as against one which sleeps . We shall urge all eligible voters , irrespective of political leanings , to go out and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " FIERY CROSS AT SPEEDWAY , ' Two Men Set It Up on Coogan'a Bluff and Hurry Off in Auto . Hundreds of persons watched the burning of a huge erns which had been Set up on Coogan 's Bluff , near the Polo Grounds , last night by two unknown men , who hurried off in an automobile waiting on Edgecomb Avenue . The cross continued glowing for five min .. utes . The flames were extinguished la ' a policeman . Several automobiles stopped on the motor speedway , 300 feet below the cross , to watch the blaze . The police say this is the second . fiery cross seen in northern Manhattan within three months .                     