@@694820

txt King Amanullah of Afghanistan , the first monarch to visit the German Republic and the first one whom the Germans have had a chance to greet in fifteen years , received a royal welcome from scores of German officials headed by President von Hindenburg and thousands of Berliners in a holiday mood when , with his handsome Queen and glittering retinue , he entered Berlin today amid martial pomp vieing with anything ever done in honor of visiting potentates when Wilhelm Hohenzollern ruled in imperial splendor over Germany . For hours before the time set for the King 's arrival Berlin was full of expectant excitement . The Lehrter railway station and all the streets leading from there to the Prince Albrecht Palace , which was set aside for him during his Berlin stay , were gay with elaborate decorations and packed with enormous crowds . Huge pylons decked with green leaves gave a festive appearance to the beautiful Parisen-Platz , and there as well as everywhere else along the triumphal way from the station to the palace , black , red and gold banners of Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while hundreds of Reichswehr soldiers in khaki and trench helmets stood in rigid array and big squads of policemen kept the crowds back . Crowd Cheers Hindenburg . At 11 o'clock President von Hindenburg , towering as always over those around him and straight and hale despite his eighty years , arrived at the Lehrter Station . After greeting a group of other notables assembled there , he strode down to the middle of the platform , over which was stretched a long red carpet , accompanied only by his son and aide , Major von Hindenburg. and State Secretary Meissner . As he took up his post at the point where the royal train was expected a Email crowd shepherded by policemen into one corner of the station gave him a friendly cheer . Punctually at 11:15 o'clock the royal train arrived . King Amanullah , resplendent in a blue and red uniform with a white plume clasped to his military headgear by a sparkling jewel , and surrounded by high Afghan officials in equally splendid array , stepped from e train and shook hands cordially with the German President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ladies of the royal entourage . She received from President Hindenburg a fine bunch of orchids which the venerable Field Marshal handed her with a deep bow . After all the Afghans were presented to the President , his son and State Secretary Meissner , they walked along the platform toward the station entrance , the gorgeous uniforms of the Afghan men and the Parisian finery of the women making a striking contrast to President von Hindenburg in his sober black coat and tall black hat . Salute of 21 Guns Fired . At the end of the platform the visitors were introduced to other officials gathered to greet them , including Vice Chancellor Hergt , several Cabinet Ministers , General Heye. head of the Reichswehr ; Admiral Zenker , commanding the German Navy , Reichstag President Loebe and others . Chancellor Marx was absent because of illness . Several Afghans were also there , including a dusky little girl who , blushing shyly , handed a bouquet to the Queen . Standing out in contrast to the Germans were the Persian Minister to Germany and members of his staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ golden Persian lion . As the royal retinue emerged from the station stern Reichswehr officers bawled the stentorian command of " Present arms ! " and the regiment drawn up on the squaee outside stiffened to instant obedience while a battery near by banged a salute of twenty-one guns . King Amanullah with President von Hindenburg at his left walked along a line of some twenty-five Afghan youths , most of them tudents in Berlin institutions of learning , who shouted " Ullah , Ullah ! " as they whipped their hats off their heads . There was no trace of kingly hauteur about the Afghan ruler as he acknowledged this expression of loyalty from a little group of his subjects far away , like himself , from their mountain home . King Returns Students ' Salutes . Instead of saluting perfunctorily and hurrying forward , King Amanullah , with a really friendly smile lighting his face , paced slowly past the swarthy youths , carefully saluting each in turn . Suddenly a girl stepped forward and handed her liege lord a packet tied with gold ribbon containing a gift for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and smile , and , handed it to an aide walking behind him , while more shouts of " Ullah " rang out . And all the while the strange melancholy strains of the Afghan national hymn , which a German military band had been practicing assiduously for days , sounded as the musicians blared it forth courageous ly . One Afghan student , carrying a banner of his native land , swung it high over his head in loyal patriotic fervor . A few minutes later the King , seated beside President von Hindenburg , was whisked away in a motor car toward the centre of Berlin with an escort of German cavalry clattering behind , while other visitors followed in a string of luxurious official cars . Children Alone Are Unawed . After a triumphal progress through the Brandenburg Gate and along Unter den Linden to Wilhelmstrasse , King Amanullah was escorted by President von Hindenburg into the Prince Albrecht Palace and left there for luncheon and a brief rest . Immediately thereafter the ceremonies in his honor were resumed . Between crowds lining both sides of Wilhelmstrasse the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , for she was too tired  --  sped in a motor car to the Presidential Palace to pay an official visit to President von Hindenburg . Again officers barked ' " Present arms ! " as King Amanullah arrived before the palace ; again the Reichswehr soldiers obeyed with rigid precision ; again a band struck up the Afghan anthem . And while a crowd with craned necks pressed against the police lines , a little group of children on the palace balcony , consisting of several of von Hindenburg 's grandchildren and their playmates , jumped up and down in a frenzy of excitement , shouting , laughing and waving handkerchiefs , utterly oblivious of the frozen dignity into which the adults all around them had fallen . The King stayed a full half hour in the Presidential Palace . When he emerged there was more presenting of arms , more playing of the Afghati national air and more irrepressible enthusiasm from the delighted group of children leaning out over the railing of the balcony . Then the Afghan ruler whisked back to the Prince Albrecht Palace to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marx and members of the Diplomatic Corps , including American Ambassador Jacob G. Schurman and the American Embassy staff .                     