@@686197

txt The imposing names associated with the Foreign Trade Financing Corporation are an assurance both that it will have business to do ' and resources with which to do it . The important consideration of how that business shall be done depends on the character of the corporation itself , and that will be formed partly by the law under which the corporation works , and for the rest by the character of its head . The law puts the corporation under the observation of the Federal Reserve Board , and there is a well-advanced movement to borrow from the board its Governor as the organizer of the corporation . There could be no better assurance of co-operation between the domestic and foreign business of the country than the transfer of Governor HARDING to a position full , of perplexities and responsibilities of a novel sort . It is no small sacrifice to undertake the new task . But Governor HARDING is still in his early maturity , well within the age when adventure is stimulating , and any doubts might well be settled by his consciousness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although his acceptance is not yet announced , it is likely that his address in this city , before what he called the " most powerful banking group in the world , " was made in anticipation of the expected transfer . The views he then expressed are significant as a declaration of policy . His view was a world view , far broader than the vision of those who regard Europe as " abroad . " Trade with Europe is " vital " to us , he said , but also " the trade relationships of other countries with Europe " are scarcely less important . That is so because they have been accustomed to sell to Europe , but now Europe can not pay there , and they can not extend credit against such commerce . The triangular dealings in exchange which heretofore have been done through London will be . done mostly through New York for a time , and later will be divided with London and other foreign centres . This is the opportunity which knocks but once . It is not a windfall or gift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions have thrust upon us . The $30,000,000 loan announced last week to Belgium for the purchase of wheat is an illustration of what foreign trade will do for the farmers . As conditions are , it is the next best thing to an exchange of goods for goods . We are learning that if we wish to sell on a great scale we must lend on a like scale ; that if we do not lend we must buy in order to sell , unless we are prepared to give our goods away , as some among us are actually now proposing . In order to sell we must produce at the world level . That can be done by us only in quantity production , with its result of a surplus by-product which we are under compulsion to dispose of either by barter or by taking promises running through a term of years beyond foresight . Trade on our scale must be financed here , in the present posture of world commerce . If those fundamentals are followed through , it appears why such novelties can not well be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governments . It is everyday business for traders to make their own special bargains . Governments should not take risks with taxpayers ' funds , anif'bad debts between Governments rank with dishonored scraps of paper . That these trade relations should become a matter of politics and votes is an invitation to reduce them to the disorder and sordid basis of the domestic politics of many countries . It is a banker 's duty to know when to say no ? something politicians never learn . It is no less a banker 's duty to say yes in some doubtful circumstances . Governor HARDING has said both yes and no . His no to the inflationist farmers speaks well for his courage , and there will be future demands upon it . It is not likely that he undervalues the opportunity offered to him as well as to his country , and his declination will not be presumed until it comes from . him .                     