@@686086

txt The Senate passed the resolution to revive the War Finance Corporation with the House inendmcnt striking out the objectionable instructions to the Federal Reserve Board regarding its method of doing business . Secretary HOUSTON testified before the committee that , while he disapproved the policy proposed , he would , of course , execute any direct mandate of Congress . If ttie President should sign the bill , the War Finance Corporation would be revived , but th4 would be only the beginning of the matter . The War Finance Corporation is in the nature of a bank , and discretion must be exercised in its every act . Unless Congress is prepared itself to administer the corporation , it must allow it a measure of judgment . The idea of banking conducted by majorities , issuing instructions to the Treasury , is not reassuring , nor is it likely to he carried out . The corporation will show by its operations whether it is needed . In a year when there was eight billions of foreign trade it financed only $40,000,000 of it ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation cease functioning than in the pre . vious similar period . The fact is that foreign trade got itself done then , and is getting itself done now , on a scale which is surprising though inadequate . The figures for November show the greatest excess of exports for any November . It is true that the exports decreased , but the imports decreased still more . Tile relation between exports and imports is as close as the relation between domestic and foreign trade . Assistance to one is assistance to the other . On both sides the ocean conditions are similar in that there is resistance to the falling market . There are large stocks abroad Of cotton which we sold far above present prices and which are held off the foreign market in the same manner that some of our retailers and farmers are seeking to recover costs of production and to be financed rather in holding than in moving their stocks . There is an obstruction to exporting more cotton until the old exports are sold in the foreign market . In breadstuffs , too , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by credit to those seeking higher prices . It is not enough that the corporation should be ready to lend . It must find borrowers , and the only borrowers whose business would break the deadlock are those who are willing to buy at tine market , . Secretary HOUSTON and the Federal Reserve Board hale explained abundantly that domestic trade has never had more credit , and should have no more , except on condition of doing business at the market level . Our foreign trade for the last fiscal year was three billions above the previous maximum year . Our exports and imports together are thrice those of 1914 . And the War Finance Corporation was not functioning . It does lot follow that it is superfluous . The purpose in reviving the corporation , is expressed in the resolution , is to acilitate financing of export trade in : ommodities . The method , necessarily , s to arrange credits which will enable ' oreign purchasers to take our predicts , chiefly cotton and wheat . That s commendable ; it has been repeat ? . dly shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are whether the intervention of a Government cor ) oration is necessary , whether the work might not quite as effectively le performed by private effort ; and , : econdly , whether the farmers and : planters now holding wheat and cotton itrill accept the services of the corporation at current market prices . they will not  --  or do not , the corpori tion will be able to do little to facilita exports . The best informed advocate of reviving the corporation any purpose to influence prices  --  the would leave that point to the decisic of the market . But the impression widespread that the chief persons interest , the farmers , the planters an the holders of agricultural product ; really expect the rgvival of the Finam Corporation to enable them to sell fc better prices . That explanation , probably , account better than ' any , other for the livel interest in the subject shown by E many Senators andCongressmen . On of the arguments , In effect , is tha there will be real distress and muc discontent among the farmers if the have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is insisted : are below th cost of production . It is riot easy t see how even the Finance Corporatio could facilitate export trade a ) price higher than foreign purchasers ar able - or willing to pay . If by- thi means the export trade is really facile tated and a broader market cleman created , the natural effect would b some rise in prices . If the plan work in that way and there is not purpos to enable produces to hold their steel for what would be in effect specu lative rise , it may work welt ' :                     