@@689905

txt Demands - by the Actors ' ' Rquity association , with headquarters In New York , that broadcast stations throughout the country pay for any services given for entertainment of the radio public , failed to create much furor in local broadcast circles when presented last week . Mghth of Salary Asked . According to the ruling of the assoalation , forwarded to Frank R. Dare , Chicago manager , from the council In New York , no member of the associaLion , whether chorus ' girl or prima lonna , can appear before the microphone unless one-eighth of a week 's salary is paid for each appearance . The ruling adds that " a great deal of money is being made by radio companies and others in connection with broadcasting , " and concludes that this Ls why service should be paid for . Demand Turned Down . " If actors and actresses are displeased , with the free publicity they have been receiving at broadcast stations , " said B. P. Jr. , president of the National Association of Broa.dcasters , yesterday , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Perhaps they will want the newspapers to pay for printing their pictures next . " EXPLAINS SUIT BASIS Palm Beach , P ta. , Feb. 23 . ? SpeciaL ) - - Arthur Hammerstein. spokes. man of tho Producing Managers ' association , denied tonight that the move of that body to prevent authors and composers from broadcasting their productions by radio had been actuated by a desire on the part of the managers to collect additional royalties . Will Ask Injunction . At the same time Mr. Hammerstein announced that William Mine , attorney for the producers , has been instructed to make applicatiOn for az injunction restraining the radio casting companies from sending out numbers from musical shows . The papers , be said , are being prepared against station WRAP and the managers hope to make a test case of this particular station in order to get an opinion and to ascertain whether the sale of the mechanical rights includes radio . Deems Decision Vital . " We do n't object to radio , " Mr. Hammerstein said . " We 're all for it and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when we sell the mechanical rights to the graphophone companies we also dispose of the rights to the air . There never was a decision on this matter and we want to get one . We want to have the exact status of the radio defined . " Penna . State College Is Broadcasting Plays State College , Pa. , Feb. 23 . ? The newest feature to be added to programs from WPAB at the Pennsylvania State college , since the reopening of that station in January , is the staging of plays by the Penn State Players , student theatrical organization at the college . The last play was The Importance of Being a Roughneck , " given last Wednesday evening .                     