@@696806

txt It is a principle of international law that an alien can not be despoiled of his legally acquired rights without compensation . and it is he duty of his government to protect him in I hose rights . In common with other state's. the United States has heretofore maintained t his doctrine . But it departed from this principle of international law in the " settlement " of the Mexican oil controversy in 1926 and has made a precedent that may rise up to plague us . These points are to be gathered from an address by Severn Mallet-Prevost before the American Bar Association . Mr. Mallet-Prevost is one of the prominent lawyers of New York and an acknowledged authority on international law . The subject assigned to him was one calling for consideration of those rules of international law which have to do with the protection of alien property rights He gave a remarkably clear exposition of those rules showing that no state has the right to deprive a foreigner of his rights and that it is the duty of the alien 's government to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mexican oil case because it contains the latest pronouncement of the United States on this subject of property rights in foreign lands . He declined to discuss the merits of the ease itself , but confining himself to the official records he gave a review of the whole matter that was as fiee from bias as it was clear and comprehensive . By that review of the record the fact was established that the Mexican constitution contained confiscatory provisions and that Secretary Hughes hold that the only safeguard was a treaty , which Mexico refused . Secretary of State Hughes . and Secretary Kellogg both held that the position of Mexico was confiscatory , then on March 27 , 1P25. the State Department announced a " settlement " of the ten-year controversy based on a court decision , some legislation and executive regulations . These were all in conflict with the constitution and therefore illegal , and the legislation and regulations were inconsistent with each other . There is nothing to prevent a new administration out of harmony with its predeCessor from pointing to the illegality of the " settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to plead ignorance . That settlement was in disregard of the Mexican constitution ; it sacrificed to the exigencies of the case the rights of American citizens who in reliance upon the laws in force at the time , acquired oil properties . It involved recognition by the United States of the doctrine of " positive acts ; " a doctrine which the United States had strenuously denied . It involved surrender by the United States of the position taken by both Hughes and Kellogg of the confiscatory provisions of the constitution . There is evidence that the principles which inspired the Mexican oil legislation may spread to other countries , and be a source of trouble to us.                     