@@686195

txt A very positive sentiment against price advances haa developed among leading merchants , who see danger of certain markets slipping once more into the seller 's favor . Increases made at the present time , it is explained , will be hurtful for three reasons : They may lead to oversupply again In wholesale markets through inanufaoturing for an exaggerated demand ; they may halt liquidation by retailers who will hold goods until the market meets their cost prices ; and consumer buying , now of a freer sort , may balk again if prices show a tendency to rise . These were some of the angles considered by P. A. O'Connell of the E. T. Slattery Company of Boston and President of the Specialty stores Association . " The big retail operators , " said Mr. O'Connell , " are determined not to let the market run away with them again . Prices are now down to a point where the public seems willing to buy , and it would be suicidal to advance them with consumers in so critical a frame of mind . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to do business on the smallest possible margin . Volume sales are the only Salvation of the retail business during this liquidation period , and profits must come from volume . In the case of our store , we are refusing to pay more for goods and will place orders elsewhere when advances are asked . If we can not get the merchandise we want at the desired price , we must put off our purchases until the proper values are to be found . Our price policy must be right , because January business in our store showed a large increase over the same month last year . " This increase , and any increase which a store is now making , is accomplished only through th emost intensive effort . Mark-downs and inventory losses in the retail business have ben very heavy , despite the claims of many store critics who charge that they have still to take on themselves part of the burden of readjustment . One store , to my knowledge , took 40 per cent . mark-down in its ready-to-wear department last month . Others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the large merchants commenced liquidating as soon as this was possible . Price breaks in the wholesale markets , it must be remembered , came along sharply and suddenly . What hesitancy developed on the part of the retail trade in following wholesale values was duo more to uncertainty regarding future cuts than to a desire to hold up the program of readjustment . " Just as there seems to be an erroneous opinion concerning liquidation of retail stocks , which by the way was commenced In April end May before the full force of the wholesale movement was under way , so , too , there is a misunderstanding about retail profits . These came from dollar volume by use of practically the same mark-up percentages that prevailed . in normal times . We did not sell so many units of merchandise , but we sold them for more money . The margin of profits over the entire period of inflation did not vary 2 per cetn .. to my certain knowledge . " With the decline in value , it becomes necessary to make up the money difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sale of more merchandise units , at smaller profit margins . This Is impossible if manufacturers follow the tendency lately evident of raising prices on the mere evidence of a restored demand , because the higher prices go the less likely is a merchant either to exceed his previous sales volume or to maintain it . I am willing to say that price increases are eagerly awaited by some retailers who have been badly caught In the break in mererandise values . Many of them are absolutely broke on today 's price basis . They have stocks which depreciated so much in value that their capital has been practically wiped out . The capital of other stores has been seriously impaired . " In considering the danger that lies in price advances at the present time , it would be well for manufacturer , and retailer as well , to consider that in the tremendous drive to sell surpluses there is apt to come a time when the public will reach its saturation point in purchasing . A large quantity of clothing , shoes and other goods have been sold in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been the clearance which has taken place . This angle of the situation is certainly worth studying , along with the public 's attitude on price . It may only take just a small increase to drive the consumer back to waiting for further reductions , since his needs have been somewhat satisfied . " It would be just as well for the manufacturer and wholesaler to go slow about advancing prices for the reasons I have described . There is small advantage in taking a little additional profit now , only to lose it , and more besides , by causing a repetition of the conditions we have passed through . The retailer is determined to oppose price increases because he knows there is Banger in them from several sources . and a little study of the situation ought to convince the wholesaler that ho is right . "                     