@@696564

txt Stock in , Republican Tariff , Limited , is now offered if and when issued . No great rush of buyers is reported . There may have been a. few " wash " sales , but , it is coming to be- felt strongly in Washington that the new tariff bill as a whole wo n't wash . The latest Republican strategy is said to be that of postponement . This does not mean putting the bill off until the regular session , but putting it off until after the Congressional elections of 1930 . Even Senator SMOOT is alleged to favor such a course , if the Democratic and Insurgent Republican op-position in the special session talks the bill over till December . And yetiterday , out in Indiana , the Republican leader of the Senate , Mr. WATSON , definitely said that it must be the Smoot bill now or nothing later . He declared that highly important matters would be coming up In the regular session of Congress , and added : " I shall not permit it to be wrecked by tariff discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are intended as a threat to members of Congress who object to the tariff bill as a whole , but wish to have their own little pet schedules enacted . This applies to a few Democratic Senators from the South who are interested in getting protection on a few articles for their constituents . It applies more comprehensively to men like Senator BORAH and other Republican Insurgents from the West who demand high and higher duties on farm products , but are resolved to cut off every advance on manufactured goods . They will be confronted , if these devilish sly Republican strategists carry the rest of the party with them , with the dilemma , all or nothing . Their hope had been to float the bill on the flood of their eloquence over to the regular session , where perhaps they would have a better chance to get their way . But if it is to be now or never , life will seem to them more than ever like a cruel enigma . The underlying theory . of the Smoot-Watsonites is to go into the Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hands , but with loud cries of denunciation of the Democrats for not permitting any tariff to be enacted , and with ample promises of prosperity for all if the Republicans are accorded a big majority in the next House of Representatives and also in the Senate . This might work , and it might not . Such a tacit confession of Republican impotence could hardly make a strong appeal to the voters . And the latter might have a sneaking suspicion that President HOOVER himself , if it came to a choice between the Smoot bill and none at all , would in his own heart prefer none . That would be " limited revision " in the strict sense of the words . The limit would be where the bill had been cut off just behind the ears . , " .                     