@@691685

txt Owen D. Young yesterday announced receipt by Board of Trustees of Walter Hines Page School of International ( Relations of a gift of $250,000 from Bernard M. Baruch to be expended for research at the Page school and for European universities , the fund to be administered by the Page school . The exact ampunt of Mr. Baruch 's gift will be determined by the actual cost of the studies but it insures a comprehensive research requiring three years to complete and estimated to cost between $250,000 and $300,000 . The Walter Hines Page School of International Relations is being planned as a memorial to Walter Hines Page , former ambassador to Great Britain . Its purpose may be said to be " to do in its field what post graduate schools have already done for medicine and law : provide a more systematic science and better trained men . " School is to be located at Johns Hopkins university from which institution the professorial staff will in large part probably be obtained . An endowment fund of $1,000,000 is now being raised throughout the country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smaller cities and the committees report favorable progress . New York and the . larger centers will be taken up in the fall . Gift just made by Mr. Baruch is independent of and not included in the endowment fund . Referring to . Mr. Baruch 's gift , Mr. Young said , " This gat will provide one of the great constructive researches into practical peace measures that are to be a distinguishing characteristic of the school . Passive hope for woric pence must give way to active search for the facts upon which to base a constructive program . The Page school is designed to provide the machinery of research to ascertain all the facts which may lead to war or impair peace . Obviously , the first task of the school is to diagnose the diseases that destroy world peace . Of these , war is the most infectious as well as the most dreadful . Our hope is , by patient studies , to find the germs of this disease , isolate them , and discover nnti-bodies to combat them . " There is a current belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others furnishing the necessary supplies . both materials and money . A thorough consideration of this viewpoint will be made possible by Mr. Baruch 's gift . One difficulty in the successful operation of the school will be the obstacle of a national viewpoint instead of a strictly non-partisan consideration of the different problems . To aid in overcoming this , it is hoped to eventually establish similar schools in the first power countries with a clearing house for all information and facts arrived at . The schools will not devote the.mselves to a recommendation of courses to be followed by nations but will endeavor only to arrive at facts and let the results be what they may .                     