@@691247

txt Edward L. Doheny , the pioneer of the oil industry in Mexico , is carrying on negotiations for the sale of all the Mexican oil properties controlled by his companies to a group of prominent oil and banking interests . This fact was confirmed by Mr. - Doheny through his secretary at his home last night . The interests which will take over the Mex , jean oil interests of the Doheny organ ' ization include the Standard Oil Company of Indiana , Blair Er .. Co. , Inc. , local bankers , and certain . British interests . Colonel Robert W. Stewart . Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Stand- , Lard Oil Company of Indiana . is reported to be now making an inspection tour of the property . It could not be learned last night whether the transfer of the property will be on a cash basis or paid for through an exchange of stack , but in view of the participation of bankers in the transaction it was assumed in some circles that the transfer will be for a cash consideration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : absence of Colonel Stewart from this country at a time when Federal process servers are seeking him with a subpoena to testify in the Teapot Dome lease suit at Cheyenne , Wyo . In this connection Vice President John D. Clark of the Standard of Indiana has already said that Colonel Stewart , " together with his technical advisers . " has been examining oil fields and oil Properties in Mexico and South America in an effort to secure information on which the company may determine whether it shall accept a proposal that it make a substantial investment in certain companies controlling oil production in those territories . " He added that the deal was so important that the company desired to keep Colonel Stewart 's movements secret . The deal if consummated will involve nearly ** based upon the capital and bonded indebtedness of . the Mexican Petroleum and its subsidiary organizations , which are , controlled by the Pan-American Petroleum and Transport Company , and the current market , prices for the securities of these organ ' izations . It is not considered likely . however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the buyers are expected to merely assume the bonded indebtedness and preferred stock of the Mexican Petroleum Company . but it is estimated that close to StOO.ueo , o0a will change hands if the transfer is on a cash basis . Contract Not Signed Yct . Mr. Doheny through his Secretary last night said that no contract for the sale of the Mexican properties of the PanAmerican Petroleum and Transport Company had been signed , but the matter was in the negotiating stages . If the deal for the sale of the properties is actually consummated , he said , it will probably result in a readjustment of the affairs within the Pan-American Petroleum Company , inasmuch as the sale of the Mexican Properties will necessitate their segregation from the American properties now owned and controlled by the Doheny companies . Mr. Doheny 's fortune is ranked among the largest made in the.oil industry , the majority of it made in the Mexican fields . After having formed several oil companies on the Pacific Coast he sold out to interests which organized the California Petroleum Company . He then slung his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he discovered what is now generally called the " golden lane , " one of the richest oil fields in the world . These properties which Mr. Doheny discovered , together with others which have been acquired since , made up the nucleus of the Mexican Petroleum Company , which he now intends to sell to the Standard Oil of Indiana interests and their associates . The aim of the Standard company , to obtain production , it is believed , is in line with the belief prevailing in certain sections of the petroleum trade that Production in this country may fall short of domestic requirements , if output continues to decline as it has in the past year and production continues to exnand to new high records as has been the ease . during the past decade In regard to the Pan-American Petroleum and Transport Company , the segregation of the Mexican from the American properties will result in the executives of the company confining their activities in the future to the development of the petroleum industry in the United States , especially ' along the Pacific Coast . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . according to opinion expressed in high banking circles yesterday , there is no doubt about the carrying out of the pres'ent plans , it is understood . that a new company will be organized to operate the American properties of the Pan American Petroleum and Transport Company . Under this arrangement the stockholders of the present Pan American Petroleum and Transport Company will have an opportunity to exchange their present holdings of both Class A and Class B stocks for shares in the new company , probably on a share-for-share basis . The Indiana organization is virtually the only one of the larger Standard Oil organizations which has no interest in foreign fields . Standard of New Jersey and Standard of Califirnia have hundreds of millions invested in foreign production , chiefly in Mexico and South America , although the interests of the Standard of New Jersey organization extend all over the globe . Second of World 's Big Oil Companies . Acquisition of the Mexican oil properties will give the Standard Oil Company of Indiana second rank among the larger oil companies of the world . exceeded only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first place and has done so since its incorporation . Standard of Indiana at the present time holds the position of being the largest producer and marketer of gasoline in the world , and it serves eleven States In the Middle West , or more domestic territory than is served by any other of the Standard Oil organizations now operating in this country . Acquisition of Pan-American 's Mexican holdings , however . will also give the Indiana organization a prominent position in the ranks of the largest oil producers . The Mexican Petroleum Company produces approximately 25,000,000 barrels of crude oil . Transportation of the crude oil produced in Mexico to the refineries of Standard of Indiana . will be an easier operation for the American company . Standard of Indiana at the present time holds a one-half interest in the Sinclair Pipe Line Company , which runs from Chicago to the Gulf Coast . In view of this possession the Indiana Company would have only to ship the oil from Tampico to the Gulf Coast by tanker and thence by pipe line to its large refineries in and around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             