@@686951

txt " A reparation moratorium ' ! is the novel idea I have Just encountered . It is seriously entertained in responsible political quarters here . The new catch-phrase has not appeared in print as yet , and the idea Is apparently not well enough developed tti-be sprung on the German and allied public ; but the argument is hatching out in political heads . The argument runs somewhat in this . wise : " Germany 's effort to pay the first billion gold marks , though successful , sent the paper mark away clown . Every - successive attempt to fulfill the reparation obligations will inevitably be accompanied by an increasing strain and will inevitably send the paper mark down still farther . Sooner or later this will bring about a catastrophe  --  probably sooner . - " This is contrary td the Allies  --  and particularly America 's  --  interest since Germany 's purchasing power shrinks as the mark falls . The Allies  --  and above all America  --  have an interest in preventing this development and.in seeing the mark stabilized so that Germany can increase her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is essential that Germany obtain a breathing spell . Such a breathing spell would be best obtainable through a reparation moratorium for one year ; even six months Would . help. ? I found the reparation moratorium idea expressed almost verbatim as above in political circles dominated.by Ge'rmany 's industrial interests , which lends increased significance to it . The insiders are eager to know how England and America would react to the suggestion If it were made openly . in these quarters Maynard Keynes and ' Frank A. Vanderlip are quOted , parrot fashion , in proof of the German contention that Germany must default on her reparation payments next Spring or Summer at the latest . Incidentally , it may be remarked that the reparation moratorium idea was entertained before the last sharp decline in paper : narks . Dollar Quoted Above 100 Marks . For the first time since the Reichbank officially fixed and published the dollar exchange rate , the dollar u-as officially quoted above 300 marks here today . Twice before the dollar passed the hundred mark line , but each time rallied , sufficiently swiftly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ominous figure that makes one mark look like a cent today , and perhaps less . Today 's official Reichstag rate ? is , therefore , a historic milestone on the downward path of the paper mark , and is so considered by financial circles , where the deepest pessimism prevails about Teuton paper money , which is not confined to financial circles . The public at large is deeply impressed . The dollar as measured by paper marks is the biggest news feature of the day . The paper mark 's life and death fight Is not without dramatic features . The Bourse , while closed for the last three days for stock trading , was open for trading in exchange . Yesterday and today powerful industrial interests tried to stem the speculative tide that carried the dollar beyond the hundred mark line by drawing on their private hoard of dollar exchange and dumping dollars on the Bourse . Two of . the biggest banks likewise ostentatiously threw dollars on the market to check the downward movement yesterday with seeming success , but today with failure . The dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the sensational decline of the mark has gone to the public 's head anti that the public Is intoxicated by easily figured profits that might have been made this week by . buying dollars and selling marks and is now plunging as heavily in mark spec , . Illation as heretofore in stock speculation . It is also apparent that the emergency measure of introducing frequent rest days on the Bourse when no stock trading is permitted while trading in exchange is allowed has caused the spec:dative element to transfer its activities on rest days from stock to exchange gambling . There is unanimity of opinion that this marks not only an undesirable . but a gravely unhealthy development . - French Fear Germany 's Collapse , vow ? ... st , 1921 , by The .1,1e ... York Times company . Special Cable to TI1E NEw Yoax TistEs . PARIS , Sept. 10 . ? A demand that the Allies get together and decide on a joint policy in case of the bankruptcy of Germany is beginning to find expression in the French press and In some Auarters ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . Fran , - : o-British alliance the demand is not 1 hat the Allies should get together , but ! that the French Goverriment , French iiploma.ts . French representatives on he reparations commission and the ! Irrench members of the ; Commission on Guarantees should at once draw up a program in case , as seems easily possible . Germany should go into bankruptThe first part of that program is that France get some share in the first billion of gold marks which were paid up last month and allocated by the accord of Aug. 13 to Belgium and ' Great Britain . But there remains the second and much graver problem which is occupying not only the press but the Government and is being freely discussed in parliamentary and diplomatic circles . Since the mark fell in the past week to less than a cent in value the possibility of German bankruptcy has become the pivot of the whole political preoccupation of Continental Europe . The belief has become almost fixed in France that perhaps with the connivance but more probably in spite of the Wirth Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is needed is lowering the value of the mark to zero the operation is not difficult . The payment of the last instalments of the ' billion gold marks due the Allies last month entailed the purchase by Germany of 500,000.000 marks worth of foreign securities as well as export of gold and borrowing from foreign banks . As the natural result of such operations the mark lost half its diminished value . To make it fall to the present price ? and soon to zero  --  needed only the unloading on the world financial marked , by some powerful ' finance group whose interest lies in German bankruptcy of a comparatively few more millions of unwanted maw . For at present no One3. i buying , for no one is any longer speculating on the rise in the value of the mark . Now , - whether it is right or not , the belief does exist in both financial and political circles in France just now that just such a group in Germany is forcing down the value of the mark in order to provoke bankruptcy and a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage . That this group is In opposition to the Wirth Cabinet and in f4vor of the reaationacy pads io 1st amine ekdoull ? and , though names are not yet mentioned , it is clear to what party and personalities allusion is made . The object they are supposed to seek to gain is equally obvious , if once it is granted that such a group or party does exist and is carrying on this policy . With the mark at less than a cent in value it will be in the next twelve months more than difficult for the Wirth Government to carry out its obligations under the reparations schedule of payments established in London last Spring . Under that schedule Germany must pay 3,000,000,000 gold marks annually on account of reparations , and with the paper mark at less than one cent it will be extremely difficult for Wirth to meet his engagements . That difficulty can further be easily rendered an impossibility by advance operations of  --  private speculators and the Wirth or any other similar government put in the position of not being able to fulfil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , largely . depend on the attitude adopted by the Allies jointly or separately . But the suggestion is current that/pose who are supposed to be operating this astute political financial deal might , and probably would , immediately reap an advantage . They would force the Government out of office and with a promise to pay would gain time while the Allies were considering what to do . Simultaneously there would come a singular recovery in the value of German currency and a recovery of royalist hopes and aspirations throughout Germany . Many of these theories may be classed as ingenious speculation , but that there is a basis of truth and certainty in them is the firm conViction here . They agree with a great deal that is going on in Germany- both in political and financial fields . The murder of Erzberger and the conflict between Munich and Berlin are confirmatory . Such a fact , for instance , as that Dr. von Kafir , the Bavarian leader , consulted ex-Crown Prine.e Rupree-et before replying to Berlin is regarded here as an unmistakable warning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only a monarchist revival in Germany that France has to fear . It is first of all the deliberately provoked bankruptcy of the country to prevent payment of reparations and thereby the restoration of France . - These are consequences that will have to be dealt with as they arise , whether they do or de not entail an attempt at restoration of the Empire . For the present it is France 's concern to establish a firm and sagacious policy either in collaboration with the Allies or without them to meet the situataiige4of German . bankruptcy should It                     