@@693080

txt I have nc I recently an increase of letters finding fault with motorists for various doings , such as undue honking of horns when blocked in traffic and carrying " sassy " signs attached to the license plates . Some of your correspondents want drastic penalties and ask for increased power to be given the State authorities to cope with these annoying but not too serious offences . The real offender in the case of excessive honking in traffic tie-ups is the callous driver who causes needless delay , not in the exasperated ones who honk to demand that he end the delay . Repeatedly , coming through side streets , I note delay caused by trucks being slowly and painfully worked into narrow parking spaces , when perhaps only twenty or thirty feet further on easy parking is available . But this might mean wheeling boxes and bales a few feet further , and rather than do this the traffic of a whole street is held up . Naturally , those driving in this traffic object with horns ; I sometimes do it myself . Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legends on the little signs attached below the license plates on some cars , save on the ground of lack of real wit or humor , is not clear . None that I hage yet seen is even mildly annoying ; yet one correspondent says they are " not fit for decent persons to read . " If your correspondent does not like to see them , he can come to live in New Jersey , where a hint from the State Motor Vehicle Commissioner that such plates were in bad taste cleared them out , save on cars visiting from other States . And you correspondent who wishes the authorities given power to remove the license plates from an offender 's car , as well as fining or jailing the offender , should also move into New Jersey . The Commissioner of Motor Vehicles of New Jersey not only has that power but uses it when it is desirable . Another correspondent of yours complains of what he calls " sneak turns " when a driver turns right at a corner where he is halted by a traffic signal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materially in reducing congestion . Some drivers would like to make this turning safer by blowing the horn every time ; but if we do we are denounced for making too much noise . Let us motorists alone . We have troubles enough driving through traffic , and what we need is not criticism but more traffic policeinen and signals at every block on the busy avenues . STEPHEN G. RICH . Verona , N. J. , Sept. 5 , 1926.                     