@@692892

txt PHILADELPHIA , July 6 ( X ) . ? The Presbyterian Church , through the Rev. Dr. Lewis Seymour Mudge , its stated clerk , today notified Mayor Kendrick that the denomination has withdrawn its support from the Sesquicentennial Exposition because of the policy of keeping the ephibition open on Sunday. , Dr. Mudge resigned from various committees , withdrew resolutions that the Presbyterian General Assembly adopted in May applauding the exposition for its then declared policy of Sabbath observance and severed all relations of an official character between the Presbyterian Church of the United States of America and the Sesquicentennial Exposition . The Church also not only abandoned participation in a topical exhibit on the Exposition grounds , but also the denomination exhibit which was about to be opened in the Witherspoon Building in the central part of the city . Action Involvet Entire Church . The letter notifying the Mayor of the action taken will be sent to the officials of the Synods and Presbyteries throughout the United States . an official announcement stated , to the 10,0 Presbyterian ministers and to the officials . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his letter said that he had " waited patiently upon the progress of recent events in.the hope that wise counsels would prevail and that the directors of the exposition would recede from their action in authorizing a wide-open Sunday at the expo sition in violation of the laws of God and the laws of the State . This , apparently. , the directors of the exposition do not intend to do . " The letter of Dr. Mudge conttnued " The undersigned is , therefore , con : pelled : " 1 . ? To place in your hands his resig nation from the various committee , to which you and'others have appointed him . " 2 . ? To withdraw the resolution , passed by the General Assembly o ! the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America in session in Baltimore , Md. , last May , which resolutions I commended you as Mayor of Philadelphia and President of the Exposition and other officials of the Exposition for your ' declared policy of Sabbath observance in connection with said celebration . ' Severs All Relationships . " 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have been established between the Presbyterian Church and the Sesquicentennial Exposition , including the withdrawal of participation by the Presbyterian Church in the topical exhibit on the exposition grounds , and the abandonment of the denomination exhibit about to be opened in the Witherspoon Building , Philadelphia ; Pa . It is obvious that we can not invite our members and adherents to visit this denominational exhibit without also inviting them to attend the Sesquicentennial Exposition , the management of which we canlo longer approve . " The Presbyterian Church . in the persons of its founders , took a part second to no other religious group in the 4vents leading up to and issuing from the Declaration of Independence . I t has rejoiced , therefore , in giving the whole-hearted support of its great constituency to the furtherance of the purpose embodied in the Sesquicentennial Exposition . " We therefore withdraw - its support with great reluctance and deep I regret , and only because our con , science will not permit us to support a project which is now being conducted in a way which is both un-Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the opening of the exposition on Sundays were made today . It became known that the East Pennsylvania Synod and the . Ministerium of Pennsylvania of the Lutheran Church had decided not to use exhibit space for which it had applied , because of the Sunday opening policy . A company which has an exhibit of machinery in one of the exposition buildings notified the Mayor that its exhibit would not be on display on Sundays . The first of a series of protest meetings was held tonight in Alpha Bap.tist Church here . City and exposition officials have remained silent under the protests . Xie exposition was open last Sunday by direction.of the Board of Directors of the exposition company .                     