@@696365

txt The meaning of the distribution census as " an entirely new kind of census , never before taken in any country , " was explained here yesterday by Secretary Robert P. Lamont of the Department of Commerce , for the first time since it was included in the Federal census bill which President Hoover signed last week . ' The explanation was given by Secretary Lamont at ' a luncheon in the Hotel Astor before about 1,000 members of the Merchants ' Association of New , York , broadcast over WJZ and throughout the country over the Blue network of the National Broadcasting Company . The distribution census was pre.senteu as a project which Secretary Lamont had inherited from Mr. Hoover with , the Department of Commerce . He said it was a consequence of investigations undertaken by the department to determine why the cost of commodities increased so much in moving from the . producer to the consumer . " These investigations revealed , " he said , ; facts in many cases unexpected even , to the business men concerned . Radical changes in business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning based on guesses or on the propaganda of interested parties has strewn the field of distribution . " Designed to Cut Selling Costs . The purpose of the new distribution census , according to Secretary Lamont , is to bring about a nationwide reduction in " the selling price of almost all the things which the head of the family has to buy . " He said its importance passed unnoticed among the accumulated fields of inquiry which have been incorporated in the decennial census , such as the original purpose of determining population for reapportionment of Congressional representation and the later purposes of gathering statistics on agriculture , manufactures , mines , quarries , births , deaths , marriages , divorces , wealth , indebtedness , taxation , municipal and State finances , current business and other industrial and social matters . " We have never before gathered facts and figures to help trace the story and cost of moving commodities from producer to consumer , " said Secretary Lamont , presenting the findings of the preliminary investigations of distribution which led the Department of Commerce to urge this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said , " American business has given a great deal of attention to and has spent enormous amounts of money in reducing cost of production . Amazing progress has been made . The increased use of power and the development of labor-saving - and time-saving machinery , the steeping up of per man productivity and many other factors have served to make American manufacturing the wonder of the world . According to figures from the Bureau of the Census , we have increased the physical output per man employed in the manufacturing industry by 50 per cent in the last twenty-five years . This is equivalent to an industrial revolution . Denies Middleman Is Profiteer . " But although the costs of production have been continually lowered by those methods the costs of distribution have been increasing . We hear from all sides serious complaints regarding the cost of getting commodities from producers to consumers . " Some years ago these complaints took the form of criticism of the socalled middleman .. Today we are realizing that these increased costs are not due to profiteering by the middleman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doing business . " Not only that , but the increased efficiency of production itself , resuiting in what we call mass production , has created new problems in distribution . In the mad scramble to secure markets for an everincreasing output , many wasteful and uneconomic processes have grown up . In addition new methods of distributing merchandise are being tried out . Among these may be mentioned chain stores , mail order houses , cooperative wholesale buying , instalment selling and a host of others . As a result , our whole system of distribution is in a state of flux . More Information Needed . " One of the reasons that we have not made more progress in increasing the efficiency of distribution is the fact that we have relatively little comprehensive information about the movement of commodities . We have in this country very excellent governmental and private statistics of production of all kinds of commodities . But we practically lose sight statistically of every commodity once it is produced . " Secretary Lamont spoke of studies and analyses of distribution costs undertaken in the grocery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the distributer spends his money for , what it costs to sell , deliver and collect for individual items and what these particular services add to the cost of distribution . " He said the research revealed profitable and unprofitable operations offsetting one another and other weaknesses which showed the value of the proposed distribution census . " Within the next ten days , " Secretary Lamont said , " the Department of Commerce intends to ask a representative committee of business men to advise and help the Census Bureau in the taking of this new census of distribution . The census will be of value just to the extent of the helpful interest that is taken in it by the merchants of the country . I realize now , as never before , the importance of filling out government questionnaires and sending them in promptly . " Booth Pledges Cooperation . Willis H. Booth , president of the association , assured Secretary Lamont of the cooperation of the member merchants and added that they had already initiated similar studies of the distribution problem . The speaker was introduced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irving Trust Company , after George B. Cortelyou , president of the Consolidated Gas Company , had been introduced as the first Secretary of Commerce and Labor to sit in the Cabinet . " In these days of rapid transition , " said Mr. Cortelyou , " we need in the Department of Commerce precisely the type of American business man of wide experience that we are so fortunate to have there now . " King Zog Has Throat Complaint , Wireless to THE Nzw YORK TIMES . DURAllO , Albania , June 26 . ? King Zog of Albania arrived here from Tirana for a long sojourn . He was accompanied by his military and civil staffs . It is reported that the King has a serious throat complaint and is unable to speak . An Italian physician has arrived from Rome to treat him .                     