@@685448

txt Herbert Hoover took breakfast with Senator Harding this morning at the nominee 's home , and later issued a statement calling for support for Senator Harding by all factions of the party and characterizing. ; the greater part of the platform adopted as " constructive and progressive . " He declared against any third party movement and urged that it was the ditty of those Republicans who- held " More definite views " . to endeavor to bring them to realization within the party organization . Mr. Hoover 's Statement . Mr. Hoover said in his statement : " I breakfasted with Senator Harding this morning at the Senator's- invitation . I presented the views which -I believed were held by a considerable group of independent and progressive Republicans upon varnous questions . The Senator stated that it was his most sincere desire to be the instrumentality for bringing the divergent elements of the party together ; that the views of both the conservative and progressive wings of the party would be fully represented in the Administration ; that he represented no particular group , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the party to consolidate all elements into a united front . He ' kill , of course , issue no statement until after the Democratic Convention , and then after consultation with all sides . " My own opinion on various issues is well known enough , and as to the party situation I can not make it more clear than . the following letter , which I sent to friends in different parts of the country two days-ago , and before I - had any communication with Senator Harding : " I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter . I leave received many hundred other communications from friends , advising various courses with respect to the situation that eventuated in Chicago , for undoubtedly many Of the independent and progressive like myself are greatly disappointed over some tendencies that were apparent at Chicago . The Chicago platform is not radical ; the greater part ' of it is constructive and progressive ; ? nothing prevents the compromise planks on labor , the League . iec. , from being given a forward-looking interpretation ; some things , including a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not adequately dealt with . " In tiles : . times , when the great problems and issues created by the war are new and are so complex , we must expect a wide difference of views among the members of the party as to the methods by which they ? are to be met . It follows , therefore , that if there was to have been unity in the convention , there had to be a large measure of compromise . The compromises on the platform and the candidates are proof that we have not arrived at an era of new political and social tendencies , and for this same reason the same divergent groups and the same attitude of compromise will be found in the Democratic Convention . Nothing could be more disastrous than the development of several party organizations representing the com plexion of ever ' group in the country . With the legislative and executive functions more widely separated than in any other democracy , the whole process ? of constructive government will come to an end if we have more than two dominant .. parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be no possibility of the American people securing the will of the majority , and we shall be entirely ruledby log-rolling minorities or sterile political coalitions . " I 'm convinced that - those of us ( and I believe they are the majority of the party ) who hold more definite views could not , even were we so in- clined , successfully effect the consummation of such views outside the party , and that our duty is to endeavor to bring them to realization within the party organization itself as the issues on which they bear arise . The tendency of the party will ge.in their meaning only from actual admin. istration . Thinks Liberals Can Prevent Reaction . " I am convinced that unity of action among the liberal thinkers of the party , especially if they exert themselves in the current of Congressional elections , will insure the country against legislative reaction . " If the Republican Party is not to be irrevocably split , . I can not conceive that Senator Harding will for one moment submit the administrative side of the Government to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we have the possibility of having admintetrative measures and policies determined , by full Cabinet responsibility and of having co-operation restored with the legislative branch of the Government . " I need not reiterate my conviction that the constructive ability , so critically , needed for the vigorous business reorganization of the Federal Government and to meet the many economic Issues before us , lies in the Republican Party . " For all these reasons , I believe that those of us who look upon party organization , not from the point of view of partisanship , but solely from the point of view of its usefulness as an agency of maximum service to the Country . should support the Republican Party at the polls . " The only comment Senator Harding would make on Mr. Hoover 's visit was : " We discussed politics extensively and a great deal of satisfaction . " Senator Harding was asked if the assumption was correct that Hoover would support the ticket . " He is very , greatly interested in a Republican success , " was the . reply .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         