@@693346

txt In circles close to the German Government it was asserted here tonight that the struggle behind the scenes in Geneva was no longer a political battle by Germany against the combined forces of Britain . France . Italy and Belgium . but had shifted into commercial warfare between Britain and Germany . with the former aggressor . It was said that the situation had assumed such a serious aspect that the Locarno and Thoiry agreements , and- even the League Covenant , threatened to become mere scraps of paper as far as these two powers were concerned . The German press . it was said , had been muzzled and acquiesced in what amounted to orders from the Foreign Office , printing only versions of the Geneva conference taken from French , British , Belgian and Italian newspapers or from carefully pruned articles by their own correspondents attending the League Council session . Though the full results of the Ambassadors ' conference in Paris nave not been published here , it is asserted that the Allies ' previous objections on such matters as the composition or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the German Pa stern fronti-ir , the alleged connection between semi-military organizations such as the " Steel Helmets " and the Reichswetar , the withdrawal of the Interallied Control Commission and its replacement by a League Control Board , and pie n9 for the Rhineland evacuation all have lost their significance , and the entire conflict has centred around Britain 's objection to Germany 's manufacturing and exporting half finished iaterialz that can be converted into munitions and accoutrements of war . Britain 's attitude is firm that German must curtail this form of industry . Many Articles Convertible for War . It is known that Germany is manufacturing quantities of articles capable of being converted into war materials , which are shipped to Sweden . Russia and other - countries , where the arsenals embody them in instruments of : carfare . Chief among these industries , and one which would be hardest hit should Britain refuse to budge in her present stand , is the optical industry . A confidential round-robin circulated among the industrialists indicates that unemployment in Berlin alone would be increased by- 4.000 should a ban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rangefinders and other telescopic sights and optical instruments which can be adapted to war needs . The manufacturers of airplane spare parts , component parts , time fuses and ordnance parts . which are exported , also employ thousands , and the suppression of this industry , it is said . would decrease the budget revenues through taxes and affect the nation 's trade balance , as well as augmenting dangerously the large unemployment army which now , through the payment of unemployment doles , is severely testing the capacity of the Go-ernment coffers . Herr Stresemann can not acquiesce in Britain 's demands , the Wilhelmstrasse says , without precipitating a Government crisis here owing to the inner political struggles among the Socialists , Nationalists and Little Coalition parties . The Socialists , who at least have shown tolerance of the Government 's foreign policies , have been estranged by Herr Scholl , a leading Deputy of the People 's Party , who sated in a recent speech that if the Cabinet must be rebuilt to include either the Socialists , forming the largest party , or the Nationalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bearable than the Socialists . This action seems to have lost to the Marx Cabinet the support of the Socialists , and to win the concurrence of the Nationalists in his foreign policies Herr Stresemann must return from Geneva with a decided victory . Expect Repetition of March Fiasco . I According to a Government spokesman , Geneva is hopelessly deadlocked , with the political features eliminated , and a repetition of the March fiasco ' is awaited . It is asserted that Herr Stresemann went to Geneva with full confidence I of putting through a program far be-1 yond that of abolition of the Interallied Military Control Commission and its replacement by League inspection . withdrawal of the occupation troops and arrangement of the Sarre district 's I affairs . With M. Briand it is said he had reached an agreement for withdrawal of the control commission and evacuation of Germany without turning affairs over to the League , and with only a small civilian force left in the Rhineland , but without real power over German affairs . Briand desired a commission such as this to satisfy his constituents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panties . With these hopes gone , there is doubt in Berlin political circles whether Herr Stresemann will be able to find comfort in his being named a Nobel Peace Prize winner , with the pains of grippe shooting through his head in Geneva , his plans failing and the Cabinet threatened with a crisis . Though it is generally known that a secret letter has been circulated among the industrialists asking opinions on the results to be expected should Germany be forced to accept Britain 's demands , and also the nature of the confilct in the Geneva arena , the Lokal Anzeiger is the only newspaper which hints at what is called the real trouble , and this only by carefully veiled statements from its Geneva correspondent .                     