@@693874

txt The Foreign Service Buildings Commission created by the Sixtyninth Congress has decided to take care of the needs in Central America and the Orient first of all . The reason is that living conditions in these regions are unsatisfactory and the difficulty of renting suitable quarters is particularly great . The ultimate objective is to have all our legation and consular buildings abroad owned by the United States instead of leased , as at present . As this involves not only a large capital outlay but also a considerable expenditure for upkeep , the process of acquisition has necessarily to be slow . It is well if special emphasis be laid on quarters in the Central American posts . Compared to the capitals of Europe , the living conditions in most of Central America leave much to be desired . The positions are comparatively lonely and lack the intellectual diversions of European or American cities . Even students of racial problems and of practical politics find that such studies pall and that the opportunities for service lose much of their glamour after a few years in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the actual method of life of our representatives in these countries as healthful and agreeable as possible To the suggestion that a corps of men be trained in the foreign service to deal primarily with Central America , friends of some of the diplomatic secretaries who have been stationed there object that the handicaps are so great that additional inducements such as larger living allowances or an earlier retirement age limit must be provided if good men are to be tempted to take up this specialty . They point out that the health hazards are great ; that although most of the Central American capitals are at a sufficiently high altitude to afford fairly good climatic conditions , this is not true of the consulates at the seaports ; that in both places contacts with Europeans or Americans are very limited , and relations with the natives afford little diversion ; that there are no adequate school facilities for foreign children , and little opportunity for healthful recreation for old or young . As a result , those who stay long at such points become subject to ailments of both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , very real goes without saying . There is merit in the proposal that these posts be put in a special category , and that men whose tour of duty there exceeds a stated period be given longer leaves of absence to be spent in cooler climates and better surroundings , and that they be permitted to retire earlier and yet receive the maximum pension allowances . At the same time the acquisition of suitable residences and grounds and proper facilities for upkeep should be hastened . Herein lies the merit of the principle which the Foreign Service Buildings Commission has announced . Owing to the great importance of these Central American appointments , the sooner they are rendered more attractive the better for the country .                     