@@695262

txt Rev. Ht . Hon. Randall Thomas . Davidson , ninety-fourth archbishop of Canterbury , announced his resignation today , effective Nov. 12. yrimate Of the unuren or England and next only to the royal family in point of precedence , the aged archbishop , who was born April 7 , 1848 , has been one of the prominent figures in British political affairs . Although sufferlrk from poor health for the last few years , the archbishop , had taken a keen interest in industrial and economic affairs as well as the church . His failure recently.to obtain adoption by the house of commons of tho revised book of common prayer of the Church of England , with which he had hoped to bring his long and active public career to a close , keenly affected the bishop , but he counseled moderate action by the more radical proponents of the bill . Decides on Church Career . Dr. Davidson was born in Edin ? burgh . He had no Intention of enter ? ing the church until ho went to Trinity college , Oxford university , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trinity he became the close friend of Crauturd Tait , son of the then Archbishop Tait of Canterbury , a friendship 4/deb eventually was to lead him to the church 's highest office . In 1874 , two years after he had graduated from Oxford , Tait and Davidson were ordained together as deacons at St. Mark 's church , Kensington , London . In the same year Davidson became a curate at Dartford , Kent . In 1878 , during the Pan-Anglican synod , - Davidson distinguished himself as an organizer . Soon after the close of the conference he married Edith , second daughter of Archbishop Tait , thus forging another link in the chain of friendship with the Talts . Becomes Youngest Primate . Dr. Davidson went to Windsor as dean in 1883 , to - the see . of London in 1891 , to Winchester In 1895 , and then to Lambegh palace , the official residence of the archbishop of Canterbury . Before he was 50 years of age Davidson was offered and refused the primacy but in 1903 at the age of 55 he became the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primacy was the longest since the reformation , some 400 years ago , and it was witnessed by some of the most remarkable changes and developments in the Church of England . Among these the most important perhaps is the extension of the Anglican communion throughout the world . The archbishop of York , who occupies a position only slightly below the archbishop of Canterbury so far as court rankings is concerned , was mentioned tonight as the most likely successor to Dr. Davidson as archbishop of Canterbury .                     