@@694749

txt ENDOWMENT OF TALENT . Some Provision . Has Been Made for Young Men of High PrOrnise. ? o the Editor of The New York Ti ? tcs : THE TimEs editorial " Endowment of Talent , " after referring particularly to the endowment of the eminent ophthalmologist , Dr. Wilmer , and the building of a special institute about him , says : " But there is an even wider need of endowment at the other end of the line , an endowment of young men of high promise * * * " The temporary endowment of young men of proved capacity for scientific research has assumed in recent years an extent which is probably not familiar to many of your readersnerhaps , indeed , not even to you . May I call your attention to a single instance of this ? The National Research Council , with the financial assistance of the Rockefeller Foundation , maintains three series of research fellowships open to proved young investigators who have already made their doctor 's degree ( Ph . D. or M. D. ) and who desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before assuming the varied responsibilities of permanent professional positions . One of these series is in the physical , chemical and mathematical sciences ; one in the biological sciences ( zoology. botany , psychology and anthropology ) ; and one in the medical sciences . Altogether about 125 fellows annually hold these research fellowships , with stipends varying from S2,000 to $3,000 , depending chiefly upon domestic circumstances . A larger stipend than that given to unmarried fellows is given to married ones , and still larger to those having children . We do not want to encourage celibacy or loss of inheritance of scientific talent . These fellowships are administered by three fellowship boards of outstanding men in the three major fields of science already mentioned , and the standards of appointment are high . Most of the fellows obtain academic or other professional positions at the expiration of their fellowship periods , with continued op-. portunity for research work . Other series of more or less similar fellowships , such as those maintained by the Social Science Research Council and the Guggenheim Foundation , might be mentioned , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generous provision is being made in this country for the assistance of young men of high promise in scientific work . This provision means that we are increasing , by means of financial endowment , both our output of sound research and our output of trained scientific scholars . VERNON RELLOGG , Permanent Secretary National Research Council . Washington , D. C. , Feb. 2 , 1928 . HELP NEEDED FOR INDIANS . Investigation of Bureau Is Urged by Representative Celler . To the Editor of The New York Times : THE TIMES editorial , " The Indian Bureau , " was timely . There is no question that the Indian Bureau could stand an investigation and the bureau itself should be the first to welcome an inquiry . It is quite true that Indian affairs have been slambanged around for decades and while the bureaucrats and the idealists have been fighting the Indian has suffered . The Indians are our wards . We have not reacted toward them in the spirit of guardians . Permit me to call attention to the urgent need of study of the American Indian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University , has pointed out that we have no adequate knowledge of the Indian tribes and their traditions . That only through such knowledge can we get an adequate idea of the early history of our country . He points out that much of this historical information has been lost and that unless we move at once to obtain what can be rescued , future generations will justly reprove us with an utter disregard of the importance of a thorough history of our own country . ? Congress established in 1879 the Bureau of Ethnology for the purpose of investigating Indian problems , but lack of funds has always hampered its work . Its researches have been merely fragmentary . There is no desire to criticize the bureau . It had to cut its cloth to suit its purse . Congress has always been niggardly in its appropriations . " At this point permit me to quote from a very interesting communication from Professor Boas : " Since the foundation of the bureau a certain amount of work by individuals and privately endowed institutions , both State and city institutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertakings of all these institutions have come to an end , except those of the Museum of the American Indian , Heye Foundation , New York City , and of the university . The Council of Learned Societies have a limited fund at their disposal for the investigation of Indian languages , by means of which some work in this line can be accomplished . " There is only one way of rescuing the remains of the historical information that may be obtained . from the Indians . It must be done by the use of scientific methods , taking into consideration the bodily form , the languages , . the traditions , and the customs of the people , all of which are needed for the historical reconstruction . This can be accomplished only by a specific appropriation that would be needed for a period of about twenty years , for the specific purpose of studying the present Indian tribes . " It may be of interest to point out that the information published by the Bureau of Ethnology does not touch upon any of the tribes of the States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Nevada . There ' s nothing relating to the tribes of the lower Mississippi Valley . No information is available on the tribes of the Southeast which are on the verge of extinction , except the very fragmentary information on the Cherokee . Notwithstanding the large amount of work done in the Southwest , the information on the Apache , Pima and Mohave , and closely related tribes , is practically nil . Even the large and important Dakotas are entirely inadequately known . I think it would be fair to say that notwithstanding all the work that has been clone there is not a single tribe in regard to which we have adequate knowledge . " it would be possible . to achieve this work in two ways : either by adding a number of ethnologists to the Bureau of Ethnology , or by cooperation with universities and museums where a number of specialists could be found competent to carry on this work . The latter method would , of course , be less expensive , but would not yield as rapid results as the former . I believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantageously for carrying through this work , which can not possibly extend over more than a limited period of time . " EMANUEL CELLER . Washington , D. C. , Feb. 1 , 1928 REGULATING AIR TRAFFIC . This Country Makes It Difficult to Clear Commercial Planes . Henry P. Fletcher is quoted in press dispatches as making the following remarks at Havana : " As we are now writing the first chapter in the history of regulation of international commercial air traffic , we are doing well to make far-sighted proposals for the good of all nations . " Evidently Mr. Fletcher is unaware of the existence of the International Air Convention , which was framed at the Peace Conference in 1919 and became effective in 1922 through ratification by eighteen signatory powers . ? While the United States acceded to the convention when it was drafted , it later refused ratification , along with four Latin-American republics , including Cuba . Due to this failure to ratify , a recently formed American company now carrying passengers and mail between Key West and Havana must fill out just as many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steamship Company fills out for a sailing of the Aquitania , while under the International Air Convention a plane clears with three papers instead of sixteen . And yet we talk about red tape in Europe and their backward transportation systems . The International Air Convention deals with practically all the questions involved in international air traffic , in addition to providing for a permanent International Commission for Air Navigation . Now Mr. Fletcher announces that he and his associates in Havana are writing the first chapter in the history of this important subject . The United States , no doubt , leads other nations in many material ways , but there are very few who will deny that Europe has far outstripped us in the field of commercial aviation . While we can justly claim the first successful flights of heavier-than-air craft , the leadership in their subsequent development has lain entirely in other countries . New York , Feb. 1 , 1928.                     