@@695702

txt The last of a half dozen widely varyingresolutions on the proposed lake front airport , demanded by aviation leaders as necessary to the development of air transportation here , was adopted yesterday by three city council committees meeting Jointly to consider the policy of the city toward the project . The resolution put the three committees on record as favoring the abandonment for harbor purposes of that section of the lake front designate 'd as harbor district No. 3 , rec. ommended that the war department be requested to issue a permit for this abandonment , and resolved that the lake front landing field be constructed in the harbor area " as rapidly'as may be feasible . " Larger South Side Field Urged . u'ne resolution also recommended that the council acquire the section of land now owned by the school board and partly developed as the Municipal airport at 63d street and Cicero ave-i Negotiations are now under way for the school board to trade this property to the city for a parcel of city property at elarendon beach desired as a echoed site . Further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendation . The lake front airport has been before the city council for the last nine months . It first came before the finance committee after the south park board refused to build the airpert jointly with the city . A resolution presented by Ald. B. A. CronSon 4th , proposing municipal construction , was greeted with enthusiasm , but no action was taken . Three Committees Meet . The matter was apparently forgot . ten until two weeks ago , when the question of policy was brought before the council committee on harbors. wharves , and bridges . The finance and railway terminals and the aviation committees were asked to meet with the harbors committee in yesterday 's session . meanwhile an ordinance containing plans for the construction of a 1,000 acre island with a harbor for seaplanes and a mooring mast for lighter than air craft has been pigeon holed in the office of Assistant Corporation Counsel Roy N. Leach , its author . Leach has appeared at most of the committee and council meetings with the ordinance , but has not been heard . Airmen Ask Quick Action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chicago Association of Coalmerce ; Harold Crary , manager of the American Air Transport association , and representatives of several other aeronautical organizations appeared before the aldermen to urge early action on a centrally located airport . They cited figures which showed , that lesser cities have far greater fa- I cilities for handling air transportation than has Chicago . Air transportation ' and aircraft manufacture will go to these cities unless greater facilities are provided here , the speakers said .                     