@@774170

txt  | draw their own moral . For them the fact of outstanding significance must doubtless be the steady advance and eventual conquest of democracy over all forms and traditions of aristocracy . But , however impressive this thought may be , the confirmed aristocrat need not lose heart . He may always expect the common people to think with Thomas Jefferson that " the mass of mankind has not been born with saddles on their backs , nor a favored few booted and spurred , ready to ride them legitimately , by the grace of God " ; but if history has shown anything , it has demonstrated that the multitude tend to grow careless of their liberties and to think in terms of their own generation rather than with an eye to the future . New conditions and altered circumstances of society have , in the past , rendered possible the creation of new privileges and pretensions for those who were energetic and alert . In the shortcomings of democratic society , therefore , lies the . tope of the future for the perpetuation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interrelations of aristocracy and democracy in the United States have since colonial times excited the intense interest of countless numbers of foreign travelers in this country . This is not surprising since the United States was for many years the great laboratory of democratic social and political experimentation for the world . These foreign observers were not merely interested in democracy in the restricted sense of political selfgovernment but also in its broader social manifestations . When due allowance is , made for the motives which brought the travelers to our shores and for their social and political predispositions , this class of literature , distinguished by such names as the Marquis de Chastellux , Alexis de Tocqueville , Harriet Martineau , James Bryce and Edward A. Freeman , contains the most penetrating observations that may be found anywhere of the conflict of aristocratic and democratic ideas in American life at the various stages of our history . A useful index to this extensive literature for the period prior to the date of its publication is Henry T. Tuckerman 's America and her Commentators ( New York , 1864 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewed these contrasting institutions objectively or , if they did , it was with some ulterior political purpose in mind . Nevertheless , such essays  | as the following , notwithstanding their polemic purpose , shed considerable light upon the contemporary conceptions of aristocracy and democracy in American history : John Adams 's A Defence of the Constitutions of Government of the United States ( 1787-1788 ) and his Discourses on Davila ( 1790 ) ; John Taylor 's An Enquiry into the Principles and Policy of the Government of the United States ( 1814 ) ; and John C. Calhoun 's A Disquisition on Government and his A Discourse on the Constitution and Government of the United States ( published posthumously ) . C. Edward Merriam 's A History of American Political Theories ( New York , 1910 ) offers incidentally an excellent sketch of the growth of democratic ideals in the writings of American statesmen and political philosophers . It was not until a quarter of a century ago that American students began to single out democracy as a theme for special study and treatment , although it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States has ever been written which is not , however unconsciously and inadequately , a running commentary upon the expansion of political democracy . In 1898 , three works appeared which were concerned with isolating the democratic trend in American history and studying it : Frederick A. Cleveland 's The Growth of Democracy in the United States ( Chicago ) , Francis Newton Thorpe 's Constitutional History of the American People , 1776-1850 ( 2 v. , New York ) ; and Bernard Moses 's Democracy and Social Growth in the United States ( New York ) . The first two of these works were occupied very largely in setting forth the enlargement of popular rights in government and law ; and since then a number of other studies have been carried out along the same lines , among which may be mentioned : J. Allen Smith 's The Spirit of American Government ( New York , 1907 ) ; Kirk H. Porter 's A History of Suffrage in the United States ( Chicago , 1918 ) ; Dixon Ryan Fox 's The Decline of Aristocracy in the Politics of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cunningham McLaughlin 's Steps in the Development of American Democracy ( New York , 1920 ) . The volume by Professor Moses paid relatively more attention to the social and economic conditions of democratic development ; and this point of view has since then received fuller treatment in such studies as John Bach McMaster 's The Acquisition of the Political , Social and Industrial Rights of Man in Americo ( Cleveland , 1903 ) ; Frederick Jackson Turner 's " Contributions of the West to American Democracy " in the Atlantic Monthly , vol. xci ( 1903 ) , pp. 83-96 , reprinted in his The Frontier in American History ( New York , 1920 ) ; Robert Tudor Hill 's The Public Domain and Democracy ( New York , 1910 ) ; and Frederick C. Howe 's Privilege and Democracy in America ( New York , 1910 ) . An adequate history of aristocracy and democracy in America is yet to be written , for , as the foregoing sketch has indicated , these social ideals have been mirrored not only in government and politic but also in the manners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , literature and thought of the people . The materials for compiling a comprehensive account of the decline of aristocracy will be supplied only when a genuine social history of  | the United States is written . Important contributions toward such a history have been made by a host of writers , among whom may be mentioned John Bach McMaster , Philip A. Bruce , Alice M. Earle , Henry Adams , E. D. Fite , William E. Dodd , . Arthur W. Calhoun , John R. Commons , and the special writers on American religious history and the history of literature and education in the United States . A handy compendium is the book entitled Social and Economic Forces in American History ( New York , 1913 ) , composed of chapters selected from the volumes of The American Nation : a History ( New York , 1905-1918 ) . Very suggestive is Albert Bushnell Hart 's volume National Ideals Historically Traced ( in The , American Nation. : a History , vol. 26 ; New York , 1907 ) .  | RADICALISM AND CONSERVATISM IN AMERICAN HISTORY The heated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the merits and demerits of radicalism and conservatism causes the student of American history to search his mind concerning the effects of these opposing types of thought on the past history of the United States . In such an inquiry , an initial difficulty presents itself : what do the terms , " conservative " and " radical , " mean ? Popular usage has tended to rob these expressions of exact meaning and to convert them into epithets of opprobrium and adulation which are used as the bias or interest of the person may dictate . The conservative , having mapped out the confines of truth to his own satisfaction , judges the depravity and errors of the radical by the extent of his departure from the boundaries thus established . Likewise the radical , from his vantage-point of truth , measures the knavery and infirmities of his opponents by the distance they have yet to travel to reach his goal . Neither conservative nor radical regards the other with judicial calm or " sweet reasonableness . " Neither is willing to admit that the other has a useful function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other with deep feeling as the enemy of everything that is fundamentally good in government and society . In seeking a workable definition of these terms , the philosophic insight of Thomas Jefferson is a beacon light to the  | inquirer . When Jefferson withdrew from active political life at the close of his presidency in 18o9 , he left behind him the heat and smoke of partisan strife and retired to a contemplative life on his Virginia estate , where his fellowcountrymen learned to revere him as the " Sage of Monticello . " The voluminous correspondence of these twilight years of his life is full of instruction for the student of history and politics . His tremendous curiosity caused him to find an unfailing source of speculation in the proclivity of mankind to separate into contrasting schools of opinion . In one luminous passage , representative of the bent of his thought , he declared : " Men , according to their constitutions , and the circumstances in which they are placed , differ honestly in opinion . Some are Whigs , Liberals , Democrats , call them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aristocrats , etc . The latter fear the people , and wish to transfer all power to the higher classes of society ; the former consider the people as the safest depository of power in the last resort ; they cherish them , therefore , and wish to leave in them all the powers to the exercise of which they are competent . " In this passage Jefferson does not use the expressions " conservative " and " radical " ? indeed , those words had no place in the American political vocabulary until Civil War times ? but his penetrating analysis throws a flood of light on the significance of those terms nevertheless . The Tory who fears the people and the Whig who trusts them are equivalent to our own categories of " conservative " and " radical . " Thus Jefferson finds the vital distinction between the two schools of opinion in their respective attitudes toward popular government . But before accepting Jefferson 's classification as correct , what shall we do with the common notion that the conservative is a person who opposes change and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This does not seem  | to be a fundamental distinction . If a difference of opinion concerning the need of change were the basic difference between the two , then Americans who advocate a limitation of the suffrage to male property-owners may properly be regarded as radicals , for they advocate an alteration in the established order ; and French patriots of today opposing the re-establishment of the Orleanist monarchy are to be classed as conservatives , for they would keep things unchanged . Few people would be willing to follow the logic of their premises to such conclusions . On the other hand , it can not be denied that history has generally shown the radical in the role of an active proponent of change and has cast the conservative for the part of the stalwart defender of things as they are . Is such evidence to be dismissed as a coincidence oft-repeated , or has there been behind the actions of both radical and conservative some self-interested purpose which has determined their respective attitudes toward the established order ? The very question perhaps suggests the answer . Broadly speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the more numerous section of society to wrest power and privilege from the minority which had hitherto possessed it . The group which at any period favored broader popular rights and liberties was therefore likely to find itself as a contender for the new and untried , leaving to its antagonists the comfortable repute of being the conservators of the status quo and the foes of change . But , though the historical conditions influenced the character of the contest , such conditions were , after all , merely the stage setting of the struggle . Advocacy of change should , under such circumstances , be regarded merely as the means employed to attain an end and , in no sense , as an end in itself . Recurring now to Jefferson 's definition , the goal sought by each group ? whether it be in the direction of greater or less democracy ?  | would appear to constitute the real difference between the two . It should be clear , then , that the radical is a person who , in contrast to the conservative , favors a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and society and in the benefits accruing from such control . To attain his ideal the radical may become a protagonist of change ; he usually has been one , as a matter of history , but this fact is a mere incident to , and not the touchstone of , his radicalism . The temperament of the radical is sanguine . He can say with Jefferson : " I steer my bark with Hope in the head , leaving Fear astern . My hopes , indeed , sometimes fail ; but not oftener than the forebodings of the gloomy . " The conservative , on the other hand , is skeptical of the capacity of the mass of the people to protect their own interests intelligently ; and believing that social progress in the past has always come from the leadership of wealth and ability , he is the consistent opponent of the unsettling plans of the radical . If the old saw is true that a pessimist is the wife of an optimist , perhaps the cynicism of the conservative is amply accounted for by his enforced association with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vision ; but the conservative sees him only as a visionary . The radical as a type is likely to be broad-minded and shallow-minded ; the disinterested conservative is inclined to be high-minded and narrow-minded . Of course , the expressions " radical " and " conservative " are relative terms , for at any given time the lines are drawn by the opposing forces upon the basis of the circumstances then existing . It is a truism that the radical of today may become the conservative of tomorrow . This does not necessarily argue inconsistency . It may indicate rather that , when the specific measures which the radical has advocated have been adopted , he believes that the supreme aim of public policy has been attained and he becomes a defender of the  | new status quo against any further extensions of popular rights . This is perhaps the same as saying that the conservative of today , had he held the same opinions on political and social questions a generation ago , would have been looked upon then as a radical . The movement of history has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of individuals is concerned , but from conservatism to radicalism so far as the trend of public policy is concerned . Not only are the terms relative in the sense just indicated , but they are comparative as applied to variations of opinion that exist within each school of thought . In the conservative camp are to be found different degrees of distrust of popular rule , varying from the purblind reactionaries on the extreme right to the moderates on the extreme left . Similarly the radical camp has its subdivisions , comprising all grades of confidence in popular government from a left wing of ultra-radicals to a wing at the opposite extreme composed of progressives or liberals . The apostles of lawlessness ? those who would accomplish their ends through a defiance of , or assault on , the law ? are to be found in the exterior wings of both camps . In this sense the reactionaries who seek to gain their purposes through the corruption or intimidation of the courts are to be regarded as much the enemies of law and order as the followers of Daniel Shays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence . On the other hand , the moderates of the conservative camp tend to fraternize with the liberals of the radical camp without , however , completely merging their identity because of deep-grained prepossessions and habits of thought . It is in this middle zone or " No Man 's Land " between the camps that there occurs the only true meeting of minds ; and in democratic countries , advances can be made , under legal forms and proper safeguards , only through the temporary union of these groups for common purposes . No attempt need be made here to idealize or glorify either  | the radical or the conservative . Adherents of each are constantly engaged in constructing traditions which would ascribe superhuman attributes to the great leaders and spokesmen of their respective schools of opinion in the past . In this myth-making process the radicals inevitably suffer a serious handicap , for the audacious reformer of a century ago is likely to appear today as a man of orthodox ideas , and latter-day conservatives , without any appreciation of the earlier clash of ideas , are likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the average American citizen who values property rights as superior to human rights easily imagines himself in the forefront of the riot that led to the Boston Massacre , for through the mellow haze of time he forgets the real character of that street brawl with its raucous mob of blatant , missile-hurling roughs and halfbreeds 1 Whatever may be said in praise of either the conservative or the radical , both find themselves in bad company , for each makes his appeal to some of the basest as well as to some of the most ennobling qualities of human nature . The thinking conservative finds his chief allies in the self-complacency of comfortable mediocrity , in the apathy and stupidity of the toil-worn multitudes , and in the aggressive self-interest of the privileged classes . All those who dread uncertainty either because of timidity or from conventional-mindedness or for fear of material loss are enlisted under the conservative standard . The honest radical draws much of his support from self-seeking demagogues and reckless experimenters , from people who want the world changed because they can not get along in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from malcontents who love disturbance for its own sake . The two schools have more in common than either would admit ; both have their doctrinaires and dogmatists ; both footnote i The reader , of a conservative turn of mind , should not fail to read A. P. Peabody 's article , " Boston Mobs before the Revolution " in the Atlantic Monthly , vol. lxii , pp. 321-333.  | tend toward a stiffening of intellectual creeds ; and who can deny that each has its share of mental defectives and the criminal-minded ? There are special reasons why radical thought and aspiration should have attained fertile growth in American soil . From our earliest history a process of social selection has been going on which has served to separate the radical from the conservative elements of the population and has given to the former unique opportunities for impressing their philosophy upon the population in general . As Professor Van Tyne has pointed out in a notable passage , the tendency of colonization was to stock the American colonies with radicals and dissenters and to leave behind in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in temperament and outlook between the colonists and the mother country . This process has repeated itself with endless variation in the later history of our country . The incoming tides of foreign immigration have deposited upon our shores many of the restless and rebellious spirits of the Old World civilizations . The periodic flow of westward settlement in this country has tended to carry the adventurous and the discontented forward into new lands of opportunity , leaving the older settlements to the control of timid and conservative people . Thus the radical spirit has constantly been fed and refreshed by contributions from abroad ; and in our own land the processes of social integration have tended to segregate the radical-minded geographically and to permit them to develop without the restraining influences of a long-established conservative class . Under such favoring circumstances radicalism might have been expected to attain its most extreme expression in America . The result , however , has been neither a reign of  | overbearing individualism nor the establishment of a cooperative commonwealth , although both forms of social organization had their advocates and were given sporadic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the newer parts of the country made the settlers quickly forget the bitter injustices and oppressions of the older civilizations and , without sapping their interest in democratic progress , gave them a personal stake in the orderly advance of the community . Indeed , the very freedom which they enjoyed to experiment as they wished with their own lives and property exercised a moderating influence on their conduct . So it has happened that , while progress along liberal lines has been rapid in the newer parts of America , it has been accomplished through the acts of legislatures and the amending of constitutions . In the older sections such advances have been made slowly and have often been attended by severe political struggles , sometimes culminating in armed conflict , as in the case of the Dorr Rebellion in Rhode Island in 1842-1843 . It is not surprising that , as a result of this continuing process of social differentiation , one of the outstanding characteristics of American national development should be the constant interest of the people in movements for democratic and humanitarian reform . Every movement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if in obedience to some immutable law of social dynamics . These phases can generally be reduced to three . At the outset there occurs a period of violent propaganda conducted by a small group of agitators . These pioneers resort to picturesque and sensational methods of propaganda in order to awaken the apathetic public to the presence of evil conditions and the need for change . They constitute a flying wedge of protest and moral indignation . The late exPresident Roosevelt referred to this vanguard when he declared in his autobiography : " Every reform movement has  | a lunatic fringe . " It is indeed a " lunatic fringe , " in the sense that these trumpeters of reform act irrationally according to the standards of the majority of the people , and must expect to suffer their ridicule or ostracism or persecution . In this advanced group may ordinarily be found the " soapboxer , " the " muckraker , " the idealist , the doctrinaire , the fanatic , the would-be revolutionist and , at times even in American history , the martyr . These agitators , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing public opinion , a passion for destructive criticism , and an emotional conviction that in their proposal is to be found a panacea for human ills . Some movements never advance beyond this first ultraradical stage , for they fail to gain converts outside of the group immediately engaged in furthering the cause . The second stage arrives when the pioneer reformers succeed in arousing interest and approval among the soberer elements of the population . The ideas long regarded as " queer " or " dangerous " are now on the point of gaining the sanction of respectability ; and the assurance of a growing popular favor enlists the support of some of the experienced leaders of the people ? the " practical statesmen . " These men possess the constructive ability , the organizing genius and the knowledge of political strategy which are necessary in order to carry into execution the ideas of the agitators . Less agile of imagination and frequently less pure of purpose , they know better the temper and limitations of the average man ; and under their direction the new policies and doctrines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the land . Thus the actual achievers of the reform are the liberals or progressives , aided perhaps by those moderates of the conservative camp who favor the proposed change as the best preventive of more basic changes . If , as sometimes happens , some of the abler leaders of the first period survive into the second  | and are placed in positions of power by a surge of popular feeling , they usually become sobered and moderated by responsibility and experience , and their conduct is scarcely distinguishable from that of the practical statesmen . The third and final stage of the reform is reached when the new doctrines , having lost their air of strangeness and demonstrated either their utility or harmlessness , become imbedded in the conscience and philosophy of the people at large . The public becomes adjusted to practices and policies that were altogether unacceptable a few years earlier ; indeed most of the people have already forgotten that these reforms were not always a part of the commonly accepted stock of ideas . The cycle of reform has about completed itself ; for public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that toughly resists any further efforts for change . Advocates for new advances must employ the militant and fantastic methods which mark the " lunatic fringe " of a new crusade for reform . Examples of reform movements abound in American history . These have been multifarious in their objects and reflect the diversified interests and social outlook of the ages in which they flourished . Some of the most significant of these enterprises have been concerned with improving the lot of the average man or the condition of society 's wards ? the dependent and the criminal . From many points of view such movements would appear to merit more careful study by the youth in our schools than most reforms of a purely political type ; but , the anti-slavery movement excepted , reformative movements of a humanitarian character receive little or no attention in the orthodox histories . Yet what thoughtful American can deny the superb courage and inestimable service of the men and women ( unknown to most of us ) whose efforts made possible religious liberty , free  | public education , scientific care of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humane criminal code , the abolition of child labor , reformative treatment of criminals , statutory reduction of the workday , governmental protection of the public health , and the abolition of the saloon ? The reforming activities of political parties and party factions are better known . Jefferson advanced the proposition that a people should never pass legislation binding for a period longer than the lifetime of their own generation , for , as conditions change , men change , and every fresh generation should have a free opportunity to fashion its own laws and constitutions according to its special circumstances . Using certain tables compiled by M. de Buffon , he went so far as to fix the average duration of a generation at nineteen years . Looking back over the annals of the United States , we can see that the course of our national development has , in a large degree , mirrored the changing needs and interests of the procession of generations . From one point of view , American history may be regarded as a succession of eager new generations ruthlessly elbowing aside older and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression that Jefferson would have provided , each fresh accession of leadership has wrought a transformation of party creeds , and represented new policies , practices and ethical conceptions , better adapted to the changed economic and social conditions of the time . It is scarcely necessary to set forth the history of each of these generations in detail , for the results of their labors are recorded in the achievements of the nation . Each fresh generation experienced the usual difficulties of a group advocating unaccustomed ideas ; and the following sketch should yield , among other things , many illustrations of the familiar cycle by which novel ideas become acceptable maxims of policy and then are consecrated as the truisms of statesmen . Without going back into the period of our colonial begin-  | pings , it is plain to see that the Declaration of Independence signalized the accession of the first generation to power in our national history . No spirit of decrepit age or feeble counsel stalked through the scintillant passages of that immortal document . Strong medicine though it was for the American subjects of George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a long period of violent propaganda conducted by such skilled masters of the art as James Otis , Patrick Henry , Samuel Adams , Alexander McDougall , Charles Thomson , Christopher Gadsden and Tom Paine . The methods of these patriot-agitators were thoroughly demagogic and sensational , characterized by unlawful assemblages and mob violence as well as by legislative memorials and pamphleteering of unusual merit ; and gradually they succeeded in arousing the colonial population to a realization of the injustices which they decried . They sought radical reform , for it was their object to destroy the autocratic power of the British king and to establish in America an untried form of government based upon the principle of popular rule . Due to the unusual conditions existing in a country torn by revolutionary conflict , the influence of the original agitators continued beyond the time when their chief usefulness had expired . Independence proclaimed , the task fell to them of establishing a federal government for the thirteen new-fledged states , a task demanding constructive genius of a high order . Their effort at a solution , offered in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Critical Period " of American history and revealed the poverty of their organizing ability . Under the circumstances they were compelled to surrender leadership not to a new generation but to a different element of their own generation ? to men who thought less in terms of theories and emotions , and more in terms of realities , men who did not despise bargain  | and compromise if they might thereby gain the end they had in view . The accession of these men inaugurated a period of conservative reaction . Hamilton , John Adams , Washington , John Jay and their Federalist associates accepted the liberal philosophy of their predecessors with mental reservations ; but they brought about the adoption of the Constitution and created under it a national government which not only worked successfully at the time but which stands today as one of the oldest continuous constitutional governments in the world . When the Federalists were yet at the height of their power , the sappers and miners of a new age were passionately devoting their energies to the subversion of the existing regime . Led by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William Duane , Thomas Callender and Philip Freneau , the object of these crusaders was radical reform . They wished to replace what they considered to be a centralized government of pseudo-monarchical tendencies with a truly republican government based upon the principle of decentralization of authority . The presidential election of i800 brought the new leaders into control , and Jefferson 's inauguration may be regarded as the beginning of the second generation of American statesmanship . The new rulers consisted in part of the abler figures among the group of agitators ; and the leaders of the supplanted generation formed the dwindling nucleus of an intransigeant opposition . Jefferson and his successors in the presidency , Madison and Monroe , were sobered by the responsibility of holding office and found themselves forced to modify in practice many views that had seemed unassailable in speculation . Notwithstanding a flabbiness of administration characteristic of a liberal government in power , the Jeffersonian Republicans succeeded in proving the practicability of liberal principles as the guide of public policy .  | While the Jeffersonian Republicans were still holding the seats of authority , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the skillful direction of a younger generation of leaders aspiring for power . The pacifistic foreign policy of the elder statesmen in face of the aggressions of England and France furnished the issue upon which the new group succeeded in attaining national prominence . Henry Clay , John C. Calhoun , Richard M. Johnson , Felix Grundy , Langdon Cheves , Peter B. Porter and other " War Hawks " entered Congress in 1811 and plunged the nation into an unprofitable war contrary to the best judgment of many of the seasoned statesmen of the time . By the close of the war , the new generation had formulated their plan of legislative reform and were definitely in command of the situation , although their measures were looked on askance by Madison and Monroe and bitterly opposed by Daniel Webster , a young man of the new age still lingering under the influence of the discredited Federalist leadership . Their program of legislation , presented to Congress in 1816-1817 , was essentially conservative in its tendency , containing as its main features a protective tariff , a new and greater United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense , and adequate military preparedness . Before they yielded to the onrush of the next generation most of these reforms had been passed into federal statutes , ? ' indeed , their chief policies gained such general acceptance that party lines disappeared entirely about 182o . Shortly thereafter began the inevitable agitation which presaged the accession of a new generation to the control of public policy . The forerunners of the new leadership raised their voices in protest against the political philosophy that controlled the times ? the right of the well-born to rule ? rather than against any specific measures which the dominant group had enacted . The first attempt at revolt resulted in  | the indecisive election of 1824 ; but thereafter a veritable hue and cry was raised against the Adams-Clay administration and all their works and doctrines , and the forces of discontent became well organized under the direction of such men as William B. Lewis , Thomas H. Benton , Amos Kendall , Duff Green and Martin Van Buren . The inauguration of Andrew Jackson in 1829 marked the entrance of the new political generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government . The practical statesmen of the new order were Jackson himself , Thomas H. Benton and Martin Van Buren , each of whom , in his own way , embodied the liberal ideals of the new time . Their principles called for increased control of the common people in all departments of government and politics ; or , in other words , for the abolition of special privilege in appointments to office , in the federal banking system ( the United States Bank ) , in internal improvements , and in the disposition of western lands . Before they were retired from power , the Jacksonian Democrats succeeded in translating their doctrines into governmental practice though challenged at every turn by the brilliant and versatile opposition of the leaders whom they had supplanted . Many of the details of their program were modified by later generations , but the basic principles of government which they established are to this day accepted as the foundations of the American democratic structure . While the generation of Jackson was still strongly entrenched in power , the portents that foretold the oncoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political heavens . The heralds of the coming era were deeply convinced that the pivotal issue in national affairs was one which the elder leaders had carefully ignored and evaded ? the slavery question . To a consideration of this issue the new generation brought all the energy and arrogant assurance with which fresh generations have always ap-  | proached weighty problems of public policy . Unfortunately for the orderly evolution of national institutions , the new leadership brought conflicting viewpoints to bear upon the great problem of the time , one portion of the new statesmen hailing from the South and the other portion from the free states of the North . The great conflict of the new era was not , as so often before , a contest between a superannuated statesmanship and the buoyant , resistless vanguard of a new leadership , but a struggle between men of the same generation , equally sure of themselves , equally determined to attain dominance and establish their policies in governmental practice . With the accession of John Tyler to the presidency in 1841 the new generation assumed direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a position which they succeeded in retaining for nearly twenty years . From the outset they had to contend with the ceaseless and growing agitation of the abolitionists , led by such men as Garrison , Giddings , Wendell Phillips , Gerrit Smith and John Greenleaf Whittier ; and all their guile and power availed them nothing against zealots who were inspired only to greater effort by " gag resolutions " and mob attacks . Nevertheless the mass of the people were slow to accept the teachings of the abolitionists ; and in the meantime the conservative ideas of the pro-slavery group were in large part carried into force . Under the skillful guidance of men like James K. Polk , Jefferson Davis , Stephen A. Douglas and Alexander H. Stephens , half of the Republic of Mexico was annexed , the federal territories were opened to slavery , and a stricter fugitive slave law was enacted . But gradually the anti-slavery agitation began to bear fruit . Leadership in the movement , originally held by ultraradical abolitionists like Garrison and Phillips , passed to  | anti-slavery liberals like Chase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded by appeals to reason and organized political activity culminating in the Republican party . Division within the ranks of the Democratic leaders early in 1860 gave the anti-slavery forces their opportunity ; and in the presidential election of that year they elected their candidate Abraham Lincoln to the presidency on a platform pledging the party to the non-extension of slavery . The southerners believed that behind this moderate program lay the uncompromising purposes of men like Garrison and John Brown ; and they chose to shift any subsequent controversy from legislative halls to the battlefield . The processes of orderly social growth are always unsettled by military conflict ; and in the case of the Civil War the high passions aroused by the struggle made it possible for the anti-slavery radicals to gain ascendency in Congress although under other circumstances their period of influence would have expired when the anti-slavery cause was taken up by the practical statesmen . Such men as Thaddeus Stevens , Charles Sumner and Ben Wade gloried in the name Radical as distinguished from Conservative or Administration Republican ; and under their propulsion , abolition measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president was given no peace until he had issued the Emancipation Proclamation . When victory crowned the Union arms , the task fell to the Radicals , unsuited to their genius , of reconstructing the South ; and this they undertook with the same energy and singleness of purpose with which they had fought the war . Applying their doctrinaire prewonceptions to the solution of the negro problem , they raised the slaves to the level of white citizens and conferred upon the black men the right to vote . But by these last measures the generation had over-reached itself in its radicalism ; reforms enacted under such auspices and at such a juncture  | were not likely to be enduring in effect . Although the changes were solemnly embodied in the federal Constitution in the fourteenth and fifteenth amendments , they were so far in advance of public opinion that to this day they remain a dead letter so far as the great majority of the negroes are concerned . The reconstruction statesmen began rapidly to pass away early in the seventies as if burnt out by the very intensity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by new men whose minds dwelt on matters far removed from the idealistic and humanitarian interests of the earlier period . The new leaders were concerned primarily with the economic and industrial exploitation of the nation 's resources and with governmental policies that would assist material development at every turn . Under their direction the energies of the government were , in the sixth generation of American politics , turned to conservative purposes ? to land-grants for railroads , the protective tariff system , " sound money " finance and a policy of non-interference in the methods and management of industry . Men like Roscoe Conkling , Blaine , Garfield , Levi P. Morton , Samuel J. Randall and " Czar " Reed came into charge of public affairs . Even such spokesmen as Schurz , Curtis and Cleveland , whose voices were raised in protest against some of the more obnoxious practices of the dominant leadership , did not differ fundamentally from them in their conception of the functions of government . While this generation was in power , the United States made the transition to the modern era and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present time . The note of dissent was early sounded against the domination of the government by the great corporate interests ; but the protestants were for many years in a hopeless minority . They spent their energies , with little effect , in launching radical minor parties and in organizing radical agrarian  | and workingman associations . In the decade of the nineties the movement of protest against the existing order reached threatening proportions in the Populist movement and the " free silver " campaign of 1896 . In the opening years of the new century the work of propaganda was taken up with missionary zeal by the " muckrakers , " a group of publicists and writers whose object it was to inflame public opinion against corruption and abuses in government and " big business . " On the crest of the wave of popular resentment thus raised up , the leaders of the new generation came into power , the seventh political generation since the natal days of the republic . Unlike the elder leaders , the new statesmen were animated with liberal ideals ; without regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strove for the advent of a " new democracy . " Under the inspiration of such men as Bryan , Roosevelt , Wilson , La Follette , Hughes and Hiram Johnson , they brought about the enactment of laws for the restraint of trusts , railroads , landgrabbing corporations and the financial interests ; the working conditions of employees were greatly improved by the enactment of a wide variety of welfare legislation ; and an effort was made to rejuvenate the power of the people in governmental affairs through direct nominations and direct legislation , the granting of woman suffrage and the popular election of senators . The new measures were carried through in face of the embittered opposition of the survivors of the departed epoch . When the United States entered the World War in 1917 , the signs of the times indicated that the generation had about run its course . Its program of domestic reform had been enacted ; Roosevelt passed away in 1919 , Wilson , La Follette and other vigorous reformers of an earlier day were beginning to show signs of physical decline ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of departure for a new era . An unceasing criticism directed against the foundations of the existing order had been conducted by the Socialists and other radical groups and was apparently preparing the way for the transfer of power to fresh hands . New and lively issues were already looming up which had received little serious consideration by those in power , questions concerned with the application of democratic principles to industrial organization and with the relations of the United States to the world order . A leadership representative of the new day seemed slow in making its appearance , and the presidential campaign of 1920 showed the country in a condition of drift awaiting the coming of new pilots . Future events alone can supply the confirmatory evidence to show whether , as at present seems likely , we are today standing on the threshold of the eighth generation of American statesmanship . For confirmed radicals and orthodox conservatives this survey of the successive generations of American history will serve merely to reinforce their preconceptions as to the importance of their respective theories of progress to national development . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for maintaining that the American people would have fared better if statesmen of the Jeffersonian school had always been at the helm . The other will discover justification for the conviction that the nation made its chief advances under the guidance of statesmen of the Hamiltonian school . The former group will be likely to stress the dynamic quality of democratic and humanitarian ideals as the motive force of national progress . The latter will point to administrative efficiency and the stimulation of economic enterprise as supplying the chief impulse to national achievement .  | But to the candid student of social tendencies it is not likely that either conclusion will prove wholly acceptable . Beyond question the foregoing review yields two generalizations which would seem to be pregnant with significance . In the first place , epochs of radicalism and conservatism have followed each other in alternating order ; and , secondly , with the changing of epochs , leadership in public affairs has passed from the liberals of the one division to the moderates of the other and vice versa , except in times of war and afterwar readjustment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have ordinarily been in the saddle . Whatever fallacies or losses may be apparent to the logician in such a zigzag scheme of progress , it nevertheless remains that in America social development has never followed a straight line , but , within limits , has been the result of the unconscious employment by the people of the trial-and-error method . Experimentation and opportunism , rather than preconceived theories , have been the animating spirit of American progress . To the working out of this vital social process , both the radical and the conservative have made important and essential contributions . Their mutual criticism and vigilant antagonism have served to keep America abreast the most enlightened nations of the world without the periodic recourse to revolutionary violence characteristic of continental European countries . The functioning of these crosscurrents and countercurrents of opinion has been made possible by the solemn guarantees , in the state and federal constitutions , of free speech and a free press . If the experience of the past is a dependable guide to the future , the best assurance of the peaceful and orderly advance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a jealous regard for the right of free exchanges and comparisons of opinion . In conclusion , this survey of the procession of generations suggests a criterion for analyzing the elusive quality of  | greatness , which by general consent attaches to certain characters in American history . Restricting our inquiry to the incumbents of the presidency , a consensus of opinion among historians and publicists ascribes preeminence to Washington , Jefferson , Jackson and Lincoln , and , in a preliminary way , to Roosevelt and Wilson . But what were the tests and standards that were applied in making this selection ? It is not to be denied that this group of foremost presidents differed from each other in many conventional respects ? in education , temperament , training , personality , party affiliation , and attachment to specific public policies . Further . more , Washington as president was swayed by conservative ideals whereas the other presidents were exponents of the doctrines of liberalism as understood by the men of their own generation . Evidently their title to fame is not derived from any of the aptitudes or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ query has perhaps been reached by this process of elimination . These statesmen enjoyed one attribute , and one only , in common : they were men of elastic mind , sensitive to the quickening impulses of a new time , swift to grasp a fresh vision of public duty and to present their solution in a form capable of rallying public opinion to its support . Their ability to marshal the energies of the nation to meet the new situation assured them of their historic position among the great leaders of the nation . Thus the essence of greatness , as viewed in the perspective of history , does not consist in the ability to hold back or even to mark time but in the capacity for adaptability to change , in the quality of leading the nation to the acceptance of new responsibilities and larger opportunities . BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE No comprehensive study of the historical significance of radical . ism and conservatism in the United States has ever been made There is real need for such a study , for , in the mind of the average  | man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of misinformation and misrepresentation growing out of the political animosities of the last twenty years . It is possible to find occasional passages , in the writings of publicists and historians , which discuss in an instructive way the meaning of radicalism and conservatism and of the various shades of opinion existing within each school , as well as the relation of these types of opinion to social and institutional development . Among the more luminous of such discussions , selected somewhat at random , may be cited : John Dewey 's " How Reaction Helps " in the New Republic , vol. xxiv , pp. 21-22 ; A. V. Dicey 's " An English View of American Conservatism " in Gustav Pollak 's Fifty Years of American Idealism . The New York Nation , 1865-1915 ( Boston , 1915 ) , pp. 309-324 ; Guy Emerson 's essay " What Is a Liberal ? " in his The New Frontier ( New York , 1920 ) ; Ralph Waldo Emerson 's " The Conservative " in his Complete Works ( 12 V. ; New York , n. d. ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Radicalism in American Politics " in the Yale Review , vol. ix , pp. 759-770 ; editorial entitled " In the Vein of Intimacy " in the Freeman , March 31 , 1920 ; William J. Kirby 's " The Natural History of a Reform Law " in the Catholic World , vol. 102 , pp. 145-159 ; W. E. H. Lecky 's A History of England in the Eighteenth Century ( 8 v. ; New York , 1892-1893 ) , vol. i , pp. 16-19 , vol. ii , pp. 95-97 ; Walter Lippman 's A Preface to Politics ( New York , 1913 ) , pp. 86-1o5 , and his Drift and Mastery ( New York , 1914 ) , chaps . ix , xii-xiv , xvi ; Brander Matthews ' essay on " Reform and Reformers " in The American of the Future ( New York , 1909 ) ; John Morley 's On Compromise ( London , 1896 ) , pp. 201-265 ; James Harvey Robinson 's The Mind in the Making ( New York , 1921 ) , passim ; E. A. Ross 's Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ xv ; Bertrand Russell 's " Individual Liberty and Public Control " in the Atlantic Monthly , vol. cxx , pp. 112-120 ; Mowry Saben 's " Conservatism and Reform " in the Forum , vol. 48 , pp. 35-44 ; Thorstein Veblen 's The Theory of the Leisure Class ( New York , 1915 ) , p. 190 et seq . The foregoing discussions consider the subject from widely differing angles and do not agree in many respects with the point of view presented by the present writer . The Cyclopedia of American Government ( 3 v. edited by Andrew Cunningham McLaughlin and Albert Bushnell Hart ; New York , 1913 ) , which was intended to codify contemporary specialized thought in political science and American history , does not include radicalism or conservatism among the subjects for treatment .  | THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN AMERICAN HISTORY An examination of the standard histories of the United States and of the history textbooks in use in our schools raises the pertinent question whether women have ever made any contributions to American national progress that are worthy of record . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would appear that one-half of our population have been negligible factors in our country 's history . Before accepting the truth of this assumption , the facts of our history need to be raked over from a new point of view . It should not be forgotten that all of our great historians have been men and were likely therefore to be influenced by a sex interpretation of history all the more potent because unconscious . Furthermore , while it is indisputable that the commanding positions in politics , diplomacy , and the army have always been held by men , it is also true that our ideas of what is important in our past have greatly changed in recent years . If , as the following sketch seeks to show , the women of the nation have played their full part in American development , the pall of silence which historians have allowed to rest over their services and achievements may possibly constitute the chief reason why the women have been so slow in gaining equal rights with the men in this the greatest democracy in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnaturally , felt disinclined to endow with equality a class of persons who , so far as they knew , had never proved their  | fitness for public service and leadership in the past history of the country . Any consideration of woman 's part in American history must include the protracted struggle of the sex for larger rights and opportunities , a story that in itself is one of the noblest chapters in the history of American democracy . Although a queen as well as a king gave encouragement to Christopher Columbus and it was under another queen that the first English settlements in America were projected , colonization in the New World was not an unmixed blessing for the women settlers . It was theirs to share the hardships and perils of wilderness life in equal part with the men , but to them came little of the glory and none of the legal advantages which the men derived by fleeing from the Old World . In 1920 Europe and America joined in celebrating the threehundredth anniversary of the voyage of the Mayflower . The courage and achievements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little was said about the Pilgrim Mothers , who formed thirty-two of the one hundred and twenty passengers but whose names were not permitted to appear on the civil compact which was signed by the settlers upon their arrival at Provincetown . For the great majority of colonial women , life was much as former President Eliot has described it : " Generations of them cooked , carried water , washed and made clothes , bore children in lonely peril , and tried to bring them up safely through all sorts of physical exposure without medical or surgical help , lived themselves in terror of savages , in terror of the wilderness , and under the burden of a sad and cruel creed , and sank at last into nameless graves , without any vision of the grateful days when millions of their descendants should rise up and call them blessed . "  | The rapid increase of the colonial population was due , in great part , to the large families which the women brought into the world . The generosity of nature in a sparsely populated country removed any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . Even in the upper levels of society girls often married when they were fifteen or sixteen ; and to be without a husband at twenty-five was the certain sign of an " ancient maid . " John Marshall , the later chief justice , fell in love with his wife when she was fourteen and married her at sixteen . From early marriages ordinarily came families of ten and twelve children . Anne Hutchinson was the mother of fifteen children . Sir William Phipps was one of twenty-six children by the same mother . Most of the large families were the offspring of at least two mothers , a fact that requires no further comment . Women were sometimes to be found in business in a small way . This came about ordinarily as a result of the death of the husband or other provider . Advertisements in the colonial press show a wide range of such employmentsshop-keeping , jelly-making , wax-working , embroidering , and the like . Benjamin Franklin 's sister-in-law followed a familiar custom of widows in taking over her husband 's newspaper business upon his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might move was severely restricted and jealously guarded by the men of the age , who cherished the Old World idea of women as inferior beings . Now and then a woman sought to violate this convention only to be met by the contumely or persecution of the dominant sex . In 1638 Mistress Anne Hutchinson was brought to trial for sedition and heresy in Puritan Massachusetts because she had instructed the women of the neighborhood in religious precepts according to her own understanding . She was excommunicated from the church and banished from the colony , for she had committed two unpardonable sins : she  | had criticised the teachings of the men in authority , and she had set herself up to preach , the latter being forbidden by the solemn injunction of St. Paul . When she and her household were murdered by the Indians a few years later , John Winthrop , first governor of Massachusetts , wrote piously : " God 's hand is the more apparently seen therein , to pick out this woful woman to make her and those belonging to her , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not vouchsafed him to understand that she had taken up the weapons where the Puritans had laid them down to do her part in the long battle for freedom of thought and speech , for religious toleration and for a true democracy in religion . Anne Hutchinson 's experience was significant of the special ban under which women were compelled to live by law and custom during colonial times and , indeed , for many years thereafter . The principles of the English common law followe , d the colonists to America , fixed the legal restrictions and colored the social restraints which regulated woman 's conduct . The unmarried woman was in most respects equal to a man in the eyes of the law , but custom and economic pressure forced her to marry at an early age and matrimony reduced her to a subordinate and cramped position . She was expected to embrace her husband 's religion , to confine her activities to the home , and to make her husband 's pleasure her guiding star . By the law her husband became her baron or lord and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and purposes . She lost the title to all her personal property , even though it had been acquired before her marriage , and she forfeited all personal control over her real property as long as the marriage lasted . If a wife earned money outside the home , the husband was entitled to her wages just as he was to those of a minor child . He had the right of controlling and punishing her conduct in the same degree as he did his children . The  | mother had no right to the custody of her own children , for the father was the sole guardian during his lifetime and could dispose of the children by will at his death . Conversely the husband was held responsible for many of the torts and crimes committed by his wife , and was entitled to collect damages for injuries inflicted upon his wife . Under the circumstances it is not surprising that women were not expected to be educated and that ordinarily the obstacles in the way of their education were so great that most women could neither read nor write @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sister of James Otis , and Abigail Adams , the spouse of John Adams , felt handicapped by the lack of early educational advantages . The few girls ' schools of the time were limited to terms of a few months each , and the main subjects taught were needlework , music , dancing , and the cultivation of manners and morals . Women were practically unknown as participants in government , although it appears that some of them possessed the franchise for a period of years in colonial Massachusetts . Notwithstanding these restraints and handicaps the mass of women were not discontented ; and whenever occasion arose , they performed their full share with the men in the promotion of the public weal . Their labors were then greeted with masculine applause , for it was only when they worked for objects apart from the men or contrary to their immediate interests that they were regarded as unsexed and hideous to the dispassionate gaze . In the critical years preceding the War for Independence the women threw themselves heart and soul into the struggle for liberty , stimulating their men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Stamp Act women in all the colonies banded together in societies for the making of homespun ; and in Rhode Island the maidens solemnly resolved that they would not receive the addresses of any suitors who favored the Stamp  | Act . In later crises they formed anti-tea leagues and agreed to abstain from the use of imported fineries . Newspapers owned by women in Rhode Island , Maryland , Virginia and South Carolina went the whole distance with the other patriot papers in promoting radical propaganda . When a patriot convention of men in North Carolina adopted comprehensive regulations of non-importation , non-consumption and nonexportation in 1774 , the ladies of Edenton signed an agreement declaring : " It is a duty that we owe not only to our near and dear relations and connexions but to ourselves , who are essentially interested in their welfare , to do everything as far as lies in our power to testify our sincere adherence to the same . " The spirit of such women is excellently reflected by a letter written shortly before the Declaration of Independence by a Philadelphia lady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retrenched every superfluous expense in my table and family ; tea I have not drunk since last Christmas nor bought a new I cap or gown since your defeat at Lexington ; and what I never did before have learned to knit and am now making stockings of American wool for my servants ; and this way do I throw in my mite to the public good . I know this ? that as free I can die but once ; but as a slave I shall not be worthy of life . I have the pleasure to assure you that these are the sentiments of all my sister Americans . " But the Declaration of Independence when it was adopted opened no new vistas to women as a sex . The statement that " all men are created equal " was understood in a strictly sex sense . Indeed , Abigail Adams , the stout-hearted spouse of John Adams , wrote to her husband , then in the Continental Congress : " I can not say , that I think you are very generous to the ladies ; for , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emancipating all nations , you insist upon retaining an absolute power over wives . But you must  | remember , . . . " she added with humorous asperity , " we have it in our power , not only to free ourselves , but to subdue our masters , and , without violence , throw both your natural and legal authority at our feet . " In the War for Independence that ensued the women made sacrifices and contributed services that were as essential to the success of the cause as the exploits of the soldiers in the field . They tilled the farms and garnered the crops while the men were away ; they made munitions , using their pewter ware for bullets ; they spun and wove and made uniforms and hospital supplies . Some gave their own property , others went from house to house to solicit contributions for the army . They carried supplies to the army , often at the risk of their own lives ; they visited hospitals and prisons , seeking to relieve suffering and distress . Some even served in the ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were for the first time shown in 178o by the labors of the women of Philadelphia under the direction of Esther De Berdt Reed and Sarah Franklin Bathe . Their object was to supply the destitute soldiers with clothing ; and by dint of their efforts $7,500 in specie was collected for the purchase of materials . Throughout the war the women performed their work without any thought of recognition or reward ; and when the days of peace finally returned , they quietly sank back in their places and took up the old endless routine of their existence . The epic story of the westward march of population is usually related in terms of men ; but no proper conception of the subjugation of the wilderness by the forces of civilization can be gained without an appreciation of the part that the women pioneers played . Women were not among the first adventurers into the wilds ; they were preceded by the  | trappers , prospectors and cattle rangers . These soldiers of fortune introduced an unfettered and lawless mode of existence . Wherever they went saloons and gambling houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But as the frontier grew older , farmers began to appear with their womenkind , animated with the purpose of founding permanent homes . The West of Bret Harte began to give way to the West of Hamlin Garland . The presence of women necessitated a new order of society ; civilized conduct began to take the place of frontier rowdyism and lawlessness , and peaceful and law-abiding communities developed . The material conditions of early colonial life were reproduced with each new advance of the frontier to the west . It was necessary for every man , woman and child to work to help support the family . The women not only did the hard housework , including spinning and weaving , but most of them also assisted their husbands to erect the cabins , till the fields , and beat off attacks of the savage enemy . On them also devolved the entire task of educating the children . Large families were the rule . As one writer has said , the woman pioneer " was lonesome until she had a half-dozen children about her . She did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second dozen began coming . " The frontier women were a picked lot physically ; otherwise they could not have withstood the rigors of life in an undeveloped country . While women were faring forth with their men folk to a precarious life on the frontier , many of their sisters who remained in the East found the conditions of their life fundamentally altered through no act of their own . In New England and the Middle Atlantic states women were beginning for the first time to enter factory work in the years following the War of 1812 . The growth of textile  | manufacturing had created a demand for wage labor ; and in order not to interfere with hired help on the farm , the mill owners looked to the women as an important source of labor supply . With our modern ideas of such things it is a surprising fact that many years before both Washington and Hamilton had anticipated such a culmination , and had expressed their full approval of the employment of women and children in factories . The working day of both women and children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sunset ; and wages were miserably low . Generally speaking , women and girls formed from two-thirds to three-fourths of the total number of factory workers in the first half of the nineteenth century , and in some places as much as ninetenths . Without their help it is doubtful whether the textile industry could have flourished , for it was not until after 185o that cheap labor became plentiful in the form of European immigrants . When women stepped from the spinning wheel at home to the spinning jenny in the mill , they did not enter a new field of work , although they were working under radically changed conditions . The break once made , new occupations and trades opened to them because of the cheapness of their hire . By 184o women were employed in more than one hundred different occupations , although the great majority of the women outside of the factories worked as seamstresses and tailoresses , and teaching was the only field open to educated women . The age-long idea of the family , according to which the interests of the mother and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of being undermined . Notwithstanding the miserable and discriminatory conditions under which women were obliged to work , the day of woman 's economic independence of man was beginning to dawn . In most other respects the position of women in the first  | half of the nineteenth century remained as of yore . Catherine E. Beecher , sister of Henry Ward Beecher , writing about 184o , voiced the dominant opinion of the age when she wrote : " Heaven has appointed to one sex the superior , and to the other the subordinate , station . . . . It is therefore as much for the dignity as it is for the interest of females , in all respects to conform to the duties of this relation . And it is as much a duty as it is for the child to fulfill similar relations to parents , or subjects to rulers . " Or as Miss Barber put it in the Madison ( Georgia ) Visitor : " It is written in the volume of inspiration as plainly as if traced in sunbeams , that man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to woman .... " Thus the legal status of women yielded but slowly to change , and the feminine intellect was hardly more esteemed than in colonial times . Such educational facilities as were afforded in the early decades of the century were meager , and the purpose of " female education " was to prepare the pupils to attract men and gain husbands . As an exception to the rule Emma Willard founded a seminary with government aid in New York in 1819 and sought to direct the education of women along more self-respecting lines . The usual experience was that of Susan B. Anthony , whose teachers would not instruct her in long division nor understand why a girl should insist upon wanting to learn it . Periodicals for women began to make their appearance , most of them edited by men . Their type is well illustrated by the most popular of them all , Godey 's Lady 's Book , filled with fashion pictures and stories of saccharine morality . Notwithstanding the condition in which the mass of women found themselves , or rather because of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had its rise in this period . The courageous souls who inaugurated the movement had not merely to brave the fierce contempt of the men as well as most of their own sex but they stood in  | constant peril of physical violence at the hands of infuriated mobs . The battle of Anne Hutchison for the right to speak her mind in public had to be fought all over again . As Miss Ida Tarbell has said , " they had to fight for the right of fighting wrongs " ; and St. Paul 's dictum was again and again thundered at them from pulpit and press : " But I suffer not a woman to teach , nor to usurp authority over the man , but to be in silence " ( I Timothy , ii , 12 ) . It was the penchant of women for humanitarian reform , their interest in the cause of oppressed humanity , that launched them upon their long and stormy voyage for sex equality . The temperance question ? which first aroused the reforming zeal of Susan B. Anthony ? the transcendentalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anti-slavery agitation , derived indispensable support from an earnest , self-sacrificing minority of women in all parts of the country . The first impulse to this , new phase of feminine activity was given by the visit of the Scotchwoman Frances Wright to this country in 182o . A girl of twenty-two , she had the distinction of being the first woman lecturer on lay subjects in this country . Her advanced ideas on slavery , theology and woman 's rights gave offense to both press and ministry , but did not prevent her from returning to America several years later and giving new momentum to the cause of human betterment . In 1828 came the Grimke sisters from South Carolina , who after having emancipated their slaves betook themselves north to devote the remainder of their lives and wealth to the cause of abolition . About the same time Lucretia Mott , a Quaker of Philadelphia , began her active work in the promotion of anti-slavery , woman 's rights and the other reforms of the time . When the American Anti-Slavery Society was founded in Philadelphia in 1833 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part in the meeting although they  | were not formally received as members . Immediately thereafter the women of the city formed the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society ; and so successful did the organization prove to be that a few years later the first national convention of American anti-slavery women was held in New York City . By this time women in many parts of the North were taking active part in the anti-slavery struggle through circulating petitions , holding prayer meetings and conventions , and raising large sums of money by fairs . An effort was made to stem the tide by a pastoral letter issued by the Massachusetts Association of Congregational Ministers in 1837 , which declared that " perplexed and agitating subjects " should not be forced upon any church and that the new practices threatened " the female character with widespread and permanent injury . . . . If the vine . . . thinks to assume the independent and overshadowing nature of the elm , it will not only cease to bear fruit , but fall in shame and dishonor into the dust . " When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia in 1838 , the hall in which they met was surrounded all day by an enraged mob , and when the convention adjourned for the evening the building was plundered and burnt . The following year the women asked equality with the men in the American Anti-Slavery Society ; but this request caused such a violent controversy among the masculine friends of negro rights that the society split ; one wing led by Garrison merging with the women and the other organizing a new society . In 184o occurred an event which called dramatic attention to the unequal position of women and led directly to the organization of a militant woman 's rights movement . A World 's Anti-Slavery Convention was held in London , to which delegates had been invited from all anti-slavery societies . When several American women , duly accredited as delegates , sought admission , they were excluded by a large  | vote on account of their sex . This affront caused two of the delegates , Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton , to resolve that on their return to America they would leave no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Several years passed before they were ready to launch their movement . Finally in 1848 they joined with Martha C. Wright and Mary Ann McClintock in issuing a call for a woman 's rights convention , the first of its kind in the history of the world . The meeting was held on July 19 , 1848 , at Seneca Falls , New York , and was counted a complete success by all who attended . Its concrete outcome was an impressive declaration of sentiments patterned closely upon the Declaration of Independence . It read in part as follows : When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for one portion of the family of man to assume among the people of the earth a position different from that which they have hitherto occupied , ... a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes that impel them to such a course . We hold these truths to be self-evident : that all men and women are created equal ; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of happiness . . . . Whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends , it is the right of those who suffer from it to refuse allegiance to it . .. . The history of mankind is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations on the part of man toward woman , having in direct object the establishment of an absolute tyranny over her . To prove this , let facts be submitted to a candid world . He has never permitted her to exercise her inalienable right to the elective franchise . He has compelled her to submit to laws , in the formation of which she had no voice . . . . He has made her , if married , in the eye of the law , civilly dead .  | In the covenant of marriage , she is compelled to promise obedience to her husband , he becoming to all intents and purposes her master ? the law giving him power to deprive her of her liberty , and to administer chastisement ... . He has monopolized nearly all the profitable employments .... He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all colleges being closed against her ... . He has created a false public sentiment by giving to the world a different code of morals for men and women ... . He has usurped the prerogative of Jehovah himself , claiming it as his right to assign her a sphere of action , when that belongs to her conscience and to her God . He has endeavored , in every way that he could , to destroy her confidence in her own powers , to lessen her self-respect , and to make her willing to lead a dependent and abject life . Now , in view of this entire disfranchisement of one-half the people of this country , their social and religious degradation , . . . we insist that they have immediate admission to all the rights and privileges which belong to them as citizens of the United States ... . The success of this first experimental meeting caused woman 's rights conventions to be of almost yearly occurrence until the outbreak of the Civil War , when the leaders merged all lesser interests in the national cause . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed in the following editorial from the Syracuse Daily Star : " The poor creatures who take part in the silly rant of brawling women ' and Aunt Nancy men , are most of them ismizers ' of the rankest stamp , Abolitionists of the most frantic and contemptible kind , and Christian ( ? ) sympathizers with such heretics as Wm . Lloyd Garrison , Parker Pillsbury , C. C. Burleigh , and S. S. Foster . These men are all Woman 's Righters , and preachers of such damnable doctrines and accursed heresies , as would make demons of the pit shudder to hear . " The ridicule and vituperation of the press and pulpit seemed merely to spur the leaders to greater endeavors  | although it undoubtedly prevented thousands of less confident members of the sex from declaring their allegiance to the movement . Many prominent men lent their support . The great anti-slavery agitators , Garrison and Wendell Phillips , spoke at their meetings ; Ralph Waldo Emerson , John Greenleaf Whittier and Horace Greeley wrote and lectured in their behalf . Far in the West Abraham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who bore its burdens , " by no means excluding the women . " The three decades of feminine self-assertion closing in 1850 had not been without effect in bettering the condition of women as a sex . However reluctantly the new gospel was received , gradual but certain improvements in the legal and social position of women began to appear in various parts of the country . In 1839 Mississippi granted to married women the control of their own property ; and in the next decade similar laws were passed in Texas , Indiana , Pennsylvania , New York , California and Wisconsin . In 1836 the first woman 's seminary of college rank , Mt . Holyoke , was opened at South Hadley by Mary Lyon . The project of coeducation was an even more daring venture , but in 1833 Oberlin College was founded and from the outset admitted men and women on equal terms . Twenty years later the second co-educational college , Antioch , was opened by Horace Mann at Yellowsprings , near Xenia , Ohio . When the State University of Iowa opened its doors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state universities by admitting women to its first classes ; but three years later when several young women applied for admission to the University of Michigan , their request was refused . III In the exciting decade preceding the Civil War the influence of women continued to be felt in all forward-looking  | movements . It was during these years that Dorothea Dix performed her great work in securing the reorganization and proper construction of asylums for the insane . Her services were epoch-making in the history of public philanthropy , especially in the West and the South , but she met with one tragic disappointment when in 1854 President Pierce vetoed a bill she had finally induced Congress to pass , granting ten million acres of public land for the purpose of aiding the states to care for the insane . In New York state the women formed secret societies called the Daughters of Temperance , and some zealous individuals took the law into their own hands , visiting saloons , breaking windows and emptying whiskey barrels into the street . Women were now emboldened to make their initial appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diploma in medicine after completing the regular college course was Elizabeth Blackwell , who attained that distinction in Geneva , New York , in 1848 . Six years later she founded the New York Infirmary , the first adequate woman 's medical institution . The ministry was not entirely a new calling for women , for certain sects such as the Quakers and the Shakers had always permitted women preachers ; but the first regularly ordained woman in the United States was Mrs. Antoinette Brown Blackwell of the Congregational Church , who began her life work in 1852 . Women were as yet unknown in the legal profession ; but in the literary field they were more at home . Catherine Sedgwick , the novelist , Alice and Phoebe Cary , the poets , and Margaret Fuller , brilliant journalist and founder of the Dial magazine , were all familiar household names in the middle of the century . The slavery question inevitably overshadowed all other interests of the time , and to this cause public-spirited women gave their chief attention . In 1852 Harriet Beecher Stowe published her great propagandist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next few years stirred the North to its depths . Women speakers in the North took an active part in en-kindling public indignation over the Kansas-Nebraska Act in 1854 ; and when the Republican party was born out of the intense feeling of the time , women stimulated the men to active participation in the new party . Then occurred the Civil War and the energies of the women were for four terrible years turned to other purposes . The story of the Civil War without an account of the part borne by the women in the struggle is a story but partly told and but poorly comprehended . Women became a part of the war machine quite as fully as the men , contributing services almost as indispensable to national success as the troops in the field . Organized relief work , attempted by the women of Philadelphia on a small scale during the Revolutionary War , was now developed to a high degree of perfection , a harbinger of what the women of America were to accomplish through even abler organization in the World War . A few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York City met at Cooper Union and under the inspiration of Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell formed the Woman 's Central Relief Association of New York . At the solicitation of this body the United States government was shortly thereafter induced to authorize the establishment of the so-called United States Sanitary Commission , charged with the duty of sustaining the morale and protecting the health of men in the camps , and of aiding in the care of the sick and wounded . The work of this organization , the counterpart of our modern American Red Cross ( established in 1882 ) , was made possible largely through the exertions of the women . In nearly every community of the North , Soldiers ' Aid Societies were formed , in which the women met together , scraped lint and rolled bandages , made clothing for the  | soldiers , and collected supplies and food for transmission to the nearest depot of the Sanitary Commission . The Chicago branch of the Sanitary Commission had one thousand aid societies constantly sending in money and supplies ; five hundred societies united in supporting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities of such organizations is presented by the final report of the Wisconsin Soldiers ' Aid Society : Six thousand packages were dispatched ; gifts amounting to $200,000 collected . Bureaus were organized for getting state pay for the families of soldiers , for securing pensions and arrears , for obtaining employment for the wives and mothers of volunteers , for securing work for men partially disabled in the war , and for supplying the wants of those who had been permanently crippled in the service . Perhaps no feature of the war was more remarkable than the series of Sanitary Fairs held in the large cities of the North in the final years of the war . Probably more than seven million dollars had been laboriously raised by the Sanitary Commission by a variety of means prior to Gettysburg . Shortly thereafter the first Sanitary Fair was launched in Chicago under the directing genius of Mrs. Jane Hoge and Mrs. Mary A. Livermore with the idea of raising $25,000 . To the amazement of many who regarded the project as quixotic , more than $8o,000 was realized . Other cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not less than ten million dollars was contributed to the support of the Sanitary Commission by means of the fairs . To supplement the labors of the Sanitary Commission , the Christian Commission was established in November , 1861 , primarily as an enterprise for carrying on evangelical work among the soldiers . This organization was also largely sustained by the women , its most unique service being the establishment of a system of diet kitchens for injured soldiers  | which extended to every corps of the army . In the third year of the war a special Ladies ' Christian Commission was organized , which by 1865 possessed two hundred and sixtyfive branches in all parts of the North , mostly connected with evangelical churches . During the latter part of the war Soldiers ' Homes and Soldiers ' Rests were established by the women at all important railroad junctions , where the wants of traveling and wounded soldiers might be cared for . Thousands of women , distinguished by such heroines as Clara Barton , went to the front as nurses , enduring the hardships and horrors of camp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masculine garb and served in the army . Of a different character though not less important were the services of the women on the western prairies , who when the men obeyed the nation 's call took up the work of farming and helped to maintain agricultural production at a high degree of efficiency . Speaking of the work of the women during the war , Lincoln said : " I have never studied the art of paying compliments to women ; but I must say , that if all that has been said by orators and poets since the creation of the world were applied to the women of America , it would not do them justice for their conduct during this war . " In the South the burdens borne by the women were even heavier . A larger proportion of the white men were in the army and the responsibility of the women was correspondingly greater . The women brought into use old spinningwheels and looms in order to make clothing for the soldiers ; they denied themselves meat and drink that it might be sent to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants . The suggestion publicly made by one of them late in the war that all southern women cut off their hair and sell it to Europe , where it was believed it might bring $4o,000,000 , failed of execution only because it was  | impossible to run the federal blockade . Living in an invaded country , they experienced the horrors of war all about them ? homes destroyed , fields devastated , hostile soldiers on every hand . Yet they faltered not ; and when their cause was crushed on the battlefield , they welcomed their soldiers home and , under conditions of bitter deprivation and deep humiliation , helped their husbands and sons to build a new South . The interest of leading women of the North in the cause of emancipation suffered no cessation in the midst of their war duties . Although the government made official announcement at the outset that the war was being waged for preservation of the Union , these women insisted that it should be turned into a war for freedom . Several months after Lincoln 's election Susan B. Anthony and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolitionists sought to hold a series of conventions in the leading cities of the North to arouse public opinion to the pitch of demanding immediate emancipation ; but the meetings were broken up at every point . The fact was that the majority of northerners were not at this time enamoured of the idea of prosecuting a " nigger war " ; and the Lincoln administration was deeply convinced of the necessity of avoiding the issue in order to retain the allegiance of the four border slave states that had chosen to remain in the Union . The Emancipation Proclamation when it appeared was greeted by these women with only partial approval , inasmuch as it declared the freedom merely of such slaves as were yet to be found in unconquered southern territory . A nationwide call was sent out for a convention of women to meet in New York for the purpose of taking appropriate action . Delegates from many states attended . The Woman 's National Loyal League was formed ; and resolutions were adopted urging the president to emancipate all the slaves in the nation and declaring that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Republic until  | but agreeing fundamentally in purpose , remained apart for more than twenty years and involved a useless division of forces . Thus Xhe period of reconstruction , which had seemed so full of hope for the woman 's cause , closed with no substantial advances for the sex . The most promising opportunity which had yet come to them passed quickly into history and was soon forgotten by the nation in the thronging of other interests . The half-century from 187o to 1920 was destined to witness the triumph of the principle of sex equality . New elements , materialistic and spiritual , entered into the situation which made inevitable at the end of the period what was scarcely thinkable at its beginning . Chief among these new factors was the great physical revolution in the woman 's world which drove an unprecedented number of women into industry and trade ; but , as we shall see , there were also other influences at work which were making for their intellectual and social advance and for their enlarged influence in government and society . The Civil War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal in American history . The phenomenal demand for wage labor could be satisfied only by drawing into the factories great armies of women and children where they worked under precisely the same conditions as did the men . Already by 1870 one-seventh of the women over sixteen years of age were engaged in gainful pursuits ; and three decades later the proportion had increased to more than one-fifth . For hundreds of thousands of women , married and single , it thus happened that outside interests relegated the home to a secondary place , not because the women were discontented and insurgent but because modern conditions of industry had forced them out of their tradi-  | tional sphere . Wage-earning women were compelled in selfprotection to take an interest in far-reaching questions of governmental and industrial policy affecting their welfare . In the seventies and eighties they began to enter the trade union movement ; others became zealous workers in the growing Socialist movement . The existence of this great class of wage-earning women gave fresh point to all the arguments for sex equality ; and out of their ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the widening of the industrial sphere new opportunities of higher education began to open up to women , and educated women began to find new outlets for their energies and creative power . In 1865 the first women 's college possessing ample funds was founded at Poughkeepsie , New York , by Matthew Vassar , whose ideal it was to maintain educational standards as exacting as those prevailing in the best men 's colleges . The establishment of Vassar College cast a glamour of respectability about all subsequent enterprises for the higher instruction of women . The western state universities began to fall in with the movement . Under a law of 1867 Wisconsin admitted women to the normal department of the university ; and three years later Michigan reversed the practice of almost thirty years by opening all the regular courses to women . The movement , so diffidently begun , gathered momentum until in 1920 more than one hundred institutions of higher learning devoted their entire time to women students , and about three hundred and fifty colleges and universities were classed as co-educational . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a liberal education than to gain admission to the professional and technical courses . Notwithstanding the hopeful beginnings made in the period before the Civil War , women were for many years excluded from the best schools of medicine , law and theology . One of the leading medical  | schools , Johns Hopkins , opened its doors to them in 1893 ; but when the medical schools of Columbia and Yale took similar action in 1916 , there still remained twenty-eight medical colleges closed to women , among them the medical departments of seven state universities . Law schools , other than those connected with the state universities , have been even slower to admit women . But in spite of all discriminations and discouragements , women forged ahead in the professions . Although the first woman lawyer was admitted to the bar as late as 1869 , there were more than one thousand women lawyers in the United States in 1910 . At the same time there were more than seven thousand women doctors , three thousand five hundred women preachers , two thousand women journalists , besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other pursuits . To women of this class the arguments for the equalization of sex opportunities seemed axiomatic and they instinctively aligned themselves with Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton in the woman movement . Many individuals among them possessed organizing ability of a high order and the gift of eloquence ; and to them , as we shall see , fell the responsibility as well as the credit of leading the suffrage cause to its final triumph . Another factor working in the interests of feminine emancipation was the rise and development of women 's clubs throughout the United States . The pioneers of the movement were the New England Woman 's Club at Boston and the Sorosis at New York , both founded in 1868 . The latter grew out of the discourteous treatment accorded to the women by the Press Club of New York on the occasion of the Dickens dinner . At first such clubs were few in number and purely literary or social in purpose , but the number of clubs increased as domestic conveniences became more common and the housewife gained more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were so numerous and so widespread that they became federated in a great national system ; and the units began to communicate with each other and receive new ideas and inspiration . As time went on , the women paid less attention to art and literature and more to civic and social problems , for they had come to realize that under modern conditions the " home " is not bounded by four walls but is directly affected by all the good and evil influences of the community and of the state and nation . Thus they became interested in such problems as child welfare , education , food adulteration and inevitably in the suffrage question . The General Federation of Women 's Clubs represented a total membership of nearly one million women in 1910 . The typical woman 's club never became a center for strenuous suffrage agitation ; but it was a means of educating many housewives to the significance of the demand and the lessons in organization that were learned served them in good stead in the battle for the ballot . The great enterprises of moral reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported , in very large part , by women . The close connection between women and the temperance cause was recognized in a unique way when the Prohibition party at its initial national convention in 1872 declared for equal suffrage , thus anticipating the major parties by forty-four years . In December of the following year began the remarkable Women 's Temperance Crusade of 1873-1874 , inspired by a temperance address delivered by Dr. Dio Lewis of Boston at Hillsboro , Ohio . The women of the town gathered in the streets to pray and entered saloons , two by two , and exhorted the bartenders and drinkers to cease their evil ways . The movement spread in every direction . In fifty days it swept the liquor traffic out of two hundred and fifty towns . But this exorcism was not lasting of effect ; the saloon was found to be the outcropping  | of the liquor system entrenched in law and possessing ramifications in government and business . The women therefore saw need for revising their tactics , and in November , 1874 , the Woman 's Christian Temperance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this organization waxed strong , establishing branches in every state and territory and attaining the distinction of being the largest society composed exclusively of women and conducted entirely by them . The educational and political activities of the W. C. T. U. were a potent influence in preparing the public mind for the adoption of the federal prohibition amendment in 1919 . To women also must be given much of the credit for the rise and spread of the social welfare movement along scientific lines . One of the earliest and most successful settlement houses in America was Hull House , founded in Chicago by Jane Addams and Ellen G. Starr in 1889 . The College Settlement Association of New York originated in 1887 among the students of Smith College . The playground movement and the development of agencies for scientific philanthropy also owe much to the initiative and continued support of women . The names of women workers in social service have been legion ; the value of their labors beyond computation . The entrance of great numbers of women into all fields of , human activity made the ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enhanced influence in the world of affairs led inevitably to the removal of the worst discriminations . By the beginning of the twentieth century legislative enactments had gone far toward introducing the principle of sex equality into American law . Married women might own and control their separate property in three-fourths of the states ; in every state a wife might dispose by will of her separate property . In about two-thirds  | of the states she was entitled to her own earnings ; and in the large majority she might make contracts and bring suit . In many states the law provided that if the wife earned money outside the home the fruits of her labors were her own , but all her earnings within the household still belonged to the husband . Fathers and mothers possessed equal guardianship of children only in nine states and in the District of Columbia . Many inequalities in civil status remained ; but the right of sex equality was no longer seriously questioned , and time alone was required to assure to woman her full position in the eyes of the law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was accompanied by steady advances toward the cherished goal of equal political rights . The suffrage movement of the forties and fifties had possessed able heads but had lacked body ; but with the exodus of great numbers of women from the home in the years following 187o , the movement continued to develop leaders and slowly gained a mass of followers among both men and women which spelt eventual success . It is true that the time never came when all women were convinced of the righteousness of the suffrage cause . Many of them had continued to live sheltered lives and knew little of the dynamic changes that had transformed the life of their sex ; others felt that the problems of democracy were already sufficiently baffling without increasing the numbers of the electorate . In 1873 a committee of women protested to Congress against the proposal to grant equal suffrage ; and some years later a National Association Opposed to the Extension of Woman Suffrage , composed of women , was formed . The progress toward full equal suffrage was gradual but certain . In the early years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to adopt the principle of woman suffrage in a local and limited sense . Kansas granted the  | vote to women in school elections in 1861 ; Michigan and Minnesota followed in 1875 , and thereafter numerous other states emulated their example . In some states women were permitted to vote in local elections involving bond issues or taxation questions . Complete equality in voting was not granted by any state until the territory of Wyoming was admitted into the Union in 1890 . Three other far western states followed by 1896 ; and then there came a lull of fourteen years during which no further advances were made toward complete equal suffrage . While suffrage campaigns were being fought in the various states , renewed effort was being made to secure affirmative action from the federal government . One wing of the suffrage leaders was convinced that the swiftest road to success lay in an amendment to the federal Constitution . Beginning with 187o they argued each year before Congressional committees for an equal suffrage amendment . Petitions by the thousands were poured into Congress . Finally in 1878 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action by Congress . The phraseology of Sargent 's amendment is historic , for the language was framed by Susan B. Anthony and forty-two years later was embodied as the nineteenth amendment in the United States Constitution . The zeal of the women had other results as well . Between 1878 and 1896 committees of the Senate reported five times in favor of a suffrage amendment and House committees twice ; but action went no further . Thereafter Susan B. Anthony ceased spending her winters in Washington and Congress ceased to concern itself with the matter until the suffrage movement entered a new era about 1910 . The situation of affairs at Washington clearly demonstrated that Congress was not disposed to give serious consideration to the demands of the women until a larger number of individual Congressmen owed their seats to the  | favor of women voters . The efforts of the years following 1896 were thrown very largely into state campaigns though uniformly without success . Finally in 1910 a new spirit of progressivism began to make itself felt throughout the land , creating schism within the Republican party and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taking advantage of the new spirit of the times , suffrage leaders redoubled their efforts . The National American Woman Suffrage Association , led by Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt , set to work with renewed determination . At the national capital a group of women under the leadership of Alice Paul formed the Congressional Union in 1913 , resolved to bring the federal government to terms through the use of sensational and militant methods . Results began to appear . Again it was the trans-Mississippi West that pointed the way ; and before New York acted in 1917 , twelve states of that section had accepted women on equal political terms with men . A number of state legislatures finding constitutional barriers in the way of full enfranchisement followed the example of Illinois ( 1913 ) by granting the vote to women in presidential elections only . As the number of equal suffrage states increased , the coercive effect of the vast body of new voters upon Congress became apparent . In the Senate of 1913 eighteen members had woman constituents . Irrespective of the merits of the question , party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reap such partisan advantages as they might from their advocacy of the federal franchise for women . Hardly a year passed after 1913 without a vote being taken on the submission of a constitutional amendment , either in one or both houses of Congress . Finally in 1919 , under the spur of a special message from President Wilson , the necessary two-thirds majority was obtained ; and the states ratified the new amendment in time for the women to take part in the approaching presidential election .  | The entrance of the United States into the World War in 1917 undoubtedly hastened the adoption of federal suffrage for women because of the indispensable part which the women of America played in making the war a success for the Allies . A few days after the declaration of war the National Woman 's Committee was created by the Council of National Defense , with Dr. Anna Howard Shaw as President , and charged with the duty of coordinating the patriotic activities of the women of the nation . Branches of the national body were organized in every state and the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county and city . Under the supervision of these central committees the war work of the women attained a degree of efficiency unrivalled in the history of the world . No city or hamlet was without its circle of devoted women gathering daily or weekly under the auspices of the American Red Cross to roll bandages , make clothing , or prepare special foods for the soldiers . One department of the Red Cross was concerned exclusively with looking after the interests of families and relatives left dependent by the enlistment of the breadwinners in the army or navy . Women flocked into the civil service in order to enable the government to carry on its greatly expanded functions ; they assisted actively in the flotation of the various Liberty Loans ; they worked in munition factories and other essential industries , thus releasing men for active field service . They undertook protective work for girls in the neighborhood of the great army encampments and raised money for building dormitories and " community houses " where civilian friends and relatives of the soldiers might be accommodated . Thousands of women went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of capacities  | from Red Cross nurses and Salvation Army workers to office clerks and Y. M. C. A. entertainers . In the maintenance of the morale of the troops perhaps no single factor was of more importance than the unswerving patriotism of the women . Without any disparagement of the high importance of such services , it is probably true that the greatest contribution of the women to victory was made in an altogether different field , that of food conservation . From the outset the government recognized the supreme need of carrying food to the armies and exhausted populations of the Allied countries . The housewives of the nation rallied promptly to the call of the Food Administrator to conserve food and increase the local food supplies . Few homes were without " pledgecards " in the windows ; and few were the homes in which " wheatless days " and " meatless meals " were not as conscientiously observed as if prescribed by law . Women were also active in planting " war gardens , " and the Woman 's Land Army of America played no inconsiderable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribute has been accorded the war work of our women than that paid by Sir George Paish in a public address in London in April , 1920 : " When I hear people say that America won the war , I assent . I go farther . I say that the war was won by the women of America . In the years of food shortage it was the American women who made it possible for us to have enough food to go round . American women ate maize that we might eat wheat . " Women are today standing upon the threshold of a new era in the history of their sex ; and whatever affects the status of woman in America will affect the entire people of which they are so intimately a part . Women in the United States are now , in most respects , a part of human society literally and directly , not merely as represented by  | men to whom they " belong " in some relation . They are directly responsible for their choices and decisions and are placed in a position to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the use that women will make of the vote , it is not to be overlooked that the women are better prepared for their new responsibilities than any previous class admitted to the franchise . The beneficiaries of white manhood suffrage in Jackson 's day were undisciplined and uneducated ; and the black men , enfranchised a generation later , were on an infinitely lower plane of public morality and individual fitness . The value of the ballot to the women themselves as an educative force can not be doubted ; and any knowledge of the past services of women to American history is an assurance that the women will use their new power for the good of the nation and of humanity . BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE Historians have generally ignored woman as a positive influence in American history and have usually omitted even any mention of her struggle for sex equality . This task has thus fallen to other hands . Belle Squire in her little volume entitled The Woman Movement in America ( Chicago , 1911 ) was the first writer to attempt to set forth the part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American history . The volume was originally written as a series of articles for newspaper use and was based very largely upon The History of Woman Suffrage by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and others , mentioned hereinafter . In the next year H. Addington Bruce published his book Woman in the Making of America ( Boston , 1912 ) , which attempted to accomplish the same purpose but with less success . Since the appearance of these books , little has been done toward making further applications of the point of view ; and the only history school book which has availed itself of this approach to the subject is Charles A. Beard and William C. Bagley 's The History of the American People ( New York , 1918 ) . It is unthinkable that this neglect should continue in the new era of historical writing ushered in by the adoption of the nineteenth amendment . For a long period of years appreciative studies have been made by writers interested in the influence of women in special periods of American history . Some of the more important of these special studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and  | Housewives ( Boston , 1895 ) ; Sydney George Fisher 's Men , Women and Manners Colonial Times ( 2 V. ; Philadelphia , 1898 ) ; Harry Clinton Green and Mary Wolcott Green 's The Pioneer Mothers of America ( 3 v. ; New York , 1912 ) ; Elizabeth F. Ellet 's The Women of the American Revolution ( 4th ed. , New York , 1849 ) ; Gaillard Hunt 's Life in America One Hundred Years Ago ( New York , 1914 ) , chap . x ; Elizabeth F. Ellet 's The Pioneer Women of the West ( New York , 1852 ) ; L. P. Brockett and M. C. Vaughan 's Woman 's Work in the Civil War ( Philadelphia , 1867 ) ; Frank Moore 's Women of the War ( Hartford , 1866 ) ; Mary Forrest 's Women of the South ( New York , 1865 ) ; John L. Underwood 's The Women of the Confederacy ( New York , 1906 ) . The great arsenal of facts pertaining to the woman rights movement in America prior to 1902 is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 V. ; 2d ed. , Rochester , 1889-1902 ) by Elizabeth Cady Stanton , Susan B. Anthony , Matilda Joslyn Gage and others . All subsequent writers have made generous use of the materials brought together in these volumes . Since 1902 many valuable studies have been made of special aspects of woman 's life and activities in the United States , among which may be mentioned Edith Abbott 's Women in Industry ( New York , 1910 ) ; Arthur W. Calhoun 's Social History of the American Family from Colonial Times to the Present ( 3 v. ; Cleveland , 1917-1919 ) ; E. A. Hecker 's Short History of Women 's Rights ( New York , 1911 ) ; Bertha A. Rembaugh 's The Political Status of Women in the United States ( New York , 1911 ) ; J. M. Taylor 's Before Vassar Opened ( Boston , 1914 ) ; Jennie Lansley Wilson 's The Legal and Political Status of Women in the United States ( Cedar Rapids , 1912 ) ; Mary I. Wood 's The History of the General Federation of Women 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value also is Mrs. J. C. Croly 's The History of the Woman 's Club Movement in America ( New York , In dealing with women in American history the biographical approach has been most popular . As examples of this type of literature the following books may be cited : Elmer C. Adams and Warren D. Foster 's Heroines of Modern Progress ( New York , 1913 ) ; Gamaliel Bradford 's Portraits of American Women ( Boston , 1919 ) ; Grace Humphreys 's Women in American History ( Indianapolis , 1919 ) ; Mary R. Parkman 's Heroines of Service ( New York , 1917 ) ; Virginia Tatnall Peacock 's Famous American Belles of the Nineteenth Century ( Philadelphia , 19o1 ) ; Kate D. Sweetser 's Ten American Girls from History ( New York , 1917 ) ; Lillian Whiting 's Women Who Have Ennobled Life ( Philadelphia , 1915 ) . Excellent biographies have also appeared of individual women , such as Susan B. Anthony , Margaret Fuller , Clara Barton , Harriet Beecher Stowe and Mary A. Livermore .  | THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago at the tomb of the great disloyalist and rebel of a former century , George Washington , the minds of many Americans reverted , with a sense of bewilderment , to the times when another King George was guiding the destinies of the British nation . The fact is that the average American still accepts without qualification or question the partisan justifications of the struggle for independence which have come down from the actual participants in the affair on the American side . These accounts , colored by the emotions and misunderstandings of the times and designed to arouse the colonists to a warlike pitch against the British government , have formed the basis of the treatments in our school textbooks and have served to perpetuate judgments of the American Revolution which no fair-minded historian can accept today . Indeed , many Americans of the present generation who readily effort to consider the origins of the War for Independence from a standpoint of scientific historical detachment . Fortunately our conception of patriotism is undergoing revision , for Germany has taught us the danger of teaching propaganda in the guise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is charged with the responsibility of being as scrupulously fair to other nations as to the United States in dealing with the subject matter of American history .  | In yet another way the popular understanding of the revolutionary movement is strangely at fault . We are inclined to think of the Revolution as a spontaneous uprising of the whole colonial population without faction or disagreement among them . Nothing could be farther from the truth according to the testimony of the patriots themselves . Thomas Hutchinson , the royal governor of Massachusetts , declared to a committee of Parliament in 1779 that at the outbreak of the war not one-fifth of the people " had independence in view " ; and John Adams , who would scarcely be inclined to understate the number of the patriots , gave his opinion that about one-third of the people were opposed to the measures of the Revolution in all its stages . The great problem of the patriot leaders , Adams admitted in after years , was to keep the spirit of protest and revolt burning with equal intensity in the thirteen colonies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thirteen clocks to strike at the same time . Nor was the American Revolution the sedate and gentlemanly affair that the popular historians have pictured it . Sydney George Fisher is amply justified in charging that since the people who write histories usually belong to the class who take the side of government in a revolution , they " have accordingly tried to describe a revolution in which all scholarly , refined , and conservative persons might have unhesitatingly taken part . " The fact is that the American Revolution , as we now know it to have been , is infinitely more interesting and human , and provocative of patriotism , than the make-believe revolution handed down by tradition . I The very term " American Revolution " is not without difficulties and its use has led to misconception and confusion . In letter after letter John Adams tried to teach a  | headstrong generation some degree of accuracy in the use of an expression of whose meaning they had knowledge only by hearsay . " A history of the first war of the United States is a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he wrote in 1815 . " . . . The revolution was in the minds of the people , and in the union of the colonies , both of which were accomplished before hostilities commenced . This revolution and union were gradually forming from the years 176o to 1776 . " And to another correspondent he wrote : " But what do we mean by the American Revolution ? Do we mean the American war ? The Revolution was effected before the war commenced . The Revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people . " This distinction is not only valid in point of fact but it offers a helpful avenue of approach for a consideration of the circumstances of the nation 's birth . If the period from 176o to 1776 is not viewed merely as the prelude to the American Revolution , the military struggle may frankly be regarded for what it actually was , namely a war to dismember the British empire , an armed attempt to impose the views of the revolutionists upon the British government and a large section of the colonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanctity of life and property . The major emphasis is thus placed upon the clashing of economic interests and the interplay of mutual prejudices , opposing ideals and personal antagonisms ? whether in England or America ? which made inevitable in 1776 what was unthinkable in 176o . Without considering here the remote and latent causes of the revolt , a discussion of the American Revolution may profitably begin with the effort of the British government to reorganize the British empire after the Peace of Paris of 1763 . Of this empire the thirteen colonies along the Atlantic seaboard had , by virtue of the recent peace , become but a  | small part . British statesmen felt the imperative need of correcting the slothful and unsystematic methods of colonial management by which some of the older colonies had been granted more liberal government than that enjoyed by organized territories of the United States today , and under which all the continental American colonies had become neglectful or defiant of ordinary imperial obligations . There was a need that all the outlying British possessions should be more closely integrated for purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the ambitions of England 's traditional enemies , France and Spain , as well as against the restlessness of the alien subject populations . The problem which confronted the British government was much more difficult than the questions of colonial organization with which the American government has wrestled since 1898 ; but the American adventure in imperialism , involving , as it did , the question of whether the Constitution followed the flag , should enable Americans of the present generation to view with sympathy the British experiment of the eighteenth century . The king 's ministers glimpsed too narrowly the task before them . What they regarded as an exercise in the mechanics of legislation was really an innovation in imperial relations that touched the dynamic currents of colonial opinion and colonial economic interest at many vital points . Moreover , their attempt was being made at a time when the colonies were , for the first time in their history , relieved of their most urgent need of British protection by the removal of the French menace from their frontiers . Under the earlier imperial policy of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political experience , so that by the middle of the eighteenth century they had become accustomed to conduct themselves toward England as substantially equal commonwealths in a federation united by a common mon  | arch . For the colonists the new imperial policy involved unaccustomed tax burdens , the loss of trading profits , and limitations of self-government ? advantages that were none the less precious because derived from an unwritten and unsanctioned constitution . Fundamentally , the great problem of the decade following the peace of 1763 was the problem of the reconciliation of centralized imperial control with colonial home rule . This , unfortunately , was never clearly perceived by the dominant element on either side , the issue being obscured by a blind officialism on the one hand and by an unillumined particularism on the other . Perhaps the problem was incapable of solution ; but we can see now that the best opportunity for a satisfactory outcome lay in the application to the situation of an enlightened statecraft on the part of Great Britain . To this the posture of political affairs in that country was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the throne in 176o , was already devoting every political and financial resource in his power to the task of converting the British government from an aristocracy of great Whig families into a personal autocracy . His Parliament and ministers did not seek to reflect the aspirations of the British public and therefore lacked a potent incentive for the formulation of a conciliatory program of colonial subordination . The minority in Parliament represented by Pitt and Burke readily identified the struggle of the colonists to preserve home rule with their own struggle in England against autocratic rule . Pitt was thinking primarily of Englishmen at home when he exclaimed on the occasion of the Stamp Act commotions : " I rejoice that America has resisted . " If his counsel had been followed , it is possible that the colonial revolt might have been forestalled by some plan of imperial federation .  | With this brief glance at affairs in Great Britain it is now possible to consider the situation in America . Conditions there were both simpler and more complex than the traditional accounts represent . In place of thirteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were in fact three major bodies of population , differentiated by physiographical conditions , economic interest and political ideals . The communities on the coastal plain from New Hampshire to Pennsylvania constituted one of these divisions ; the settlements of the tidewater region from Maryland to Georgia formed another ; and the third , less clearly defined geographically , consisted of the frontier districts of many of the provinces . These three divisions represented modes of living and mental attitudes much more fundamental than those signified by the artificial groupings of population within provincial boundaries . The first area consisted of the commercial colonies ; the dominant economic interest of the people was the carrying trade and shipbuilding . In the port towns of New England and the Middle Colonies great mercantile families had grown up , who had gained their wealth through smuggling with the West Indies or else through legitimate trading enterprises that embraced the entire world . The merchants were keenly alive to the golden benefits which membership in the British empire had always yielded ; and like the business interests of any generation or clime , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the source of their profits . For the merchants the unfolding of the new imperial program involved a very serious interference with their customary trading operations ; and during the decade from 1764 to 1774 their constant aim was to effect a restoration of the commercial conditions of 1763 . As a class they entertained  | neither earlier nor later the idea of independence , for withdrawal from the British empire meant for them the loss of vital business advantages without corresponding benefits in a world organized on a basis of imperial trading systems . They strove to obtain the most favorable terms possible within the empire but not to leave it . Indeed , they viewed with no small concern the growth of republican feeling and leveling sentiment which the controversy occasioned . The great ports of the north ? Boston , New York , . Philadelphia , Newport ? bore eloquent testimony to the prosperity of the mercantile class ; and on the continuance of this prosperity depended the livelihood of the mechanics and petty shopkeepers of the towns and , to a lesser degree , the wellbeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West Indies . This proletarian element was not inclined by temperament to that self-restraint in movements of popular protest which was ever the arriere pensee of the merchant class ; and being for the most part unenfranchised , they expressed their sentiments most naturally through boisterous mass meetings and mob demonstrations . In the second of the three areas , the tidewater region of the South , colonial capital was invested almost exclusively in plantation production ; and commerce was carried on chiefly by British mercantile houses and their American agents , the factors . The only town in the plantation provinces that could compare with the teeming ports of the North was Charleston , for the prevailing form of life was rural in character . All political activity sprang from the periodical meetings of the great landed proprietors in the assemblies . Under the wasteful system of marketing , which the apparent plenty of plantation life made possible , the planters found themselves treading a morass of indebtedness to British merchants from which it seemed that nothing less than virtual repudiation could extricate them . As Jefferson  | testified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son , for many generations , so that the planters were a species of property annexed to certain mercantile houses in London . " In the last quarter of a century prior to independence the provincial assemblies passed a succession of lax bankruptcy acts and other legislation detrimental to non-resident creditors ; but these laws nearly always ran afoul the royal veto . This fact , together with the sturdy sense of self-determination which the peculiar social system fostered , made the plantation provinces ready to resent any fresh exercise of parliamentary authority over the colonies , such as the new imperial policy involved . Georgia , the infant colony of the thirteen , still dependent upon the mother government for subsidies and for protection against a serious Indian menace , was less affected by these considerations , and indeed lagged behind her southern sisters throughout the revolutionary period . On the western fringe of the two coastal areas lay an irregular belt of back-country settlements whose economy and psychological outlook were almost as distinctive as those of the two tidewater regions . Certainly the western sections of many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they did the older sections with which they were associated by provincial boundaries . These pioneer settlements extended north and south , up and down the valleys between the fall line of the rivers and mountains , from New England to Georgia . Outside of New England the majority of the settlers were dissenters of nonEnglish strains , mostly German and Scotch Irish ; but throughout the long frontier the people cultivated small isolated farms and entertained democratic ideas in harmony with the equalitarian conditions in which they lived . As has already been pointed out elsewere in this volume , the backcountry inhabitants in many of the provinces had long been  | discriminated against by the older settlements in the matter of representation in the assemblies , the administration of justice and the incidence of taxation ; and they were thus familiar , of their own experience , with all the arguments which the Revolution was to make popular against nonrepresentative government and unjust taxation . Being selfsustaining communities economically , their zeal for popular rights was in no wise alloyed by the embarrassment of their pocketbooks . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both the commercial and plantation provinces on many matters of domestic politics , they could join forces with them in protest against the new imperial policy ; and they brought to the controversy a moral conviction and bold philosophy which gave great impetus to the agitation for independence . l The history of the American Revolution is , in very large part , the story of the reaction of these three sections to the successive acts of the British government and of their interaction upon each other . The merchants of the commercial colonies were the most seriously affected by the new imperial policy and at the outset assumed the leadership of the colonial movement of protest . They were closely seconded by the planters of the south as soon as enough time had elapsed to make clear to the latter the implications of the issue of home rule for which the merchants stood . The democratic farmers of the interior , more or less out of contact with the political currents of the seaboard , were slower to take part ; and it is largely true that their measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Patrick Henry and his fellow burgesses from the western counties footnotes In Georgia , however , the frontier settlers were pro-British in their sympathies because of their dependence on the home government for protection against the ever-present menace of the Creeks . Twenty-five years ago Professor J. S. Bassett , in a discriminating study , showed why the people of the interior counties of North Carolina became loyalists when the issue of independence was raised . Had the friction between the interior democracies and the coastal minorities developed to the point of armed rebellion in other provinces prior to 1776 , the back-country folk might everywhere have thrown their weight on the side of the British government and hus Save defeated the Revolution .  | of Virginia began to undermine the conservatism of the tidewater statesmen as early as 1765 , but the Germans and Scotch-Irish of Pennsylvania did not make their influence fully felt until the critical days of 1774-1775 . A complicating factor in the revolutionary movement was supplied by the religious conditions existing in the colonies , of which only brief mention can be made here . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colonies and the mother country that already existed because of economic and geographic reasons . This is not gainsaying that sectarian feeling , which had been an important motive in colonization , played a larger part in shaping the political conduct of people in colonial times than it has at any later period of American history . The great majority of the colonists belonged to the dissenting sects ; and for historic reasons it was natural that there should be more or less distrust and jealousy felt by them toward adherents of the Church of England , among whom the royal officials and their hangers-on were prominently to be found . Indeed , the two hundred and fifty Episcopal clergymen officiating in the colonies on the eve of the Revolutionary War had all received ordination in England , and most of those in the northern provinces were pensioners of an English missionary society . The antagonism to England on this score was undoubtedly increased during the revolutionary period in many parts of America by the persistent rumor that the English government was planning to send bishops to the colonies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , that the widespread dread of an Anglican episcopate and an established church contributed " as much as any other cause " to sharpening the keen edge of popular antipathy against the mother country . As the radical party grew stronger , Anglican clergymen had to decide whether they would observe the patriotic fast days proclaimed as a protest against England and , finally , whether they would omit in  | their services the prayers for the king . Those who persisted were in many cases roughly handled . The Congregational ministers of New England were active agents in keeping alive colonial discontent . It was a royal office-holder who noted that the women of the flocks aided American manufactures by spinning flax six days of the week and " on the seventh , the Parsons took their turns and spun out their prayers and sermons to a long thread of Politics . " The only organic and official action taken by a religious denomination in behalf of the American cause was that of the Presbyterians , who delegated the only minister in the Congress of 1776 to give their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relation of religion to politics is afforded , for instance , by the customary usage of the terms Presbyterians and Episcopalians by Judge Thomas Jones , the New York loyalist , as almost synonymous with the terms rebels and loyalists . Joseph Galloway , another loyalist , who had attained high office in Pennsylvania by the suffrages of his fellow-colonists , ascribed the colonial revolt largely to the machinations of the Presbyterians and the New England Congregationalists and believed that the alliance formed by the two sects in 1764 was a factor of prime importance in the promotion of the spirit for independence . Such generalizations may be pushed too far , however , for numerous exceptions may be noted . Thus the Episcopalians of the southern tidewater region , where the ministers were supported locally , were as strongly opposed to the importation of English prelates as were the Congregationalists of New England , and many of the clergy and laity took active part in the Revolutionary War . The new British policy of imperial control assumed its first form under George Grenville ( 1764-1765 ) . The  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , injured fair traders and smuggling merchants alike and threatened bankruptcy to the great mercantile houses of Boston , New York and Philadelphia . The prohibition of colonial legal tender added to their woes and indeed made the hard-pressed planters of the South sharers in the general distress . The Stamp Act , with its far-reaching taxes burdensome alike to merchant and farmer , sealed the union of commercial and plantation provinces at the same time that it afforded an opportunity for placing the colonial argument on constitutional grounds ; and because of the character of the taxation , it rallied to the colonial position the powerful support of the lawyers and newspaper proprietors . The plan of the British to garrison their new acquisitions in America and to station a few detachments of troops in the older colonies was , in the feverish state of the public mind , envisaged as a brazen attempt to intimidate the colonies into submission . The merchants of some of the ports , intent on restoring the conditions of their former prosperity , adopted resolutions of non-importation ; and little recking the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injustice , even to the extent of countenancing and instigating mob excesses and the destruction of property . In the end Parliament resolved upon the passage of certain remedial laws ( 1766 ) , an outcome which , from the standpoint of the more radical colonists , can be regarded as little more than a compromise . The Stamp Act was indeed repealed and important alterations were made in the trade regulations ; but the Currency Act , the regulations against smuggling and the provisions for a standing army remained unchanged . In addition the Declaratory Act was passed ; and the new molasses duty was an unvarnished application of the principle of " taxation without representation " announced in the Declaratory Act . The rejoicing of the col-  | onists can be explained only on the ground that the merchants of the North dominated colonial opinion ; and like practical men of affairs , they were contemptuous , if not fearful , of disputes turning upon questions of abstract right . The passage of the Townshend Acts in 1767 was the second attempt of Parliament to reconstruct the empire in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the commercial colonies perceived themselves as the class whose interests were chiefly imperiled ; but sobered by the mob outrages of Stamp Act days , they resolved to guide the course of American opposition in orderly and peaceful channels . They , therefore , began an active agitation for corrective legislation through merchants ' petitions and legislative memorials to Parliament ; and after much questioning of each other 's good faith they succeeded in developing an elaborate system of commercial boycott , which united the commercial colonies in an effort to secure the repeal of the objectionable laws . After a year or so this movement in a much modified form spread to the plantation provinces , where , under the leadship of Washington and other planters , it was employed as a means of preventing the landed aristocracy from falling more deeply into the toils of their British creditors . Meantime the merchants began to see that in organizing their communities for peaceful resistance to Great Britain they were unavoidably releasing disruptive forces which , like Frankenstein 's monster , they were finding it impossible to control . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies , as the months passed , to depend more and more upon the tumultuous methods of the proletariat in order to keep wavering merchants true to the cause . Increasing friction between smuggling merchants and customs officers also produced outbreaks of mob violence in many provinces , and led by a broad , smooth road to such distressing affairs as the Boston " Massacre " on the one hand  | and to the destruction of the revenue cutter Gaspee on the other . As the political agitators and turbulent elements gained the upper hand , the contest began to assume more clearly the form of a crusade for constitutional and natural rights ; and when word arrived in May , 1770 , that Parliament had repealed all the Townshend duties except the trifling tax on tea , the merchants found it difficult to reassert their earlier control and to stop a movement that had lost all significance for hard-headed men of business . The merchants of New York , under the leadership of their newly formed Chamber of Commerce , were the first who were able to wrench loose from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their boycott resolutions was soon followed by similar action in the ports of Philadelphia and Boston . The plantation provinces were coolly left in the lurch notwithstanding that Parliament had not receded from its position of arbitrary taxation , and the movement there soon died of inanition . The two or three years that followed the partial repeal of the Townshend duties were , for the most part , years of material prosperity and political calm . The merchants had grown to look askance at a doctrine of home rule which left it uncertain who was to rule at home . As a class they eagerly agreed with the merchant-politician Thomas Cushing that " high points about the supreme authority of Parliament " should best " fall asleep . " And so ? John Hancock as well as Isaac Low they deserted politics for business , even to the extent of importing dutied tea which people imbibed everywhere except at Philadelphia and New York , wllere local conditions made it possible for merchants to offer the cheaper Dutch tea to consumers . The sun of the radicals had suffered an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to apply to their own following the lessons of organization that they had learned from the " mercantile dons . " In the commercial colonies Sam Adams ? " that Matchiavel of  | Chaos " as Thomas Hutchinson loved to call him ? sought , through the establishment of town committees of correspondence , to unite the workingmen of the port towns and the farmers of the rural districts in political action ; and the burgesses of Virginia launched their plan of a provincial committee of correspondence that might give uncensored expression to the political grievances of the southern planters . Under the spur of fresh irritations both plans were to spread to the other provinces where , by supplementing each other , they came in time to form the basis of the radical party organization throughout British America . In May , 1773 , a new tea act was passed by Parliament , which stampeded the merchants into joining forces once more with the political radicals and irresponsible elements . This new law , if put into operation , would have enabled the great East India Company to monopolize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and law-abiding tea traders . Alarmed at this prospect and fearful lest further monopolistic privileges in trade might follow from the success of the present experiment , the colonial merchant class joined in an active popular agitation for the purpose of preventing the landing of any of the tea importations of the East India Company . Though their efforts for a vigorous but restrained opposition met with substantial success elsewhere , they were overreached at Boston by the superior management of Sam Adams and the unintelligence of Governor Hutchinson , whose sons were tea consignees ; and the British trading company became the involuntary host at a tea party costing 115,000. ry The Boston Tea Party marked a turning point in the course of events both in America and Britain . In both countries it was regarded by the merchants and moderates  | as a lawless destruction of private property and an act of wanton defiance which no self-respecting government could wisely ignore . Plainly the issue between the colonies and the mother country had ceased to be one of mere trading advantage . Outside of New England , colonial opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event with a general disapproval and apprehension . In the mother country Parliament proceeded to the passage of the severe disciplinary measures of 1774 . The effect of this punitive legislation can not be overestimated , for it convinced many colonists who had disapproved of the Boston vandalism that the greater guilt now lay on the side of Parliament . " They look upon the chastisement of Boston to be purposely rigorous , and held up by way of intimidation to all America . . . " wrote Governor Penn from Philadelphia . " Their delinquency in destroying the East India Company 's tea is lost in the attention given to what is here called the too severe punishment of shutting up the port , altering the Constitution , and making an Act , as they term it , screening the officers and soldiers shedding American blood . " From this time on there occurred in the several provinces a contest for the control of public policy between the moderates on the one hand and the radicals or extremists on the other , the former receiving aid and comfort from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cleavage is unmistakable in the case of practically every province . The moderates as a group wanted to pay for the tea destroyed and to propose to Parliament an act of union which should automatically dispose of all controversial questions for the future . The radicals were opposed to compromise and as a class desired a comprehensive and drastic boycott of Great Britain with which to exact from Parliament recognition of the colonial claim to complete home  | rule . Both parties were willing to make a trial of strength in an intercolonial congress ; and after bitter contests in each province to control the personnel of the irregularly elected delegations , the First Continental Congress assembled in Philadelphia in September , 1774 . In this notable gathering the moderates discovered to their dismay that they were outnumbered ; and , in the disconsolate phrase of a Maryland merchant , " Adams , with his crew , and the haughty Sultans of the South juggled the whole conclave of the Delegates . " Indeed , this extra-legal body , by adopting the Association for the establishment of non-importation , nonconsumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifice their trade for the benefit of a cause from which they had become alienated ; and the radicals in Congress provided for spreading a network of committees over the continent to insure obedience to their decree . In the popular conventions called prior to the First Continental Congress and in the provincial meetings that were held to ratify its doings , the people from the back-country counties of many provinces were , for the first time , admitted to that full measure of representation which had long been denied them by the unequal system of apportionment in the colonial assemblies . Deeply stirred by the political slogans of the tidewater radicals , they ranged themselves by their side and lent momentum to an agitation that was hastening toward independence . In closely divided provinces like Pennsylvania and South Carolina their voice was undoubtedly the decisive factor . The proceedings of the First Continental Congress were received with mixed feelings by the colonists . The moderates who had lingered in the popular movement in order to control it began to withdraw , although it required the outbreak of hostilities at Lexington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their efforts could be of no avail . The merchants perforce acquiesced in the regulations of the Association , which , in the early months , were not without profit to them . The popular committees of the coast towns , formerly controlled by the merchants , began to fall into the hands of the democratic mechanic class . In New York , Boston and Philadelphia alike , " nobodies " and " unimportant persons " succeeded to power ; and even in Savannah , Governor Wright declared that " the Parochial Committee are a Parcel of the Lowest People , Chiefly Carpenters , Shoemakers , Blacksmiths , &c.; . . . " Flushed with success , the radical leaders busied themselves with consolidating their following in town and country through the creation of committees of observation and provincial committees and conventions . Little wonder was it that , in this changed aspect of public affairs , a worthy minister of Charleston , S. C. , should be dismissed by his congregation " for his audacity in . . . saying that mechanics and country clowns had no right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commons had done , " or that the Newport Mercury of September 26 , 1774 , in reporting the affair should add : " All such divines should be taught to know that mechanics and country clowns ( infamously so called ) are the real and absolute masters of king , lords , commons and priests .... " Events had reached a stage where the extremists in both countries were in control . What Chatham and Joseph Galloway might have adjusted to their mutual satisfaction could not be rationally discussed by North and Sam Adams . Under the circumstances it was inevitable that the policy of commercial coercion , adopted by the First Continental Congress , should soon be superseded by armed warfare as the weapon of the radicals , and that open rebellion should in turn give way to a struggle for independence . The thronging events of these later months are familiar enough in out-  | line and need not be recounted here . The key to these times is to be found in the fact that the radical elements were a minority of the colonial population and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope to whip into line the great body of timid and indifferent people who lacked either organization or a definite program . The successive steps leading to independence were not taken without great mental travail , without suspicion of each other 's motives , without sordid consultation of economic advantage , or without doubt as to the rectitude of the course or fear of the consequences . Thousands of men of recognized social and business connections , who had been active in the earlier agitation for colonial home rule , opposed separation and left their native land rather than be witnesses to its undoing . One of these earnestly warned his countrymen in April , 1776 , that " a set of men whom nobody knows .. . are attempting to hurry you into a scene of anarchy ; their scheme of Independence is visionary ; they know not themselves what they mean by it . " On the other hand , John Adams found food for sober reflection in the rejoicing of a horse-jockey neighbor of his : " Oh ! Mr. Adams , what great things have you and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no courts of justice now in this Province and I hope there never will be another . " Many a man of property , like the patriot Henry Laurens , wept when he listened to the reading of the Declaration of Independence , or else , like John Ross of Philadelphia , " loved ease and Madeira much better than liberty and strife , " and decided to be neutral in the struggle . The real significance of the American Revolution , however , is not to be measured in terms of the conflicting emotions and purposes of those who , wittingly or unwittingly , helped to bring it about . What great issue in history has  | not been scarred by sordid motives , personal antagonisms and unintelligent decisions ? Fundamentally the American Revolution represented the refusal of a self-reliant people to permit their natural and normal energies to be confined against their will , whether by an irresponsible imperial government or by the ruling minorities in their midst . The popular view of the Revolution as a great forensic controversy over abstract governmental rights will not bear close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years were not in agreement among themselves as to their aims and aspirations , be said to possess a common political philosophy ? Before assuming that Otis or Dickinson or Thomson Mason spoke the voice of the colonists , the historian must first ascertain what class or section of the population each represented and how widespread its influence was . At best , an exposition of the political theories of the anti-parliamentary party is an account of their retreat from one strategic position to another . Abandoning a view that based their liberties on charter grants , they appealed to their constitutional rights as EngliThmen ; and when that position became untenable , they invoked the doctrine of the rights of man . Likewise , their sincere devotion to the kingship was not open to question through ten years of controversy , when suddenly , a few months before the end , the English immigrant Tom Paine in the pamphlet Common Sense jerked the bandages from their eyes and revealed the goal of republicanism and independence at which they had already arrived in fact . Without discounting in any way the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may as well be admitted that the colonists would have lost their case if the decision had turned upon an impartial consideration of the legal principles involved .  | Some of the difficulties in arriving at the truth concerning the Tories may also be apparent . Prior to 1774 , it would be a distortion of the facts to picture the country as divided into two major parties , one representing blind attachment to the doctrine of parliamentary supremacy and the other a blind partisanship of the doctrine of colonial home rule . Rather , the American colonists , united in desiring a large degree of colonial autonomy , differed in opinion as to what limitations of home rule were admissable and as to what methods of opposition were best adapted to secure the relief they desired . In this period every true American was a loyalist in the sense that he favored the permanent integrity of the British empire . Indeed , to regard " Tory " and " loyalist " as equivalent terms would place the historian in the predicament of classing practically the entire colonial population as Tories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its social connections , the terms " Tory " and " patriot " became intelligible for the first time when the First Continental Congress set forth the radical program in the Continental Association and stigmatized those who opposed the program as " enemies of American liberty . " As the radical program advanced from commercial coercion to armed rebellion , the local committees applied a new test of patriotism , that of allegiance to the rebellion . It should be remembered , however , that the priginal object of this armed uprising was not independence but , as often in English history , a change in ministerial policy . With the Declaration of Independence patriotism became for the first time synonymous with disloyalty to England . Many men , like Daniel Dulany and Joseph Galloway , who may rightly be considered broad-minded patriotic Americans in the earlier years of the revolutionary contest , became Tories by the new definitions ; and John Dickinson is the example Of a man who narrowly escaped the infamy of not making  | up his mind in favor of independence as quickly as the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period were a justification of the decision made by the Tories ; but the reconstructive forces in American society which built a nationalistic republic under the Constitution have eloquently vindicated the choice made by the revolutionists . BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE A history of the histories of the American Revolution should go far toward revealing the ideals and purposes which have governed historical writing in this country in the various periods of the past and should explain why the Revolution has had to be re-discovered and re-constructed from the source materials by the present generation of historians . Sydney George Fisher has undertaken such a survey in his essay " The Legendary and Myth-Making Process in Histories of the American Revolution , " originally published in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society , vol. 51 ( 1912 ) , pp. 53-76 , and reprinted in the History Teacher 's Magazine , vol. iv ( 1913 ) , pp. 63-71 , and elsewhere . Pertinent information on the same subject may be found in the " Critical Essay on Authorities " in George Elliott Howard 's Preliminaries of the R'evolutio'n , 5763-.7775 ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; New Yo ' -k , 1905 ) . Charles Altschul 's study , The American Revolution in Our School Text-Books ( New York , 1917 ) , is excellent , so far as it goes , in showing the one-sided and misleading treatment of the American Revolution contained in the school histories of a generation ago . Reappraisement of the conflict by historians using scientific methods began in the nineties and the most valuable work along this line has been done since 19oo . The pioneer labors of Charles McLean Andrews and Herbert Levi Osgood in showing that the history of the colonies must be studied as an integral part of British imperial history were of basic importance to this reappraisement . Their point of view , arrived at as the result of independent studies , was first presented in the form of papers before the American Historical Association in 1898 . ' See " American Colonial History , 169o-175o " by Professor Andrews and " The Study of American Colonial History " by Professor Osgood in the Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1898 , pp. 46-6o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fancied , effects of the British acts of trade and navigation on the colonies were first set forth by George Louis Beer in his monograph The Commercial Policy of England toward the American Colones ( New York , 1893 ) , developed by the English economist , W. J. Ashley , in his Surveys  | Historic and Economic ( New York , 1900 ) , pp. 309-360 , and further amplified by George Louis Beer in a series of volumes entitled British Colonial Policy , 1754-1765 ( New York , 1907 ) , The Origins of the British Colonial System , 1578-166o ( New York , 1908 ) , and The Old Colonial System , 1660-1754 ( New York , 1912 ) . The sectional and economic basis of colonial discontent , ignored or misunderstood by the earlier historians , has been the subject of careful study in such works as Mellen Chamberlain 's " The Revolution Impending " in Justin Winsor 's Narrative and Critical History of America ( 8 v. ; Boston , 1884-1889 ) , vol. vi , pp. 1-112 ; William Wirt Henry 's Patrick Henry ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , 1891 ) ; John Spencer Bassett 's " The ' Regulators of North Carolina ( 1756-1771 ) " in the Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1894 , pp. 141-212 ; C. H. Lincoln 's The Revolutionary Movement in Pennsylvania , 1760-1776 ( Philadelphia , 1901 ) ; Carl L. Becker 's The History of Political Parties in the Province of New York , 1760-1776 ( Madison , 1909 ) ; H. J. Eckenrode 's The Revolution in Virginia ( Boston , 1916 ) ; Charles McLean Andrews 's " The Boston Merchants and the NonImportation Movement " in Publications of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts , vol. xix ( 1917 ) , pp. 159-259 ; Arthur Meier Schlesinger 's The Colonial Merchants and the American Revolution , 1763-1776 ( New York , 1918 ) ; and Edith Anna Bailey 's Influences toward Radicalism in Connecticut , 1754-1775 ( Northampton , 1920 ) . Some light has been thrown upon the organization and methods of the popular party by Henry B. Dawson 's The Sons of Liberty in New York ( New York , 1859 ) ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States ( Boston , 1881 ) ; and E. D. Collins 's " Committees of Correspondence of the American Revolution " in the Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1901 , vol. i , pp. 243-271 . The activities and views of the loyalist element of the population received partisan justification in such early works as Lorenzo Sabine 's Biographical Sketches of Loyalists of the American Revolution ( 2 V. ; Boston , 1864 ) and Egerton Ryerson 's Loyalists of America and Their Times ( 2 v. ; Toronto , 1880 ) , and have since been studied from a disinterested viewpoint by George E. Ellis in " The Loyalists " in Winsor 's Narrative and Critical History ( cited above ) , vol. vii , pp. 185-214 , by Moses Coit Tyler in The Literary History of the American Revolution , 1763-1783 ( 2 v. ; New York , 1897 ) , by Alexander C. Flick in Loyalism in New York in the American Revolution ( New York , 1901 ) , and by Claude Halstead Van Tyne in Loyalists in the American Revolution ( New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolutionary movement have received attention in W. P. Breed 's Presbyterians and the Revolution ( Philadelphia , 1876 ) ; Mellen Chamberlain 's John Adams , the Statesman of the American Revolution , with Other Essays ( Boston , 1884 ) ; George E. Ellis 's " The Sentiment of Independence , Its Growth and Consummation " in Winsor 's Narrative and Critical History ( cited above ) , vol. vi , pp. 231-255 ; Arthur Lyon Cross 's  | The Anglican Episcopate and the American Colonies ( Cambridge , 1902 ) ; Martin I. J. Griffin 's Catholics and the American Revolution ( 3 v. ; Ridley Park , Pa. , 1907 ) ; and Claude Halstead Van Tyne 's Influence of the Clergy , and of Religious and Sectarian Forces , on the American Revolution " in the American Historical Review , vol. xix ( 1913 ) , pp. 44-64 . The best general summaries of the American Revolution today are Sydney George Fisher 's The Struggle for American Independence ( 2 V. ; Philadelphia , 1908 ) ; Edward Channing 's A History of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carl Lotus Becker 's Beginnings of the American People ( Boston , 1912 ) , chaps . v-vi . A forthcoming book by Clarence W. Alvord under the projected title of Imperial Muddlers and the American Revolution : an Essay about Propaganda and Politics promises to be of great importance in this connection . Of the English accounts the best continues to be W. E. H. Lecky 's History of England in the Eighteenth Century ( 8 v. ; London , 1878-189o ) , vol. iii , chap . xii , edited in a separate volume by J. A. Woodburn under the title The American Revolution , 1763-5783 ( New York , 1898 ) . An important conference devoted to a discussion of our present knowledge of the American Revolution was held in conjunction with the recent meeting of the American Historical Association at St. Louis ( December , 1921 ) . The principal papers were presented by Professor Van Tyne and Professor Alvord.  | ECONOMIC ASPECTS OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE CONSTITUTION I In the year 1781 the Articles of Confederation were ratified by the last of the thirteen states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the federal union . In the same year occurred the battle of Yorktown , which from a military point of view assured independence to the struggling colonies . The war wa 's practically at an end . Emerging from six years of armed conflict , the young republic had to solve even more difficult problems in the six years of peace that followed . The population was deeply affected by post bellum unrest , and public life gave evidence of that lowering of moral tone that seems an inevitable aftermath of a great war . The frame of government under which the new nation made its start had been drawn up by men laboring under a desperate fear of centralized power as embodied in the British government and who were determined that the new federal government , notwithstanding its , different source of authority , should exercise as little power as possible . Under the circumstances the Articles of Confederation could hardly be more than a feeble instrument . All essential powers remained with the individual states ; and it was only by virtue of an extraordinary majority vote that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the states . Obviously , such a government was  | unfitted to cope with the social and political disturbances that were to mark the period . The instability of the times were far-reaching in its effects and pervaded not only the operations of the state and federal governments but also the life of the people in their social and business relations . The ill-paid revolutionary army , seething with unrest , was a prolific source of uneasiness . The main body of the troops were encamped at Newburg on the Hudson , and they faced a return to their home and families , after their arduous campaigns , " without a settlement of their accounts , or a farthing of money in their pockets . " Only the personal intervention of Washington at a critical juncture prevented the consummation of a plot to effect a forcible presentation of their claims to Congress . A band of mutinous Pennsylvania troops stationed at Lancaster did indeed march on Philadelphia and frightened Congress into changing the seat of government to Princeton . On the trans-Alleghany frontier the spirit of lawlessness also stalked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now eastern Tennessee defied their parent state of North Carolina and , on their own cognizance , demanded admission into the union as the State of Franklin . The integrity of Virginia was likewise menaced by a movement for independent statehood among the settlers of Kentucky . Congress sought to promote further settlement of the western country under national supervision by the Ordinances of 1784 and 1785 ; but none but the most daring were willing to brave the perils of frontier life without military protection against the savages . The public finances were in unbelievably bad shape . Continental paper money had depreciated to a point where an enterprising barber found it a matter of economy to paper his shop with scrip ; and the general disgust resulted in the coining of a phrase that has survived to our own time ? " not  | worth a continental . " Lacking taxing power , the Confederation government was unable to pay the interest on the national debt , and the common selling price of national securities in good markets varied from one-tenth to one-sixth of their face value , sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were depreciated almost as badly . Commerce and business were in a languishing condition . The lack of a stable circulating medium was a contributing factor but other conditions were equally unfavorable to the conduct of business . It proved impossible for the feeble Confederation government to re-establish the old commercial relations with Great Britain and the British Empire , whence had sprung the abundant prosperity of the colonial merchants and shipbuilders . Spain , the mistress of Louisiana and the Floridas , spurned all efforts to find an outlet for our inland trade through opening up the mouth of the Mississippi . The infant manufactures which had sprung up during the war were being destroyed by the price-cutting competition of British manufacturers ; and the Confederation lacked power to stimulate domestic industries by a protective tariff . Strangest of all to Americans of today , commercial intercourse among the states of the union was embarrassed and impeded by restrictions and tariffs imposed by the various states upon each other ; and again Congress . was impotent to take any measures to improve the situation . The men who suffered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commerce were the common people throughout the states , who had no surplus upon which to fall back in times of financial stringency . In the early years of the Confederation period some parts of the country had enjoyed a degree of prosperity ; but each succeeding year brought an increasing measure of hard times . By the years 1785 and 1786 the country was in a condition of pronounced depression . Money was scarce , crops were  | rotting in the ground , and poor people were reduced to the expedient of barter . The debtor classes everywhere turned to their state governments for relief from the scarcity of specie . If the cause of their difficulties was the lack of money , then , they reasoned , let the government manufacture more money and put an end to the hardships of the poor . However naive this solution may seem to us today , we should remember that it was the natural reaction of a people who found themselves in desperate economic straits without any other proposals for their relief . Along with these paper money demands went others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were designed " to prevent the wealthy creditor and the moneyed man from totally destroying the poor , though even industrious , debtor . " Of this class were measures to suspend the collection of debts ( " stay laws " ) and acts declaring cattle and produce the equivalent of money when offered in payment of debts . In all the states political contests began to take the form of struggles between the debtor and creditor classes ? that is , between the small farmers and mechanic classes on the one hand and the merchant and capitalist group on the other . The paper money men carried the legislatures of seven states in elections of 1786 , being unsuccessful only in Virginia , Delaware , Maryland , Connecticut , New Hampshire and Massachusetts . In New Hampshire several hundred men , armed with muskets , swords and staves , entered Exeter where the legislature was sitting and demanded a release from taxes and an issue of paper money . The lower house wavered but , the Senate standing firm , the rebels were routed the next day . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that took six months to suppress . The adjournment of the state legislature in July , 1786 , without authorizing any measures of relief for debtors led to mob demonstrations which prevented the courts from sitting  | in several of the larger districts . Encouraged by these successes , a motley army of insurgents formed under the leadership of Daniel Shays , a veteran of Bunker Hill , and they set forth to plunder the national arsenal at Springfield as preparatory to further measures . As the legislature was not in session and there were no funds to pay the state troops , a number of wealthy gentlemen loaned the necessary funds for this purpose ; and prompt action on the part of General Lincoln prevented the breaking out of a civil war . Echoes of the Shays uprising rang throughout the country . What had occurred in Massachusetts might easily be repeated , with more disastrous results , in other states . Moreover , the troubles in Massachusetts had been accompanied by the enunciation of doctrines in some quarters that far outran paper money vagaries . Mass meetings in various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be eliminated as an unnecessary burden , and that all property should be held in common since all had made sacrifices to save it from England . The very foundations of society seemed threatened . Washington , who can not be regarded as an alarmist , expressed the thought of many responsible and conservative people when he wrote : " There are combustibles in every State which a spark might set fire to . . . . I feel . . . infinitely more than I can express to you , for the disorders which have arisen in these States . Good God ! Who , besides a Tory , could have foreseen , or a Briton , predicted them ? " The instability and tumult of the times drove home to the substantial classes of the population the imperative need for a stronger form of national government . Some of these men were animated by motives of disinterested patriotism , their love of country being outraged by the affronts offered  | America by foreign nations , in particular by the fact that Great Britain and Spain continued to occupy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the treaty of peace of 1783 . Others were by temperament repelled by the radicalism and lawlessness that prevailed under the Articles and were inclined to favor any movement which promised a strong hand at the helm of state . Religious and racial sympathies were also an indirect and not negligible factor in consolidating the opposing groups in their attitude toward the Articles of Confederation . But of all the motives that caused men to strive for a more vigorous national government the most potent was undoubtedly the desire to re-establish conditions under which property rights and contracts might be secure , investments be safe , and commerce and business prosper . It is with the economic aspects of the movement for the Constitution that the present discussion is concerned since this phase of the subject has , until recently , been largely neglected by the historians . No discriminating reader need feel that such a presentation carries with it the imputation of ignoble or unworthy motives to the Fathers of the Constitution ; rather , it forms an illuminating commentary on the fact that intelligent self-interest , whether conscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human progress . Individuals may indeed have joined in the movement with no other prompting than a desire for personal gain irrespective of the public welfare ; but the group as a whole undoubtedly were moved by the conviction that the changes they advocated would benefit the nation at large as well as their own personal economic station . Under the Articles of Confederation men of substance and position found their property holdings imperiled and the gates to economic advancement closed . Persons who had speculated in western lands and were holding them for a rise  | found that their holdings remained at an abnormally low price because of the weakness of the Confederation government , the lack of proper military protection on the frontier , and the uncertainty as to the legal title . Holders of the depreciated public securities could have no respect for a government which had not only failed to provide for the eventual redemption of its obligations but was unable even to make the current interest payments . Men with money to lend found the avenues to profitable investment blocked by the general derangement of business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts and issuing worthless paper currency . The merchants , manufacturers and shipbuilders were likewise affected by the inability of the government to enact protective tariffs and navigation laws or to secure favorable commercial treaties with foreign nations . This general contempt for the government was fully shared by the great slave owners of the South who believed that the government should possess adequate power to insure the return of runaway slaves and to quell servile insurrections . Indeed , the southern planters were as vitally concerned in maintaining order against the possibility of slave revolts as the creditors of Massachusetts were in preventing recurrences of Shays ' rebellion . The lodestone of a common material interest inevitably drew together the men of large economic interests irrespective of state boundaries or other artificial distinctions , and consolidated them into a compact group opposed to the poor and the debtor classes . Efforts had been made at various times to strengthen the Articles with amendments conferring . commercial and taxation powers upon Congress , but these attempts had all been defeated by the requirement that any changes must be accepted by act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York legislature had proposed a convention to revise the Articles , and the suggestion had been repeated  | by the legislature of Massachusetts three years later , but without effect . The train of events which culminated in the meeting of the Constitutional Convention was inspired and set in motion by men aroused to action by the commercial chaos that reigned in the country . In 1785 commissioners of Virginia and Maryland came together for the purpose of adjusting questions involving jurisdiction over the navigation of the Potomac River and Chesapeake Bay . It quickly developed that the question of trading regulations was one that affected the neighboring states as well ; and Maryland proposed that Pennsylvania and Delaware should be invited to participate in a subsequent meeting . Virginia , however , enlarged the scope of the proposed conference by formally calling upon all the states to send delegates to Annapolis in 1786 to " consider how far a uniform system in their commercial relations may be necessary to their common interest and their permanent harmony . " The response of the states to this invitation was disappointing , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No definite action affecting commercial relations could be taken under the circumstances ; but the meeting went on record in favor of another convention , to be held in Philadelphia the following year , to " devise such further Provisions as shall appear to them necessary to render the Constitution of the Federal Government adequate to the exigencies of the Union . " The interesting phraseology of this resolution was the work of Alexander Hamilton . The resolution further provided that any changes recommended by the proposed convention should be adopted in the manner provided by the Articles of Confederation , namely , ratification by the legislatures of all the states . The Confederation Congress ignored the resolution of this extralegal body for a time ; but when it became clear that the  | states were planning to act upon it anyway , Congress hastened to lend its sanction to the gathering . To what extent the large economic interests directed and controlled the selection of delegates to the Constitutional Convention is necessarily a matter of conjecture except as indirect evidence may shed light on the matter . In every state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult , if not impossible , to ascertain what arguments and pressures were brought to bear to influence the members in their action . According to John Adams , " The Federal Convention was the work of the commercial people in the seaport towns , of the slave-holding states , of the officers of the revolutionary army , and the property holders everywhere " ; and this judgment of a distinguished contemporary is largely borne out by the recent researches of Dr. Charles A. Beard . Of the fifty-five members who attended the convention at one time or other not one represented in his own personal economic interests the small farming or mechanic classes On the contrary the great majority , at least five-sixths of the membership , were directly and personally interested in the outcome of their labors through their ownership of property , real or personal , and were , to a greater or less extent , economic beneficiaries of the adoption of the Constitution . While detailed figures must necessarily be inexact , it is worth noting that speculative investments in land were represented by at least fourteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members in sums varying from negligible amounts up to more than $ioo , 000 . The precise number of public creditors in the convention will probably never be known , but the names of no less than forty appeared upon the records of the United States Treasury Department when Hamilton 's funding scheme was carried into operation shortly after the adoption of the Constitution . Personalty in the form of money  | loaned at interest was represented by at least twenty-four members . The mercantile , manufacturing and shipping interests had spokesmen in at least eleven members . Fifteen or more members were slaveholders . Thus the membership of the convention consisted not of political visionaries or closet philosophers but of men of the world determined , above all things else , to erect a government that would be effective and workable from a practical man 's point of view . The Constitutional Convention held its sessions in secret ; and not until the publication of the official journal by act of Congress in 1819 was the bare record of its proceedings divulged . Many more years passed before James Madison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these accounts and other fragmentary versions of the convention 's activities the historians have been able to reconstruct a picture of the stormy controversies and grudging concessions that marked the various stages of the framing of the Constitution . To quote Professor Max Farrand , the completed Constitution was " neither a work of divine origin , nor the greatest work that was ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man , ' but a practical , workable document .. . planned to meet certain immediate needs and modified to suit the exigencies of the situation . " The document contained every protection which the interests of the conservative classes had demanded for the safeguarding of their property rights . The structure of the new government with its intricate system of checks and balances was designed to prevent the populace from giving free rein to its whims and passions . Of the three principal departments of the government the qualified voters in the states were permitted to vote directly for only one house of Congress ; and ample provision was made by which the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specifically , provisions were inserted for conferring full revenue powers upon Congress and for making the debts of the Confederation government an obligation upon the new government . Congress was further given plenary power to raise and support military and naval forces , for the protection of the country against both foreign and domestic foes . Over foreign and interstate commerce Congress was given substantially complete control , which made it possible for the new government to enact protective tariffs and to prevent the erection of tariff barriers between the states . The new government also received unrestricted powers of treatymaking with ample authority to enforce treaties when made . Not less significant were the clauses which forbade the states to issue paper currency , or to make anything but gold and silver legal tender , or to make laws impairing the obligation of contracts . By such provisions conditions were assured under which holders of public securities might be paid in full , social disturbances quelled , the western frontier protected , advantages secured in dealing with foreign nations , manufactures fostered , and the financial follies of the states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Convention to agree upon such a document in secret session , and another to secure the acceptance of these sweeping provisions by the country after public consideration . Technically , the instrument framed by the Convention was only a revision of the Articles of Confederation , and hence must go through the regular process prescribed for alterations and amendments of the Confederation government . But the members of the Convention early recognized the impossibility of securing approval by the legislatures of all the states ; and so they decided to disregard the existing legal machinery , and they put forth a document which provided for its own method  | of ratification . The proposed Constitution declared that the states should signify their approval through special conventions chosen upon the express issue , and when nine state conventions had ratified the instrument , it should go into effect among the states so acting . The whole procedure was a departure from the provisions of the fundamental law under which the Convention had been called ; and this action of the Convention , from a legal point of view , can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jurist has remarked , if such an act had been committed by Julius or Napoleon , it would have been pronounced a coup d'etat . The future of the Constitution now hung upon the decision of the state ratifying conventions . From November , 1787 , to the following July a campaign of continental proportions was carried on . Since the Constitution was not submitted to direct popular ratification , as are state constitutions today , the best indication that we have of popular sentiment is found in the selection of delegates to the state conventions . But here allowances must be made for the fact that perhaps one-third of the adult white male population were excluded from the franchise by the property qualifications that prevailed in every state . In New York alone a temporary exception was made , and all . adult men were allowed to vote . A considerable proportion of the qualified voters in every state abstained from voting through indifference or ignorance ; and in general it seems highly probable that not more than one-fifth or one-fourth of the adult white males participated in the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for and against ratification were much the same in the several states ; but each state campaign had its local peculiarities due to the special social , economic and geographic conditions . In Massachusetts the eastern  | counties with their dominant commercial and financial interests favored ratification , while the farmers of the interior , who had recruited the rankq of Shays ' army , fought it . In Rhode Island wealth and commerce supported the Constitution but were outweighed by the agricultural class who were advocates of " cheap money . " The forces opposed to ratification in Connecticut were very feeble but drew their strength from those parts of the state that contained the debtor class and from the men who had sympathized with Shays ' rebellion . The rural counties of New York were in opposition while the business section of the state in and about New York City were ardent ratificationists . New Jersey was favorable to the new instrument because of the trading restrictions that had been imposed upon her by New York and Pennsylvania but a note of dissent was heard from the debtor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes united in supporting the Constitution in face of the opposition of the Scotch-Irish and German radicals of the backcountry , who had dominated state politics since revolutionary times . In Virginia the long-standing social and economic antagonism between east and west , between the great planters and merchants of the tidewater and the small farmers of the interior , reappeared . Eighty per cent of tidewater Virginia , containing the monied and commercial interests , supported the Constitution whereas seventy-four per cent of the back-country voted against it . Much the same alignment was found in the Carolinas , with the agrarian element in an actual majority in North Carolina . Georgia gave a speedy endorsement to the Constitution because , as the southern frontier state , the people felt the imperative need of a strong general government to assist in warding off Indian attacks . West of the Alleghanies the people were a unit in opposing ratification . John Marshall , an active supporter of ratification and  | later Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court , wrote in his Life of Washington some years later : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states that even after the subject had been discussed for a considerable time , the fate of the constitution could scarcely be conjectured ; and so small in many instances , was the majority in its favor , as to afford strong ground for the opinion that , had the influence of character been removed , the intrinsic merits of the instrument would not have secured its adoption . Indeed it is scarcely to be doubted that in some of the adopting states a majority of the people were in the opposition . In all of them , the numerous amendments which were proposed demonstrate the reluctance with which the new government was accepted ; and that a dread of dismemberment , not an approbation of the particular system under discussion , had induced an acquiescence in it . " In the words of Woodrow Wilson , the friends of the Constitution had on their side the tremendous advantage of " a strong and intelligent class , possessed of unity and informed by a conscious solidarity of material interest . " But " economic determinism " was not all to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foes of adoption had strong theoretical grounds for fearing a highly centralized federal government , they also had definite pecuniary reasons for condemning the many restrictions imposed upon popular government in general and upon the authority of the state governments in particular . It was Alexander Hamilton 's cynical comment that the new frame of government encountered the " opposition of all men much in debt , who will not wish to see a government established , one object of which is to restrain the means of cheating creditors . " It is a mistaken notion that all of the distinguished men of the country were to be found in the ranks of the ratificationists , for among the active opponents were such men as Patrick  | Henry , Richard Henry Lee and Edmund Randolph of Virginia , Elbridge Gerry of Massachusetts , and George Clinton of New York . The last two later occupied the office of vicepresident of the United States . Although the enemies of ratification were poorly organized , it appears that in the case of four states ? New Hampshire , Massachusetts , New York and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their election , either opposed to the Constitution or else so closely divided that their action was in doubt . A change of ten votes in Massachusetts , six in New Hampshire , six in Virginia and two in New York would have prevented ratification by the conventions of those states . In North Carolina the Constitution was rejected by vote of the convention ; and the authorities in Rhode Island refused to summon a convention to consider it . Both states failed to take part in the first presidential election . On the basis of the new fundamental law the new national government was in due form established . The bitter animosities which had characterized the struggle over ratification subsided and were soon forgotten . All elements united in support of the Constitution and for the moment the political waters seemed tranquil . But the underlying economic and social conflict could not be so easily stilled . Forced to assume new forms by the changed circumstances , the commercial and monied interests on the one hand and the agrarian and debtor interests on the other prepared to wage battle for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fundamental explanation of the rise of political parties during Washington 's presidency . BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE The chief authority on the economic phases of the movement for the Constitution is Charles A. Beard , who presented the results of  | his researches in his work : An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States ( New York , 1913 ) . Most of the early historians dealing with the movement for the Constitution had largely overlooked the economic conflict involved , one conspicuous exception being John Marshall who in discussing the matter in his Life of George Washington ( 5 v. ; Philadelphia , 1804-1807 ) showed a keen appreciation of the economic motivation of events . John Bach McMaster in his History of the People of the United States ( 8 v. ; New York , 1883-1913 ) , vol. i , and Andrew Cunningham McLaughlin in his The Confederation and the Constitution ( in The American Nation : a History , vol. 10 ; New York , 1905 ) deal with social and economic conditions in this period , but their treatments are largely surveys of outward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events began to be made with the appearance of a notable series of monographic studies which had been worked out independently of each other : James C. Welling 's " The States ' - Rights Conflict over the Public Lands " in the Papers of the American Historical Association ( New York , 1889 ) , vol. iii , pp. 167-188 ; Orin Grant Libby 's The Geographical Distribution of the Vote of the Thirteen States on the Federal Constitution , 1787-1788 ( Madison , 1894 ) ; Samuel B. Harding 's The Contest over the Ratification of the Federal Constitution in the State of Massachusetts ( Cambridge , 1896 ) ; F. G. Bates 's Rhode Island and the Formation of the Union ( New York , 1898 ) ; William A. Schaper 's " Sectionalism and Representation in South Carolina " in the Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 19oo , vol. i , pp. 237-463 ; and Charles Henry Ambler 's Sectionalism in Virginia from 1776 to 1861 ( Chicago , 1910 ) . The appearance of Dr. Beard 's volume in 1913 , at a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to be greeted with a storm of criticism and protest . As a matter of fact , his chief contribution to the subject beyond what had already been done lay in his painstaking analysis of the economic interests of the members of the Constitutional Convention and his emphasis upon the public security holdings of members of the Federal and state ratifying conventions . Perhaps the most incisive scholarly criticism of Dr. Beard 's book was made by E. S. Corwin in the History Teacher 's Magazine for February , 1914 . Dr. Beard 's answer to his critics may be found in his Economic Origins of Jeffersonian Democracy ( New York , 1915 ) , pp. 1-9 . The point of view set forth by Dr. Beard has been generally accepted by scholars who have written on the Confederation period since 1913 ; for example , Allen Johnson 's Union a'nd Democracy ( Boston , 1915 ) , chap . ii ; Homer C. Hockett 's Western Influences on Political Parties to 1825 ( Columbus , 1917 ) , pp. 27-40 ; and Frank Tracy Carlton 's Organized Labor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 45-52.  | THE SIGNIFICANCE OF JACKSONIAN DEMOCRACY The habit of the earlier historians of thinking of American history as a chronicle of political and constitutional development has given currency to a very misleading conception of " Jacksonian Democracy . " To the ordinary reader of history the phrase refers to a violent change in American government and politics effected during the years from 1829 to 1837 by an irresponsible and erratic military chieftain at the head of the newly enfranchised and untutored masses . Notwithstanding the changing , emphasis of historical writing in late years this notion has tended to persist , perhaps through a natural desire of the human kind to seek a simple explanation of events rather than a complex one , and perhaps also because of our tendency to picture a superman or a malign genius ? as the case may be ? as the moving force in historic changes . The researches that have been conducted into the life of the people of the United States in the twenties and the thirties have thrown an entirely different light upon the democratic upheaval of that period . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformation of American society that made itself manifest not only in the sphere of government but in almost every other phase of human thought and endeavor . Jackson himself was a product , rather than the creator , of the new democratic spirit , for he rode into power on a tide of forces that had been gathering strength for more than a decade and which he had done 200  | little or nothing to bring into being . It will appear that the new democracy was " Jacksonian " only to the extent that Jackson stamped the political phase of the movement with the imprint of his personality , lending it certain picturesque characteristics and dramatic qualities . In the present discussion the origins and development of this new spirit in American life will be traced in the period of a decade or so before Jackson 's elevation to the presidency , as well as during his term of office ; and its liberating and liberalizing effects will be followed in the rise of a new society west of the Alleghanies , in the development of a dynamic labor movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious aspirations of the people , and in the profound changes in political organization and governmental practice . I The growth of the West affoids one vital approach to an understanding of the new democratic outlook of America . Reference has been made elsewhere in this volume to the fact that in the first quarter of the century the whole physical basis of American life was changed by the expansion of the American population across the Alleghanies . In 1800 only one-twentieth of the people lived west of the mountains ; but when Jackson was inaugurated president , one-third of them were to be found in that region . Meantime the population of the nation had increased from five and one-third millions to thirty millions ; so that the West in 1829 contained almost twice as many people as the entire United States at the beginning of the century . In the train of western migration there sprang up mighty frontier commonwealths , increasing the original number of states from thirteen to twenty-two . By the time Jackson entered the presidency the entire domain east of the Mississippi river had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and be-  | yond the great river Louisiana and Missouri had won acceptance as members of the Union . All the conditions of life in the West made for the promotion of equalitarian ideas . The democracy of the frontier was not derived from the reading of philosophical disquisitions but grew out of the hardy experiences of the pioneers in wresting the land from savage foe and the primitive resistance of Nature . A man was deemed a man if he could survive the struggle for existence , irrespective of his social antecedents ; and land was so abundant that every man might attain a position of economic independence . Political equality was thus based upon a real equality . It was a democracy as yet without organization , one that depended upon personal leadership . The man most successful as an Indian fighter was expected to make the best judge or the best Congressman . It was a democracy opposed to an office-holding class and moved by a deep conviction that any upstanding man was competent to hold any office . Yet on clearcut political issues the people were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main tenets : political democracy , equality of economic opportunity , and opposition to monopoly and special privilege . Distinction between north and south did not as yet exist in the trans-Alleghany region . The difficulties of the pioneer of the Old Northwest in hewing a clearing out of the hard woods of his region were matched by the trials of the Mississippi pioneer in wrestling with the pine forests of the south . The West with all its crudenesses and virtues came to play a large part in American life in the twenties and the thirties , deepening the channels of democracy and driving through them a roaring tide that threatened to inundate the banks . Henry Clay of Kentucky , Thomas H. Benton of Missouri and Andrew Jackson of Tennessee were all products  | of western conditions , though with curious variations , and by their tremendous energy and personal gifts they helped to impress the ideals and prejudices of the frontier upon the national government . The life of the westerner was crowded with the exigencies of daily living and secondarily with the political problems which the necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as yet no contribution to make to creative literature or to the fine art of living . The life of the frontier democracy bore the promise of original contributions but its expression had to await the oncoming of the children and grandchildren of the first pioneers . II While democracy was working out its destiny in the forests of the Mississippi valley , the men left behind in the eastern cities were engaging in a struggle to establish conditions of equality and social well-being adapted to their special circumstances . To understand the difficulties and oppressive conditions against which this movement of protest was directed , it is necessary to consider the changed circumstances of the life of the common man in the new industrial centers of the East since the opening years of the nineteenth century . Since the days of Jefferson 's embargo , New England and the Middle Atlantic states had been undergoing a transformation from a section of predominant agricultural and shipping interests to a section increasingly devoted to manufacturing . This growth of manufacturing marked the advent of the factory system in American history ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a comparatively small scale as measured by modern standards , it profoundly influenced the lives of the working class immediately concerned . Prior to the introduction of the factory system , such  | manufacturing as was known in America had been carried on under the " domestic system . " Each employer or " master " worked side by side with his journeymen and apprentices , sharing their hard conditions and long hours ; and every workingman expected in time to become an employer . There was no sharp division between capital and labor , and no distinct and permanent laboring class . With the application of machinery to work that had hitherto been performed by hand , the situation of the workingman changed radically . Under the new conditions the mass of hired labor shifted from the farm and the village to the trades and the manufactures in the towns in the first quarter of the century . The customary workday on the farm from " sun to sun " or " dark to dark " was carried over into the factory and the trades notwithstanding the greatly altered conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same ruinously long hours as the men . An estimate of the average workday in the manufacturing districts was made in 1839 by James Montgomery , superintendent of the York Factories at Saco , Maine , who calculated that the day 's work at Lowell averaged a little more than twelve hours the year around for six days a week , and that in many of the Middle Atlantic and southern states the ordinary working hours approached thirteen a day . There is abundant evidence to show that these figures may be regarded as a conservative statement of the conditions prevailing in the earlier years o.f the century . The Lowell factories were said to en'iploy 3,800 women and 1,200 men in 1833 ; at about the same time it was estimated that twofifths of all the factory workers in New England were children under sixteen years of age . Wages had risen nominally , but since they had lagged behind the rise of prices , thr workingmen could buy less with their earnings than earlier . Factory manufacture tended to concentrate in cities ; and the period was marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1800 there were only six cities in the nation with a population of eight thousand or over ; three decades later the number had increased to twenty-six , including three whose population ranged from seventy-five thousand to a quarter of a million . The wage-earners , forced to live near their source of employment , became congested into squalid and unwholesome tenements , where they lived under conditions of destitution , disease , vice and crime . The city of Lowell , Massachusetts , which in 182o did not even exist , had a population of over twenty thousand in r84o , collected there largely to work in the mills . The pressure of industry not only tended to degrade the wage-earners morally and physically but left no place for the education of the children . In 1825 a committee of the Massachusetts legislature engaged in investigating the opportunities of children for schooling was able to discover only two towns where the children between the ages of six and seventeen worked as few as eleven hours of steady labor a day ; elsewhere the usual working hours were twelve and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children of the poor were everywhere excluded from attendance at the better schools . Although the principle of free , taxsupported schools had long been established in Massachusetts and most of New England , public schools were generally much less efficient than private schools , and Rhode Island had no public educational system whatever . In such states as New York and Pennsylvania , private schools were conducted for the children of the well-to-do , and such free schools as were maintained were regarded as dispensers of charity to paupers with all the odium attached thereto . In 1833 it was estimated that in the entire country one million children Df the ages from six to fifteen were not in any school , and eighty thousand of these were in the state of New York . Other conditions of their daily life convinced the laboring  | class that the law and the courts bore unequally upon the poor and the rich . The eastern states were slower than the western in bestowing the franchise upon the unpropertied class . Even when this concession was reluctantly granted , much injustice remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system permitted the rich to escape by paying a small fine whereas the poor man must serve or go to prison . The debtors ' prisons still swallowed thousands of worthy but unfortunate men . Labor combinations to raise wages were prosecuted under the old English common law as illegal conspiracies . The banking system of the times afforded the workingmen none of the advantage of credit and frequently caused them to be paid in bank notes of doubtful value . The revolt of labor against these hard conditions of life formed an integral part of the democratic upheaval of Jackson 's time . Theoretically the workers might have escaped most of these hardships by joining their venturesome brethren who had taken up public land on the frontier ; and in fact many individuals of self-reliance and a little cash surplus did so . But to the average mill-hand , burdened with a family , the public domain west of the Alleghanies seemed inaccessible from distance and expense ; he felt obliged to work out his salvation in the community where he resided and with such means as lay readily at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the late twenties . Before that time a sullen discontent had shown itself occasionally in strikes and in the sporadic formation of labor unions ; but the working class as a whole remained unorganized , and unaware that their greatest hope for relief lay in combined and aggressive action . About 1825 , however , this fact dawned upon their consciousness and they began to make use of their collective strength for the betterment of social conditions . Their efforts fell in the  | two more or less related spheres of industrial and political action . From 1825 dates a rapid multiplication of labor unions , or " trade associations " as they were then called . In every large city the different trades succeeded in organizing . At the outset the various trade associations in a city were unconnected with each other ; but in 1827 a movement began in Philadelphia to join together the several trade associations into an effective central organization of the wage-earners of the entire city . The new organization was called the " Mechanics ' Union of Trade Associations , " and its constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible , the desolating effects which must inevitably arise from a depreciation of the intrinsic value of human labor " and " to promote equally the happiness , prosperity and welfare of the whole community . " The idea of central federations spread to other cities ; so that within a few years all the large cities had similar organizations . In 1834 occurred the next logical step when the city federations . came together in a national federation . At about the same time some of the stronger crafts began to organize upon a national basis , namely the cordwainers , the printers , the comb makers , the carpenters and the handloom weavers . By 1836 it was estimated that union membership in the seaboard cities of the North amounted to three hundred thousand . These labor organizations sought not only to improve conditions of employment through strikes and other forms of industrial action but they also directed their efforts to effecting reforms of a broader social import through political action . The transition to active political participation was natural and easy . At first the city federations pledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests and claims of the Working Classes " in the city council and  | the state legislature ; but when these halfway expedients failed to obtain results , the wage-earners proceeded to organize their own parties in state after state . The first Working Men 's party appeared in Philadelphia in 1828 ; New York followed in the next year ; and within a short time Working Men 's parties of varying strength were to be found in all the seaboard states north of Maryland . These parties enjoyed local successes , occasionally sent members to the state legislatures and to Congress , and forced the old parties in some instances to name candidates favorable to labor . The aims of the organized labor elements harmonized with the new democratic aspirations of the age and did much toward vitalizing those aspirations . The strikes carried on by the trade associations sought to increase wages , to secure what we now call the " closed shop , " and to shorten the workday to ten hours . The demands of the labor parties were broader in scope , touching on most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes and seeking to create broader opportunities for the common man . As summed up by the Mechanics ' Free Press of Philadelphia in its issue of April 16 , 1831 , the program of labor comprised these leading demands : " Universal education , abolition of chartered monopolies including the United States Bank , equal taxation , revision or abolition of the militia system , a less expensive law system , all officers to be elected directly by the people , a lien law for laborers , no legislation on religion . " The abolition of imprisonment for debt might properly have been included in this list . The paramount emphasis placed by labor organizations everywhere upon education grew out of the conviction , often expressed , that since " our government is republican , our education should be equally so . " In the words of the Philadelphia Trades Union , nothing less was demanded than that  | " an open school , and competent teachers , for every child in the State , from the lowest branch of an infant school to the lecture rooms of practical science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be chosen by the people . " Fortunate it was for the republic that at a time when the untutored masses were receiving the boon of political equality the battering away of the organized workingmen was making possible the establishment of popular education . In general the working people not only fought against their own immediate ills but as individuals were in sympathy with all the reform movements of the period , from temperance and the outlawing of lotteries to the abolition of capital punishment . The labor movement reached its floodtide while Andrew Jackson was in office . Indeed , he could not have been elected president if the votes of the laboring men of the Northeast had not been added to those of his followers in the Southeast and the West . Jackson capitalized this support when he waged battle against the great financial monopoly , the United States Bank , and gave express recognition to ? ts demands when he established the ten-hour workday in the federal shipyards in 1836 . The industrial depression following the panic of 1837 destroyed most of the labor unions and federations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by internal dissensions and by the action of the Democratic party in taking over many of the workingmen 's chief demands . But this pioneer labor movement had already made a lasting impression on American democratic ideals and practice . Jackson 's successor , Martin Van Buren , applied the principle of the ten-hour day to all government works in 1840 ; and indeed by that date the shorter workday was established in most mechanical branches . By that time , also , imprisonment for debt had been abolished in most of the states ; and the foun-  | dations of popular education had been laid . Further than this , Miss Helen Sumner has well said : " though the Working Men 's party had little success in electing its candidates to office and though its immediate tangible results were small , it succeeded in forcing its measures into the foreground of public attention , and eventually all the specific evils of which it complained were abolished and all its constructive measures were passed . " The democratic ferment of the twenties and the thirties was also active in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to be set free which emboldened writers and thinkers to loftier flights than had been their wont and gave them a robust faith in the perfectibility of mankind . The new spirit flowered luxuriantly in the literature of the period , which for the first time cast off its servile dependence on England in literary manners . In 1819 appeared Washington Irving 's Sketch Book , which immortalized the Hudson river in world literature . In 1821 James Fenimore Cooper published The Spy , a purely American novel , to be followed two years later by The Pioneers , the first of the Leatherstocking Tales . The Spy has been termed by discerning critics " our literary Declaration of Independence , " and it marked the opening of an era of a truly indigenous American literature . The writers of the next quarter-century became definitely " American " in their outlook , originality and subject matter . It was in this period that John Greenleaf Whittier , Oliver Wendell Holmes , James Russell Lowell , Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow began their literary careers ? all of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world , derived much of their inspiration from their American environment and displayed strong humanitarian sympathy with the moral unrest  | of the times . Out of this period , too , came Edgar Allan Poe , a tragic and solitary genius , the Ishmael of letters , who shows no reflection of place or time in his work but through whom America made her most significant contribution to general literature ? the short story . The trend of the times inspired men of scholarship to rewrite the history of the republic with a new dignity and with a purpose to glorify democratic institutions and deify the founders of the nation . George Bancroft began his monumental history of the United States in the thirties , thoroughly imbued with the belief , as Professor Dunning has aptly remarked , that the American republic represented " the culmination of God 's wonder-working in the life of mankind . " Late in the twenties Jared Sparks took up his vast labors of collecting and editing historical documents , taking care to alter and embellish such writings as he selected for publication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disillusioned by observing the patriot fathers in their unguarded moments . Or as one of his admirers put it in defense of Sparks 's method , he was resolved to defeat the " prurient curiosity " of the public " to see a great man in dishabille . " The awakened interest in literary self-expression was further evidenced by the establishment of the first substantial literary periodicals in America and the founding of great publishing houses . In 1815 the North American Review made its appearance ; and before Jackson left the presidency , the New England Magazine ( 1831 ) , the Knickerbocker Magazine ( 1832 ) and the Southern Literary Messenger ( 1834 ) were added to the list . D. Appleton started his career as a book publisher in 1831 ; and by the close of the decade the foundations had been laid of the well known houses of Harper &; Brothers , J. B. Lippincott &; Company , Little , Brown &; Company , and G. P. Putnam &; Sons . The liberation of the American mind from time-honored  | traditions and rigid conventions appeared markedly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Lowell 's epigram , " Protestantism had made its fortune and no longer protested " ; a new religious spirit better suited to the times was needed . The stern Calvinistic theology , which had so long held sway in New England , felt the first impact of the democratic tide . Under the leadership of Channing , Unitarianism was organized in 1815 by dissenting members of the Congregational Church , on a creed opposing the sombre doctrines of total depravity and predestination and affirming the infinite possibilities of human development . The new system exerted an influence altogether out of proportion to the number of its adherents , and attained its loftiest expression in the philosophic movement known as " Transcendentalism , " of which Ralph Waldo Emerson was the foremost exponent . Transcendentalism was a combination of the spiritual earnestness of Puritanism and an untrammeled individualism , which strove to emphasize the dignity and freedom of the human spirit . The spread of Unitarianism throughout New England was checked only by the work of men like Horace Bushnell , who sought to harmonize the Calvinistic theology of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other sects were experiencing similar difficulties in the attempt to keep pace with the changing ideals of the age . The Quakers were rent in twain by the teachings of Elias Hicks . The Campbells , father and son , led a departure from the established Presbyterian order . Universalism took its rise at this time ; and in the West there occurred a rapid growth of the Methodists , Baptists and other denominations which were able to satisfy the religious cravings of a people impatient of theological hair-splitting . The religious zeal of the frontiersmen found characteristic expression in the democratic camp-meeting , where the revivalist might use his  | knowledge of crowd psychology to arouse his audience to ecstasies of religious excitement . The new interest in the well-being of the masses found expression in countless projects for social betterment . In 1824 began the first organized movement against strong drink . The use of intoxicants in the United States was wellnigh universal . Even at the chief colleges liquor was openly sold from booths on public days ; and municipal officials provided free punch for those who marched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inns were to be found decanters of brandy free to the guests . The movement began in Boston with the formation of societies pledged to abstinence . Within five years more than one thousand of these societies had been formed in all parts of the country . By that time more than fifty distilleries had gone out of business , and the importation of foreign spirits was greatly reduced . The movement now took the form of the " Washington societies , " and in the forties blossomed forth into a demand for state statutes forbidding the liquor traffic altogether . Other reform movements found inspiration in the temper of the times . In the twenties the woman rights movement had its inception . At first directed to the improvement of female education and enlarged rights for married women , it speedily broadened its scope and , in the forties , extended to a demand for woman suffrage . The anti-slavery movement underwent a significant change . Surcharged with the new democratic spirit , it lost its former philanthropic and hortatory character ; and in the hands of William Lloyd Garrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of existing legal and constitutional barriers . The American Anti-Slavery Society was founded ; and by 184o , two thousand centers of abolition propaganda existed in all parts of the North . But the new humanitarian spirit also had immediate prac-  | tical effects . Massachusetts now founded the first public hospital for the insane . Stephen Girard of Philadelphia , who died in 1831 , left the bulk of his fortune for the establishment of the orphan school that still bears his name . Special schools for the deaf and the blind were instituted in many states ; and state provision for the separation of juvenile delinquents from adult criminals was begun . The growing demand for higher education was met and strengthened by the establishment of Colby , Amherst , Oberlin , Kenyon , Mt . Holyoke , Randolph-Macon , Haverford , Knox , Muskingum and Marietta colleges , of Denison , Tulane , Wesleyan , Western Reserve and New York universities , and of Hartford , Lane and Union theological seminaries . Characteristic of the illimitable faith in humanity were the optimistic attempts to establish communistic colonies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert Owen , who had already attempted to found a model industrial town in Scotland , came to America and established a community at New Harmony , Indiana , where labor and property were to be in common . A little later the New England Transcendentalists founded a cooperative society at Brook Farm , near Boston , an enterprise which Hawthorne , one of the participants , subsequently satirized in The Blithedale Romance . More than thirty other communities and " phalansteries " were established , some of which are still in existence . Emerson remarked : " Not a man you meet but has a draft of a new community in his pocket ! " Although most of these experiments turned out to be failures , the fine idealism underlying them proved to be a fount of inspiration for later generations of social reformers in American history . As the foregoing account suggests , the restlessness of the times had its fantastic offshoots as well as its elements of permanent value . James Russell Lowell in his essay on Thoreau ( 1865 ) gives us his humorous recollections of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical dyspepsia brought forth its gospel . Bran had its prophets . .. . Plainness of speech was carried to a pitch that would have taken away the breath of George Fox . . . . Everybody had a mission ( with a capital M ) to attend to everybody-else 's business . No brain but had its private maggot , which must have found pitiably short commons sometimes . Not a few impecunious zealots abjured the use of money ( unless earned by other people ) , professing to live on the internal revenues of the spirit . Some had an assurance of instant millennium so soon as hooks and eyes should be substituted for buttons . Communities were established where everything was to be common but common-sense . ... Many foreign revolutionists out of work added to the general misunderstanding their contribution of broken English in every most ingenious form of fracture . All stood ready at a moment 's notice to reform everything but themselves . " But Lowell was not willing to dismiss this ebullience with a jest . " There was a very solid and serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he added ; and then he put his finger upon the fundamental significance of the unrest : " It was simply a struggle for fresh air , in which , if the windows could not be opened , there was danger that panes would be broken , though painted with images of saints and martyrs . . . . There is only one thing better than tradition , and that is the original and eternal life out of which all tradition takes its rise . It was this life which the reformers demanded , with more or less clearness of consciousness and expression , life in politics , life in literature , life in religion . " It required the broad sympathy and keen insight of a Lowell to recognize that Andrew Jackson , James Fenimore Cooper , Ralph Waldo Emerson and William Lloyd Garrison , however differing in external qualities and interests , were essentially products of the same era.  | The irrepressible desire of the common man for political self-expression , to which Lowell alluded , led to many radical changes in political precept and practice . A natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western commonwealths came into the union as self-confessed democracies . With the exception of one or two states , all adult white males were given the right to vote ; and everywhere , too , the principle was accepted that representation should be based upon population and not upon property . The action of the western states proved to be a vast makeweight in favor of greater democracy in the older states , reinforced , as the demand was , by the agitation of the laboring elements of the seaboard towns . New York , Massachusetts , Virginia and other states proceeded to modify their suffrage provisions so as to admit great numbers of the unenfranchised= classes . The presidential campaign of 1832 revealed to what extent the new political forces had gained mastery of the situation . The old method of nominating presidential candidates by means of a congressional clique , a practice that had already broken down eight years before , was now replaced by national party conventions , in which the rank and file of the party had representation . All parties in the campaign employed the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , essentially democratic in its purpose , of informing the public by means of a party platform of the policies which the party intended to adopt if successful in the election . Even the organization of the Anti-Masonic party in this campaign may be regarded as a product of the fierce democratic spirit of the times ; it represented a determination , however misguided , to rid America of what was thought to be a secret and dangerous influence in American life .  | Changes of like character were being introduced into state government and politics . Property qualifications for officeholding were removed . The governor was made elective by the people instead of by the legislature as heretofore in many states . The principle of popular election was even applied to the judges of the state courts . In Connecticut and Massachusetts the church establishments were overthrown . The choice of Andrew Jackson or of a man like him was almost inevitable under the circumstances . The popular demand was for a president who should symbolize the apotheosis of the common man . No mistake was made in this respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the backwoods country of North Carolina , where he had passed his boyhood in bare poverty . Picking up some necessary scraps of knowledge he removed to the newer frontier of Tennessee to practise law . His public career began almost at once , for he was a natural leader and maintained his mastery of men by pistol or blow , by vehement assertion or rude intellectual force , as the amenities of the occasion demanded . As president of the United States , he displayed most of the virtues and many of the defects of the masses from which he sprang . The scrambling , punch-drinking mob which invaded Washington at the inauguration , crowding and pushing into the White House and tipping over tubs of punch , did so in the spirit of copartners who at last had gotten an opportunity to take account of the assets of the firm . Though this scene was not countenanced by Jackson , he placed his seal of approval upon the aspirations of the rank and file when he introduced the " spoils system " of appointments . What could seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principle of " rotation in office , " and what more undemocratic than the older conception of a permanent officeholding gentry ?  | His democratic instincts again received full play in his great battle against the United States Bank , an institution controlled by wealthy investors in England and the United States and one which he envisaged as a money monopoly dangerous to free institutions . Once again he interpreted the inarticulate will of the people when he issued his flaming manifesto against South Carolina nullification . Had Congress heeded the advice given in each one of his eight annual messages , the Constitution would have been amended to provide for the election of president and vice-president by direct popular vote . His great contribution to American history was the establishment of the principle that the government should be responsive to the will of the masses . Yet Andrew Jackson without his background of social revolt and humanitarian idealism could not be understood or explained . He was possible because the times had prepared the way for his coming and had ripened the popular mind for his message . Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun of a new dawn , but his voice rang out in clarion tones when the morning light was breaking . BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE The facts which are brought together in the foregoing treatment may be found scattered through many secondary works ; but the vital relationship of these facts to each other and to the democratic upheaval of the twenties and the thirties was first made clear by Willis Mason West in his American History and Government ( Boston , 1913 ) , chap . xiii . The western elements in the democratic movement have been best set forth by Frederick Jackson Turner in his essay , " Contributions of the West to American Democracy " ( 1903 ) in his The Frontier in American History ( New York , .1920 ) , chap . ix ; and in his volume Rise of the New West , 1819-1829 ( in The American Nation : a History , vol. 14 ; New York , 1906 ) , chaps . v-viii . The facts concerning the pioneer labor movement in America were first set forth in documentary form in the monumental work edited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tory of American Industrial Society ( to v. ; Cleveland , 1910-1911 ) , of which vols. v and vi are devoted to " Labor Movements from  | 182o to 184o . " This material was put into the form of an historical narrative by John R. Commons and six other scholars in the work entitled History of Labour in the United States ( 2 v. ; New York , 1918 ) . Vol. i , parts ii and iii , deal with the period from 182o to 1840 . The literary awakening has been treated with relation to its historical background by William B. Cairns in his monograph On the Development of American Literature from 1815 to 1833 with Especial Reference to Periodicals ( Madison , 1898 ) , and more adequately by William J. Long in his American Literature ( Boston , 1913 ) , chaps . iii-iv . The new tendencies in historical scholarship are the theme of John Spencer Bassett 's volume The Middle Group of American Historians ( New York , 1917 ) . The new religious trend may be studied in the histories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement may be found in many places but nowhere more clearly than in Albert Bushnell Hart 's Slavery and Abolition , 1831-1841 ( in The American Nation : a History , vol. 16 ; New York , 1906 ) , , chaps . xi-xviii , xxi . For the woman 's movement in this period , see the Bibliographical Note at the close of chap . vi of the present volume . The educational awakening has been most appreciatively set forth with reference to the social and political background of the times by Ellwood P. Cubberley in his Public Education in the United States ( Boston , 1919 ) , chaps . iv-ix . A synthetic treatment of the communistic experiments may be found in John Humphrey Noyes 's History of American Socialisms ( Philadelphia , 187o ) , and more briefly in Morris Hillquit 's History of Socialism in the United States ( New York , 1903 ) , part i . The widespread interest in social reform is treated from the standpoint of transcendentalist philosophy by Ralph Waldo Emerson in his lecture entitled " New England Reformers , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 V. ; New York , n. d. ) , vol. iii , pp. 237-270 . The political aspects of the democratic movement have been treated in an enlightening manner in M. Ostrogorski 's Democracy and the Organization of Political Parties ( 2 v. ; New York , 19o2 ) , vol. ii , chap . ii ; Charles Edward Merriam 's A History of American Political Theories ( New York , 1903 ) , chap . v ; and William MacDonald 's Jacksonian Democracy , 1829-1837 ( in The American Nation : a History , vol. 15 ; New York , 1906 ) , chaps . iv , xiv , xv . Of the many biographies of Andrew Jackson the most recent and best is that by John Spencer Bassett ( 2 v. ; Garden City , 1911 ) .  | THE STATE RIGHTS FETISH The doctrine of state rights is one that is intimately associated with American history , especially with certain movements and controversies that fell in the period before the Civil War . Writers and teachers of American history are accustomed to use the phrase as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That this is far from true any detailed examination of American history should make apparent ; and indeed the expression itself has borne different meanings at different epochs or as understood by different leaders in the same epoch . At one period of our history the foremost exponents of the state rights theory were believers in nullification . At another time the doctrine was epitomized in the claim of the right of secession . In either of these forms the doctrine might more properly be called " state sovereignty . " Yet again , those who promulgated state rights views had nothing more in contemplation than a peaceful political purpose to induce the federal government to allow freer play for the authority of the state governments . These contrasting schools of slate rights opinion did not essentially differ with each other as to fundamental purpose but , as we shall see , they held different views as to a practical program of achieving results . The kernel of all forms of the state rights doctrine was the desire of the state governments to enhance their power or , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since the respective spheres of power of state and nation are defined in the federal Constitution , advocates of state rights , however they may have differed among themselves , all joined in professing a belief in a " strict construction " of that instrument . They held that the powers granted to the federal government in the Constitution should be understood in the most literal sense and , in the language of the tenth amendment , that the powers " not delegated to the United States by the Constitution , nor prohibited by it to the States , " were " reserved to the States respectively , or to the people . " 1 The origin of the great controversy is to be found in the Federal Constitutional Convention . In a less direct sense , the state rights question is not to be regarded as an American ' problem at all , but rather as the inevitable fruit of any attempt to reconcile centralized federative control with local self-government . In this sense , the Revolutionary War may be regarded as a victory for state rights , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Articles of Confederation were a codification of that victory in the guise of a formal constitution under which the separate states became freer of their own central government than they as colonies had desired to be of the British home government . The chief task that confronted the leaders of the Federal Constitutional Convention was , in its essence , the same that the British government had failed to solve a dozen years before : the problem of harmonizing central unified control with state sovereignty . The solution was worked out in the Constitutional Convention by men of practical vision who were resolved to footnotes i It is interesting to note that the state-rights strict constructionists were always one-sided in the application of their doctrine , and were never willing to apply strict construction as a criterion when defining the rights reserved to the states . From this point of view those who are known in history as the broad constructionists , the men who desired to preserve or enlarge the powers of the federal government , may be regarded as strict constructionists in respect to state authotity.  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to preconceived theories of state sovereignty . The constitution they produced magnificently justified their method ; but from the standpoint of pure theory the document necessarily contained compromises , concealments and inconsistencies which were eagerly seized upon by later disputants to justify their peculiar views of the nature of the federal system that had been created . Leaders of both the nationalist and state rights schools could find aid and comfort in the wording of the Constitution ; but neither group could make out an impregnable case for its manner of thinking without ignoring or explaining away phrases and implications which supported the contrary position . Readers of the older American histories are likely to get the impression that the state rights theory , like cotton and slavery , was a peculiar product of the South , and that in the political field it has dominated the beliefs and policies of the Democratic party . On the basis of these assumptions the history of the United States prior to the Civil War , and to some extent since , is pictured as a great struggle between two schools of governmental theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wedded by temperament and intellect to the one view , and the rival party supported by a majority of the northerners having a psychological affinity for the other . There is , of course , a measure of truth in all this ; but the picture as a whole is in wrong perspective and blurs the essential facts . It is the purpose of the present discussion to show , as Alexander Johnston has so well said , that " almost every state in the Union in turn declared its own sovereignty , ' and denounced as almost treasonable similar declarations in other cases by other states , " and , secondly , that political parties have been almost as variable in this respect as the states . Throughout the discussion it will appear that eco-  | nomic interest or some other local advantage has usually determined the attitude of states and parties toward questions of constitutional construction . The first notable attempt by any state legislatures to formulate the state rights doctrine appeared in the wellknown Virginia and Kentucky resolutions of 1798 and 1799 . We know now that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Madison and Jefferson , they were adopted by the legislatures of Virginia and Kentucky as a spectacular protest against the action of the Federalists in Congress in passing the Alien and Sedition Acts and other laws which seemed to contravene a plain reading of the Constitution . Far from being carefully reasoned documents , these resolutions resorted to extravagant language in much the same manner as modern political platforms and for exactly the same purpose : the arousing of popular indignation against the party in power . By both states the Union was pronounced a compact formed by sovereign states which retained the right to decide when the federal government was acting beyond its constitutional powers . The Virginia resolutions asserted , somewhat vaguely , that when , as in the present case , the federal government was guilty of exceeding its authority , the states had the right " to interpose for arresting the progress of the evil " ; and the Kentucky legislature , while bravely resolving that nullification was " the rightful remedy , " ended up rather lamely by declaring that against the acts objected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solemn protest . " In view of the next turning in the history of the state rights theory , it is interesting to note that the New England legislatures , controlled by Federalist opinion , were a unit in decrying the dangerous tendency of the Virginia and Ken-  | tucky resolutions and in asserting that the power of passing upon the constitutionality of acts of Congress was vested by the Constitution exclusively in the federal courts . The second important development of the state rights doctrine grew out of very different circumstances . In December , 1807 , the Republican party in Congress under the leadership of President Jefferson passed the embargo as an act of retaliation against British and French interferences with American trade during the Napoleonic wars . New England was the center of the shipbuilding industry and the chief carrier of world commerce at this time , and the people there bitterly resented a regulation which meant the total destruction of their chief source of wealth . They therefore embarked upon a career of obstruction and opposition to the federal government , that was to last far into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 1812 to 1815 . Forced to resort to minority tactics , the New England leaders found their most effective weapon in the adoption of the state rights doctrine which Jefferson and Madison had sponsored a few years earlier . In February , 18o9 , the Massachusetts legislature resolved that the embargo measures were , " in many respects , unjust , oppressive and unconstitutional , and not legally binding on the citizens of this state , " though the citizens were counselled " to abstain from forcible resistance , and to apply for their remedy in a peaceable manner to the laws of the commonwealth . " The Connecticut legislature resolved in a similar spirit that it would not " assist or concur in giving effect to the . . . unconstitutional act , passed to enforce the Embargo . " With the outbreak of the war with Great Britain , the New England leaders found new grounds for disaffection . One cause for complaint was the insistence of the United States government that the state militia should be called into  | service under federal officers . The Connecticut legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FREE SOVEREIGN and INDEPENDENT state ; that the United States are a confederacy of states ; that we are a confederated and not a consolidated republic , " and that the demand of the War Department was in plain violation of the Constitution . When a conscription bill was proposed in Congress , the Connecticut legislature denounced it in October , 1814 , as subversive of the " freedom , sovereignty and independence " of the state and " inconsistent with the principles of the constitution of the United States . " The " free , sovereign and independent State of Massachusetts " gave vent to its disapproval in a succession of resolutions centering about the thought : " Whenever the national compact is violated , . . . this legislature is bound to interpose its power , and wrest from the oppressor his victim " ; and it recalled that " This is the spirit of our Union " as " explained by the very man President Madison , who now sets at defiance all the principles of his early political life . " The festering discontent reached its climax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of official delegates from Massachusetts , Connecticut and Rhode Island , and of representatives from local conventions in New Hampshire and Vermont . We do not know to this day what occurred behind the closed doors of the convention hall although there is no doubt that talk of secession ran rife . Soberer counsels won the day , however . Resolutions were adopted repeating the gist of the Virginia resolutions of 1798 and demanding seven amendments to the federal Constitution which , if adopted , would remove all of the New England grievances . " If the Union be destined to dissolution , " the convention announced to the world , " . . . it should , if possible , be the work of peaceable times , and deliberate consent . " The geographical center of the state rights agitation shifted  | once more with the renewal of the controversy over the United States Bank . When a bill for re-charter of the First Bank was pending in Congress , the Pennsylvania legislature in January , 1811 , announced its conviction that the proposed measure was unwarranted by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all intents and purposes a treaty between sovereign states , the general government by this treaty was not constituted the exclusive or final judge of the powers it was to exercise . " The legislature of Virginia agreed that the passage of the bill " would be not only unconstitutional , but a dangerous encroachment on the sovereignty of the states . " When the Second United States Bank was finally established in 1816 , hostility to the bank reappeared , being aggravated by the hard times attending the crisis of 1819 and by the opposition of the state banks . In several states the legislatures levied heavy taxes on the branches of the United States Bank within their boundaries ; but the Supreme Court in the McCulloch v. Maryland decision in 1819 sustained the constitutionality of the bank and its exemption from state taxation . Nothing dismayed by this turn of events , the General Assembly of Ohio reaffirmed its right to tax the branch banks , endorsed the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions of 1798 and 1800 , and denounced the dogma that the powers of " sovereign States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court . The federal government found an outspoken friend in South Carolina and a somewhat unexpected defender in Massachusetts . In resolutions of 1821 and 1822 both states asserted the full right of Congress to enact laws establishing a national bank with branches in the several states , and Massachusetts , with an odor of self-righteousness , explicitly championed the right of the United States Supreme Court to settle all questions involving the constitutionality , of legisla-  | tion . Even Pennsylvania , which had pronounced the bank unconstitutional twenty years before , rallied to its support in 1831 , and requested Congress to renew its charter ! Georgia was the next state to lift the standard of state rights . Her interest in the matter was the outgrowth of a long controversy with certain Indian tribes within her boundaries , in which the United States government was acting the part of protector of the Indians . In December , 1827 , the legislature officially recorded its approval of a statement made by Governor Troup to the Secretary of War , that he felt it " to be his duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government of the United States shall think proper to make on the territory , the People or the sovereignty of Georgia . " When the United States Supreme Court handed down a decision favorable to the Indians , the legislature passed resolutions enjoining the officers of the state to ignore " every mandate and process " issued by the court , and requiring the governor to defend the rights of the state " with all the force and means placed at his command by the Constitution and laws of this state . " The action of Georgia aroused the attention of other states whose Indian problems had long since been settled . The legislatures of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania passed resolutions in support of the supremacy and integrity of the federal judiciary ; and Connecticut , erstwhile defender of the compact theory , resolved in 1831 that " we regard the judicial department . . . as sacred in its origin , and invaluable in its purposes and objects . " It must have been out of the fullness of her experience that she asserted that the legislatures " of the several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be entrusted with the final determination of questions involving the validity of the federal laws . " While the Georgia Indian controversy was being aired ,  | a new movement for state rights was gathering strength in a different quarter of the Union . The sentiment of South Carolina statesmen had hitherto been distinctly nationalistic ; and when the legislature was urged in 182o to denounce the protective system as unconstitutional , resolutions were adopted by the House of Representatives reprobating " the practice , unfortunately become too common , of arraying upon questions of national policy , the states as distinct and independent sovereignties . . . with a view to exercise a control over the general government . " It was the tariff question , however , that was soon to cause the planters of South Carolina the same bitterness of spirit that the merchants of New England had felt toward the embargo . A high tariff to foster manufacturing could be of no possible assistance to the South , and indeed damaged that section by greatly raising the prices of the manufactures they must buy . So by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expedient discovery that a protective tariff was " an unconstitutional exercise of power . " In a like category , it placed federal aid to internal improvements , a measure which was chiefly beneficial to northern merchants seeking to broaden their domestic markets . In the next few years South Carolina was joined in her new convictions by the nearby states of Virginia , Georgia , Alabama and Mississippi . But South Carolina soon began to press forward to positions and views in advance of those of her sister states of the South . Having arrived at the opinion in 1827 that the Constitution was a compact of the states " as separate , independent sovereignties , " the South Carolina legislature in the next year adopted the famous " Exposition , " written by John C. Calhoun , which explicitly announced the right of a state to nullify federal laws that were regarded by the state as unconstitutional . A few years later , in November , 1832  | South Carolina put her threat into execution through the passage of an " Ordinance of Nullification " by a state convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the protective tariff South Carolina had carried her state rights views to lengths that had never been more than hinted at by any of her predecessors . When Congress granted her a measure of relief through the passage of the compromise tariff of 1833 , the South Carolina convention solemnly repealed the Ordinance of Nullification and adopted a new ordinance nullifying the so-called Force Bill of Congress . The leaders of South Carolina in this crisis had at their tongues ' end the earlier history of the state rights doctrine in America , but they sought in vain for friends and defenders where they had every right to expect them . In the first stages of the controversy , Ohio and Pennsylvania , both former expounders of the state rights position , expressed their belief that the tariff was entirely constitutional . Even those states of the South which had earlier declared a belief in the unconstitutionality of the tariff system were not willing to follow the logic of South Carolina into nullification . The Virginia legislature officially resolved that the Virginia resolutions of 1798 did not sustain the nullification proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently had defied the Supreme Court and the federal government in her dispute over the Indian lands , could now declare with good conscience : " we abhor the doctrine , of Nullification as neither a peaceful , nor a constitutional remedy , but , on the contrary , as tending to civil commotion and disunion . " The resolutions of Alabama and North Carolina were no less emphatic , Mississippi adding , with myopic vision into the future , " we stand firmly resolved , ... in all events and at every hazard , to sustain " the president in " preserving the integrity of the Union ? that  | Union , whose value we will never stop to calculate ? holding it , as our fathers held it , precious above all price . " Perhaps the most unkindest cut of all was administered by the Kentucky legislature , which in 1799 had first announced the right of nullification . The Kentucky resolutions proclaimed the unqualified right of the majority to govern through laws of Congress , and denied that either South Carolina or any other state had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the close of the nullification episode of 1832-1833 to the outbreak of the Civil War , the agitation of state rights was intimately connected with a new issue of growing importance , the slavery question , and the principal form assumed by the doctrine was that of the right of secession . The pro-slavery forces sought refuge in the state rights position as a shield against federal interference with pro-slavery projects ; and , as we shall see , many southern states which had hitherto been hostile or apathetic to the doctrine as a philosophical abstraction became its foremost advocates . As a natural consequence , anti-slavery legislatures in the North were led to lay great stress on the national character of the Union and the broad powers of the general government in dealing with slavery . Nevertheless , it is significant to note that when it served anti-slavery purposes better to lapse into state rights dialectic , northern legislatures did not hesitate to be inconsistent . Thus the legislature of Massachusetts resolved in 1844 that " the project of the annexation of Texas , " if carried through to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive these states into a dissolution of the union " ; and when , notwithstanding , annexation was accomplished in the following year , the legislature resolved that " Massachusetts hereby refuses to acknowledge the act . . . authorizing the admission of Texas . as a legal act , in any way binding her from  | using her utmost exertions in cooperation with other States , by every lawful and constitutional measure , to annul its conditions , and defeat its accomplishment . " Vermont , Ohio and Connecticut likewise protested that the federal government had exceeded its constitutional powers in annexing Texas as a state . With the outbreak of the Mexican War , the Massachusetts legislature denounced it as a pro-slavery war of conquest , and in 1847 resolved that the struggle was " unjust and unconstitutional in its origin and character " and that all good citizens should unite to stop it . The New Jersey legislature found occasion as late as 1852 to declare , in solemn resolutions , that the Constitution was " a compact between the several States " and that the general government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The passage of the Fugitive Slave Act of 185o called forth fresh evidences of latent state rights feeling in the North . Many of the legislatures of that section passed so-called Personal Liberty Laws , designed to obstruct the recovery of fugitive slaves under the federal act . " They were dangerously near the nullification of a United States law , " James Ford Rhodes tells us . In 1855 and 1856 , resolutions were passed by the legislatures of Massachusetts and Ohio pronouncing the Fugitive Slave Act unwarranted by the Constitution . In Wisconsin the state Supreme Court held the law to be " unconstitutional and void " ; and when the federal Supreme Court reversed the decision , the state legislature resolved in 1859 , on the verge of the war to preserve the Union , that the several states which had formed the federal compact , being " sovereign and independent , " had " the unquestionable right to judge of its infractions " and to resort to " positive defiance " of all unauthorized acts of the general government . The authority of the federal judiciary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handed down  | the Dred Scott decision opening the federal territories to slavery . Ohio and other northern states lost no time in declaring the decision to be " repugnant to the plain provisions of the Constitution " ; and the Maine legislature joined Ohio in calling for a reorganization of the court . Notwithstanding these occasional instances of reversion to type on the part of northern states , the state rights theory received its most important development in this period at the hands of the southern legislatures . In the struggle over the tariff , South Carolina had developed the theory and technique of nullification to a high point of perfection , only to find , on trying out the method , that it was certain to be ineffective in practice unless accompanied with the tacit concurrence of the federal government . The incident had shown conclusively that , in a test of force , a resolute federal government would always be able to enforce United States law in a nullifying state . The implications of the compact theory readily suggested a logical substitute for nullification in secession ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state rights school . Already in 1831 the South Carolina legislature had announced that " This is a confederacy of sovereign States , and each may withdraw from the confederacy when it chooses " ; and in the Ordinance of Nullification , the South Carolina convention of 1832 had warned the United States government that , if any act of coercion were directed against that state , the people would " hold themselves absolved from all further . . . political connexion " with the Union . In reply to these assertions , Maryland , Delaware and Kentucky , all of them slave states , declared expressly against the constitutional right of secession . But as the fundamental character of the conflict between slavery and freedom became apparent in the subsequent years , one southern state after another began , rather reluctantly , to array itself at the side of South Carolina in her advanced constitutional position .  | By 185o the controversy over slavery reached an acute stage ; and the actual secession of several southern states was prevented only by the enactment of Clay 's famous compromise measures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , were only partially satisfactory to the South ; and special conventions were called in a number of southern states to consider the advisability of secession . The conventions of Georgia and South Carolina agreed that , although the occasion was provocative , they would await further aggressions of the federal government before seceding ; but Mississippi and Tennessee , with no premonition of the events of 1861 , roundly denounced secession as unsanctioned by the Constitution . The irritations produced by another decade of sectional strife gave to the South the united front that had hitherto been lacking ; and with the election of Lincoln and the firing on Fort Sumter , eleven southern states enacted ordinances of secession through special state conventions , and one other state , Kentucky , standing athwart the military highway between the sections , announced its sovereign decision in favor of neutrality . In an eloquent indictment of northern policy , the Mississippi convention presented the case of the South in its most favorable light : " We must either submit to degradation and to the loss of property in slaves worth four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union framed by our fathers , to secure this as well as every other species of property . For far less cause than this our fathers separated from the Crown of England . " The victory of the federal government in the Civil War forever settled the theory of state rights so far as nullification and secession were concerned . Express disavowal of doctrines so utterly discredited on the battlefield was hardly required ; but the southern state conventions of 1865 , held to reorganize the state governments under President Johnson 's supervision , solemnly proclaimed the invalidity of their  | ordinances of secession . The conventions of South Carolina and Georgia , with a fine , if futile , consistency , preferred to repeal rather than to repudiate their ordinances . Since the Civil War the federal government has progressed with unprecedented rapidity toward a consolidation of authority . Steam and electricity , and the dwindling importance of state boundaries in matters of commerce , have made many matters fit subjects for national control which seemed better off in the hands of the states one hundred years ago . Edward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States in 1883 that " where the word federal ' used to be used up to the time of the civil war or later , the word national ' is now used all but invariably . It used to be federal capital , " federal army , ' federal revenue , ' and so forth . Now the word national ' is almost always used instead . " Protests against this centralizing tendency have been expressed again and again ; but in these latter years the remonstrances have not usually been uttered by the states in their organic capacities , nor have the protests been designed to accomplish anything more than a revulsion of public sentiment from the current drift of events . In this sense , stripped of its disunionist tendencies , the state rights doctrine will doubtless always be with , us . Senator Joseph E. Ramsdell , speaking before the constitutional convention of Louisiana in 1921 , represented the views of many presentday believers in state rights when he said : " The Nation is rapidly growing in power and importance as compared with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been frequent , but whoever heard of one in the interest of the States ? I have never believed in the extreme doctrine of State rights taught by many Democrats of the old school . My leaning has been toward a relatively strong central government , without giving un wh-*  | I deem essential to the States , but the pace of Federal encroachment which we have been traveling for 20 years has been too fast for me . I wish to see it slowed up , and a movement backward rather than forward . . . . " The same pervasive influences which played upon states and geographical sections and helped to mold their constitutional views have affected the attitude of political parties on questions of constitutional interpretation . But , in addition , another element must be taken into account , arising from the psychology of politics : the party in power always feels that the Constitution , however broadly construed , is perfectly safe in its keeping , while the minority party is convinced that the welfare of the people demands that the majority should be restrained to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Ins " have always tended to be strong nationalists , and the " Outs " strict constructionists and advocates of state rights . American history is rich in illustrations of the instability of the constitutional beliefs of parties . The Jeffersonian Republican party originated in Washington 's first administration as a party of strict construction and state rights . Jefferson 's argument against the constitutionality of the United States Bank remained for many years the classic exposition of strict construction doctrine ; and the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions , drawn up by Madison and Jefferson , proved a veritable Pandora 's box of future state rights philosophy . It seemed to the Republicans that the Federalists , dominated by the broad construction views of Hamilton , were intent on converting the federal government into an engine of centralization and virtual monarchy , and that the nation could be saved from this fate only by a rigid                     