@@774145

txt  | beyond the possibility of alteration . It is interested in the mechanism of occurrences instead of in final causes . In dealing with the proximate instead of with the ultimate , knowledge deals with the world in which we live , the world which is experienced , instead of attempting through the intellect to escape to a higher realm . Experimental knowledge is a mode of doing , and like all doing takes place at a time , in a place , and under specifiable conditions in connection with a definite problem . The notion that the findings of science are a disclosure of the inherent properties of the ultimate real , of existence at large , is a survival of the older metaphysics . It is because of injection of an irrelevant philosophy into interpretation of the conclusions of science that the latter are thought to eliminate qualities and values from nature . Thus is created the standing problem of modern philosophy : ? the relation of science to the things we prize and love and which have authority in the direction of conduct . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science as a definition of natural reality in its own intrinsic nature , accounts for the antagonism shown to naturalism , and for the feeling that it is the business of philosophy to demonstrate the being of a realm beyond nature , one not subject to the conditions which mark all natural objects . Drop the conception that knowledge is knowledge only when it is a disclosure and definition of the properties of fixed and antecedent reality ; interpret the aim and test of knowing by what happens in the actual procedures of scientific inquiry , and the supposed need and problem vanish . For scientific inquiry always starts from things of the environment experienced in our everyday life , with things we see , handle , use , enjoy and suffer from . This is the ordinary qualitative world . But instead of accepting the qualities and values ? the ends and forms ? of this world as providing the objects of knowledge , subject to their being given a certain logical arrangement , experimental inquiry treats them as  | offering a challenge to thought . They are the materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be known , rather than objects of knowledge . The first step in knowing is to locate the problems which need solution . This step is performed by altering obvious and given qualities . These are effects ; they are things to be understood , and they are understood in terms of their generation . The search for " efficient causes " instead of for final causes , for extrinsic relations instead of intrinsic forms , constitutes the aim of science . But the search does not signify a quest for reality in contrast with experience of the unreal and phenomenal . It signifies a search for those relations upon which the occurrence of real qualities and values depends , by means of which we can regulate their occurrence . To call existences as they are directly and qualitatively experienced " phenomena " is not to assign to them a metaphysical status . It is to indicate that they set the problem of ascertaining the relations of interaction upon which their occurrence depends . It is unnecessary that knowledge should be concerned with existence as it is directly experienced in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter . What science is concerned with is the happening of these experienced things . For its purpose , therefore , they are happenings , events . Its aim is to discover the conditions and consequences of their happening . And this discovery can take place only by modifying the given qualities in such ways that relations become manifest . We shall see later that these relations constitute the proper objects of science as such . We are here concerned to emphasize the fact that elimination of the qualities of experienced existence is merely an intermediate step necessary to the discovery of relations , and that when it is accomplished the scientific object becomes the means of control of occurrence of experienced things having a richer and more secure equipment of values and qualities . Only when the older theory of knowledge and metaphysics  | is retained is science thought to inform us that nature in its true reality is but an interplay of masses in motion , without sound , colour , or any quality of enjoyment and use . What science actually does is to show that any natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon which its occurrence depends , or as an event , and that by so treating it we are enabled to get behind , as it were , the immediate qualities the object of direct experience presents , and to regulate their happening , instead of having to wait for conditions beyond our control to bring it about . Reduction of experienced objects to the form of relations , which are neutral as respects qualitative traits , is a prerequisite of ability to regulate the course of change , so that it may terminate in the occurrence of an object having desired qualities . As long , for example , as water is taken to be just the thing which we directly experience it to be , we can put it to a few direct uses , such as drinking , washing , etc . Beyond heating it there was little that could be done purposefully to change its properties . When , however , water is treated not as the glistening , rippling object with the variety of qualities that delight the eye , ear and palate , but as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are completely absent , it becomes amenable to all sorts of other modes of control and adapted to other uses . Similarly , when steam and ice are no longer treated as what they are in their qualitative differences from one another in direct experience , but as homogeneous molecules moving at measured velocities through specified distances , differential qualities that were barriers to effective regulations , as long as they were taken as finalities , are done away with . A single way of acting with respect to them in spite of their differences is indicated . This mode of action is capable of extension to other bodies , in principle to any bodies irrespective of qualitative differences of solid , liquid and gaseous , provided they are given a like mathematical formulation . Thus all sorts of modes of expansion and contraction , of  | refrigeration and evaporation , of production and regulation of explosive power , become possible . From the practical standpoint , bodies become aggregates of energies to be used in all kinds of ways , involving all sorts of substitutions , transformations , combinations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains the same qualitative object , enjoyable and usable , it always was . Water as an object of science , as H2O with all the other scientific propositions which can be made about it , is not a rival for position in real being with the water we see and use . It is , because of experimental operations , an added instrumentality of multiplied controls and uses of the real things of everyday experience . I am aware that this method of dealing with the great problem of modern philosophy will be regarded by many as too cavalier a disposition of a great issue ; the solution if there be any ( and many thinkers would perhaps feel any solution to be a real deprivation ) is too simple and easy to be satisfactory . But I shall be content if the account leads anyone to reconsider the traditional beliefs which stand in the way of acceptance of the solution that is proposed . These preconceptions are the assumption that knowledge has a uniquely privileged position as a mode of access to reality in comparison with other modes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical activity . Both of these ideas were formulated in a period when knowing was regarded as something which could be effected exclusively by means of the rational powers of mind . The development of scientific inquiry with its complete dependence upon experimentation has proved the profound error of the latter position . Is it not time to revise the philosophical conceptions which are founded on a belief now proved to be false ? The sum and substance of the present argument is that if we frame our conception of knowledge on the experimental model , we find that it is a way of operating upon and with the things of ordinary experience so that we can frame our ideas of them in terms of their interactions  | with one another , instead of in terms of the qualities they directly present , and that thereby our control of them , our ability to change them and direct their changes as we desire , is indefinitely increased . Knowing is itself a mode of practical action and is the way of interaction by which other natural interactions become subject to direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as we have as yet traced its course . As was stated at the beginning of this part of the discussion , the examination of scientific knowing is undertaken not so much for its own sake as in order to supply material for projecting a hypothesis about something less technical and of wider and more liberal application . The ulterior issue is the possibility that actual experience in its concrete content and movement may furnish those ideals , meanings and values whose lack and uncertainty in experience as actually lived by most persons has supplied the motive force for recourse to some reality beyond experience : a lack and uncertainty that account for the continued hold of traditional philosophical and religious notions which are not consonant with the main tenor of modern life . The pattern supplied by scientific knowing shows that in this one field at least it is possible for experience , in becoming genuinely experimental , to develop its own regulative ideas and standards . Not only this , but in addition the progress of knowledge of nature has become secure and steady only because of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of achieving in larger , more humane and liberal fields a similar transformation , so that a philosophy of experience may be empirical without either being false to actual experience or being compelled to explain away the values dearest to the heart of man .  | OF ALL PHILOSOPHICAL PROBLEMS that which concerns the nature and worth of ideas is probably the one that most readily appeals to any cultivated mind . The eulogistic flavour which hangs about the word Idealism is a tribute to the respect men pay to thought and its power . The obnoxious quality of materialism is due to its depression of thought , which is treated as an illusion or at most an accidental by-product ; materialism leaves no place where ideas have creative or regulative effect . In some sense the cause of ideas , of thought , is felt to be that of the distinctive dignity of man himself . Serious minds have always desired a world in which experiences would be productive of ideas , of meanings , and in which these ideas in turn would regulate conduct . Take away ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the beasts of the field . It is , however , an old story that philosophers have divided into opposed schools as to the nature of ideas and their power . To the extreme right are those who , under the banner of Idealism , have asserted that thought is the creator of the universe and that rational ideas constitute its structure . This constitutive work , however , is something done once for all by thought in a transcendental aboriginal work . The empirical world in which we live from day by day is crass and obdurate , stubbornly un-ideal in character because it is only an appearance of the reality of which thought is the author . This philosophic mode of paying reverence to ideas is thus cornpensatory rather than vital . It has nothing to do with rendering the natural and social environment of our experience a more ideal abode , namely , one characterized by meanings which are the fruits of thought . There are those who would be willing to exchange the thought which constitutes reality once for all for that thinking which by continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more charged with coherent and luminous meanings . At the other pole is the school of sensational empiricists who hold that the doctrine that thought in any mode of operation is originative is an illusion . It proclaims the necessity of direct , first-hand contact with things as the source of all knowledge . Ideas are pale ghosts of flesh-and-blood impressions ; they are images , pallid reflections , dying echoes of first-hand intercourse with reality which takes place in sensation alone . In spite of the polar opposition between the two schools , they depend upon a common premise . According to both systems of philosophy , reflective thought , thinking that involves inference and judgment , is not originative . It has its test in antecedent reality as that is disclosed in some non-reflective immediate knowledge . Its validity depends upon the possibility of checking its conclusions by identification with the terms of such prior immediate knowledge . The controversy between the schools is simply as to the organ and nature of previous direct knowledge . To both schools , reflection , thought involving inference , is reproductive ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparison with what is known without any inference . In traditional empiricism the test is found in sensory impressions . For objective idealism , reflective inquiry is valid only as it reproduces the work previously effected by constitutive thought . The goal of human thinking is approximation to the reality already instituted by absolute reason . The basic premise is also shared by realists . The essence of their position is that reflective inquiry is valid as it terminates in apprehension of that which already exists . When thinking introduces any modification into antecedent reality it falls into error ; in fact , productive origination on the part of mind defines error . The issue is connected with the analysis of experimental knowing which was begun in the preceding chapter . For the common premise of these philosophical schools , so opposed to one another in most ways , goes back to adoption of the idea  | about knowledge in relation to what is independently real which , originating in Greek thought , has become engrained in tradition . In our summary of the characteristics of experimental thinking , its second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas , the fact that experiment is not random , aimless action , but always includes , along with groping and relatively blind doing , an element of deliberate foresight and intent , which determines that one operation rather than another be tried . In this chapter we shall , accordingly , consider the implications for the theory of ideas that follow from experimental method . Let us suppose , for the time being , that all that we can know about ideas is derived from the way in which they figure in the reflective inquiries of science . What conception of their nature and office shall we then be led to form ? We shall begin , somewhat abruptly , with a statement of the nature of conceptions which has been framed on the basis of recent conclusions in physical science . We shall then compare this idea about ideas with that which was embodied in the Newtonian philosophy of nature and science , and take up the reasons which compelled the abandonment of the latter . Finally we shall recur to a comparison of the result reached with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with that found in the now discredited Newtonian natural philosophy . The position of present science on this matter has been stated as follows : " To find the length of an object , we have to perform certain physical operations . The concept of length is therefore fixed when the operations by which length is measured are fixed ; that is , the concept of length involves as much as and nothing more than the set of operations by which length is determined . In general , we mean by any concept nothing more than a set of operations ; the concept is synonymous with the corresponding set of operations . " ' The same idea is I Bridgman , The Logic of Modern Physics , New York , 1927 , P. 5 . The italics are in the text .  | repeated by Eddington in his Gifford Lectures . His statement is as follows : " The vocabulary of the physicist comprises a number of words such as length , angle , velocity , force , potential , current , etc. , which we call physical quantities ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the way in which we recognize them when actually confronted with them , and not according to the metaphysical significance which we may have anticipated for them . In the old text-books mass was defined as quantity of matter ' ; but when it came to an actual determination of mass , an experimental method was prescribed which had no bearing on this definition . " ' The adoption of this point of view with respect to the meaning and content of thinking , and as to the validity or soundness of the ideas by means of which we understand natural events , makes possible what has been lacking throughout the history of thought , a genuinely experimental empiricism . The phrase " experimental empiricism " sounds redundant . It ought to be so in fact , since the adjective and the noun should have the = The Nature of the Physical World , London and New York , 1928 , p. 255 . It is implied in the quotation that concepts are recognized by means of the experimental operations by which they are determined ; that is , operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we state natural happenings . This implication is made explicit a few sentences further along , when in speaking of Einstein Mr. Eddington says his theory " insists that each physical quantity should be defined as the result of certain operations of measurement and calculation " . The principle is anticipated in Peirce 's essay on How to Make Our Ideas Clear , published as far back as 1881 ? now reprinted in a volume of essays , edited by Morris R. Cohen , and entitled Chance , Love and Logic , New York , 1923 . Peirce states that the sole meaning of the idea of an object consists of the consequences which result when the object is acted upon in a particular way . The principle is one element in the pragmatism of James . The idea is also akin to the " instrumental " theory of conceptions , according to which they are intellectual instruments for directing our activities in relation to existence . The principle of " extensive abstraction " as a mode of defining things is similar in import . On account of ambiguities in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? I shall follow Bridgman in speaking of " operational thinking " .  | same significance , so that nothing is gained by using the two terms . But historically such is not the case . For , historically , empirical philosophies have been framed in terms of sensations or sense data . These have been said to be the material out of which ideas are framed and by agreement with which they are to be tested . Sensory qualities are the antecedent models with which ideas must agree if they are to be sound or " proved " . I These doctrines have always evoked an abundance of criticisms . But the criticisms have taken the form of depreciating the capacity of " experience " to provide the source and test of our fundamentally important ideas in either knowledge or morals . They have used the weaknesses of sensational empiricism to reinforce the notion that ideas are framed by reason apart from any experience whatsoever ; to support what is known in the vocabulary of philosophical systems as an a priori rationalism . From the standpoint of the operational definition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and status . But it is that of acts performed , acts in the literal and existential sense of the word , deeds done , not reception of sensations forced on us from without . Sensory qualities are important . But they are intellectually significant only as consequences of acts intentionally performed . A colour seen at a particular locus in a spectral band is , for example , of immense intellectual importance in chemistry and in astro-physics . But merely as seen , as a bare sensory quality , it is the same for the clodhopper and the scientist ; in either case , it is the product of a direct sensory excitation ; it is just and only another colour the eye has happened upon . To suppose that its cognitive value can be eked out or supplied by associating it with other sensory qualities of the same nature as itself , is like supposing that by I The whole empirical logic of Mill professedly , and as far as consistent with itself , is an endeavour to show that all propositions involving reflection and ideas must be proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propositions consisting only of material directly given in sensation .  | putting a pile of sand in the eye we can get rid of the irritation caused by a single grain . To suppose , on the other hand , that we must appeal to a synthetic activity of an independent thought to give the quality meaning in and for knowledge , is like supposing that by thinking in our heads we can convert a pile of bricks into a building . Thinking , carried on inside the head , can make some headway in forming the plan of a building . But it takes actual operations to which the plan , as the fruit of thought , gives instrumental guidance to make a building out of separate bricks , or to transform an isolated sensory quality into a significant clue to knowledge of nature . Sensory qualities experienced through vision have their cognitive status and office , not ( as sensational empiricism holds ) in and of themselves in isolation , or as merely forced upon attention , but because they are the consequences of definite and intentionally performed operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of these operations do they amount to anything , either as disclosing any fact or giving test and proof of any theory . The rationalist school was right in as far as it insisted that sensory qualities are significant for knowledge only when connected by means of ideas . But they were wrong in locating the connecting ideas in intellect apart from experience . Connection is instituted through operations which define ideas , and operations are as much matters of experience as are sensory qualities . It is not too much to say , therefore , that for the first time there is made possible an empirical theory of ideas free from the burdens imposed alike by sensationalism and a priori rationalism . This accomplishment is , I make bold to say , one of three or four outstanding feats of intellectual history . For it emancipates us from the supposed need of always harking back to what has already been given , something had by alleged direct or immediate knowledge in the past , for the test of the value of ideas . A definition of the nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test of the validity of the  | ideas by the consequences of these operations establishes connectivity within concrete experience . At the same time , by emancipation of thinking from the necessity of testing its conclusions solely by reference to antecedent existence it makes clear the originative possibilities of thinking . John Locke has always been the central figure in the empirical school . With extraordinary thoroughness he laid the foundations of that empirical logic which tests the validity of every belief about natural existence by the possibility of resolving the content of the belief into simple ideas originally received through the senses . If we want to know what " solidity " or any other idea is , we are , in his own words , " sent to the senses " . In developing this theory of the origin and test of our natural knowledge ( for he excepted mathematical and moral ideas ) he found himself building upon the foundation laid by his illustrious contemporary , Sir Isaac Newton . The latter was convinced of the unsoundness of the rationalistic philosophy of science represented by Descartes , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scientific world . Newton 's own use of mathematics and also his conception of gravitation ( with some other of his physical ideas ) exposed him , however , to the charge of reviving the " occult essences " of scholasticism . Accordingly , he was very emphatic upon the point that he was thoroughly empirical in premises , method and conclusions ; empirical in that he had gone to his senses and taken what he found there as the origin and justification of his primary scientific ideas about nature . As we shall see , certain assumptions of Newton were in fact far from empirical in any experimental sense of that word , but were introduced by him into the philosophical foundations of natural science and were thence taken over into the whole philosophic theory of science to be questioned only in our own day . No saying of Newton 's is more widely known than that " I do not invent hypotheses " . This is only his negative way of asserting complete reliance upon a subject-matter guaranteed  | by the senses ? which in turn signifies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go back to sense-perceptions previously had for both their origin and their warrant . We shall consider first the effect of Newton 's procedure upon the supposed foundations of natural science , and then consider how the recognition of an operational ? and relational ? definition of scientific conceptions instead of a discrete and sensory one has destroyed those foundations . While Newton employed mathematical conceptions with a freedom equal to that of Descartes and with a heuristic power far exceeding Descartes , he differentiated his own method from that of the latter by insisting that the objects to which his mathematical calculations applied were not products of thought , but were given , as far as the properties which figured in his science were concerned , in sense . That is , he did not claim that he could sensibly observe the ultimate particles or atoms which were the foundation of his system , but he did claim that he had sensible grounds for assuming their existence , and especially he insisted that all the properties with which his scientific theory endowed these particles were derived from and were verifiable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whatever is not derived from phenomena is to be called a hypothesis , and hypotheses . . . have no place in experimental philosophy . " The positive counterpart of this negative statement is as follows : " The qualities of bodies which admit of neither intension nor remission of degree and which are found to belong to all bodies within the reach of experiments , are to be assumed the universal qualities of all bodies whatsoever . " Newton 's assumption that he was only extending to the ultimate proper objects of physical science those qualities of experienced objects that are disclosed in direct perception is made evident by such passages as the following : " We no other way know the extension of bodies than by our senses , nor do these reach it in all bodies . But because we perceive extension  | in all bodies that are sensible , therefore we ascribe it universally to all others also . That abundance of bodies are hard , we learn by experience ; and because the hardness of the whole arises from the hardness of the parts , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only of the bodies we feel but of all others . That all bodies are impenetrable we gather not from reason but from sensation . . . . That all bodies are movable and are endued with certain powers ( which we call the vires inertiae ) of persevering in their motion or in their rest we only infer from like properties observed in the bodies that we have seen . " Or as Newton says of his " principles " , summing it all up : " I consider them not as occult qualities but as general laws of nature . . . their truth appearing to us by phenomena . " The principles in question were mass , gravity , hardness , impenetrability , extension , motion , inertia , etc . The essential point of his argument is that non-sensible bodies , namely , the ultimate particles to which mathematical reasoning applies , are endowed with no properties save those which are found by experience to belong to all bodies of which we do have sensible experience . The static ( spatial extension , volume ) qualities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of ultimate physical realities , are homogeneous with the common qualities of sensibly perceived things . Colour , sound , heat , odour , etc. , go out , since they permit of absence , and of remission and increase of degrees ? or are not universally present . Volume , mass , inertia , motion and movability , remain as universal qualities . What would happen if some raised the objection that the existence of the ultimate particles is hypothetical , since they are not observed ? What becomes of his empiricism even if the properties ascribed to particles are all sensibly verified , provided the bearers of these properties are not observed ? It can hardly be said that Newton explicitly discusses this question . It seemed to him practically self-evident that since sensible bodies were divisible without  | losing the properties that form his " principles " , we are entitled to assume the existence of certain last particles of the same kind incapable of further division . And while , in logical consistency , he could hardly have admitted the argument , the fact that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of this assumption seemed to give him ample confirmation of their existence . Perhaps in the following passage he comes as near as anywhere to dealing explicitly with the point . After saying that if all particles , all bodies whatever , were capable of being broken , they would then wear away , he goes on to say that in that case the " nature of things depending on them would be changed " , and adds " and therefore that nature may be lasting , the changes of corporeal things are to be placed only in the various separations and new associations and motions of these permanent particles " . " So that nature may be lasting ! " It would be hard to find a franker statement of the motive which controlled Newton 's doctrine . There was needed some guarantee that Nature would not go to pieces and be dissipated or revert to chaos . How could the unity of anything be secure unless there was something persistent and unchanging behind all change ? Without such fixed indissoluble unities , no final certainty was possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metaphysical fears rather than any experimental evidence determined the nature of the fundamental assumptions of Newton regarding atoms . They furnished the premises which he regarded as scientific and as the very foundations of the possibility of science . " All changes are to be placed in only the separations and new associations of permanent particles . " In this statement there is contained a professedly scientific restatement of the old human desire for something fixed as the warrant and object of absolute certainty . Without this fixity knowledge was impossible . Changes are to be known by treating them as indifferent spatial approaches and withdrawals taking place between things that are themselves eternally the same . Thus to establish certainty in existence and in knowledge ,  | " God in the beginning formed matter in solid , massy , hard , impenetrable particles " . It was logically inevitable that as science proceeded on its experimental path it would sooner or later become clear that all conceptions , all intellectual descriptions , must be formulated in terms of operations , actual or imaginatively possible . There are no conceivable ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without undergoing change in themselves can be reached by means of experimental operations . Hence they have no empirical , no experimental standing ; they are pure dialectic inventions . They were not even necessary for application of the mathematical method of Newton . Most of his analytic work in his Principles would remain unchanged if his physical particles were dropped out and geometrical points were substituted . What reason can be assigned for Newton 's desertion of an experimental method and for the adoption in its stead of an obviously dialectical conception ? ? since the conception that the permanence of nature depends upon the assumption of a plurality of discrete immutable substances is clearly dialectical . Doubtless in part the reason was that the scheme worked or seemed to work . Without developing or acknowledging the consequences of this mode of justification , objections based on theory could always be met by pointing to the marvellous conclusions of physical inquiry . But a more fundamental reason was that the minds of men , including physical inquirers , were still possessed by the old notion that reality in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things which philosophy calls substances . Changes could be known only if they could be somehow reduced to recombinations of original unchanging things . For these alone can be objects of certainty ? the changing is as such the uncertain ? and only the certain and exact is knowledge . Thus a popular metaphysics , given rational formulation by the Greeks , and taken over into the intellectual tradition of the  | western world , controlled at first the interpretations placed upon the procedures and conclusions of experimental knowing . This hypothesis as to the origin of the non-experimental factor in the Newtonian philosophy is confirmed by his own use of the metaphysics of the ideas of substance and essential properties . The fact that Newton adopted the Democritean rather than the Aristotelean conception of substance is of course of immense importance scientifically . But philosophically speaking it is of slight import compared with the fact that he followed the supposed necessities of dialectic reasoning rather than the lead of experienced subject-matter in accepting without question the notion that there must be at the foundation of all existence certain things which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the objects of any true knowledge because they give the warrant of fixed certitude . With his acceptance of the old doctrines of substances goes that of the doctrine of essence . If fixed unchangeable things exist , they must have certain inherent , unchangeable properties . Changes are accidental and external ; they occur between substances and do not affect their inner nature . If they did , substances would not be substances ; they would change and rot away . Hence , in spite of starting upon the experimental and mathematical path , Newtonian science kept the idea that atoms are characterized by eternal properties or qualities , that is by essences . Substances are " solid , hard , massy , impenetrable , movable particles " . Their essence is precisely these unchangeable , fixed qualities of solidity , mass , motion , inertia . It thus appears that Newton retained a part of the qualitative equipment of the objects of Greek science , in spite of their irrelevance to both mathematics and experiment . When one searches through philosophical commentary and discussion ( based mainly on Locke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great deal of discussion about the fact that the so-called secondary qualities , colour , sound , odour , taste , were eliminated from " reality " . But not a word as far as I can discover is said  | about the fact that other sensible qualities under the name of primary were retained in defining the object of science . And yet this retention is the fons et origo malorum . The actual fact was that science by means of its operational conceptions was instituting as its objects of thought things in a dimension different from any of the direct qualities of objects . It was not a question of getting rid of some immediate sense qualities ; but of a treatment indifferent to any and all qualities . Newton could not realize this fact , because he insisted that the existence of hard and fixed unchanging substances was the basis of science . Given such substances they had to have some qualities as their inherent properties . I-fence Newton generously endowed them with those properties which he insisted were directly taken from sense experience itself . Consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualities which had been regarded as essential to natural things while retaining others did not forward in the least the actual work of science , while it did work inevitably to establish a fixed gulf and opposition between the things of ordinary perception , use and enjoyment and the objects of science which , according to tradition , were the only ultimately " real " objects . The story of the extent to which this opposition became the underlying problem of modern philosophy need not be retold . Nor are we called upon here to consider the way in which it generated an " epistemological " problem of knowledge in the general terms of relation of subject and object , as distinct from the logical problem of the methods by which inquiry shall attain understanding . For qualities expelled from scientific objects were given an asylum " in the mind " ; they became mental and psychical in nature , and the problem arose how mind composed of such elements , having nothing in common with objects of science ? by doctrinal definition the real things of nature ? could possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection , that result would provide a theme most important to discuss : ?  | from its origin in Berkeley 's contention that since " secondary " qualities are avowedly mental and since primary qualities can not be disassociated from them , the latter must be mental also , through all the sinuosities of modern thought in dealing with the " problem " . But the first of these points , the rivalry of scientific objects and empirical objects for position in natural existence , has already been dealt with and the latter problem is not immediately relevant . We are here concerned with the Newtonian assumption that we must carry over into the conception and definition of physical objects some of the qualities directly experienced in senseperception , while their presence in such sense-experience is the warrant or " proof " of their validity as ideas . There was no direct experience of the ultimate massy , hard , impenetrable and indivisible and hence unchangeable particles ? since indeed their eternal permanence obviously was a thing incapable of any experience except by some equally eternal mind . Hence these qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves they exist by themselves . But for us , they exist as objects of thought only . Hence as ideas they need a warrant and justification which primary qualities of immediate perception do not need , since these are self-warranting ? according to the doctrine . Now so deeply engrained are the conclusions of the old tradition of rationalism versus ( sensationalistic ) empiricism , that the question will still be raised : What other certification could be given or can now be given for the properties of scientific physical objects save by inferential extension of the universally found properties of all objects of sense-perception ? Is there any alternative unless we are prepared to fall back upon a priori rational conceptions supposed to bring their own sufficient authority with them ? It is at this point that the recent recognition that the conceptions by which we think scientific objects are derived neither from sense nor from a priori conceptions has its logical and philosophical force . Sense qualities , as we saw in the previous  | chapter , are something to be known , they are challenges to knowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something about them , resolving the problems they propose . Inquiry proceeds by reflection , by thinking ; but not , most decidedly , by thinking as conceived in the old tradition , as something cooped up within " mind " . For experimental inquiry or thinking signifies directed activity , doing something which varies the conditions under which objects are observed and directly had and by instituting new arrangements among them . Things perceived suggest to us ( originally just evoke or stimulate ) certain ways of responding to them , of treating them . These operations have been continuously refined and elaborated during the history of man on earth , although it is only during the last few centuries that the whole affair of controlled thinking and of its issue in genuine knowledge has been seen to be bound up with their selection and determination . The central question thus arises : What determines the selection of operations to be performed ? There is but one answer : ? the nature of the problem to be dealt with ? an answer which links the phase of experiment now under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first effect of experimental analysis is , as we saw , to reduce objects directly experienced to data . This resolution is required because the objects in their first mode of experience are perplexing , obscure , fragmentary ; in some way they fail to answer a need . Given data which locate the nature of the problem , there is evoked a thought of an operation which if put into execution may eventuate in a situation in which the trouble or doubt which evoked inquiry will be resolved . If one were to trace the history of science far enough , one would reach a time in which the acts which dealt with a troublesome situation would be organic responses of a structural type together with a few acquired habits . The most elaborate technique of present inquiry in the laboratory is an extension and refinement of these simple  | original operations . Its development has for the most part depended upon the utilization of physical instruments , which when inquiry was developed to a certain point were purposely invented . In principle , the history of the construction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of their evolution in industry . Something needed to be done to accomplish an end ; various devices and methods of operation were tried . Experiences of success and failure gradually improved the means used . More economical and effective ways of acting were found ? that is , operations which gave the desired kind of result with greater ease , less irrelevancy and less ambiguity , greater security . Each forward step was attended with making better tools . Often the invention of a tool suggested operations not in mind when it was invented and thus carried the perfecting of operations still further . There is thus no a priori test or rule for the determination of the operations which define ideas . They are themselves experimentally developed in the course of actual inquiries . They originated in what men naturally do and are tested and improved in the course of doing . This is as far as the answer to the query can be carried in a formal way . Consequences that successfully solve the problems set by the conditions which give rise to the need of action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " naturally " performed , become the operations of the art of scientific experimentation . In content , a much more detailed answer can be given . For this answer , one would turn to the historical development of science , in which is recorded what kind of operations have definitely been found to effect the transformation of the obscure and perplexing situations of experience into clear and resolved situations . To go into this matter would be to expound the character of the concepts actually employed in the best developed branches of reflection or inquiry . While such a discussion is apart from our purpose , there is one common character of all such scientific operations which  | it is necessary to note . They are such as disclose relationships . A simple case is the operation by which length is defined by one object placed end upon end upon another object so many times . This type of operation , repeated under conditions themselves defined by specified operations , not merely fixes the relation of two things to each other called their length , but defines a generalized concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as those which define mass and time , become instruments by means of which a multitude of relations between bodies can be established . Thus the conceptions which define units of measurement of space , time and motion become the intellectual instrumentalities by which all sorts of things with no qualitative similarity with one another can be compared and brought within the same system . To the original gross experience of things there is superadded another type of experience , the product of deliberate art , of which relations rather than qualities are the significant subject-matter . These connections are as much experienced as are the qualitatively diverse and irreducible objects of original natural experiences . Qualities present themselves as just what they are , statically demarcated from one another . Moreover , they rarely change , when left to themselves , in such ways as to indicate the interactions or relations upon which their occurrence depends . No one ever observed the production of the thing having the properties of water , nor the mode of generation of a flash of lightning . In sensory perception the qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specific connections that are involved in their coming into existence . Intentional variation of conditions gives an idea of these connections . Through thought of them the things are understood or truly known . Only slowly , however , did there dawn the full import of the scientific method . For a long time the definitions were supposed to be made not in terms of relations but through certain properties of antecedent things . The space , time and  | motion of physics were treated as inherent properties of Being , instead of as abstracted relations . In fact , two phases of inquiry accompany each other and correspond to each other . In one of these phases , everything in qualitative objects except their happening is ignored , attention being paid to qualities only as signs of the nature of the particular happening in question : that is , objects are treated as events . In the other phase , the aim of inquiry is to correlate events with one another . Scientific conceptions of space , time and motion constitute the generalized system of these correlations of events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art : upon those which treat qualitative objects as events , and upon those which connect events thus determined with one another . In these statements we have , however , anticipated the actual movement of scientific thought . This took a long time to arrive at recognition of its own import . Till our own day , scientific conceptions were interpreted in the light of the old belief that conceptions to be valid must correspond to antecedent intrinsic properties resident in objects dealt with . Certain properties regarded by Newton as inherent in substances and essential to them , in independence of connectivity , were indeed speedily seen to be relations . This conversion happened first as to hardness and impenetrability , which were seen to be reducible to mass . Vis inertiae was a measure of mass . By careful thinkers " force " was treated as a measure of acceleration and so a name for a relation , not as an inherent property of an isolated thing by virtue of which one thing could compel another to change . Nevertheless , until the promulgation of Einstein 's restricted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as intrinsic properties of ultimate fixed and independent substances . We shall postpone till later consideration of the circumstances attending the change . We are here concerned with the fact that when it took place it was , in spite of its upsetting effects upon the foundation of the Newtonian philosophy of  | science and of nature , from the logical point of view only a clear acknowledgment of what had all the time been the moving principle of the development of scientific method . To say this is not to disparage the scientific importance of the discovery that mass varies with velocity and of the result of the Michelson-Morley experiment on the velocity of light . Such discoveries were doubtless necessary in order to force recognition of the operational or relational character of scientific conceptions . And yet , logically , the way in which space , time and motion , with their various functions , appear in mathematical equations and are translated into equivalent formulations with respect to one another ? something which is impossible for qualities as such ? indicates that a relational treatment had always been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ideas framed on the pattern of large masses and relatively slow velocities . It required observation of changes of high velocity , as of light over great distances , and of minute changes occurring at infinitesimal distances to emancipate imagination from its acquired habitudes . The discovery that mass varies with velocity did away with the possibility of continuing to suppose that mass is the defining characteristic of things in isolation from one another ? such isolation being the sole condition under which mass could be regarded as immutable or fixed . The difference made in the actual content of scientific theory is of course enormous . Yet it is not so great as the difference made in the logic of scientific knowledge , nor as in philosophy . With the surrender of unchangeable substances having properties fixed in isolation and unaffected by interactions , must go the notion that certainty is attained by attachment to fixed objects with fixed characters . For not only are no such objects found to exist , but the very nature of experimental method , namely , definition by operations that are interactions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Henceforth the quest for certainty becomes the search  | for methods of control ; that is , regulation of conditions of change with respect to their consequences . Theoretical certitude is assimilated to practical certainty ; to security , trustworthiness of instrumental operations . " Real " things may be as transitory as you please or as lasting in time as you please ; these are specific differences like that between a flash of lightning and the history of a mountain range . In any case they are for knowledge " events " not substances . What knowledge is interested in is the correlation among these changes or events ? which means in effect that the event called the mountain range must be placed within a system consisting of a vast multitude of included events . When these correlations are discovered , the possibility of control is in our hands . Scientific objects as statements of these inter-relations are instrumentalities of control . They are objects of the thought of reality , not disclosures of immanent properties of real substances . They are in particular the thought of reality from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of nature as a system of interconnected changes . Certain important conclusions follow . The test of the validity of ideas undergoes a radical transformation . In the Newtonian scheme , as in the classic tradition , this test resided in properties belonging to ultimate real objects in isolation from one another , and hence fixed or unchanging . According to experimental inquiry , the validity of the object of thought depends upon the consequences of the operations which define the object of thought . For example , colours are conceived in terms of certain numbers . The conceptions are valid in the degree in which , by means of these numbers , we can predict future events , and can regulate the interactions of coloured bodies as signs of changes that take place . The numbers are signs or clues of intensity and direction of changes going on . The only things relevant to the question of their validity is whether they are dependable signs . That heat is a mode of motion does not signify that heat and cold as qualitatively  | experienced are " unreal " , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event measured in terms of units of velocity of movement , involving units of position and time , so that it can be connected with other events or changes similarly formulated . The test of the validity of any particular intellectual conception , measurement or enumeration is functional , its use in making possible the institution of interactions which yield results in control of actual experiences of observed objects . In contrast with this fact , in the Newtonian philosophy measurements are important because they were supposed to disclose just how much of a certain property belonged to some body as its own isolated and intrinsic property . Philosophically , the effect of this view was to reduce the " reality " of objects to just such mathematical and mechanical properties ? hence the philosophical " problem " of the relation of real physical objects to the objects of experience with their qualities and immediate values of enjoyment and use . Mr. Eddington has said that " the whole of our physical knowledge is based on measures " , and that " whenever we state the properties of a body in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of various metrical indicators to its presence , and nothing more " .1 His graphic illustration of the physical formulation of what happens when an elephant slides downhill comes to mind . The mass of the elephant is the reading of a pointer on a weighing scale ; the slope of the hill , the reading of a plumb-line against the divisions of a protractor ; bulk , a series of readings on the scale of a pair of calipers ; colour , readings of a photometer for light ; the duration of the slide , a series of readings on a watch-dial , etc . It seems almost too obvious for mention that a scientific object consisting of a set of measurements of relations between two qualitative objects , and itself accordingly non-qualitative , can not possibly be taken , or even mis-taken , for a new kind of " real " object which is a rival to the " reality " of the ordinary I The Nature of the Physical World , pp. 152 and 257.  | object . But so loth are we to surrender traditional conceptions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long engaged attention , that even Mr. Eddington feels called upon to reclothe these scientific measured relations with qualities as something which " mind " mysteriously introduced ! Prisoners in jails are often given numbers and are " known " by the numbers assigned . It has not yet occurred to anyone that these numbers are the real prisoners , and that there is always a duplicate real object ; one a number , and the other a flesh-and-blood person , and that these two editions of reality have to be reconciled . It is true that the numbers which constitute by means of measurements the object of scientific thought are not assigned so arbitrarily as those of prisoners , but there is no difference in philosophical principle . Incidentally , Mr. Eddington remarks a concrete thing as measured by suitable devices " would completely determine its relation to its environment " . The relations a thing sustains are hardly a competitor to the thing itself . Put positively , the physical object , as scientifically defined , is not a duplicated real object , but is a statement , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets of changes the qualitative object sustains with changes in other things ? ideally of all things with which interaction might under any circumstances take place . Since these correlations are what physical inquiry does know , it is fair to conclude that they are what it intends or means to know : on analogy with the legal maxim that any reasonable person intends the reasonably probable consequences of what he does . We come back again to the frequently repeated statement that the problem which has given so much trouble to modern philosophy ? that of reconciling the reality of the physical object of science with the richly qualitative object of ordinary experience , is a factitious one . All that is required in order to apprehend that scientific knowledge as a mode of active i  | operation is a potential ally of the modes of action which sustain values in existence , is to surrender the traditional notion that knowledge is possession of the inner nature of things and is the only way in which they may be experienced as they " really " are . For if one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an indication of their occurrence . Seeing one thing happen we can promptly infer upon what it depends , and what needs to be reinforced or to be weakened if its presence is to be made more secure or is to be done away with . In itself , the object is just what it is experienced as being , hard , heavy , sweet , sonorous , agreeable or tedious and so on . But in being " there " these traits are effects , not causes . They can not as such be used as means , and when they are set up as ends in view , we are at a loss how to secure them . For just as qualities there are no constant and definite relations which can be ascertained between them and other things . If we wish to regard them not as fixed properties but as things to be attained , we must be able to look upon them as dependent events . If we wish to be able to judge how they may be attained , we must connect them as changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by means of a transitive series of connected changes we arrive at that which we can initiate by our own acts . If one with understanding of the whole situation were to set out to devise means of control of the experience of qualitative values , he would plot a course which would be identical with that followed by experimental science ; one in which the results of knowledge would bear the same relation to acts to be performed as do those of actual physical knowledge . Ability , through a definite or measured correlation of changes , to connect one with another as sign or evidence is the precondition of control . It does not of itself provide direct control ; reading the index hand of a barometer as a sign of probable rain does not enable us to stop the coming of the rain . But it does enable us to change our relations to it : to plant a garden , to carry an umbrella on going out , to direct  | the course of a vessel at sea , etc . It enables preparatory acts to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not enable us to regulate just what is to take place , it enables us to direct some phase of it in a way which influences the stability of purposes and results . In other cases , as in the arts proper , we can not only modify our own attitude so as to effect useful preparation for what is to happen , but we can modify the happening itself . This use of one change or perceptible occurrence as a sign of others and as a means of preparing ourselves , did not wait for the development of modern science . It is as old as man himself , being the heart of all intelligence . But accuracy and scope of such judgments , which are the only means with power to direct the course of events and to effect the security of values , depends upon the use of methods such as modern physics has made available . Extent of control is dependent , as was suggested a moment ago , upon capacity to find a connected series of correlated change , such that each linked pair leads on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be brought about by our own action . It is this latter condition which is especially fulfilled by the objects of scientific thought . Physical science disregards the qualitative heterogeneity of experienced objects so as to make them all members in one comprehensive homogeneous scheme , and hence capable of translation or conversion one into another . This homogeneity of subject-matter over a broad range of things which are as disparate from each other in direct experience as sound and colour , heat and light , friction and electricity , is the source of the wide and free control of events found in modern technology . Common-sense knowledge can connect things as sign and thing indicated here and there by isolated couples . But it can not possibly join them all up together so that we can pass from any one to any other . The homogeneity of scientific objects , through formulation in terms of relations of space , time and motion , is precisely the device which makes this indefinitely broad and flexible scheme of transitions  | possible . The meaning which one event has is translatable into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulated in terms of the relations which changes bear to one another , having common measures , institute broad , smooth highways by means of which we can travel from the thought of one part of nature to that of any other . In ideal at least , we can travel from any meaning ? or relation ? found anywhere in nature to the meaning to be expected anywhere else . We have only to compare thinking and judging objects in terms of these measured interactions with the classic scheme of a hierarchy of species and genera to see the great gain that has been effected . It is the very nature of fixed kinds to be as exclusive with respect to those of a different order as it is to be inclusive with respect to those which fall within the class . Instead of a thoroughfare from one order to another , there was a sign : No passage . The work of emancipation which was initiated by experimentation , setting objects free from limitation by old habits and customs , reducing them to a collection of data forming a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceiving and defining objects through operations which have as their consequence accurate metric statements of changes correlated with changes going on elsewhere . The resolution of objects and nature as a whole into facts stated exclusively in terms of quantities which may be handled in calculation , such as saying that red is such a number of changes while green is another , seems strange and puzzling only when we fail to appreciate what it signifies . In reality , it is a declaration that this is the effective way to think things ; the effective mode in which to frame ideas of them , to formulate their meanings . The procedure does not vary in principle from that by which it is stated that an article is worth so many dollars and cents . The latter statement does not say that the article is literally or in its ultimate " reality " so many dollars and cents ; it says that for purpose of exchange that is the way to think of  | it , to judge it . It has many other meanings and these others are usually more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is what it is worth , what it will sell for , and the price value put upon it expresses the relation it bears to other things in exchange . The advantage in stating its worth in terms of an abstract measure of exchange such as money , instead of in terms of the amount of corn , potatoes or some other special thing it will exchange for , is that the latter method is restricted and the former generalized . Development of the systems of units by which to measure sensible objects ( or form ideas of them ) has come along with discovery of the ways in which the greatest amount of free movement from one conception to another is possible . The formulation of ideas of experienced objects in terms of measured quantities , as these are established by an intentional art or technique , does not say that this is the way they must be thought , the only valid way of thinking them . It states that for the purpose of generalized , indefinitely extensive translation from one idea to another , this is the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement about instruments , such as that so-and-so is the best way of sending a number of telegraphic dispatches simultaneously . As far as it is actually the best instrumentality , the statement is correct . It has to be proved by working better than any other agency ; it is in process of continuous revision and improvement . For purposes except that of general and extensive translation of one conception into another , it does not follow that the " scientific " way is the best way of thinking an affair . The nearer we come to an action that is to have an individualized unique object of experience for its conclusion , the less do we think the things in question in these exclusively metric terms . The physician in practice will not think in terms as general and abstract as those of the physiologist in the laboratory , nor the engineer in the field in those as free from special application as will the physicist in his workshop . There are many ways of thinking things in relation to one another ;  | they are , as conceptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is to be done with it . The fine-scale micrometer which is indispensable in the successful performance of one operation would be a hindrance in some other needed act ; and a watch-spring is useless to give elasticity to a mattress . There is something both ridiculous and disconcerting in the way in which men have let themselves be imposed upon , so as to infer that scientific ways of thinking of objects give the inner reality of things , and that they put a mark of spuriousness upon all other ways of thinking of them , and of perceiving and enjoying them . It is ludicrous because these scientific conceptions , like other instruments , are hand-made by man in pursuit of realization of a certain interest ? that of the maximum convertibility of every object of thought into any and every other . It is a wonderful ideal ; the ingenuity which man has shown in devising means of realizing the interest is even more marvellous . But these ways of thinking are no more rivals of or substitutes for objects as directly perceived and enjoyed than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cloth than was the old hand-loom , is a substitute and rival for cloth . The man who is disappointed and tragic because he can not wear a loom is in reality no more ridiculous than are the persons who feel troubled because the objects of scientific conception of natural things have not the same uses and values as the things of direct experience . The disconcerting aspect of the situation resides in the difficulty with which mankind throws off beliefs that have become habitual . The test of ideas , of thinking generally , is found in the consequences of the acts to which the ideas lead , that is , in the new arrangements of things which are brought into existence . Such is the unequivocal evidence as to the worth of ideas which is derived from observing their position and role in experimental knowing . But tradition makes the tests of ideas to be their agreement with some antecedent state of  | things . This change of outlook and standard from what precedes to what comes after , from the retrospective to the prospective , from antecedents to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the physical sciences describe objects and the world as being such and such , it is thought that the description is of reality as it exists in itself . Since all value-traits are lacking in objects as science presents them to us , it is assumed that Reality has not such characteristics . In the previous chapter , we saw that experimental method , in reducing objects to data , divests experienced things of their qualities , but that this removal , judged from the standpoint of the whole operation of which it is one part , is a condition of the control which enables us to endow the objects of experience with other qualities which we want them to have . In like fashion , thought , our conceptions and ideas , are designations of operations to be performed or already performed . Consequently their value is determined by the outcome of these operations . They are sound if the operations they direct give us the results which are required . The authority of thought depends upon what it leads us to through directing the performance of operations . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the characters already possessed by objects but to judge them as potentialities of what they become through an indicated operation . This principle holds from the simplest case to the most elaborate . To judge that this object is sweet , that is , to refer the idea or meaning " sweet " to it without actually experiencing sweetness , is to predict that when it is tasted ? that is , subjected to a specified operation ? a certain consequence will ensue . Similarly , to think of the world in terms of mathematical formulae of space , time and motion is not to have a picture of the independent and fixed essence of the universe . It is to describe experienceable objects as material upon which certain operations are performed . The bearing of this conclusion upon the relation of knowledge and action speaks for itself . Knowledge which is merely a  | reduplication in ideas of what exists already in the world may afford us the satisfaction of a photograph , but that is all . To form ideas whose worth is to be judged by what exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the test could be applied , which seems impossible ) goes on within nature or makes any difference there . Ideas that are plans of operations to be performed are integral factors in actions which change the face of the world . Idealistic philosophies have not been wrong in attaching vast importance and power to ideas . But in isolating their function and their test from action , they failed to grasp the point and place where ideas have a constructive office . A genuine idealism and one compatible with science will emerge as soon as philosophy accepts the teaching of science that ideas are statements not of what is or has been but of acts to be performed . For then mankind will learn that , intellectually ( that is , save for the aesthetic enjoyment they afford , which is of course a true value ) , ideas are worthless except as they pass into actions which rearrange and reconstruct in some way , be it little or large , the world in which we live . To magnify thought and ideas for their own sake apart from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) is to refuse to learn the lesson of the most authentic kind of knowledge ? the experimental ? and it is to reject the idealism which involves responsibility . To praise thinking above action because there is so much ill-considered action in the world is to help maintain the kind of a world in which action occurs for narrow and transient purposes . To seek after ideas and to cling to them as means of conducting operations , as factors in practical arts , is to participate in creating a world in which the springs of thinking will be clear and everflowing . We recur to our general issue . When we take the instance of scientific experience in its own field , we find that experience when it is experimental does not signify the absence of large and far-reaching ideas and purposes . It is dependent upon them at every point . But it generates them within its own procedures and tests them by its own operations . In so far , we  | have the earnest of a possibility of human experience , in all its phases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be continuously generated and used . But they will be integral with the course of experience itself , not imported from the external source of a reality beyond .  | THE PROBLEM OF THE nature , office and test of ideas is not exhausted in the matter of physical conceptions we have discussed in the preceding chapter . Mathematical ideas are indispensable instruments of physical research , and no account of the method of the latter is complete that does not take into account the applicability of mathematical conceptions to natural existence . Such ideas have always seemed to be the very type of pure conceptions , of thought in its own nature unadulterated with material derived from experience . To a constant succession of philosophers , the role of mathematics in physical analysis and formulation has seemed to be a proof of the presence of an invariant rational element within physical existence , which is on that account something more than physical ; this role of conceptions has been the stumblingblock of empiricists in trying to account for science on an empirical basis . The significance of mathematics for philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical world , and a superempirical factor in knowledge of it . Mathematical conceptions as expressions of pure thought have also seemed to provide the open gateway to a realm of essence that is independent of existence , physical or mental ? a self-subsisting realm of ideal and eternal objects which are the objects of the highest ? that is , the most assured ? knowledge . As was earlier noted , the Euclidean geometry was undoubtedly the pattern for the development of a formally rational logic ; it was also a marked factor in leading Plato to his doctrine of a world of supersensible and superphysical ideal objects . The procedure of mathematics has , moreover , always been the chief reliance of those who have asserted that the demonstrated validity of all reflective thinking depends  | upon rational truths immediately known without any element of inference entering in . For mathematics was supposed to rest upon a basis of first truths or axioms , self-evident in nature , and needing only that the eye of reason should fall upon them to be recognized for what they are . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mathematical deduction has been the ground for the distincf on between intuitive and discursive reason , just as deductions have been taken to be the convincing proof that there is a realm of pure essences logically connected with one another : universals having internal bonds with one another . The theory that conceptions are definitions of consequences of operations needs therefore to be developed with reference to mathematical ideas both for its own sake and for its bearing upon the philosophic issues which are basic to the logic of rationalism and to the metaphysics of essences and universals or invariants . We shall begin with mathematical concepts in their physical sense , and then consider them as they are developed apart from existential application . Although Descartes defined natural existence as extension , the classic tradition that only sense and imagination , among the organs of mind , refer to physical existence caused him to feel bound to offer justification for the doctrine that natural phenomena can be scientifically stated by purely mathematical reasoning without need of recourse to experimentation . His proof of the existence of God served the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With Spinoza , the correspondence between physical existence and ideas did not need to be substantiated by God because it was God . This correspondence when modified to give thought such a priority as to include existence within itself became the animating motif of Post-Kantian idealistic systems . Newton , being a man of science rather than a professed philosopher , made such assumptions as he thought scientific procedure demanded and its conclusions warranted . The  | scepticism of Hume ( anticipated , however , by Berkeley as far as the Newtonian metaphysics of mathematical space and time were concerned ) was , as is notorious , the chief factor in leading Kant to regard space and time as a priori forms of all perceptual experience . One of the grounds for Kant 's conviction that his doctrine was incontrovertible was because he thought it had the support of Newtonian physics and was necessary to give that physics a firm foundation . The consideration important for our special purpose is , however , the fact that Newton with respect to the doctrine of space , time and motion ( involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nature ) frankly deserted the empirical method he professed to use in respect to the properties of the ultimate fixed substances . At the same time , he regarded the physical and the mathematical as complementary conceptions of two sets of properties of fixed forms of immutable Being . He assumed , in addition to atoms having mass , inertia and extension , the existence of empty immaterial space and time in which these substances lived , moved and had their being . The combination of the properties of these two kinds of Being provided the union of the empirically observed properties of phenomena with those that were rational and mathematical : ? a union so complete and so intimate that it conferred upon the Newtonian system that massive solidity P and comprehensiveness which seemed to render his system in its essential framework the last word possible of the science of nature . Definition of space , time and motion from " the relation they bear to sense " is according to him " a vulgar prejudice " . As well as any contemporary physicist , he knew that phenomena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are found in a frame of reference which is relative to an observer . In escape from the relativity of observable traits of the spatial and temporal motions of bodies , he assumed the existence of a fixed container of empty space in which bodies are located and  | an equably flowing time , empty in itself , in which changes take place . From this assumption , it followed that atoms have an intrinsically measurable motion of their own , independent of any connection with an observer . Absolute space , time and motion were thus the immutable frame within which all particular phenomena take place . The assumption of these rational absolutes was also required by his basic metaphysics of fixed substances having their own inherent and unchangeable ( or essential ) properties of mass , extension and inertia . The sole ground of assurance that ultimate hard and massy particles persist without internal change , that all changes are merely matters of their external " separations and associations " , was the existence of something empty and fixed within which the latter occur . Without such an intervening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal changes in atoms . Space provided the condition under which changes would be external and indifferent to ultimate physical substances . Since , then , changes have nothing to do directly with the relations of atoms to one another , the temporal order of changes can not be connected with the atoms themselves . There must be some evenly flowing external change ? in reality no change at all ? in reference to which they have fixed positions of before and after and of simultaneity . Since velocity and acceleration of observed motions would be disjoined from absolute position and date if they were relative to an observer ? to the disruption of the whole physical scheme ? motion must also be absolute . While professing empiricism , Newton thus got the benefit of the rationalistic system of strict deductive necessity . Invariant time , space and motion furnished phenomena those properties to which mathematical reasoning could be attached as a disclosure of inherent properties . The positions of bodies could be treated as an assemblage of geometrical points and the temporal properties of their motions be considered as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its  | scientific treatment , to conform mathematically to specifications laid down by the mathematics of space and time . Until our own day , until the conception of the determination of simultaneity of occurrence was challenged by Einstein , the system continued to receive at least Pickwickian assent from scientists . There is no trouble of course about the determination of simultaneity when two events occur within one and the same region of observation . Newton , because of his assumption of absolute time , assumed that the measurement of simultaneity had precise meaning for events not occurring within the same observed field . Einstein saw that this assumption was the Achilles heel of the entire scheme . He demanded an experimental method of determining simultaneity ? without which events can not be dated with respect to one another . He made the demand not on purely general principles , but because of a definite problem with relation to the velocity of light . For the existing state of the doctrine of light presented a discrepancy not to be resolved on the basis of the received scheme . The observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its direction was observed and its velocity measured , did not agree with a fundamental principle of dynamics ; with its postulate concerning frames of reference for co-ordinate systems having uniform movements of translation . Instead of maintaining the old theory and denying the validity of the observed result of the Michelson-Morley experiment , Einstein asked what change in conceptions was demanded by the experimental result . He saw that the measurement of time relations , centring in the concept of simultaneity , was the crucial point . So he said , " We require a definition of simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with a method by which in particular cases the physicist can decide by experiment whether or not two events occurred simultaneously " . I He suggested an arrangement by which two flashes of light , not in themselves = Einstein , Relativity , New York , 1926 , p. 26 . Italics not in original .  | capable of inclusion in one region of observation , be reflected to a mirror placed midway between the origin of the two flashes . They are simultaneous if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observation . To a layman , the suggestion might seem innocuous . But taken in its context , it signified that the temporal relation of events was to be measured by means of the consequences of an operation which constitutes as its outcome a single field of observed phenomena . It signified , in connection with the fact regarding the constancy of velocity of light , that events occurring at different times according to two watches keeping exactly the same time , placed at the points of the origin of the flashes , may be simultaneous . In scientific content , this was equivalent to doing away with Newton 's absolutes ; it was the source of the doctrine of restricted relativity . It signified that local or individualized times are not the same as a generic common time of physics : in short , it signified that physical time designates a relation of events , not the inherent property of objects . What is significant for our purpose is that it marked the end , as far as natural science is concerned , of the attempt to frame scientific conceptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independently of the observed consequences of an experimental operation . Since the former doctrine about the proper way to form conceptions , to the effect that agreement with antecedent properties determines the value or validity of ideas , was the doctrine common to all philosophic schools ? except the pragmatic one of Peirce ? the logical and philosophical transformation thus effected may be said to be more far-reaching than even the extraordinary development in the content of natural science which resulted . It is not too much to say that whatever should be future developments in discoveries about light , or that even if the details of the Einstein theory of relativity should be some time discredited , a genuine revolution , and one which will  | not go backward , has been effected in the theory of the origin , nature and test of scientific ideas . In respect to the special theme of the nature of mathematicophysical conceptions , the pertinent conclusion is evident . For the conclusion of Einstein , in eliminating absolute space , time and motion as physical existences , does away with the doctrine that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in physics concern inherent properties . For that notion , it compels the substitution of the notion that they designate relations of events . As such relations , they secure , in their generality , the possibility of linking together objects viewed as events in a general system of linkage and translation . They are the means of correlating observations made at different times and places , whether by one observer or by many , so that translations may be effected from one to another . In short , they do the business that all thinking and objects of thought have to effect : they connect , through relevant operations , the discontinuities of individualized observations and experiences into continuity with one another . Their validity is a matter of their efficacy in performance of this function ; it is tested by results and not by correspondence with antecedent properties of existence . It is possible to extend this conclusion to logical forms in general . The fact that there are certain formal conditions of the validity of inference has been used as the ultimate warrant of a realm of invariant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceptions , logical forms are statements of the means by which it is discovered that various inferences may be translated into one another , or made available with respect to one another , in the widest and most secure way . Fundamentally , the needs satisfied by inference are not fully met as long as special instances are isolated from one another . The difference between the operational conception of conceptions and the traditional orthodox one may be indicated by  | an illustrative analogy. = A visitor to a country finds certain articles used for various purposes , rugs , baskets , spears , etc . He may be struck by the beauty , elegance and order of their designs , and , assuming a purely aesthetic attitude toward them , conclude that they are put to use only incidentally . He may even suppose that their instrumental use marks a degradation of their inherent nature , a concession to utilitarian needs and conveniences . A " tough-minded " observer may be convinced that they were intended to be put to use , and had been constructed for that purpose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been raw materials which were inherently adapted for conversion to such appliances . But he would not on that account believe the things to be original instead of being made articles ; still less would he conceive them to be the original " realities " of which crude or raw material were imitations or inadequate phenomenal exemplifications . As he traced the history of these instrumentalities and found them beginning in forms which were nearer to raw materials , gradually being perfected in economy and efficiency , he would conclude that the perfecting had been an accompaniment of use for ends , changes being introduced to remedy deficiencies in prior operations and results . His tender-minded companion might , on the other hand , infer that the progressive development showed that there was some original and transcendental pattern which had been gradually approximated empirically , an archetype laid up in the heavens . One person might argue that , while the development of designs had been a temporal process , it had been wholly determined by patterns of order , harmony and symmetry that have an independent subsistence , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used to suggest that the interpretation is self-applying : ? that is , the conception advanced is also a designation of a method to be pursued . One may lead a horse to water but can not compel him to drink . If one is unable to perform an indicated operation or declines to do so , he will not of course get its meaning .  | movement was simply a piecemeal approximation to eternal patterns . He might elaborate a theory of formal coherence of relations having nothing to do with particular objects except that of being exemplified in them . His tough-minded companion might retort that any object made to serve a purpose must have a definite structure of its own which demands an internal consistency of parts in connection with one another , and that man-made machines are typical examples ; that while these can not be made except by taking advantage of conditions and relations previously existing , machines and tools are adequate to their function in the degree in which they produce rearrangement of antecedent things so that they may work better for the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether our very ideals of internal order and harmony had not themselves been formed under the pressure of constant need of redisposing of things so that they would serve as means for consequences . If not too tough-minded , he would be willing to admit that after a certain amount of internal rearrangement and organization had been effected under the more direct pressure of demand for effective instrumentalities , an enjoyed perception of internal harmony on its own account would result , and that study of formal relations might well give a clue to methods which would result in improvement of internal design for its own sake with no reference whatever to special further use . Apart from metaphor , the existence of works of fine art , of interest in making them and of enjoyment of them , affords sufficient evidence that objects exist which are wholly " real " and yet are man-made ; that making them must observe or pay heed to antecedent conditions , and yet the objects intrinsically be redispositions of prior existence ; that things as they casually offer themselves suggest ends and enjoyments they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the degree they take the form of ideas , of indications of operations to be performed in order to effect a desired  | eventual rearrangement . These objects , when once in existence , have their own characters and relations , and as such suggest standards and ends for further production of works of art , with less need for recourse to original " natural " objects ; they become as it were a " realm " having its own purposes and regulative principles . At the same time , the objects of this " realm " tend to become over-formal , stereotyped and " academic " if the internal development of an art is too much isolated , so that there is recurrent need for attention to original " natural " objects in order to initiate new significant movements . The notion that there are no alternatives with respect to mathematical objects save that they form an independent realm of essences ; or are relations inherent in some antecedent physical structure ? denominated space and time ; or else are mere psychological , " mental " things , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are exhaustive is a survival of the traditional notion that identifies thought and ideas with merely mental acts ? that is , those inside mind . Products of intentional operations are objectively real and are valid if they meet the conditions involved in the intent for the sake of which they are constructed . But human interaction is a contributing factor in their production , and they have worth in the human use made of them . The discussion so far does not , however , directly touch the question of " pure " mathematics , mathematical ideas in themselves . Newton 's mathematics was professedly a mathematics of physical although non-material existence : of existential absolute space , time and motion . Mathematicians , however , often regard their distinctive conceptions as non-existential in any sense . The whole tendency of later developments , which it is unnecessary for our purposes to specify ( but of which the doctrine of n-dimensional " spaces " is typical ) , is to identify pure mathematics with pure logic . Some philosophers employ therefore the entities of pure mathematics so as to rehabilitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent of all existence whatever . Does the doctrine of the operational and experimentally empirical nature of conceptions break down when applied to " pure " mathematical objects ? The key to the answer is to be found in a distinction between operations overtly performed ( or imagined to be performed ) and operations symbolically executed . When we act overtly , consequences ensue ; if we do not like them , they are nevertheless there in existence . We are entangled in the outcome of what we do ; we have to stand its consequences . We shall put a question that is so elementary that it may seem silly . How can we have an end in view without having an end , an existential result , in fact ? With the answer to this question is bound up the whole problem of intentional regulation of what occurs . For unless we can have ends-in-view without experiencing them in concrete fact no regulation of action is possible . The question might be put thus : How can we act without acting , without doing something ? If , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men to think of this question before they had found how to answer it , it would have been given up as insoluble . How can man make an anticipatory projection of the outcome of an activity in such a way as to direct the performance of an act which shall secure or avert that outcome ? The solution must have been hit upon accidentally as a by-product , and then employed intentionally . It is natural to suppose that it came as a product of social life by way of communication ; say , of cries that having once directed activities usefully without intent were afterwards used expressly for that purpose . But whatever the origin , a solution was found when symbols came into existence . By means of symbols , whether gestures , words or more elaborate constructions , we act without acting . That is , we perform experiments by means of symbols which have results which are themselves only symbolized , and which do not therefore commit us to actual or existential consequences .  | If a man starts a fire or insults a rival , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he rehearses the act in symbols in privacy , he can anticipate and appreciate its result . Then he can act or not act overtly on the basis of what is anticipated and is not there in fact . The invention or discovery of symbols is doubtless by far the single greatest event in the history of man . Without them , no intellectual advance is possible ; with them , there is no limit set to intellectual development except inherent stupidity . For long ages , symbols were doubtless used to regulate activity only ad hoc ; they were employed incidentally and for some fairly immediate end . Moreover , the symbols used at first were not examined nor settled upon with respect to the office they performed . They were picked up in a casual manner from what was conveniently at hand . They carried all sorts of irrelevant associations that hampered their efficacy in their own special work . They were neither whittled down to accomplish a single function nor were they of a character to direct acts to meet a variety of situations : ? they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without invention of proper symbols . The loose and restricted character of popular thinking has its origin in these facts ; its progress is encumbered by the vague and vacillating nature of ordinary words . Thus the second great step forward was made when special symbols were devised that were emancipated from the load of irrelevancy carried by words developed for social rather than for intellectual purposes , their meaning being helped out by their immediate local context . This liberation from accidental accretions changed clumsy and ambiguous instruments of thought into sharp and precise tools . Even more important was the fact that instead of being adapted to local and directly present situations , they were framed in detachment from direct overt use and with respect to one another . One has only to look at mathematical symbols to note that the operations they designate are others of the same kind as themselves , that is ,  | symbolic not actual . The invention of technical symbols marked the possibility of an advance of thinking from the common-sense level to the scientific . The formation of geometry by the Greeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before this episode , counting and measuring had been employed for " practical " ends , that is , for uses directly involved in nearby situations . They were restricted to particular purposes . Yet having been invented and having found expression in definite symbols , they formed , as far as they went , a subject-matter capable of independent examination . New operations could be performed upon them . They could , and in no disrespectful sense , be played with ; they could be treated from the standpoint of a fine art rather than from that of an immediately useful economic craft . The Greeks with their dominant aesthetic interest were the ones who took this step . Of the creation by the Greeks of geometry it has been said that it was stimulated " by the art of designing , guided by an 2esthetic application of symmetrical figures . The study of such figures , and the experimental construction of tile figures , decorative borders , conventional sculptures , mouldings and the like had made the early Greeks acquainted not only with a great variety of regular geometrical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructed , compounded and divided exactly , in various ways . Unlike their predecessors , the Greeks made an intellectual diversion of all they undertook . " Having discovered by trial and error a large number of interrelated properties of figures , they proceeded to correlate these with one another and with new ones . They effected this work " in ways which gradually eliminated from their thought about them all guesswork , all accidental experiences such as errors of actual drawing and measurement , and all ideas except those which were absolutely essential . Their science thus became a science of ideas exclusively . " ' I Barry , The Scientific Habit of Thought , New York , 1927 , pp. 212-213.  | The importance of the intellectual transition from concrete to abstract is generally recognized . But it is often misconceived . It is not infrequently regarded as if it signified simply the selection by discriminative attention of some one quality or relation from a total object already sensibly present or present in memory . In fact , it marks a change in dimensions . Things are concrete to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly used or are ends directly appropriated and enjoyed . Mathematical ideas were " concrete " when they were employed exclusively for building bins for grain or measuring land , selling goods , or aiding a pilot in guiding his ship . They became abstract when they were freed from connection with any particular existential application and use . This happened when operations made possible by symbols were performed exclusively with reference to facilitating and directing other operations also symbolic in nature . It is one kind of thing , a concrete one , to measure the area of a triangle so as to measure a piece of land , and another kind ? an abstract one ? to measure it simply as a means of measuring other areas symbolically designated . The latter type of operation makes possible a system of conceptions related together as conceptions ; it thus prepares the way for formal logic . Abstraction from use in special and direct situations was coincident with the formation of a science of ideas , of meanings , whose relations to one another rather than to things was the goal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is subject to interpretation by a fallacy . Independence from any specified application is readily taken to be equivalent to independence from application as such ; it is as if specialists , engaged in perfecting tools and having no concern with their use and so interested in the operation of perfecting that they carry results beyond any existing possibilities of use , were to argue that therefore they are dealing with an independent realm having no connection with tools or utilities . This fallacy is especially easy to fall into on the part of intellectual specialists .  | It played its part in the generation of a priori rationalism . It is the origin of that idolatrous attitude toward universals so often recurring in the history of thought . Those who handle ideas through symbols as if they were things ? for ideas are objects of thought ? and trace their mutual relations in all kinds of intricate and unexpected relationships , are ready victims to thinking of these objects as if they had no sort of reference to things , to existence . In fact , the distinction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such , as merely possible . Shift of reflection to development of possible operations in their logical relations to one another opens up opportunities for operations that would never be directly suggested . But its origin and eventual meaning lie in acts that deal with concrete situations . As to origin in overt operations there can be no doubt . Operations of keeping tally and scoring are found in both work and games . No complex development of the latter is possible without such acts and their appropriate symbols . These acts are the originals of number and of all developments of number . There are many arts in which the operations of enumeration characteristic of keeping tally are explicitly used for measuring . Carpentry and masonry for example can not go far without some device , however rude , for estimating size and bulk . If we generalize what happens in such instances , we see that the indispensable need is that of adjusting things as means , as resources , to other things as ends . The origin of counting and measuring is in economy and efficiency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at first notches , scratches , tying knots ; later by figures and diagrams . It is easy to find at least three types of situations in which this adjustment of means to ends is a practical necessity . There is the case of allotment or distribution of materials ; of accumulation of stores against anticipated days of need ; of exchange of things in which there is a surplus for things in which there is a deficit . The  | fundamental mathematical conceptions of equivalence , serial order , sum and unitary parts , of correspondence and substitution , are all implicit in the operations that deal with such situations , although they become explicit and generalized only when operations are conducted symbolically in reference to one another . The failure of empiricism to account for mathematical ideas is due to its failure to connect them with acts performed . In accord with its sensationalistic character , traditional empiricism sought their origin in sensory impressions , or at most in supposed abstraction from properties antecedently characterizing physical things . Experimental empiricism has none of the difficulties of Hume and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognizes that experience , the actual experience of men , is one of doing acts , performing operations , cutting , marking off , dividing up , extending , piecing together , joining , assembling and mixing , hoarding and dealing out ; in general , selecting and adjusting things as means for reaching consequences . Only the peculiar hypnotic effect exercised by exclusive preoccupation with knowledge could have led thinkers to identify experience with reception of sensations , when five minutes ' observation of a child would have disclosed that sensations count only as stimuli and registers of motor activity expended in doing things . All that was required for the development of mathematics as a science and for the growth of a logic of ideas , that is , of implications of operations with respect one to another , was that some men should appear upon the scene who were interested in the operations on their own account , as operations , and not as means to specified particular uses . When symbols were devised for operations cut off from concrete application , as happened under the influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally . Physical means , the straightedge , the compass and the marker remained , and so did physical diagrams . But the latter were only " figures " ,  | images in the Platonic sense . Intellectual force was carried by the operations they symbolized , ruler and compass were only means for linking up with one another a series of operations represented by symbols . Diagrams , etc. , were particular and variable , but the operations were uniform and general in their intellectual force : ? that is , in their relation to other operations . When once the way was opened to thinking in terms of possible operations irrespective of actual performance , there was no limit to development save human ingenuity . In general , it proceeded along two lines . On the one hand , for the execution of tasks of physical inquiry , special intellectual instrumentalities were needed , and this need led to the invention of new operations and symbolic systems . The Cartesian analytics and the calculuses of Leibniz and Newton are cases in point . Such developments have created a definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as is the historic sequence of , say , spinning-machines . Such a body of material arouses need for examination on its own account . It is subjected to careful inspection with reference to the relations found within its own content . Indications of superfluous operations are eliminated ; ambiguities are detected and analysed ; massed operations are broken up into definite constituents ; gaps and unexplained jumps are made good by insertion of connecting operations . In short , certain canons of rigorous interrelation of operations are developed and the old material is correspondingly revised and extended . Nor is the work merely one of analytic revision . The detection , for example , of the logical looseness of the Euclidean postulate regarding parallels suggested operations previously unthought of , and opened up new fields ? those of the hyper-geometries . Moreover , the possibility of combining various existing branches of geometry as special cases of more comprehensive operations ( illustrated by the same instance ) led to creation of mathematics of a higher order of generality .  | I am not interested in tracing the history of mathematics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of possible operations , indicated by symbols and performed only by means of symbols , is discovered , the road is opened to operations of ever increasing definiteness and comprehensiveness . Any group of symbolic operations suggests further operations that may be performed . Technical symbols are framed with precisely this end in view . They have three traits that distinguish them from casual terms and ideas . They are selected with a view to designating unambiguously one mode of interaction and one only . They are linked up with symbols of other operations forming a system such that transition is possible with the utmost economy of energy from one to another . And the aim is that these transitions may occur as far as possible in any direction . i . " Water " for example suggests an indefinite number of acts ; seeing , tasting , drinking , washing , without specification of one in preference to another . It also marks off water from other colourless liquids only in a vague way . 2 . At the same time , it is restricted ; it does not connect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less does it indicate operations which link the production of water to other things into which its constituents , oxygen and hydrogen , enter . It is isolated instead of being a transitive concept . 3 . The chemical conception , symbolized by H2O , not only meets these two requirements which " water " fails to meet , but oxygen and hydrogen are in turn connected with the whole system of chemical elements and specified combinations among them in a systematic way . Starting from the elements and the relation defined in H2O one can , so to speak , travel through all the whole scope and range of complex and varied phenomena . Thus the scientific conception carries thought and action away from qualities which are finalities as they are found in direct perception and use , to the mode of production of these qualities , and it performs this task in a way which links this mode of generation to a multitude of other  | " efficient " causal conditions in the most economical and effective manner . Mathematical conceptions , by means of symbols of operations that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; one has only to contrast " 2 " as attached physically to H , to " z " as pure number . The latter designates an operative relation applicable to anything whatsoever , though not actually applied to any specified object . And , of course , it stands in defined relations to all other numbers , and by a system of correspondences with continuous quantities as well . That numbers disregard all qualitative distinctions is a familiar fact . This disregard is the consequence of construction of symbols dealing with possible operations in abstraction from the actuality of performance . If time and knowledge permitted , it could be shown that the difficulties and paradoxes which have been found to attend the logic of number disappear when instead of their being treated as either essences or as properties of things in existence , they are viewed as designations of potential operations . Mathematical space is not a kind of space distinct from so-called physical and empirical space , but is a name given to operations ideally or formally possible with respect to things having spacious qualities : it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking things so that connections among them are liberated from fixity in experience and implication from one to another is made possible . The distinction between physical and mathematical conception may be brought out by noting an ambiguity in the term " possible " operations . Its primary meaning is actually , existentially , possible . Any idea as such designates an operation that may be performed , not something in actual existence . The idea of the sweetness of , say , sugar , is an indication of the consequences of a possible operation of tasting as distinct from a directly experienced quality . Mathematical ideas are designations of possible operations in another and secondary sense , previously expressed in speaking of the possibility of  | symbolic operations with respect to one another . This sense of possibility is compossibility of operations , not possibility of performance with respect to existence . Its test is nonincompatibility . The statement of this test as consistency hardly carries the full meaning . For consistency is readily interpreted to signify the conformity of one meaning with others already had , and is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments are welcome as long as they do not conflict with one another , or as long as restatement of an operation prevents actual conflict . It is a canon of liberation rather than of restriction . It may be compared with natural selection , which is a principle of elimination but not one controlling positive development . Mathematics and formal logic thus mark highly specialized branches of intellectual industry , whose working principles are very similar to those of works of fine art . The trait that strikingly characterizes them is combination of freedom with rigour ? freedom with respect to development of new operations and ideas ; rigour with respect to formal compossibilities . The combination of these qualities , characteristic also of works of great art , gives the subject great fascination for some minds . But the belief that these qualifications remove mathematical objects from all connection with existence expresses a religious mood rather than a scientific discovery. = The significant difference is that of two types of possibility of operation , material and symbolic . This distinction when frozen into the dogma of two orders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notion that there are two types of I " The long-continued and infrequently interrupted study of absolutely invariant existences exercises a powerful hypnotic influence on the mind .... The world which it separates from the rest of experience and makes into the whole of being is a world of unchanging and apparently eternal order , the only Absolute cold intellect need not reject . A conviction thus establishes itself which finally affects the whole of waking thought : that in this experience one has at last discovered the eternal and ultimate truth . " ? Barry , op. cit. , pp. 1 Sz ? r 83.  | logic and two criteria of truth , the formal and the material , of which the formal is higher and more fundamental . In truth , the formal development is a specialized offshoot of material thinking . It is derived ultimately from acts performed , and constitutes an extension of such acts , made possible by symbols , on the basis of congruity with one another . Consequently formal logic represents an analysis of exclusively symbolic operations ; it is , in a pregnant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mathematical and ( formal ) logical ideas is not a disparagement of them except from a mystical point of view . Symbols , as has already been noted , afford the only way of escape from submergence in existence . The liberation afforded by the free symbolism of mathematics is often a means of ulterior return to existential operations that have a scope and penetrating power not otherwise attainable . The history of science is full of illustrations of cases in which mathematical ideas for which no physical application was known suggested in time new existential relations . The theory which has been advanced of the nature of essences ( universals , invariants ) may be tested by comparing the conditions which symbolic operations fulfil with the attributes traditionally imputed to the former . These attributes are ideality , universality , immutability , formality , and the subsistence of relations of implication that make deduction possible . There is a one to one correspondence between these characters and those of objects of thought which are defined in terms of operations that are compossible with respect to one another . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a machine which marks its structure in view of the function it fulfils . It is obvious that this structure can be understood not by sense but only by thought of the relations which the parts of the machine sustain to one another , in connection with the work the machine as a whole performs ( the  | consequences it effects ) . Sensibly , one is merely overwhelmed in the presence of a machine by noises and forms . Clarity and order of perceived objects are introduced when forms are judged in relation to operations , and these in turn in relation to work done . Movements may be seen in isolation , and products , goods turned out , may be perceived in isolation . The machine is known only when these are thought in connection with one another . In this thought , motions and parts are judged as means ; they are referred intellectually to something else ; to think of anything as means is to apprehend an object in relation . Correlatively , the physical effect is judged as consequence ? something related . The relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of ideational . Operations as such , that is , as connective interactions , are uniform . Physically and sensibly , a machine changes through friction , exposure to weather , etc. , while products vary in quality . Processes are local and temporal , particular . But the relation of means and consequence which defines an operation remains one and the same in spite of these variations . It is a universal . A machine turns out a succession of steel spheres , like ball-bearings . These closely resemble one another , because they are products of like process . But there is no absolute exactitude among them . Each process is individual and not exactly identical with others . But the function for which the machine is designed does not alter with these changes ; an operation , being a relation , is not a process . An operation determines any number of processes and products all differing from one another ; but being a telephone or a cutting tool is a self-identical universal , irrespective of the multiplicity of special objects which manifest the function . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the sense of enduring throughout all time , or being everlasting like an Aristotelean species or a Newtonian substance , but in the sense that an operation as a relation which is grasped in thought is independent of the instances in which it is overtly exemplified ,  | although its meaning is found only in the possibility of these actualizations . The relation , between things as means and things as consequences , which defines a machine is ideal in another sense . It is the standard by which the value of existential processes is estimated . The deterioration or improvement in use of a concrete machine and the worth of an invention are judged by reference to efficiency in accomplishment of a function . The more adequately the functional relation can be apprehended in the abstract , the better can the engineer detect defects in an existent machine and project improvements in it . Thus the thought of it operates as a model ; it has an archetypal character with respect to particular machines . Thought of an object as an ideal therefore determines a characteristic internal structure or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things . One may conceive of a steam-engine which has a one hundred per cent . efficiency , although no such ideal is even remotely approached in actuality . Or , one may like Helmholtz conceive an ideal optical apparatus in which the defects of the existing human eye are not found . The ideal relationship of means to ends exists as a formal possibility determined by the nature of the case even though it be not thought of , much less realized in fact . It subsists as a possibility , and as a possibility it is in its formal structure necessary . That is to say , the conditions which have to be met and fulfilled in the idea of a machine having an efficiency of one hundred per cent . are set by the necessities of the case ; they do not alter with defects in our apprehension of them . Hence essences may be regarded as having Being independent of and logically prior to our thought of them . There is , however , in this fact nothing of the mystery or transcendental character which is often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attain a specified result one must conform to the conditions which are means of securing this result ; if one is to get the result with the maximum of efficiency ,  | there are conditions having a necessary relationship to that intent . This necessity of a structure marked by formal relationships which fulfil the conditions of serving as means for an end , accounts for the relations of implication which make deduction possible . One goes into a factory and finds that the operation of reaching an end , say , making in quantity shoes of a uniform standard , is subdivided into a number of processes , each of which is adapted to the one which precedes , and , until the final one , to that which follows . One does not make a miracle or mystery of the fact that while each machine and each process is physically separate , nevertheless all are adapted to one another . For he knows that they have been designed , through a " rationalization " of the undertaking , to effect this end . The act of knowing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be best effected by analysis into a number of distinct processes , which bear a serial relation to one another . Terms and propositions which symbolize the possible operations that are to control these processes are designed so that they will lead one to another with the maximum of definiteness , flexibility and fertility . In other words , they are constructed with reference to the function of implication . Deduction or dialectic is the operation of developing these implications , which may be novel and unexpected just as a tool often gives unexpected results when working under new conditions . One is entitled to marvel at the constructive power with which symbols have been devised having far-reaching and fruitful implications . But the wonder is misdirected when it is made the ground for hypostatizing the objects of thought into a realm of transcendent Being . This phase of the discussion is not complete till it has been explicitly noted that all general conceptions ( ideas , theories , thought ) are hypothetical . Ability to frame hypotheses is the means by which man is liberated from submergence in the existences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sensibly . It is the positive phase of abstraction . But hypotheses are conditional ; they have to be tested by the consequences of the operations they define and direct . The discovery of the value of hypothetical ideas when employed to suggest and direct concrete processes , and the vast extension of this operation in the modern history of science , mark a great emancipation and correspondent increase of intellectual control . But their final value is not determined by their internal elaboration and consistency , but by the consequences they effect in existence as that is perceptibly experienced . Scientific conceptions are not a revelation of prior and independent reality . They are a system of hypotheses , worked out under conditions of definite test , by means of which our intellectual and practical traffic with nature is rendered freer , more secure and more significant . Our discussion has been one-sided in that it has dealt with the matter of conceptions mainly in reference to the " rationalistic " tradition of interpretation . The reasons for this emphasis are too patent to need exposition . But before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empiricism has also misread the significance of conceptions or general ideas . It has steadily opposed the doctrine of their a priori character ; it has connected them with experience of the actual world . But even more obviously than the rationalism it has opposed , empiricism has connected the origin , content and measure of validity of general ideas with antecedent existence . According to it , concepts are formed by comparing particular objects , already perceived , with one another , and then eliminating the elements in which they disagree and retaining that which they have in common . Concepts are thus simply memoranda of identical features in objects already perceived ; they are conveniences , bunching together a variety of things scattered about in concrete experience . But they have to be proved by agreement with the material of particular antecedent experiences ; their value and function is essentially retrospective . Such ideas are dead ,  | incapable of performing a regulative office in new situations . They are " empirical " in the sense in which the term is opposed to scientific ? that is , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidental circumstances . Our next chapter will be devoted to explicit consideration of the historic philosophies of empiricism and rationalism about the nature of knowledge . Before passing to this theme , we conclude with a summary statement of the more important results reached in the present phase of discussion . First , the active and productive character of ideas , of thought , is manifest . The motivating desire of idealistic systems of philosophy is justified . But the constructive office of thought is empirical ? that is , experimental . " Thought " is not a property of something termed intellect or reason apart from nature . It is a mode of directed overt action . Ideas are anticipatory plans and designs which take effect in concrete reconstructions of antecedent conditions of existence . They are not innate properties of mind corresponding to ultimate prior traits of Being , nor are they a priori categories imposed on sense in a wholesale , once-for-all way , prior to experience so as to make it possible . The active power of ideas is a reality , but ideas and idealisms have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to be tested by the specified consequences of their operation . Idealism is something experimental not abstractly rational ; it is related to experienced needs and concerned with projection of operations which remake the actual content of experienced objects . Secondly , ideas and idealisms are in themselves hypotheses not finalities . Being connected with operations to be performed , they are tested by the consequences of these operations , not by what exists prior to them . Prior experience supplies the conditions which evoke ideas and of which thought has to take account , with which it must reckon . It furnishes both obstacles to attainment of what is desired and the resources that must be used to attain it . Conception and systems of  | conceptions , ends in view and plans , are constantly making and remaking as fast as those already in use reveal their weaknesses , defects and positive values . There is no predestined course they must follow . Human experience consciously guided by ideas evolves its own standards and measures and each new experience constructed by their means is an opportunity for new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at the heart of ideas . The experimental practice of knowing , when taken to supply the pattern of philosophic doctrine of mind and its organs , eliminates the age-old separation of theory and practice . It discloses that knowing is itself a kind of action , the only one which progressively and securely clothes natural existence with realized meanings . For the outcome of experienced objects which are begot by operations which define thinking , take into themselves , as part of their own funded and incorporated meaning , the relation to other things disclosed by thinking . There are no sensory or perceived objects fixed in themselves . In the course of experience , as far as that is an outcome influenced by thinking , objects perceived , used and enjoyed take up into their own meaning the results of thought ; they become ever richer and fuller of meanings . This issue constitutes the last significance of the philosophy of experimental idealism . Ideas direct operations ; the operations have a result in which ideas are no longer abstract , mere ideas , but where they qualify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is blind , obscure , fragmentary , meagre in meaning , to objects of sense which are also objects which satisfy , reward and feed intelligence is through ideas that are experimental and operative . Our conclusion depends upon an analysis of what takes place in the experimental inquiry of natural science . It goes without saying that the wider scope of human experience , that which is concerned with distinctively human conditions and ends , does not comport , as it currently exists , with the  | result that the examination of natural science yields . The genuinely philosophic force , as distinct from a technical one , of the conclusion reached lies in precisely this incongruity . The fact that the most exacting type of experience has attained a marvellous treasury of working ideas that are used in control of objects is an indication of possibilities as yet unattained in less restricted forms of experience . Negatively , the result indicates the need of thoroughgoing revision of ideas of mind and thought and their connection with natural things that were formed before the rise of experimental inquiry ; such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the result achieved in science is a challenge to philosophy to consider the possibility of the extension of the method of operative intelligence to direction of life in other fields .  | THE DISPUTE AS TO whether reason and conception or perception and sense are the source and test of ultimate knowledge is one of the most enduring in the history of thought . It has affected philosophy from the side of both the nature of the object of knowledge and the mental faculty operating to obtain it . From the side of the object those who put forward the claims of reason have placed the universal higher than the individual ; those who have held to perception have reversed the order . From the side of mind , one school has emphasized the synthetic action of conceptions . The other school has dwelt upon the fact that in sensation the mind does not interfere with the action of objects in writing their own report . The opposition has extended to problems of conduct and society . On the one hand , there is emphasis upon the necessity of control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamic quality of wants has been insisted upon together with the intimately personal character of their satisfaction as against the pale remoteness of pure thought . On the political side , there is a like division between the adherents of order and organization , those who feel that reason alone gives security , and those interested in freedom , innovation and progress , those who have used the claims of the individual and his desires as a philosophical basis . The controversy is acute and long-standing . In consequence of it , philosophers have expended energy in controversy with one another , and the guidance they have given to practical affairs has been largely by way of support to partisans of contending forces . The situation raises a further point in our inquiry : What is the bearing of the experimental theory of knowing upon the rival contentions ? The first point which presents itself is that the object of knowledge is eventual ;  | that is , it is an outcome of directed experimental operations , instead of something in sufficient existence before the act of knowing . The further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change , sensible and rational factors cease to be competitors for primary rank . They are allies , co-operating to make knowledge possible . Isolation from each other is an expression of the isolation of each from organic connection with action . When theory is placed in opposition to practice , there is ground for dispute as to whether primacy in theory shall go to sense or intellect . Directed activity demands ideas which go beyond the results of past perceptions , for it goes out to meet future and as yet unexperienced situations . But it deals , both in origin and outcome , with things which can be had only directly , through immediate perception and enjoyment . The three chief contending doctrines in this field are sensational empiricism , rationalism and Kantianism , with its compromise of the factors isolated in the two other schools . The doctrine of Kant has a superficial resemblance to the one just stated ; it insists upon the necessity of both perception and ideas if there is to be knowledge . It is convenient , accordingly , to begin discussion with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-known saying that perception without conception is blind , conception without perception empty . His doctrine none the less is fundamentally different from that which results from an analysis of experimental knowing . The fundamental difference lies in the fact that , according to the latter , the distinction of sense and thought occurs within the process of reflective inquiry , and the two are connected together by means of operations overtly performed . In the Kantian scheme , the two originally exist in independence of each other , and their connection is established by operations that are covert and are performed in the hidden recesses of mind , once for all . As to their original difference , sense-material is impressed from without , while connective conceptions are supplied from within the understanding . As to connection , synthesis takes  | place not intentionally and by means of the controlled art of investigation , but automatically and all at once . From the experimental point of view , the art of knowing demands skill in selecting appropriate sense-data on one side and connecting principles , or conceptual theories , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technique to settle upon both the observational data and the idea that assist inquiry in reaching a conclusion in any particular case . But in Kant 's view , the distinction and the connection between the two , while necessary to anything which may be termed cognition , have nothing to do with the validity of any particular enterprise of knowing . Illusion and error exemplify the synthesis of sense and understanding quite as much as does the soundest instance of scientific discovery . In one case , the heart of the whole matter is the exercise of a differential control which makes the difference between good and bad knowing . In Kant 's scheme the blessings of the categories descend upon the material of sense without reference to making a distinction between the true and the false . We summarize the differences as follows . r . In experimental knowing , the antecedent is always the subject-matter of some experience which has its origin in natural causes , but which , not having been controlled in its occurrence , is uncertain and problematic . Original objects of experience are produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in themselves are neither sensible , conceptual nor a mixture of the two . They are precisely the qualitative material of all our ordinary untested experiences . 2 . The distinction between sense-data and interpretative ideas is deliberately instituted by the process of inquiry , for sake of carrying it forward to an adequately tested conclusion , one with a title to acceptance . 3 . Hence each term of the distinction is not absolute and fixed , but is contingent and tentative . Each is subject to revision as we find observational data which supply better evidence , and as the growth of science provides better directive hypotheses  | to draw upon . 4 . Hence the materials selected to serve as data and as regulative principles constantly check one another ; any advance in one brings about a corresponding improvement in the other . The two are constantly working together to effect a rearrangement of the original experienced material in the construction of a new object having the properties that make it understood or known . These statements are formal , but their meaning is not recondite . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , botanist , start from the material of gross unanalysed experience , that of the " commonsense " world in which we live , suffer , act and enjoy ; from familiar stars , suns , moons , from acids , salts and metals , trees , mosses and growing plants . Then the process of investigation divides into two kinds of operations . One is that of careful and analytic observation to determine exactly what there is which is indubitably seen , touched and heard . An operation takes place to discover what the sure data of the problem are , the evidence which theoretical explanation must reckon with . The other operation consists in searching through previous knowledge to obtain ideas which may be used to interpret this observed material and to suggest the initiation of new experiments . By these latter , more data are had , and the additional evidence they supply suggests new ideas and more experiments until the problem is resolved . The investigator never makes the division between perceptual and conceptual material at large or wholesale . He is careful at each stage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a matter of theory and ideas , using the latter as means of directing further observations , the results of which test the application of the ideas and theories employed . Finally , the original material is reorganized into a coherent and settled form capable of entering integrally into the general system of science . A physician , for example , is called by a patient . His original material of experience is thereby provided ; it requires a stretch  | of useless imagination to fancy that the ill man is a mass of sense data organized by categories . This experienced object sets the problem of inquiry . Certain clinical operations are performed , sounding , tapping , getting registrations of pulse , temperature , respiration , etc . These constitute the symptoms ; they supply the evidence to be interpreted . The philosopher or logician , looking on , sees they are that part of the original object which is capable of being presented in observation as that is sensibly present . The results are not all that is or can be observed , but are those phases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be relevant to making an inference as to the nature of the ailment . The observations mean something not in and of themselves , but are given meaning in the light of the systematized knowledge of medicine as far as that is at the command of the practitioner . He calls upon his store of knowledge to suggest ideas that may aid him in reaching a judgment as to the nature of the trouble and its proper treatment . The analytic philosopher , looking on , notes that the interpreting material , by means of which the scattered data of sense are bound together into a coherent whole , is not itself directly sensibly present . So he calls it ideational or conceptual . Sense-data are signs which direct this selection of ideas ; the ideas when suggested arouse new observations ; the two together determine his final judgment or diagnosis and his procedure . Something is then added to the store of the clinical material of medical art so that subsequent observations of symptoms are refined and extended , and the store of material from which to draw ideas is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conceptual or general ideas there is no limit . In no case are the data the whole of the original object ; they are material selected for the purpose of serving as evidence and signs . In no case do general ideas , principles , laws , conceptions , determine the conclusion ? although just as some men collect fragmentary observations  | without trying to find out what they mean , so in other cases an unskilled worker permits some preconceived idea to control his decision instead of using it as a hypothesis . The case seems simple enough , so simple indeed that it may be supposed that we have overlooked the conditions which have created perplexity and controversy . But the source of these complications is that theories about the mind , about sensation and perception , about reason , the intellect , conception and perception , were framed and established in philosophy before the rise of experimental knowing . It is difficult to break loose from habits thus engendered so as to turn attention in a whole-hearted way to actual inquiry . While it may seem presumptuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other concrete inquirer over against the elaborate machinery of the Critique of Pure Reason and the countless tomes of commentary it has called forth , our picture has behind it the whole weight of the experimental practices by which science has been actually advanced . More specifically , it may be asserted that the Kantian theory went wrong because it took distinctions that are genuine and indispensable out of their setting and function in actual inquiry . It generalized them into fixed and wholesale distinctions , losing sight of their special roles in attainment of those tested beliefs which give security . Consequently artificial complications were engendered and insoluble puzzles created . Take for example the fragmentary and isolated character of sense-data . Taken in isolation from a context in a particular inquiry they undoubtedly have this character . Hence when they are generalized into a character at large , the result is the doctrine of the disconnected " atomicity " of sense-data . This doctrine is common to sensationalism and to some forms of the new realism , along with Kantianism . As a matter of fact , smells , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not isolated ; they are bound together by all kinds of interactions or connections , among which are included the habitual responses  | of the one having the experience . Some connections are organic , flowing from the constitution of the subject . Others have become engrained in habit because of education and the customary state of culture . But these habitual connections are obstacles rather than aids . Some of them are irrelevant and misleading . In any case , they fail to provide the clues , the evidence which is wanted in the particular inquiry in hand . Consequently , sense qualities are artificially isolated from their ordinary connections so that the inquirer is free to see them in a new light or as constituents of a new object . Since the very need for inquiry shows that there is a problem set by the existing situation , there can be no understanding of it achieved until there are new connections established . The fragmentary and isolated character of sense-data does not therefore describe anything belonging to them intrinsically , but marks a transitory , although necessary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense-data from their status and office in furthering the objective of knowing is responsible for treating them as a kind of isolated atomic existence . If we keep an eye on the actual enterprise of knowing , it is clear that only sense-data can supply evidential subject-matter ; ideas of what is not presented in sense interpret evidence , but they can not constitute it . The whole history of science shows , however , that material directly and originally observed does not furnish good evidential material ; as we saw , it was the essential mistake of ancient science to suppose that we can base inference upon observed objects without an artificial prior analytic resolution . Hence there is need of a distinctive type of experimental operations which detach some qualities of the object ; these form sense-data in the technical meaning of the word . Traditional empiricism was accordingly right in insisting that no amount of conceptions , of thought material , could by itself deliver any knowledge of existence , no matter how elaborate be the conceptual system and how internally coherent .  | We can not derive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suggest ideas and it is equally necessary to test them . The senses are , existentially speaking , the organs by which we obtain the material of observation . But , as we have previously noted , this material is significant and effective for purposes of knowing only as it is connected with operations of which it is the product . Merely physical interactions , whether of external things or of the organism , yield observations that form the material of inquiry ; a problematic material . Only operations intentionally performed and attentively noted in connection with their products give observed material a positive intellectual value , and this condition is satisfied only by thought : ideas are the perception of this connection . Even non-scientific experience , as far as it has meaning , is neither mere doing nor mere undergoing , but is an acknowledgment of the connection between something done and something undergone in consequence of the doing . In its later history , empiricism tended to identify sensory consequences with " mental " or psychical states and processes ; this identification was the logical conclusion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not found , as the real object . But the insistence , as by contemporary realists , that sense-data are external and not mental does not remedy the logical error . It repeats the isolation of sense-data from the intentional operations by which they are supplied and from the purpose and function of these operations . Hence it makes it necessary to call in the supplement of logical objects , now termed essences . What is even more important , no light is thrown upon the control of the course of actual inquiry . For there is still failure to see that the distinction between sense-data and objects of rational apprehension is one which occurs within reflective investigation , for the sake of regulating its procedure . The history of the theory of knowledge or epistemology would have been very different if instead of the word " data "  | or " givens " , it had happened to start with calling the qualities in question " taken " . Not that the data are not existential and qualities of the ultimately " given " ? that is , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as data they are selected from this total original subject-matter which gives the impetus to knowing ; they are discriminated for a purpose : ? that , namely , of affording signs or evidence to define and locate a problem , and thus give a clue to its resolution . If we recur to the instance of the patient and the inquiries of the physician , it is evident that the presence of a man who is ill is the " given " , and that this given is complex , marked by all kinds of diverse qualities . Only the assumption ? such is made by Kant and is common to the traditional theories ? that all experience is inherently cognitive leads to the doctrine that perception of the patient is a case of knowledge . In reality the original perception furnishes the problem for knowing ; it is something to be known , not an object of knowing . And in knowing , the first thing to be done is to select from the mass of presented qualities those which , in distinction from other qualities , throw light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberately selected , being discriminated by special technical operations , they become data ; these are called sensible simply because of the role of sense organs in their generation . They may then be formulated as the subject-matter of primitive existential propositions . But even so , there is no class of such propositions in general . Each inquiry yields its own primitive existential propositions , even though they all agree in having for their objects qualities which investigation reveals to be connected with the use of organs of sense . Moreover , these primitive propositions are such only in a logical sense as distinct from being empirically primitive , and they are only hypothetical or conditional . This statement does not imply that their existence is hypothetical ; perception , as far as it is properly conducted , warrants their existence . But their status  | in inquiry is tentative . Many , perhaps most , errors in physical inference arise from taking as data things that are not data from the problem in hand ; they undoubtedly exist , but they are not the evidence that is demanded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensory qualities , the less certain is their meaning for inference ; the very fact that a quality is glaringly obvious in perception exercises an undue influence , leading thought to take its evident presence as an equivalent of evidential value . The reader of detective stories is aware that it is a common device to have the inquirer misled by the too patent character of given " clues " ; genuine clues are usually obscure and have to be searched out . The conditional character of sense-data in inferential inquiry means , then , that they have to be tested by their consequences . They are good clues or evidence when they instigate operations whose effect is to solve the problem in hand . It is hardly necessary to repeat the criticisms of the rationalistic doctrine of conceptions that have been brought out in previous chapters . The doctrine stood for a positive truth : the necessity of relations , of connectivity in existence and knowledge , and it noted the fact of the connection of relations with thought . For while some connections are always found in the material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things are problematic and not definitely known , means that important relations are not presented in them as they stand . These relations have to be projected in anticipation if the reactions of the inquiries are not blind fumblings ? if they are genuinely experimental . Such relations must be thought ; they are present conceptually , not sensibly . They represent possible consequences of operations , and the possible and the conceivable are one . Just as sensationalism ignores the functional role and hypothetical status of sensible qualities in an inquiry , so rationalism makes a fixed and independent matter out of the utility of conceptions in directing inquiry to solve particular problems .  | The object of this criticism of historical theories of knowledge is not just to cast discredit upon them . It is to direct attention to the source of their errors . As soon as and whenever it is assumed that the office of knowledge is to lay hold of existence which is prior to and apart from the operations of inquiry and their consequences , one or other of these errors or some combination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the operations of effective inquiry are read into antecedent existence ; or the world as known is reduced to a pulverized multiplicity of atomically isolated elements , a Kantian " manifold " ; or some machinery is devised , whether of an " idealistic " or a " realistic " sort , to bring the two together . When , on the other hand , it is seen that the object of knowledge is prospective and eventual , being the result of inferential or reflective operations which redispose what was antecedently existent , the subject-matters called respectively sensible and conceptual are seen to be complementary in effective direction of inquiry to an intelligible conclusion . There is another way of discussing the fundamental issue which does not involve so much going over topics worn threadbare by previous discussion . In effect , traditional theories treat all reflective or inferential knowledge as cases of " explanation " , and by explanation is meant making some seemingly new object or problem plain and clear by identifying its elements with something previously known , ultimately something said to be known immediately and intuitively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discursive " knowledge , that involving reflection , must always be referred for its validation back to what is immediately known . It can not bring its credentials with it and test its results in the very process of reaching them . There is postulated identity implicit or explicit of the results of inference with things known without inference . Making the identity explicit constitutes proof . There are many different and opposed theories regarding  | the way in which this identification takes place . There is a doctrine that the operation is one of subsumption of given particulars under given universals ; that it is classificatory definition ; that it is a kind of Platonic reminiscence in which perceptual material is cognized by being identified with a priori forms ; that it is a case of schematization a la Kant ; that it is an assimilation of present sensations to images that revive previous sensations . These theories differ widely among themselves ; they are irreconcilable with one another . But they all have one premise in common . They all assume that the conclusions of reflective inference must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be proved . The quarrel between them is strictly domestic , all in the family . The differences between them concern the character of the original immediately known objects with which the conclusions of reflection must be identified in order to be really known . They all involve the supposed necessity that whatever is a product of inference must , in order to be valid knowledge , be reducible to something already known immediately . Thus they all take the element of knowledge found in inferential conclusions to be simply a matter of restatement . ' The especial significance of the experimental procedure is that it scraps once for all the notion that the results of inference must be validated by operations of identification of whatever sort . When we compare the premise which underlies all the different theories that assume a primitive mode of I The logic of Stuart Mill is the classic logic of sensational empiricism . Yet he demanded " canons " of proof for induction as rigorous as those of Aristotle were for syllogistic reasoning . The essence of these canons is that proof consists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , just as with Aristotle demonstration consisted in subsuming them under independently given universals . That the latter was influenced by Euclidean geometry with its assumption of axioms as self-evident truths we have already noticed . Mathematicians now recognize that indemonstrabies and indefinables are starting-points of operations and that in themselves they have neither meaning nor " truth " .  | direct knowledge ( knowledge which does not include reflection ) with the practice of experimental science , according to which only the conclusion of reflective inquiry is known , we find three marked points of contrast . The first difference is that the traditional theories make all reflective knowledge to be a case of recognition going back to an earlier more certain form of knowledge . The second is that they have no place for genuine discovery or creative novelty . The third point concerns the dogmatic character of the assumption regarding what is said to be immediately known , in contrast with the experimentally tested character of the object known in consequence of reflection . We begin with the last point . When it is stated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is had directly and immediately , and must be carried to the latter for proof and verification , we are at once struck by the multitude of theories regarding what is immediately and infallibly known . The diversity and contradictions give ground for a suspicion that in no case is the " knowledge " in question as self-evident as it is asserted to be . And there is good theoretical ground for the suspicion . Suppose a man " explains " the eclipse of the moon by saying it is due to the attempt of a dragon to devour it . To him the devouring dragon is a more evident fact than is the darkening of the moon . To us the existence of an animal capable of such a feat is the doubtful matter . It will be objected that it is unfair to take such an absurd case as an instance : dragons are not the sort of thing which any philosopher has asserted to be the object of direct and certain non-inferential knowledge . But the illustration still serves a purpose . The thing to be known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What guarantees this something else ? If it too has to be guaranteed by identification with something else , there is an infinite regress . To avoid this regress we stop short and assert that this or that object or truth is directly  | known , by sense intuition , by rational intuition , as a direct deliverance of consciousness , or in some other way . But what is such a procedure except the essence of what Bentham called ipse dixitism ? What is it but arbitrary dogmatism ? Who guards the guardians ? The theory which places knowledge in rounded out conclusions is in no such dilemma . It admits the hypothetical status of all data and premises and appeals for justification to operations capable , when they are repeated , of yielding like results . The antecedents do not have to be substantiated by being carried back to earlier antecedents and so on ; they are good and sound if they do what is wanted of them : if they lead to an observable result which satisfies the conditions set by the nature of the problem in hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in dealing with the genuineness of discovery or new knowledge . By terms of the traditional theories , this is impossible in the case of inference and reflective inquiry . We know , according to them , only when we have assimilated the seemingly new to something previously known immediately . In consequence , all distinctive individual , or non-repeated , traits of things are incapable of being known . What can not be treated as a case of something else stays outside knowledge . Individualized characteristics are unknowable surds . According to this doctrine , reflective inquiry may hit upon new instances of laws , new specimens of old truths , new members of old classes , but not upon intrinsically new objects of knowledge . As far as empiricism is concerned the case of Locke is instructive . His Essay on Human Understanding is one continued effort to test all reflective beliefs and ideas whatever by reduction to original " simple ideas " that are infallibly known in isolation from any inferential undertaking ? a point in which many of the new realisms are still Lockeian . If we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very different story told . Important conclusions of science are those which distinctly refuse to be identified with anything previously  | known . Instead of having to be proved by being assimilated to the latter , they rather occasion revision of what men thought they previously knew . The recent crisis in physical science is a case in point . The experimental discovery that the velocity of light remains the same when measured either with or against the direction of the earth 's movement was totally unaccountable on the basis of previous knowing . But scientific men accepted the consequences of their experimental operations as constituting the known object , rather than feeling under obligation to " prove " them by identification with what was said to be antecedently known . Inferential inquiry in scientific procedure is an adventure in which conclusions confound expectation and upset what has been accepted as facts . It takes time for these new facts to be assimilated : to become familiar . Assimilation of the new to the familiar is doubtless a precondition for our finding ourselves at home in the new and being able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made this personal and psychological phase of assimilation of new and old into a test of knowledge itself . The third point , that cognition is recognition , only presents the same difficulty in another way . It presents it in a light which brings out a distinctive point . The theory that knowledge due to reflection consists in identifying something with what is already known or possessed confuses the psychological trait of familiarity , the quality of finding ourselves at ease in a situation , with knowledge . The conception originated when experimental knowing occurred only occasionally and as if by accident ; when discoveries were regarded as gifts of the gods or as special inspirations : when men were governed by custom and were uneasy in the presence of change and afraid of the unknown . It was rationalized into a theory when the Greeks succeeded in identifying natural phenomena with rational ideas and were delighted with the identification because their aesthetic interest made them at home in a world of such harmony and order as that identification involved . They  | called the result science , although in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wellnigh two thousand years . Newtonian science , as we have seen in another connection , in effect only substituted one set of identifying objects , the mathematical , for those previously employed . It set up permanent substances , the particles or atoms having inherent mathematical properties , as ultimate realities , and alleged that reflective thought yields knowledge when it translates phenomena into these properties . Thus it retained unimpaired the theory that knowing signifies a processof identification . It required over two centuries for the experimental method to reach a point where men were forced to realize that progress in science depends upon choice of operations performed and not upon the properties of objects which were alleged to be so antecedently certain and fixed that all detailed phenomena might be reduced to them . This conception of knowledge still dominates thinking in social and moral matters . When it is realized that in these fields as in the physical , we know what we intentionally construct , that everything depends upon determination of methods of operation and upon observation of the consequences which test them , the progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constant . What has been said does not imply that previous knowledge is not of immense importance in obtaining new knowledge . What is denied is that this previous knowledge need be immediate or intuitive , and that it provides the measure and standard of conclusions obtained by inferential operations . Inferential inquiry is continuous ; one phase passes into the next , which uses , tests and expands conclusions already obtained . More particularly , the conclusions of prior knowledge are the instruments of new inquiries , not the norm which determines their validity . Objects of previous knowledge supply working hypotheses for new situations ; they are the source of suggestion of new operations ; they direct inquiry . But they do  | not enter into reflective knowing by way of providing its premises in a logical sense . The tradition of classic logic persists in leading philosophers to call premises what in effect are regulative and instrumental points of view for conducting new observations . We are constantly referring to what is already known to get our bearings in any new situation . Unless there is some reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take it as a net product . It would be a waste of time and energy to repeat the operations in virtue of which the object is a known object unless there were ground for suspecting its validity . Every adult , irrespective of whether he is a man of science or not , carries in his head a large store of things known in virtue of earlier operations . When a new problem comes up , one habitually refers to what is already known to get a start in dealing with it . Such objects , until we have occasion to doubt them , are settled , assured ; the given situation is dubious , but they are secure . Hence we take them for granted , we take them as a matter of course . Then if we question them , we tend to fall back upon something else already known . What is too easily overlooked ( especially in quest for certainty by attachment to the fixed ) is that the objects we thus fall back upon are themselves known in virtue of previous operations of inferential inquiry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects of reference marks an assured product of reflection . It is also overlooked that they are referred to as instruments , rather than as fixed in and of themselves . The case is similar to the use of tools previously manufactured when we are dealing with the conditions of a new situation ; only when they prove defective does invention of new tools demand recurrence to the operations by which they were originally constructed . This act of taking and using objects already known is practically justified ; it is like eating a fruit without asking how it was grown . But many theories of knowledge take this  | retrospective use of things known in virtue of earlier operations as typical of the nature of knowledge itself . Being reminded of something we already know is taken as the pattern of all knowing . When the thing of which we are now retrospectively aware was in process of being known , it was prospective and eventual to inquiry , not something already " given " . And it has cognitive force in a new inquiry whose objective and ultimate object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointing to it is no more a case of knowledge than taking a chisel out of a tool-box is the making of the tool . Because some theories of knowledge have taken the operations that yield the known object to be merely mental or psychical instead of overt redispositions of antecedent subject-matter ( and thus have terminated in some form of " idealism " ) is no reason for denying the mediated character of all known objects . Thus we are led by another road to the conclusion that the basic error of traditional theories of knowledge resides in the isolation and fixation of some phase of the whole process of inquiry in resolving problematic situations . Sometimes sensedata are so taken ; sometimes , conceptions ; sometimes , objects previously known . An episode in a series of operational acts is fastened upon , and then in its isolation and consequent fragmentary character is made the foundation of the theory of knowing in its entirety . Reflective knowing certainly involves identification . But identity itself has to be defined operationally . There are as many meanings of identity and identification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined . There is identification of an object as a member of a class , of a plant as belonging to a certain species : taxonomic identity . The classic theory of definition took this to be the sole valid type of logical definition . There are identifications that are historic , that are concerned with individuals as such . They define the identity of an individual throughout a series of successive temporal  | changes , while the other type is purely static . This kind of identity is secured by operations that introduce temporal continuity into what is otherwise discrete : it yields genetic and generative definitions . For the identity of an individual is constituted by continued absorption and incorporation of materials previously external ? as in the growth of a person , a nation or a social movement . It demands operations that redispose and organize what antecedently exists . Identifications effected by inferential operations are of this type . They are not reductions of the new object or situations to terms of something already known . Traditional theories treat them as if they were of the static @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of accounting for the discrimination and differentiation , the novel elements , involved in the conclusions of inferential knowing . They must be viewed as mere surds , cognitively speaking . Identifications through processes of temporal growth are , on the contrary , differentiations ; new and previously external material is incorporated ; otherwise there is no growth , no development . All reflective inquiry starts from a problematic situation , and no such situation can be settled in its own terms . It evolves into a resolved situation only by means of introduction of material not found in the situation itself . Imaginative survey , comparison with things already known , is the first step . This does not eventuate in complete knowledge , however , until some overt experimental act takes place by means of which an existential incorporation and organization is brought about . Merely " mental " revisions remain in the status of thought as distinct from knowledge . Identification through operations that rearrange what is antecedently given is a process of additive discrimination ; it alone is synthetic in the true sense of that word , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presence of identity and difference in objects of knowledge , as in the doctrine of the " concrete universal " . But they have ignored  | the phase of temporal reconstruction with its necessity for overt existential interaction . A further implication of the experimental determination of the known object concerns its office in the verification of hypotheses . It is often supposed that the value of experiment lies merely in the fact that it confirms , refutes or modifies a hypothesis . From the standpoint of the personal interest of the inquirer such an interpretation often holds good . He is interested in a theory , and views the eventually disclosed state of facts solely in its bearing upon the theory he is entertaining . To him , at the time , the cognitive value of the results of experimental operation lies in the test they afford of the claims of his hypothesis . Even so , however , verification , or the opposite , is attained only because experimentation effects a transition of a problematical situation into a resolved one . In this development new individual objects with new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective course of knowledge is concerned , as distinct from the personal interest of the investigator , this result is the important one ; in comparison with it the verification of a hypothesis is secondary and incidental . The institution of a new object of experience is the essential fact . It would not occur to any one surveying the body of scientific knowledge as a whole to think that its value lay in the corroboration it provides for a number of hypotheses . Taken in the large , the significance of the body of subject-matter as a whole clearly resides in the fact that it marks an added depth , range and fullness of meaning conferred upon objects of ordinary experience . This consequence is the only intelligible end that can be assigned to processes of reflective inquiry . It marks again that during their course hypotheses have gained increased solidity . But the eventual object of activity with tools is not to perfect tools , but is found in what tools accomplish , the products they turn out . When a person working on the basis of a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is verified . But verification was not the purpose of making the invention , nor does it constitute its value when made . The same may be said of physicians working upon a certain hypothesis in cure of a disease . Only an ultra-specialist would regard a successful outcome simply as verification of a theory . Since a hypothesis is itself instrumental to inquiry , its verification can not constitute the whole significance of inquiry . Hypotheses which have later been rejected have often proved serviceable in discovery of new facts , and thus advanced knowledge . A poor tool is often better than none at all . It has even been doubted whether any hypothesis ever entertained has not turned out later to have been erroneous in important respects . It is still questioned whether many of the objects of the most valuable and indispensable hypotheses in present use have actual existence ; the existential status of the electron is still , for example , a matter of controversy . In many cases , as in the older theory of the nature of atoms , it is now clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their subject-matter ; that indeed this imputation was irrelevant and as far as it went injurious . As we have seen , progress beyond the Newtonian scheme was made possible when the ascription of antecedently existing inherent properties was dropped out , and concepts were regarded as designations of operations to be performed . These considerations have a practical importance with respect to the attitude of disdain often affected ? usually in behalf of preservation of some dogma ? toward the course of science . It is pointed out that scientific men are constantly engaged in furbishing and refurbishing their theories , rejecting those to which they have been devoted , and putting new ones in their place only in time to reject these also . Then it is demanded why we should put our trust in science self-confessed to be unstable rather than in some old dogma which men have continued to believe without change . It is overlooked that the instability affects the intellectual apparatus which is employed ,  | conceptions which are frankly hypothetical . What remains and is not discarded but is added to is the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer tenable . No one would dream of reflecting adversely upon the evolution of mechanical inventions because the sickle had been discarded for the mowing-machine , and the mechanized tractor substituted for the horse-drawn mower . We are obviously confronted with betterment of the instrumentalities that are employed to secure consequences . The adverse criticism of science just mentioned attaches only to some of the philosophic interpretations which have been advanced . If scientific conceptions were valid in the degree in which they are revelations of antecedent properties of real Being and existence ( as the Newtonian scheme took them to be ) , there would be something disturbing in their continual revamping . The claim of any one of them to be valid would suffer discredit . Not so , if they are instrumentalities which direct operations of experimental observations , and if the knowledge-property resides in conclusions . Fruits remain and these fruits are the abiding advance of knowledge . Thus the breaking down of the traditional barrier between theory , supposed to be concerned with prior reality , and practice , concerned with production of consequences , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time , it does away once for all with the grounds t upon which wholesale sceptical and agnostic philosophies have rested . As long as theories of knowledge are framed in terms of organs assigned to mind or consciousness , whether sense or reason or any combination of the two , organs occupied , it is alleged , in reproducing or grasping antecedent reality , there will continue to exist such generalized sceptical philosophies . Phenomenalism , which holds that impressions and ideas come between the knower and things to be known , will have plenty of support as long as sensations and ideas are supposed to be valid only when they report to mind something prior to them .  | Phenomenalism may be objected to on the ground that data , ideas , essences , are means of knowing , not its objects . But as long as they are regarded as merely mental means rather than as means which through overt acts effect actual redisposition of antecedent things , the retort will have the character of an arbitrary tour de force ; it will be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is always in place to be doubtful or sceptical about particular items of supposed knowledge when evidence to the contrary presents itself . There is no knowledge self-guaranteed to be infallible , since all knowledge is the product of special acts of inquiry . Agnosticism as confession of ignorance about special matters , in the absence of adequate evidence , is not only in place under such circumstances but is an act of intellectual honesty . But such scepticism and agnosticism are particular and depend upon special conditions ; they are not wholesale ; they do not issue from a generalized impeachment of the adequacy of the organs of knowing to perform their office . Theories which assume that the knowing subject , that mind or consciousness , has an inherent capacity to disclose reality , a capacity operating apart from any overt interactions of the organism with surrounding conditions , are invitations to general philosophical doubt . The case stands radically otherwise when it is seen that " mental " states and acts are organs of knowing things not directly but through the overt actions which they evoke and direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to be known ; and these consequences are public and open . Doubt and scepticism attach only to the adequacy of the operations used in achieving the issue which transforms a problematic situation into a settled or resolved one . Instead of being impotent and paralysing , they are opportunities for bettering concrete methods of inquiry . Once more , we recur to the problem raised concerning the possibility of carrying over the essential elements of the pattern  | of experimental knowing into the experience of man in its everyday traits . A statement that judgments about regulative ends and values , the creeds that are to govern conduct in its important interests , are upon the whole matters of tradition , dogma and imposition from alleged authorities , hardly requires argument in its support . It is equally patent that scepticism is rife as to the value of purposes and policies of life thus supplied ; the scepticism often extends to complete agnosticism as to the possibility of any regulative ends and standards whatever . The course of human experience in such matters is supposed to be inherently chaotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry is its proof that intelligent experimental inquiry is possible which , when it is used , will develop expansion of ideas and regulation of securely tested consequences . It is , once more , a hypothesis rather than a settled fact that extension and transfer of experimental method is generally possible . But like other hypotheses it is to be tried in action , and the future history of mankind is at stake in the trial .  | EVERY STUDENT OF PHILOSOPHY is aware of the number of seeming impasses into which the theory of knowledge has been led . There are four general types of subject-matter whose rival claims to be the objects of true knowledge have to be either disposed of or in some way accommodated to one another . At one pole are immediate sense-data which are said to be the immediate and accordingly most certain objects in knowledge of existence : the original material from which knowledge of nature must set out . At the other pole are mathematical and logical objects . Somewhere between them lie the objects of physical science , the products of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the objects of everyday experience , the concrete things of the world in which we live and which , from the standpoint of our practical affairs , our enjoyments and sufferings , form the world we live in . To common sense these are the most important if not the most real of all objects of knowing . Recent philosophy has been increasingly occupied with the problems which grow out of the titles of these various kinds of objects to jurisdiction over the field of knowledge . From some point of view , the pretensions of each seem to be supreme . The problem , however , is far from being a purely technical one . There has been repeated occasion to note that the claim of physical objects , the objects in which the physical sciences terminate , to constitute the real nature of the world , places the objects of value with which our affections and choices are concerned at an invidious disadvantage . The mathematician often doubts the claims of physics to be a science in the full sense of the word ; the psychologist may quarrel with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the claims of those who deal with human affairs , historians and  | students of social life . The biological subjects which stand between and form a connecting link are often refused the title of science if they adopt principles and categories different from those of strict physics . The net practical effect is the creation of the belief that science exists only in the things which are most remote from any significant human concern , so that as we approach social and moral questions and interests we must either surrender hope of the guidance of genuine knowledge or else purchase a scientific title and authority at the expense of all that is distinctly human . Those who have followed the previous discussions will not be surprised to hear that , from the standpoint of experimental knowing , all of the rivalries and connected problems grow from a single root . They spring from the assumption that the true and valid object of knowledge is that which has being prior to and independent of the operations of knowing . They spring from the doctrine that knowledge is a grasp or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antecedent state ? the doctrine which is the source of the separation of knowledge from practical activity . If we see that knowing is not the act of an outside spectator but of a participator inside the natural and social scene , then the true object of knowledge resides in the consequences of directed action . When we take this point of view , if only by way of a hypothesis , the perplexities and difficulties of which we have been speaking vanish . For on this basis there will be as many kinds of known objects as there are kinds of effectively conducted operations of inquiry which result in the consequences intended . The result of one operation will be as good and true an object of knowledge as is any other , provided it is good at all : provided , that is , it satisfies the conditions which induced the inquiry . For if consequences are the object of knowing , then an archetypal antecedent reality is not a model to which the conclusions of inquiry must conform . One might  | even go as far as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there are conclusions wherein distinctive operations have been employed to solve the problems set by antecedently experienced situations . For operations dealing with different problems never exactly repeat one another and do not determine exactly the same consequences . However , as far as logical theory is concerned , operations fall into certain kinds or types . It is the bearing of our principle upon the validity of these kinds that we are directly concerned with . It is only repeating what has been said to assert that no problem can be solved without a determination of the data which define and locate it and which furnish clues or evidence . In so far , when we secure dependable sense-data , we know truly . Again , the systematic progress of inquiry in dealing with physical problems requires that we determine those metric properties by means of which correlations of changes are instituted so as to make predictions possible . These form the objects of physical science , and if our operations are adequate they are truly known . We develop operations , through symbols , which connect possible operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mathematics and logic . As consequences of suitable operations these too are truly known . Finally , when these operations , or some combination of them , are used to solve the problems which arise in connection with the things of ordinary perceived and enjoyed objects , the latter , as far as they are consequences of these operations , are themselves truly known . We know whenever we do know ; that is , whenever our inquiry leads to conclusions which settle the problem out of which it grew . This truism is the end of the whole matter ? upon the condition that we frame our theory of knowledge in accord with the pattern set by experimental methods . The conclusions , however , are not truistic ; they certainly are not trivial . The more complex the conditions with which operations are concerned , the fuller and richer are their conse-  | consequences . Consequently , the more significant , although not the truer , is the resulting knowledge . The advantage of physical knowledge depends upon the fact that it deals with fewer conditions , those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of operations that are more precise and more technical . There is no difference in principle between knowledge of them and knowledge of the most complex human affairs , but there is a decided practical difference . To be an object of specifically physical knowledge is the same thing as being an object of operations that discriminate definitely fundamental relations of the experienced world from others , and that deal with them in their discriminated character . The gain is great . But the objects thus known lay no claim to be final . When used as factors for inquiring into phenomena of life and society they become instrumental ; they cease to be inclusive , and become part of a method for understanding more complex phenomena . From this point of view , the objects of our common-sense world ( by which is signified that in which we live , with our loves and hates , our defeats and achievements , our choices , strivings and enjoyments ) have a double status . When they precede operations of competent directed inquiry , they are not matters of knowledge ; they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus set problems for inquiry , problems of varied scope . But they are of such a nature that things of the most limited range , the purely physical , are the first to be successfully dealt with . But in the degree in which fuller and more complex social and moral affairs ? which of course include physical and biological conditions and relations within themselves ? are transformed by becoming consequences of operations made possible by the limited forms of knowing , they also are objects of knowledge . While they are not more real , they are richer and more significant objects than are those of any other type of knowledge . The special results of science are always finding their way  | back into the natural and social environment of daily life and modifying it . This fact does not of itself cause the latter to be known objects . A typical example is the effect of physical science upon a worker in a factory ; he may merely become an attachment to a machine for a number of hours a day . Physical science has had its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no correspondingly significant increase of intelligent understanding . The application of physical knowledge has taken place in a technical way for the sake of limited consequences . But when the operations in which physical science is used are such as to transform distinctively human values in behalf of a human interest , those who participate in these consequences have a knowledge of the things of ordinary perception , use and enjoyment as genuine and fuller and deeper than that of the scientist in his laboratory . Were we to define science not in the usual technical way , but as a knowledge that accrues when methods are employed which deal competently with problems that present themselves , the physician , engineer , artist , craftsman , lay claim to scientific knowing . These statements go contrary to the philosophic tradition . They do so for just one reason . They rest upon the idea that known objects exist as the consequences of directed operations , not because of conformity of thought or observation with something antecedent . We may , for reasons which I hope will appear later , give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we may say that the worth of any object that lays claim to being an object of knowledge is dependent upon the intelligence employed in reaching it . In saying this , we must bear in mind that intelligence means operations actually performed in the modification of conditions , including all the guidance that is given by means of ideas , both direct and symbolic . The statement may sound strange . But it is only a way of saying that the value of any cognitive conclusion depends  | upon the method by which it is reached , so that the perfecting of method , the perfecting of intelligence , is the thing of supreme value . If we judge the work of a scientific inquirer by what he does and not by his speech when he talks about his work ( when he is likely to talk in terms of traditional notions that have become habitual ) we shall have little difficulty , I think , in accepting the idea that he determines the cognitive claims of anything presented to him on the basis of the method by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple . It becomes complicated , however , the moment we contrast it with the doctrines which have dominated thought . For these all rest on the notion that a reality in Being independently of the operations of inquiry is the standard and measure of anything said to be known . Viewed in this connection , the conception just advanced involves hardly less than a revolutionary transformation of many of our most cherished convictions . The essential difference is that between a mind which beholds or grasps objects from outside the world of things , physical and social , and one which is a participant , interacting with other things and knowing them provided the interaction is regulated in a definable way . In discussion up to this point we have depended upon the general pattern of experimental knowing . It is asserted that when we frame our theory of knowledge and the known object after this pattern , the conclusion is inevitable . But the point is of such importance that we may gratefully acknowledge the support given the conclusion by one of the definite conclusions reached in recent physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisive nature . It is known technically as Heisenberg 's principle of indeterminancy . The basic philosophy of the Newtonian system of the universe is closely connected with what is termed the principle of canonic conjugates . The fundamental principle of the mechanical philosophy of nature is that it is possible to determine exactly ( in principle if not in actual practice ) both the position and the velocity of any  | body . Knowing this for each particle which enters into any change , as a motion , it is possible to calculate mathematically , that is exactly , just what will happen . The laws or physical equations that express the relations of the particles and bodies under different conditions are then assumed to be a " governing " framework of nature to which all particular phenomena conform . Knowing volumes and momenta in a particular case we can by the aid of fixed laws predict the subsequent course of events . The philosophy in question assumed that these positions and velocities are there in nature independent of our knowing , of our experiments and observations , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascertain them exactly . The future and the past belong to the same completely determinate and fixed scheme . Observations , when correctly conducted , merely register this fixed state of changes according to laws of objects whose essential properties are fixed . The implications of the positions are expressed in Laplace 's well-known saying that were there a knowledge ( in mechanical terms ) of the state of the universe at any one time its whole future could be predicted ? or deduced . It is this philosophy which Heisenberg 's principle has upset , a fact implied in calling it a principle of indeterminancy . It is true that critics had attacked the Newtonian scheme on the basis of a logical flaw in it . It first postulates that the position and velocity of any particle can be determined in isolation from all others . Then it postulates that there is a complete and continuous interaction of all these particles with one another . Logically , the two postulates nullify each other . But as long as the principles involved gave satisfactory results this objection was brushed aside or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that interaction prevents an accurate measurement of velocity and position for any body , the demonstration centring about the role of the interaction of the observer in determining what actually happens .  | The scientific data and the mathematical reasonings which led him to his conclusion are technical . But fortunately they do not concern us . The logic of the matter is not complicated . He showed that if we fix , metrically , velocity , then there is a range of indeterminateness in the assignment of position , and vice versa . When one is fixed , the other is defined only within a specified limit of probability . The element of indeterminateness is not connected with defect in the method of observation , but is intrinsic . The particle observed does not have fixed position or velocity , for it is changing all the time because of interaction : specifically , in this case , interaction with the act of observing , or more strictly , with the conditions under which an observation is possible ; for it is not the " mental " phase of observation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be fixed at choice , leaving the element of indeterminancy on the other side , both of them are shown to be conceptual in nature . That is , they belong to our intellectual apparatus for dealing with antecedent existence , not to fixed properties of that existence . An isolation of a particle for measurement is essentially a device for regulation of subsequent perceptual experience . Technically , the principle of Heisenberg is connected with recent determinations regarding observation of phenomena of light . The principle as far as the role of the conditions of observation is concerned is simple . We should all , I suppose , recognize that when we perceive an object by means of touch , the contact introduces a slight modification in the thing touched . Although in dealing with large bodies this change would be insignificant , it would be considerable if we touched a minute body and one moving at high speed . It might be thought that we could calculate the displacement thus effected , and by making allowances for it determine exactly the position and momentum of the thing touched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be confirmed by another observation . The effect of the last observation can not be eliminated .  | Failure to generalize this conclusion was due presumably to two facts . Until recently physics dealt mainly with bodies of relatively large volume and relatively low velocity . Experiences with these bodies were carried over to minute particles of any velocity ; these were treated as mathematical points located at fixed , unchanging instants of time . The second cause is that vision does not involve interaction with the thing seen as obviously as does touch . But the situation changed when it came to dealing with minute bodies moving at high speed . Also , it became clear that a continuous field or even flow of light can not be observed and measured . Light can be observed only as an individual object , a drop , pellet or bullet . The presence of at least one such bullet is required to make , say , an electron visible , and its action displaces to some extent the object observed ; the displacement or jog , being involved in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridgman says : " A cat may look at a king , but at least one bullet of light must pass if any light at all passes , and the king can not be observed without the exertion of that minimum amount of mechanical repulsion which corresponds to the single bullet . " I To a layman the full import of the discovery may not seem at first sight very great . In the subject-matter of scientific thought it calls for only slight changes of formulation , insignificant for all macroscopic bodies . The change for the underlying philosophy and logic of science is , however , very great . In relation to the metaphysics of the Newtonian system it is hardly less than revolutionary . What is known is seen to be a product in which the act of observation plays a necessary role . Knowing is seen to be a participant in what is finally known . Moreover , the metaphysics of existence as something fixed and therefore capable of literally exact mathematical description and prediction is undermined . Knowing is , for = In the March 1929 number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New Vision of Science " .  | philosophical theory , a case of specially directed activity instead of something isolated from practice . The quest for certainty by means of exact possession in mind of immutable reality is exchanged for search for security by means of active control of the changing course of events . Intelligence in operation , another name for method , becomes the thing most worth winning . The principle of indeterminancy thus presents itself as the final step in the dislodgment of the old spectator theory of knowledge . It marks the acknowledgment , within scientific procedure itself , of the fact that knowing is one kind of interaction which goes on within the world . Knowing marks the conversion of undirected changes into changes directed toward an intended conclusion . There are left for philosophy but two alternatives . Either knowledge defeats its own purpose ; or the objective of knowing is the consequences of operations purposely undertaken , provided they fulfil the conditions for the sake of which they are carried on . If we persist in the traditional conception , according to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to and wholly apart from the act of knowing , then discovery of the fact that the act of observation , necessary in existential knowing , modifies that preexistent something , is proof that the act of knowing gets in its own way , frustrating its own intent . If knowing is a form of doing and is to be judged like other modes by its eventual issue , this tragic conclusion is not forced upon us . Fundamentally , the issue is raised whether philosophy is willing to surrender a theory of mind and its organs of knowing which originated when the practice of knowing was in its infancy . One important result of acknowledgment of the philosophic modification involved in the principle of indeterminancy is a definite change in our conception of natural laws . The individually observed case becomes the measure of knowledge . Laws are intellectual instrumentalities by which that individual object is instituted and its meaning determined . This change  | involves a reversal of the theory which has dominated thought since the Newtonian system obtained full sway . According to the latter , the aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known only as they are reduced to instances of laws . For , as we saw earlier , the Newtonian philosophy allowed itself to become entangled in the Greek metaphysics , according to which the immutable is the truly real and our thought is adequate in the degree in which it approximates a grasp of what is antecedently fixed in existence . In content , or subject-matter , Newton 's philosophy effected a revolutionary change . The unchanging reality had been thought to consist of forms and species . According to Newtonian science , it consists of fixed relations , temporal and spatial , designated by exact enumeration of changes between fixed ultimate substances , the masses of atoms . The discovery that mass varies with velocity was the beginning of the end . It deprived physical knowledge of its supposedly ultimate permanent coefficient , one having nothing to do with configuration or motion , and one in terms of which all interactions were to be exactly described . All " laws " were statements of these ultimate and rigid uniformities of being . While perhaps there was felt to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governed " changes and of the latter as if they " obeyed " laws , there was nothing figurative in the notion that laws stated the ultimate unchanging properties of natural existence , and that all individual cases , those observed , were only specimen instances of the antecedent properties of the real world formulated in laws . The principle of indeterminancy brings to fruition the scientific transformation initiated in the discovery that the supposition of a permanent coefficient of mass is illusory ? a survival , when judged in historical terms , of the old notion that something immutable is the true object of knowledge . In technical statement , laws on the new basis are formulae for the prediction of the probability of an observable occur-  | rence . They are designations of relations sufficiently stable to allow of the occurrence of forecasts of individualized situations ? for every observed phenomenon is individual ? within limits of specified probability , not a probability of error , but of probability of actual occurrence . Laws are inherently conceptual in character , as is shown in the fact that either position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them conceptual is not to say that they are merely " mental " and arbitrary . It is to say they they are relations which are thought not observed . The subject-matter of the conceptions which constitute laws is not arbitrary , for it is determined by the interactions of what exists . But determination of them is very different from that denoted by conformity to fixed properties of unchanging substances . Any instrument which is to operate effectively in existence must take account of what exists , from a fountainpen to a self-binding reaper , a locomotive or an aeroplane . But " taking account of " , paying heed to , is something quite different from literal conformity to what is already in being . It is an adaptation of what previously existed to accomplishment of a purpose . The eventual purpose in knowledge is observation of a new phenomenon , an object actually experienced by way of perception . Thus the supposed immutable law supposed to govern phenomena becomes a way of transacting business effectively with concrete existences , a mode of regulation of our relations with them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in " pure " science and in an art . We may recur to the case of a physician to which reference was made . The physician in diagnosing a case of disease deals with something individualized . He draws upon a store of general principles of physiology , etc. , already at command . Without this store of conceptual material he is helpless . But he does not attempt to reduce the case to an exact specimen of certain laws of physiology and pathology , or do away with its unique individuality . Rather he uses general statements as aids to direct his obser-  | vation of the particular case , so as to discover what it is like . They function as intellectual tools or instrumentalities . The recognition that laws are means of calculating the probability of observation of an event signifies that in basic logic there is no difference in the two kinds of cases . The full and eventual reality of knowledge is carried in the individual case , not in general laws isolated from use in giving an individual case its meaning . Thus the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although in quite a different way from that imagined by traditional empiricism . It is an old remark that human progress is a zigzag affair . The idea of a universal reign of law , based on properties immutably inhering in things and of such a nature as to be capable of exact mathematical statement , was a sublime idea . It displaced once for all the notion of a world in which the unaccountable and the mysterious have the first and last word , a world in which they constantly insert themselves . It established the ideal of regularity and uniformity in place of the casual and sporadic . It gave men inspiration and guidance in seeking for uniformities and constancies where only irregular diversity was experienced . The ideal extended itself from the inanimate world to the animate and then to social affairs . It became , it may fairly be said , the great article of faith in the creed of scientific men . From this point of view , the principle of indeterminancy seems like an intellectual catastrophe . In compelling surrender of the doctrine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , it seems to involve abandonment of the idea that the world is fundamentally intelligible . A universe in which fixed laws do not make possible exact predictions seems from the older standpoint to be a world in which disorder reigns . The feeling is psychologically natural . But it arises from the hold which intellectual habits have over us . The traditional conception displaced in fact lingers in imagination as a picture of what the world ought to be ; we are uneasy because the fact  | turns out not to be in accord with the picture in our minds . As a matter of fact , the change , viewed in a perspective of distance , is nothing like so upsetting . All the facts that were ever known are still known , and known with greater accuracy than before . The older doctrine was in effect an offshoot not of science but of a metaphysical doctrine which taught that the immutable is the truly real , and of a theory of knowledge which held that rational conceptions rather than observations are the vehicle of knowledge . Newton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the more effectually because he did it in the name of empirical observation . Moreover , like all generalizations which go beyond the range of possible as well as of actual experience , a price was paid for the sublime and inspiring ideal of a reign of universal and exact law : the sacrifice of the individual to the general , of the concrete to the relational . Spinoza 's magnificently sweeping dictum that " the order and connection of ideas is the order and connection of things " was in effect , although not avowedly as it was with Spinoza , the current measure of the intelligibility of nature . And a universe whose essential characteristic is fixed order and connection has no place for unique and individual existences , no place for novelty and genuine change and growth . It is , in the words of William James , a block universe . The fact that in detailed content it is a thoroughly mechanistic world is , one may say , a mere incident attending the fact that it is a fixed and closed world . Probably everyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that rivers or bodies of water are always located conveniently near great cities . Suppose every one had had engrained in his mind the notion that cities , like rivers , are works of nature . Suppose it was then suddenly ascertained that cities were man made and were located near bodies of water in order that the activities of men in industry and commerce might be better carried on and human purposes and needs be better served . We can imagine that the discovery  | would bring with it a shock . It would be upsetting because it would seem unnatural ; for the ordinary measure of the natural is psychological ; it is what we have become accustomed to . But in time the new idea in becoming familiar would also become " natural " . If men had always previously conceived of the connection between cities and rivers as one which was intrinsic and fixed by nature , instead of being a product of human art , it is moreover probable that in time a liberation would be experienced by discovery that the contrary was the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the facilities afforded by natural conditions . These would be used in new and more diversified ways when it was realized that cities were near them because of and for the sake of the uses they provide . The analogy suggested seems to me close . From the standpoint of traditional notions , it appears that nature , intrinsically , is irrational . But the quality of irrationality is imputed only because of conflict with a prior definition of rationality . Abandon completely the notion that nature ought to conform to a certain definition , and nature intrinsically is neither rational nor irrational . Apart from the use made of it in knowing , it exists in a dimension irrelevant to either attribution , just as rivers inherently are neither located near cities nor are opposed to such location . Nature is intelligible and understandable . There are operations by means of which it becomes an object of knowledge , and is turned to human purposes , just as rivers provide conditions which may be utilized to promote human activities and to satisfy human need . Moreover , just as commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interactions within nature , by which changes are effected in natural conditions ? the building of docks and harbours , erection of warehouses and factories , construction of steamships and also in invention of new modes of interaction ? so with knowing and knowledge . The organs , instrumentalities and operations of knowing are inside nature , not outside . Hence they are changes of what previously existed : the object  | of knowledge is a constructed , existentially produced object . The shock to the traditional notion that knowledge is perfect in the degree in which it grasps or beholds without change some thing previously complete in itself is tremendous . But in effect it only makes us aware of what we have always done , as far as ever we have actually succeeded in knowing : it clears away superfluous and irrelevant accompaniments and it concentrates attention upon the agencies which are actually effective in obtaining knowledge , eliminating waste and making actual knowing more controllable . In installs man , thinking man , within nature . The doctrine that nature is inherently rational was a costly one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside spectator of a rationality already complete in itself . It deprived reason in man of an active and creative office ; its business was simply to copy , to re-present symbolically , to view a given rational structure . Ability to make a transcript of this structure in mathematical formulae gives great delight to those who have the required ability . But it does nothing ; it makes no difference in nature . In effect , it limits thought in man to retraversing in cognition a pattern fixed and complete in itself . The doctrine was both an effect of the traditional separation between knowledge and action and a factor in perpetuating it . It relegated practical making and doing to a secondary and relatively irrational realm . Its paralysing effect on human action is seen in the part it played in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries in the theory of " natural laws " in human affairs , in social matters . These natural laws were supposed to be inherently fixed ; a science of social phenomena and relations was equivalent to discovery of them . Once discovered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were to rule his conduct as physical laws govern physical phenomena . They were the sole standard of conduct in economic affairs ; the laws of economics are the " natural " laws of all political action ; other so-called  | laws are artificial , man-made contrivances in contrast with the normative regulations of nature itself . Laissez-faire was the logical conclusion . For organized society to attempt to regulate the course of economic affairs , to bring them into service of humanly conceived ends , was a harmful interference . This doctrine is demonstratively the offspring of that conception of universal laws that phenomena must observe which was a heritage of the Newtonian philosophy . But if man in knowing is a participator in the natural scene , a factor in generating things known , the fact that man participates as a factor in social affairs is no barrier to knowledge of them . On the contrary , a certain method of directed participation is a precondition of his having any genuine understanding . Human intervention for the sake of effecting ends is no interference , and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a verbal shift if we say that the new scientific development effects an exchange of reason for intelligence . In saying this , " reason " has the technical meaning given to it in classic philosophic tradition , the nous of the Greeks , the intellectus of the scholastics . In this meaning , it designates both an inherent immutable order of nature , superempirical in character , and the organ of mind by which this universal order is grasped . In both respects , reason is with respect to changing things the ultimate fixed standard ? the law physical phenomena obey , the norm human action should obey . For the marks of " reason " in its traditional sense are necessity , universality , superiority to change , domination of the occurrence and the understanding of change . Intelligence on the other hand is associated with judgment ; that is , with selection and arrangement of means to effect consequences and with choice of what we take as our ends . A man is intelligent not in virtue of having reason which grasps first and indemonstrable truths about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the particulars which they  | govern , but in virtue of his capacity to estimate the possibilities of a situation and to act in accordance with his estimate . In the large sense of the term , intelligence is as practical as reason is theoretical . Wherever intelligence operates , things are judged in their capacity of signs of other things . If scientific knowledge enables us to estimate more accurately the worth of things as signs , we can afford to exchange a loss of theoretical certitude for a gain in practical judgment . For if we can judge events as indications of other events , we can prepare in all cases for the coming of what is anticipated . In some cases , we can forestall a happening ; desiring one event to happen rather than another , we can intentionally set about institution of those changes which our best knowledge tells us to be connected with that which we are after . What has been lost in the theoretical possibility of exact knowledge and exact prediction is more than compensated for by the fact that the knowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This conclusion gives intelligence a foothold and a function within nature which " reason " never possessed . That which acts outside of nature and is a mere spectator of it is , by definition , not a participator in its changes . Therefore it is debarred from taking part in directing them . Action may follow , but it is only an external attachment to knowing , not an inherent factor in it . As a mechanical addendum , it is inferior to knowledge . Moreover , it must either issue automatically from knowledge or else there must be some intervening act of " will " to produce it . In any case , because of its externality it adds nothing to intelligence or knowledge . It can only increase personal shrewdness in prudential manipulation of conditions . We may , indeed , engage during knowing in experimentation . But according to the classic logic the effect was not to reorganize prior conditions , but merely to bring about a change in our own subjective or mental attitude . The act no more entered into the constitution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Parthenon had any effect on architecture . It makes a change in our own personal attitude and posture so that we can see better what was there all the time . It is a practical concession to the weakness of our powers of apprehension . The whole scheme hangs together with the traditional depreciation of practical activity on the part of the intellectual class . In reality , it also condemns intelligence to a position of impotency . Its exercise is an enjoyable use of leisure . The doctrine of its supreme value is largely a compensation for the impotency that attached to it in contrast with the force of executive acts . The realization that the observation necessary to knowledge enters into the natural object known cancels this separation of knowing and doing . It makes possible and it demands a theory in which knowing and doing are intimately connected with each other . Hence , as we have said , it domesticates the exercise of intelligence within nature . This is part and parcel of nature 's own continuing interactions . Interactions go on anyway and produce changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are effects but not consequences , for consequences imply means deliberately employed . When an interaction intervenes which directs the course of change , the scene of natural interaction has a new quality and dimension . This added type of interaction is intelligence . The intelligent activity of man is not something brought to bear upon nature from without ; it is nature realizing its own potentialities in behalf of a fuller and richer issue of events . Intelligence within nature means liberation and expansion , as reason outside of nature means fixation and restriction . The change does not mean that nature has lost intelligibility . It rather signifies that we are in position to realize that the term intelligible is to be understood literally . It expresses a potentiality rather than an actuality . Nature is capable of being understood . But the possibility is realized not by a mind thinking about it from without but by operations conducted  | from within , operations which give it new relations summed up in production of a new individual object . Nature has intelligible order as its possession in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realize potentialities contained in it . The change from intrinsic rationality in the traditional sense to an intelligibility to be realized by human action places responsibility upon human beings . The devotion we show to the ideal of intelligence determines the extent in which the actual order of nature is congenial to mind . These conclusions connect directly with the question raised at the outset of this chapter . When knowledge is defined from the standpoint of a reality to which the conclusions of thought must accommodate themselves , as a photograph must be faithful to its original , there will always be disputes as to whether this or that subject can possibly be treated scientifically . But if the measure of knowledge is the quality of intelligence manifested in dealing with problems presented by any experienced subject-matter , the issue takes on a different aspect . The question always at issue is the possibility of developing a method adequate to cope with problems . The conclusions of physical knowledge do indeed set a standard for knowing . But it is because of their elaboration of competent method that this statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality on the part of physical subject-matter . All materials of experience are equally real ; that is , all are existential ; each has a right to be dealt with in terms of its own especial characteristics and its own problems . To use philosophical terminology , each type of subject-matter is entitled to its own characteristic categories , according to the questions it raises and the operations necessary to answer them . The difference between various types of knowledge thus turns out to be a difference in fullness and range of conditions involved in subject-matter dealt with . When one considers the success of astronomy in attaining understanding of phenomena occurring at enormous distances one may well be lost in  | admiration . But we should also reflect upon how much is omitted from inquiry and conclusion . Our knowledge of human affairs on this earth is inexact and unorganized as compared with some things which we know about bodies distant many , many light-years . But there are vast multitudes of things about these bodies that astronomy makes no pretence of inquiring into . The relative perfection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems it deals with . The case of astronomy is typical of physical science in general as compared with knowledge of human affairs . The essence of the latter is that we can not indulge in the selective abstractions that are the secret of the success of physical knowing . When we introduce a like simplification into social and moral subjects we eliminate the distinctively human factors : ? reduction to the physical ensues . The principle is exemplified in the difference which is found between results obtained in the laboratory and in manufacturing processes carried on for commercial purposes . The same materials and relations may be involved . But under laboratory conditions elements are isolated and treated under a control not possible in the factory , where the same rigid isolation would defeat the aim of cheap production on a large scale . Nevertheless , in the end , the researches of scientific inquiries transform industrial production . Possibilities of new operations are suggested , and the laboratory results indicate ways of eliminating wasteful operations and make manifest conditions which have to be attended to . Artificial simplification or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with affairs which are complex , in which there are many more variables and where strict isolation destroys the special characteristics of the subject-matter . This statement conveys the important distinction which exists between physical and social and moral objects . The distinction is one of methods of operation , not of kinds of reality . In other words , what is meant by " physical " in distinction  | from other adjectives that are prefixed to subject-matter is precisely an abstraction of a limited range of conditions and relations out of a total complex . The same principle applies to mathematical objects . The use of symbols designating possible operations makes possible a greater degree of exactness and intellectual organization . There is no disparagement of abstraction involved . Abstraction is simply an instance of the economy and efficiency involved in all intelligent practice : ? deal first with matters that can be effectively handled , and then use the results to go on to cope with more complex affairs . Objection comes in , and comes in with warranted force , when the results of an abstractive operation are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which they have been selected . All specialization breeds a familiarity which tends to create an illusion . Material dealt with by specialized abstractive processes comes to have a psychological independence and completion which is converted ? hypostatized ? into objective independence and self-sufficiency . In addition there is a definite social reason for abstractive simplification . Intercourse of human individuals with one another makes it necessary to find common ground . Just because individuals are individuals , there is much in the experience of each which is unique ; being incommunicable in and of itself , it is in so far a bar to entering into relations with others . For the purposes of communication , dissection is necessary . Otherwise the personal element is a bar to agreement and understanding . If one follows out this line of thought , it will be evident that the more widely extended is the notion of mutual comprehensibility , the more completely all individual traits tend to get excluded from the object of thought . In arriving at statements which hold for all possible experiencers and observers under all possible varying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from any one concrete experience . In this sense , the abstractions of mathematics and physics represent the common  | denominators in all things experienceable . Taken by themselves they seem to present a caput mortuum . Erected into complete statements of reality as such , they become hallucinatory obsessions . But in practice , there is always an accompanying reverse movement . These generalized findings are employed to enrich the meanings of individualized experiences , and to afford , within limits of probability , an increased control of them . It is in this sense that all reflective knowledge as such is instrumental . The beginning and the end is the things of gross everyday experience . But apart from knowledge the things of our ordinary experience are fragmentary , casual , unregulated by purpose , full of frustrations and barriers . In the language previously used , they are problematic , obstructive , and challenges to thought . By ignoring for a time their concrete and qualitative fullness , by making abstractions and generalizations , we ascertain certain basic relations upon which occurrence of the things experienced depends . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as changes brought about in a system of relationships , ignoring their individualizing qualities . But the qualities are still there , are still experienced , although as such they are not the objects of knowledge . But we return from abstractive thought to experience of them with added meaning and with increased power to regulate our relations to them . Reflective knowledge is the only means of regulation . Its value as instrumental is unique . Consequently philosophers , themselves occupied in a fascinating branch of reflective knowledge , have isolated knowledge and its results . They have ignored its context of origin and function and made it coextensive with all valid experience . The doctrine was thus formed that all experience of worth is inherently cognitive ; that other modes of experienced objects are to be tested , not here and there as occasion demands but universally by reduction to the terms of known objects . This assumption of the proper ubiquity of knowledge is the great intellectualistic fallacy . It is the source of all disparagement of everyday qualitative  | experience , practical , aesthetic , moral . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjective and phenomenal all objects of experience that can not be reduced to properties of objects of knowledge . From this derogation of the things we experience by way of love , desire , hope , fear , purpose and the traits characteristic of human individuality , we are saved by the realization of the purposefully instrumental and abstract character of objects of reflective knowledge . One mode of experience is as real as any other . But apart from the exercise of intelligence which yields knowledge , the realities of our emotional and practical life have fragmentary and inconsistent meanings and are at the mercy of forces beyond our control . We have no choice save to accept them or to flee from them . Experience of that phase of objects which is constituted by their relations , their interactions , with one another , makes possible a new way of dealing with them , and thus eventually creates a new kind of experienced objects , not more real than those which preceded but more significant , and less overwhelming and oppressive . Thus the recognition that intelligence is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to other kinds of knowing . It deals with those relations which are of the broadest scope . It affords a sure foundation for other more specialized forms of knowing : ? not in the sense that these must be reduced to the objects in which physical knowledge terminates , but in the sense that the latter supply intellectual points of departure , and suggest operations to be employed . There is no kind of inquiry which has a monopoly of the honourable title of knowledge . The engineer , the artist , the historian , the man of affairs attain knowledge in the degree they employ methods that enable them to solve the problems which develop in the subject-matter they are concerned with . As philosophy framed upon the pattern of experimental inquiry does away with all wholesale scepticism , so it eliminates all  | invidious monopolies of the idea of science . By their fruits we shall know them . The marking off of certain conclusions as alone truly science , whether mathematical or physical , is an historical incident . It sprang originally from man 's desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the absence of the arts of management and direction of natural conditions . When modern physical inquiry began , it had a hard time to get a hearing , or even to be permitted to carry on . The temptation was practically irresistible to treat it as an exclusive and esoteric undertaking . Moreover , as it progressed , it required more and more specialized technical preparation . The motive of defence from social attack and the motive of glorification of a specialized calling conspired together . All the eulogistic connotations that gather about " truth " were called into play . Thus " science " , meaning physical knowledge , became a kind of sanctuary . A religious atmosphere , not to say an idolatrous one , was created . " Science " was set apart ; its findings were supposed to have a privileged relation to the real . In fact , the painter may know colours as well as the physicist ; the poet may know stars , rain and clouds as well as the meteorologist ; the statesman , educator and dramatist may know human nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know soils and plants as truly as the botanist and mineralogist . For the criterion of knowledge lies in the method used to secure consequences and not in metaphysical conceptions of the nature of the real . Nevertheless in the end thinkers in all lines are dependent upon the mathematician and the physical inquirer for perfecting of the tools employed in their respective callings . That " knowledge " has many meanings follows from the operational definition of conceptions . There are as many conceptions of knowledge as there are distinctive operations by which problematic situations are resolved . When it is asserted that reflective knowledge as such is instrumental , it is not  | meant that there is an a priori form of non-reflective knowledge , one which is immediately given . What is signified is that there is a direct possession and enjoyment of meanings to be had in that experience of objects which issues from reflective knowledge . It is futile to argue whether the conclusions of reflective method as such or the eventual objects enriched in meaning which are capable of direct perception and use more truly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our idiom to call the reflective conclusions of competent methods by the name of science . But science thus conceived is not a final thing . The final thing is appreciation and use of things of direct experience . These are known in as far as their constituents and their form are the result of science . But they are also more than science . They are natural objects experienced in relations and continuities that are summed up in rich and definite individual forms .  | UNCERTAINTY IS PRIMARILY A practical matter . It signifies uncertainty of the issue of present experiences ; these are fraught with future peril as well as inherently objectionable . Action to get rid of the objectionable has no warrant of success and is itself perilous . The intrinsic troublesome and uncertain quality of situations lies in the fact that they hold outcomes in suspense ; they move to evil or to good fortune . The natural tendency of man is to do something at once ; there is impatience with suspense , and lust for immediate action . When action lacks means for control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the prototypes of rite and cult . Intelligence signifies that direct action has become indirect . It continues to be overt , but it is directed into channels of examination of conditions , and doings that are tentative and preparatory . Instead of rushing to " do something about it " , action centres upon finding out something about obstacles and resources and upon projecting inchoate later modes of definite response . Thinking has been well called deferred action . But not all action is deferred ; only that which is final and in so far productive of irretrievable consequences . Deferred action is present exploratory action . The first and most obvious effect of this change in the quality of action is that the dubious or problematic situation becomes a problem . The risky character that pervades a situation as a whole is translated into an object of inquiry that locates what the trouble is , and hence facilitates projection of methods and means of dealing with it . Only after expertness has been gained in special fields of inquiry does the mind set out at once from problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a preliminary period of groping through a situation which is characterized throughout by confusion , instead of presenting a clear-cut problem for investigation .  | Many definitions of mind and thinking have been given . I know of but one that goes to the heart of the matter : ? response to the doubtful as such . No inanimate thing reacts to things as problematic . Its behaviour to other things is capable of description in terms of what is determinately there . Under given conditions , it just reacts or does not react . Its reactions merely enstate a new set of conditions , in which reactions continue without regard to the nature of their outcome . It makes no difference , so to say , to a stone what are the results of its interactions with other things . It enjoys the advantage that it makes no difference how it reacts , even if the effect is its own pulverization . It requires no argument to show that the case is different with a living organism . To live signifies that a connected continuity of acts is effected in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur . There is a chain of cause and effects , of course , in what happens with inanimate things . But for living creatures , the chain has a particular cumulative continuity , or else death ensues . As organisms become more complex in structure and thus related to a more complex environment , the importance of a particular act in establishing conditions favourable to subsequent acts that sustain the continuity of the life process becomes at once more difficult and more imperative . A juncture may be so critical that the right or wrong present move signifies life or death . Conditions of the environment become more ambivalent : it is more uncertain what sort of action they call for in the interests of living . Behaviour is thus compelled to become more hesitant and wary , more expectant and preparatory . In the degree that responses take place to the doubtful as the doubtful , they acquire mental quality . If they are such as to have a directed tendency to change the precarious and problematic into the secure and resolved , they are intellectual as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consummatory or final ; even the latter are haunted by a sense of what may issue from them .  | This conception of the mental brings to unity various modes of response ; emotional , volitional and intellectual . It is usual to say that there is no fundamental difference among these activities ? that they are all different phases or aspects of a common action of mind . But I know of but one way of making this assertion good : that in which they are seen to be distinctive modes of response to the uncertain . The emotional aspect of responsive behaviour is its immediate quality . When we are confronted with the precarious , an ebb and flow of emotion marks a disturbance of the even tenor of existence . Emotions are conditioned by the indeterminateness of present situations with respect to their issue . Fear and hope , joy and sorrow , aversion and desire , as perturbations , are qualities of a divided response . They involve concern , solicitude , for what the present situation may become . " Care ' ' signifies two quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cherishing attention to that in whose potentialities we are interested . These two meanings represent different poles of reactive behaviour to a present having a future which is ambiguous . Elation and depression , moreover , manifest themselves only under conditions wherein not everything from start to finish is completely determined and certain . They may occur at a final moment of triumph or defeat , but this moment is one of victory or frustration in connection with a previous course of affairs whose issue was in suspense . Love for a Being so perfect and complete that our regard for it can make no difference to it is not so much affection as ( a fact which the scholastics saw ) it is concern for the destiny of our own souls . Hate that is sheer antagonism without any element of uncertainty is not an emotion , but is an energy devoted to ruthless destruction . Aversion is a state of affectivity only in connection with an obstruction offered by the disliked object or person to an end made uncertain by it . The volitional phase of mental life is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the latter is  | the immediate , the cross-sectional , aspect of response to the uncertain and precarious , while the volitional phase is the tendency of the reaction to modify indeterminate , ambiguous conditions in the direction of a preferred and favoured outcome ; to actualize one of its possibilities rather than another . Emotion is a hindrance or an aid to resolute will according as it is overwhelming in its immediacy or as it marks a gathering together of energy to deal with the situation whose issue is in doubt . Desire , purpose , planning , choice , have no meaning save in conditions where something is at stake , and where action in one direction rather than another may eventuate in bringing into existence a new situation which fulfils a need . The intellectual phase of mental action is identical with an indirect mode of response , one whose purpose is to locate the nature of the trouble and form an idea of how it may be dealt with ? so that operations may be directed in view of an intended solution . Take any incident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a book , listening to conversation , manipulating apparatus , studying a lesson , and it has or has not intellectual , cognitive quality according as there is deliberate endeavour to deal with the indeterminate so as to dispose of it , to settle it . Anything that may be called knowledge , or a known object , marks a question answered , a difficulty disposed of , a confusion cleared up , an inconsistency reduced to coherence , a perplexity mastered . Without reference to this mediating element , what is called knowledge is but direct and unswerving action or else a possessive enjoyment . Similarly , thinking is the actual transition from the problematic to the secure , as far as that is intentionally guided . There is no separate " mind " gifted in and of itself with a faculty of thought ; such a conception of thought ends in postulating the mystery of a power outside of nature and yet able to intervene within it . Thinking is objectively discoverable as that mode of serial responsive behaviour to a problematic situation in which transition to the relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of belief , its failures and perversions , whether of defect or excess , spring from failure to observe and adhere to the principle that knowledge is the completed resolution of the inherently indeterminate or doubtful . The commonest fallacy is to suppose that since the state of doubt is accompanied by a feeling of uncertainty , knowledge arises when this feeling gives way to one of assurance . Thinking then ceases to be an effort to effect change in the objective situation and is replaced by various devices which generate a change in feeling or " consciousness " . Tendency to premature judgment , jumping at conclusions , excessive love of simplicity , making over of evidence to suit desire , taking the familiar for the clear , etc. , all spring from confusing the feeling of certitude with a certified situation . Thought hastens toward the settled and is only too likely to force the pace . The natural man dislikes the dis-ease which accompanies the doubtful and is ready to take almost any means to end it . Uncertainty is got rid of by fair means or foul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security . Love for security , translated into a desire not to be disturbed and unsettled , leads to dogmatism , to acceptance of beliefs upon authority , to intolerance and fanaticism on one side and to irresponsible dependence and sloth on the other . Here is where ordinary thinking and thinking that is scrupulous diverge from each other . The natural man is impatient with doubt and suspense : he impatiently hurries to be shut of it . A disciplined mind takes delight in the problematic , and cherishes it until a way out is found that approves itself upon examination . The questionable becomes an active questioning , a search ; desire for the emotion of certitude gives place to quest for the objects by which the obscure and unsettled may be developed into the stable and clear . The scientific attitude may almost be defined as that which is capable of enjoying the doubtful ; scientific method is , in one aspect , a technique for making a productive use of doubt by converting it into  | operations of definite inquiry . No one gets far intellectually who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one loves to think who does not have an interest in problems as such . Being on the alert for problems signifies that mere organic curiosity , the restless disposition to meddle and reach out , has become a truly intellectual curiosity , one that protects a person from hurrying to a conclusion and that induces him to undertake active search for new facts and ideas . Scepticism that is not such a search is as much a personal emotional indulgence as is dogmatism . Attainment of the relatively secure and settled takes place , however , only with respect to specified problematic situations ; quest for certainty that is universal , applying to everything , is a compensatory perversion . One question is disposed of ; another offers itself and thought is kept alive . When we compare the theory of mind and its organs which develops from analysis of what takes place when precarious situations are translated into statement and resolution of problems , with other theories , the outstanding difference is that the first type of theory introduces no elements save such as are public , observable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the mental organs and processes of knowing we are told about sensations , mental images , consciousness and its various states , as if these were capable of identification in and of themselves . These mental organs having had meaning assigned to them in isolation from the operations of resolving a problematic situation , are then used to give an account of the actual operations of knowing . The more evident and observable is thus " explained " in terms of the obscure , the obscurity being hidden from view because of habits that have the weight of tradition behind them . We do not need to repeat the results of the previous discussion . They are all connected with the theory that inquiry is a set of operations in which problematic situations are disposed of or settled . Theories which have been criticized all rest upon a different supposition ; namely , that the proper-  | ties of the states and acts of mind involved in knowing are capable of isolated determination ? of description apart from overt acts that resolve indeterminate and ambiguous situations . The fundamental advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowing on the pattern of what occurs in experimental inquiry is that nothing is introduced save what is objective and is accessible to examination and report . If it is objected that such an examination itself involves mind and its organs , the rejoinder is that the theory we have advanced is self-applying . Its only " assumption " is that something is done , done in the ordinary external sense of that word , and that this doing has consequences . We define mind and its organs in terms of this doing and its results , just as we define or frame ideas of stars , acids , and digestive tissues in terms of their behaviour . If it be urged that we do not know whether the results of the directed operations are really knowledge or not , the answer is , the objection assumes that we have some kind of advance intimation of what sort of a thing knowledge must be , and hence can use this conception as a standard for judging particular conclusions . The theory in question makes no such assumption . It asserts that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and confused are rendered clear and stable . Alter names as much as you please ; refuse to call one set of consequences knowledge and another error , or reverse the appellations , and these consequences remain just what they are . They present the difference between resolved and clarified situations and disordered and obscure ones . A rose by another name would smell as sweet ; the gist of the theory advanced is to point to operations performed and to the consequences which issue from them . Another point of difference is that traditional theories of mind and its organs of knowledge isolate them from continuity with the natural world . They are , in the literal sense of the word , super-natural or extra-natural . The problem of mind and body , of how it happens that bodily structures are involved  | in observing and thinking , is then unavoidable . When little was known about organic structures , one reason for looking down upon perception was that its connection with bodily organs , the eye and ear and hand , could not escape notice , while thought could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are aware that the exercise of thought bears the same relation to the brain that perception bears to sense organs , and that there is no separation , structural or functional , between the eye and ear and the central organs . Consequently it is impossible to think of sense as quasi-physical and thought as purely mental , as if the mental meant just the non-material . Yet we retain theories about the mental formed before we had this knowledge . Consequently , since those theories isolate knowing from doing , the dependence of knowing upon bodily organs becomes a mystery ? a " problem " . But if knowing is one mode of doing , then it , as well as other modes of doing , properly involves bodily instruments . The metaphysical problem of the relation of mind and body is converted into a question , to be solved by observation of facts , of a differentiation of actions into those on a strictly physiological level and those which , because of directed quality and distinctive consequences , are mental . While traditional theories regard mind as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of organic structures , or else in the interest of natural continuity feel compelled to deny that mental behaviour has any differential features , the theory that organic responses have mental quality in the degree in which they deal with the uncertain recognizes both continuity and difference . It can , in principle if not as yet in detail , give a genetic account of the development of mental and intellectual processes . There is neither a sudden jump from the merely organic to the intellectual , nor is there complete assimilation of the latter to primitive modes of the former . On the objective side , the great difference between the conception proposed and that of traditional theory consists in  | recognition of the objective character of indeterminateness : it is a real property of some natural existences . Greek thought at least acknowledged the presence of contingency in natural existence , although it used this property of uncertainty to assign to natural existence a lower status than that which belongs to necessary Being . Modern thought , largely under the influence of a Newtonian philosophy of nature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inherently incomplete was eliminated from nature along with qualities and ends . In consequence , the mental was sharply marked off from the physically natural ; for the mental was obviously characterized by doubt and uncertainty . Mind was placed outside of nature ; its relation to nature in knowing the latter became a dark mystery ; the uncertain and indeterminate were said to be merely subjective . The contrast between the doubtful and the determinate became one of the chief marks by which objective and subjective were demarcated from each other and placed in opposition . According to this doctrine , we are doubtful , puzzled , confused , undecided ; objects are complete , assured , fixed . It is not easy to reconcile this notion with the fact that in order to relieve our doubt , to " make up " our minds , we have to modify in some way , in imaginative or overt experimentation , the situation in which uncertainty is experienced . Moreover , the procedure of science is conclusive . If doubt and indeterminateness were wholly within the mind ? whatever that may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . But experimental procedure signifies that actual alteration of an external situation is necessary to effect the conversion . A situation undergoes , through operations directed by thought , transition from problematic to settled , from internal discontinuity to coherency and organization . If we define " mental " through exclusion of overt acts that terminate in a changed environment , nothing merely mental can actually resolve doubt or clarify confusion . At most it can                     