@@773718

txt CHAPTER II WESTERN EUROPE : FRANCE STRUCTURE AND RELIEF . In the heart of France lies the Central Plateau ( Fig. 5 ) , an upland region varying from 1,500 feet in height in the north-west to over 5,000 feet in the south-east . It is composed mainly of very old rocks like schists and gneiss , but volcanic eruptions took place in geologically recent times , giving rise to the remarkable scenery of the Auvergne . To the east and south-east the Plateau ends abruptly , the high and steep south-eastern edge forming the Cevennes . In the northeast , north-west and south-west , however , it thrusts out prolongations towards the lower ground . The north-eastern prolongation is the Morvan , a wooded upland which approaches but does not reach the Vosges . Eastward the Vosges are separated from the hills of the Black Forest by the Rhine Rift valley , the sinking of this having separated the two groups , which were originally continuous . To the north-west the Lorraine plateau links the Vosges to the Ardennes , of which only a small part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area lies a great area of low ground to which , by extension , we may give the name of the Basin of Paris . The north-western extension of the Central Plateau , which is much less marked than the other two , forms the Limousin Plateau . It approaches but does not reach another area of old rocks , the Armorican Plateau . Armorica ( " before the sea " ) was the name given to the country inhabited by the Celtic Armorici , who in Caesar 's time dwelt between the Seine and the Loire , and later were 20 // confined to Brittany . The Armorican Plateau covers a larger area than Brittany , for it extends northwards into the peninsula of Cotentin and southwards to the Vendee , that is across the Loire . Like the Ardennes-Vosges area it is a remnant of an old worn-down mountain chain . Between the two there once extended a wide sea-gulf , and it is this , filled in by younger beds , which forms the Paris Basin . To the south-west the Central Plateau pushes out a tongue-like prolongation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advances towards the Pyrenees . Between the Central Plateau to the east , the Armorican Plateau to the north , and the Pyrenees to the south once lay a second sea-gulf , which has been also filled in by young rocks and has given rise to the Basin of Aquitaine . Finally , between the Jura Mountains and the Alps , which together form a large part of the eastern boundary of France , and the Central Plateau lies a trough or corridor , occupied first by the Saone and then by the united Saone and Rhone . Like the two Basins this furrow is floored by soft Tertiary beds with harder limestones and other Secondary rocks on their margins . It varies greatly in width , for while its upper section ( Burgundy ) and its lower section ( part of Provence and of Languedoc ) show fairly wide plains , portions of the intervening sections are narrow and gorge-like . With the corridor we may conveniently include the remainder of Provence and Languedoc , old provinces which extended respectively east and west of the Lower Rhone valley . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage-way from the shores of the Mediterranean towards the north . At first sight this passage-way seems to end blindly in the Upper Saone area ; for a sill , or hillbelt , connects the Morvan to the Vosges , and a similar if narrower sill links the Jura to the Vosges . The first sill consists of the Cote d'Or ( " Golden Slope " ) behind Dijon , then of the Plateau of Langres and finally of the Faucilles Hills . All , however , are so dissected by river valleys as to offer no real obstacle to the construction of roads and railways , so that the corridor is in easy communication with the Basin of Paris . The River Doubs , again , a tributary of the Saone with a very curious course , has etched out a passage through the Jura , and a gap , the Gate of Burgundy or Gap of Belfort , leads from the Saone valley to the Rhine Rift valley , part of which has recently again become French ( lowland of Alsace ) . More obvious gaps connect the plains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the Basin of Aquitaine , and that Basin again with the Paris Basin , The first gap is the Gate of Carcassonne , which leads from Narbonne on the Mediterranean to Toulouse on the River Garonne ; the second , the Gate of Poitiers , affords easy communication between Aquitaine and the Paris Basin . UNITY OF TEE NATURAL REGIONS . It IS thus clear that France can be divided into three mainly lowland and four mainly upland regions . The first consist of the Basin of Paris , the Rhone-Saone corridor , with the Mediterranean seaboard , and the Basin of Aquitaine . The upland areas are the Central Plateau , the Armorican Plateau , the Ardennes-Vosges Plateau , with the plateau of Lorraine and the lowland of Alsace , and the French Alps with a part of the Jura Mountains , which also extend into Switzerland . Before we examine these regions it is well to try to realise how beautifully France illustrates the unity of diverse elements . Though it shows a combination of upland and lowland , yet the productive plains are so linked together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontage , that there is little real isolation of any part of the country . At first sight it might seem that the differences of climate and thus of products would tend to separate the regions . The Western European climate occurs in its extreme form only in the peninsula of Brittany ; the typical Mediterranean climate is found on the Mediterranean coast , particularly round Nice in the Riviera ; Paris , and more definitely Lyon , show the tendency of inland places to approach Central European conditions . Lyon has a slightly colder winter than Paris ( p. 11 ) , a considerably warmer summer , a heavier total rainfall , and a greater proportion of the total fall in the summer months . Associated with such climatic diversities is an apparent marked difference in products . Sugar beet is almost confined to the north-west part of the Basin of Paris , particularly the plain of Picardy ; the mulberry for feeding silkworms occurs in the lower part of the Rhone valley ; maize is grown in Burgundy and in the Basin of Aquitaine , both regions where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delicate olive tree is grown only in sheltered parts of Mediterranean France , shrinking back from the blasts of the cold winds of winter and spring on the coast between Marseille and Narbonne , and seeking shelter at the base of the hills further inland . But when we look a little closer we find that quite often what seem to be great contrasts in climate and relief cancel out in practice and do not lead to a similar contrast in products and occupations . Maize is typically a product of that part of a continental interior where the summers are at once fairly hot and fairly wet ; the fact that it grows in France both in Burgundy and Aquitaine reminds us that from the farmer 's standpoint the difference between the modified Western climate and the modified " continental " type matters little , for the summer conditions are similar though the climatic type is different . Wheat came to continental Europe from the south-east and is not generally suited for the climate of the northwest . But in France wheat is cultivated almost everywhere in the lowlands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in Picardy , as well as in the plains of Beauce and Brie , respectively south and east of Paris . We think of wine as a typical Mediterranean product ; but France is the greatest wine-producing country in the world , and the vine is grown for winemaking as far north as a line starting from the lower Loire valley , and running in a north-easterly direction to pass to the north of Reims and the north-west of the River Moselle . A country which produces much wine and wheat does not seem at first sight likely to carry many stock animals , or yield much dairy produce . But Brittany , Normandy , parts of the Central Plateau , the Morvan and parts of the French Alps carry many cattle , and the less rich pastures feed sheep . Local diversities which attach the people strongly to their own regions , their " pays " ; basal resemblances which cause them to feel that the motherland , the patrie , " is a unit , not a collection of parts : these have made the Frenchman what he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a land which to his mind yields all that the heart of man can desire . Again , if we look at France in its relations to other countries , it is clear that , forming as it does the end of the Central European " peninsula , " it is naturally traversed by important international routes . Its ports serve three seas , the North Sea through the Channel ports , the Atlantic and the Mediterranean ; but the fact that Marseille is much the largest port reminds us that , despite the shortness of the Mediterranean coast , the connections of the country are mainly with the Mediterranean Lands and the areas beyond . Since Roman and even preRoman times , indeed , France has played the part of intermediary between Continental Europe and the Mediterranean world . More than Greece , or Italy , or Spain , all of which have had troubled histories , it has been the heir of the classical tradition . The fact that it leads not Europe only but the civilised world in what we call fashion , that is the application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the way in which it has cherished its long heritage , and been able to radiate influences by means of its great highways . Of the six railway systems the most important is the Paris-Lyon-Mediterranean ( P.L.M. ) , which connects Paris to Marseille , and also to the French Mediterranean coast from the Italian frontier east of Nice to the port of Cette , and sends out branches to Switzerland and Italy . The main route ( Fig. 6 ) ascends first the Seine and then the Yonne valleys from Paris , tunnels through the Cote d'Or , and so reaches Dijon in Burgundy on the western margin of the Saone-Rhone corridor . Here it turns south past Macon and Lyon to Marseille . From Macon a branch runs past Bourg to Culoz , where one line turns north to Geneva , and another passes Chambcry to penetrate the Alps by the Mont Cenis tunnel , the oldest of the great Alpine tunnels , and so reaches Turin . From Dijon another route goes by Dole and Frasne to Lausanne , and thus connects with the Simplon route to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the third of the great Alpine tunnels , the St. Gothard , by a route which follows the Seine valley past Troyes , crosses the plateau of Langres and passes through the Gate of Burgundy at Belfort to reach Basel . Perhaps more important is the route which , starting from Paris , attains Nancy by way of the Marne valley , crosses the Vosges by the Saverne gap , and so comes down to the Rhine valley at Strasbourg , whence Basel is reached , past which the route runs eastward to the Danube and Vienna and southward to the St. Gothard and Milan . Connections with Spain are obtained by the Orleans and Southern ( Midi ) routes , either by Orleans , Tours , Poitiers and Bordeaux to Madrid via the western end of the Pyrenees and Bayonne , or from Orleans by Toulouse and Narbonne to Barcelona via their eastern end . The new Somport tunnel gives a shorter route from France to the Ebro valley than the older Bayonne-St . Sebastian route , for it penetrates the barrier of the Pyrenees , giving direct access @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish , which is again connected to Jaca and so to Saragossa . The Northern system connects Paris to Belgium , and the State lines that city with Channel ports . For internal traffic and to some extent for international traffic , particularly in the north and east , the railways of France are supplemented by the inland waterways . Most of the larger rivers are navigable , though it should be noted that the Rhone is too swift even for much goods traffic , usually only carried on in the downward direction ? The more important rivers are linked to each other by canals , which are particularly numerous in the north-east part of the country . THE NATURAL REGIONS . 1 . The Paris Basin . This is drained mainly by the Seine , whose tributaries , rising on the south and east of its hilly rim , converge towards Paris in a fashion which explains the importance of that town . All lines of communication in France , rail , road and waterway , centre on Paris , but it is noteworthy that Reims , the ecclesiastical centre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . In addition to the Seine , part of the Loire is also included in the Paris Basin as we have defined it . The marked bend northward of this river , with Orleans at the apex of the bend , should be noted . The only other important river is the Somme , with the cathedral town of Amiens on its course . The Basin is generally very fertile , and produces wheat ( p. 24 ) ; wine , particularly in the Loire valley round Tours ( Touraine ) and in Champagne round Reims and Epernay ; sugar beet ; tobacco ; hops ; market garden produce and fruit ; but flax is no longer an important crop . The chalk of " dry " Champagne , the clay soils of Sologne within the Loire bend , as well as other upland or less fertile areas within the Basin carry sheep , and the area has always been notable for its production of industrial raw material , now supplemented by overseas supplies , particularly of cotton . The most important coalfield of France , a continuation of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is mined at Bethune , Lens and Anzin . Raw material , particularly wool , and water power explain the early development of textile manufactures here , and with the use of coal and machinery these manufactures have become important . Lille manufactures woollen , cotton and linen goods . Amiens , Rouen and Reims are other woollen towns , Rouen also producing cotton goods , while Cambrai and St. Quentin are linen towns . Many minor manufactures are also carried on , those of Paris in particular being remarkable for their artistic finish and the amount of skilled labour required . 2 . The Rhone-Saone Corridor and Mediterranean Seaboard . Here the special features are : ? the warm summer climate , due to the inland position in Burgundy and the latitude in the south , and the consequent production of crops requiring a good deal of heat ; the easy communications , carried on , however , mainly by rail rather than by waterways ; the presence of small coalfields and the way in which coal can be supplemented by hydro-electric power ( " white coal " ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the corridor , those on the Alpine side being particularly important . As compared with the Paris Basin , where wine production is localised , almost all parts of this warmer region yield wine . Much of this , however , is of comparatively small value , and is consumed by the local rather than by the world market . The wines of Burgundy form an exception , being generally more valuable than those of the more southerly regions . The fact is interesting , because it is common to find that where a plant is grown near its climatic limit , and thus demands care and skill , the product is better than where conditions are so favourable that a crop can be obtained even by careless cultivation . In this particular case , however , another cause is the fact that wine matures best in an area with a cool or cold winter . In addition to the widely distributed vine and to wheat , the region yields certain special products , notably silk , dependent upon the mulberry , grown particularly in the lower Rhone valley ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; perfumes and essences from the flowers and fruits of Provence . All these are of high value in relation to their bulk , and thus the fact that they must be carried by rail is of less importance ; they are , indeed , mainly luxury goods . Where power or fuel is required for the working up of raw material , as in the manufacture of silk , the amount is relatively small in/ relation to the value of the final product , which makes the limited supplies of coal no great disadvantage . The coalfields ( Fig. 6 ) lie on the edge of the Central Plateau , the chief being Le Creusot , south-west of Dijon ; St. Etienne , south-west of Lyon ; and Alais , north-west of Avignon . Iron industries are carried on on all three , particularly machinery and rolling stock at Le Creusot , and guns and munitions at St. Etienne . Silk goods are manufactured at Lyon and also at Avignon and Nimes , and ribbons at St. Etienne . The access to additional supplies of raw silk from Italy by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Marseille , is important . Marseille refines oil and manufactures soap , local supplies of olive oil being supplemented by imports , especially from Tunisia , while other oils are obtained from West Africa . Its position on a rocky coast well to the east of the marshy Rhone delta should be noted . It is somewhat exposed to the mistral , the strong , cold master ( " magistral " ) wind of the lower Rhone valley . Complete shelter from this wind is only obtained further east in the Riviera , where the hills rise close behind the coast ; thus the delicate citrus fruits ( oranges and lemons ) have a very limited extension in France . Grasse , behind the winter resort of Cannes , is the centre of the manufacture of essences and perfumes . The towns to the west of the Rhone delta , such as Montpellier , have rather cold , windy winters , and from Marseille westwards the coast-line is low , with many salt lagoons . The presence of salt-pans here ( as also on the lagoon coast of the Bay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of salt from sea-water in such pans is common on shores where the summer climate is warm and fairly dry , and is carried on in many parts of the Mediterranean shores , e.g. in Sicily , Tunis , etc. 3 . The Basin of Aquitaine . Here the vine is extensively cultivated , especially in the Garonne valley , and the wines find an outlet in the port of Bordeaux . Cognac , on the Charente , gives its name to a particular kind of brandy . Wheat , maize , tobacco , fruits , etc. , are all grown , but not olives , mulberry trees nor citrus fruits . South of the Gironde estuary there is a barren , ill-drained coastal strip , where sand-dunes are continually tending to advance inland . This is the Landes area , and the Maritime Pine , which is native , has been extensively planted to fix the sand . The trees furnish notable amounts of resin and resin products ( turpentine , tar , pitch , etc . ) . Despite such minor industries as the distillation of resin and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the region is mainly agricultural . 4 . The Central Plateau . We should expect this region to be one of low productivity , scanty population and difficult communications , and this expectation is generally fulfilled . But we have to note that the Upper Loire and its tributary , the Allier , rise far to the south , so that their valleys afford excellent routes in the north to south direction , and the Upper Loire flows so near the Saone-Rhone corridor that cross-routes become possible . Further , the Allier passes through an old lake bed , the Limagne , centring round Clermont-Ferrand , which is floored with fertile soil , and gives rise to an oasis of fertility , with vines , wheat and fruits , in a region which is generally one of poor pastures . The volcanic Auvergne , also , owes to its better soil the possibility of cattle-rearing , while sheep are common elsewhere . The unproductive limestone area of the south ( the Causses ) may be named as chiefly devoted to sheep . Except in such infrequent fertile areas as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as rye and barley , with buckwheat , always a poverty crop in France . Though small coalfields occur manufactures are not important . Limoges makes porcelain , the china clay or kaolin being found hear . 5 . The Armorican Plateau . This is mainly a stockrearing area , cattle , horses and pigs predominating over sheep . In Normandy and the Vendee dairying and poultry-farming are carried on , and Normandy grows apples for cider . Central Brittany and much of the south consists of poor heaths , but on the north coast particularly market-gardening is carried on and flax and hemp are grown . This is largely due to the extensive use of seaweed as a fertiliser for the rather poor soil . Seaweed is used in the same way in the western islands of Scotland , but the latitude forbids the appearance of the special crops of Brittany there . As in the Hebrides , also , fishing is an important accessory occupation among the Bretons . Owing to the absence of coal only local small-scale manufactures are carried on , though Normandy has good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dockyard , while Cherbourg is both a Government dockyard and an important passenger port . 6 . The Alsace-Lorraine Region . This is of complicated structure and relief , with a resultant diversity of products and resources . Nancy has a very important school of forestry , which reminds us that the Vosges and part of the plateau of Lorraine are wooded , making this one of the timber-producing regions of France . The great fortresses of Metz and Verdun , the battlefield of Sedan and the too-apparent traces of the last war recall the fact that a permanent frontier between France and Germany has been difficult to find here . The vines , wheat , hops , tobacco and other crops of the Alsace lowland are an indication of the fertility and sheltered climate of the Rhine Rift valley , while the water-power of the Vosges streams , the ease with which coal can be obtained from the rich Ruhr fields by means of the Rhine , and the possibility of importing raw material by the same route explain the development of textile industries , particularly cotton goods at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Moselle basin , as at Nancy , Briey , and Thionville . The deposits were worked particularly luring the period ( 1871-1918 ) when part of Lorraine was German , the ores supplying at that time the Ruhr iron industry . There is no coal near at hand , and that of the Saar field ( assigned to France for 15 years by the Treaty of Versailles ) , does not coke well , as does that of the Ruhr . Strasbourg , on the Ill near its junction with the Rhine , is an important river port , commanding the Gap of Saverne ( p. 26 ) . Potash near Mulhouse and rock salt near Nancy are other resources . 7 . The French Alps and Jura . The French Alps , especially to the south , are less wooded , drier , and have generally less rich pastures than the Swiss Alps , and except in the area to the south of Lake Geneva ( Upper Savoy ) do not yield a large amount of dairy produce . Since sheep find abundant pasture on the plains of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the summer heat and drought there , what is called transhumance , or largescale alternating movements of the flocks and their herds from the high pastures to the low , occurs , though the sheep are now mostly carried by rail . Grenoble , on the Isere , is a great glove-making town , since skins are easily obtained . Besancon , on the Doubs , is a watch-making centre . Many minor manufactures , including high-grade steels , paper and textiles , are carried on in the Alpine valleys with the help of hydro-electric power , but not on a large scale . To this account of mainland France we may add that Corsica , though politically French , is Italian in character . Like Sardinia it is rich in minerals , fishing is important , and wine and olive oil are produced . Footnote STRUCTURE OF THE BRITISH ISLES . Structurally the British Isles are but a fragment of the continent , separated from it by the shallow , roughly quadrilateral North Sea . This flooded plain opens widely to the north , and southwards narrows , funnel-like , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the larger funnel of the English Channel . That North Sea and Channel alike arc but drowned portions of old land surfaces is obvious when we realise that S.W. England and S.W. Ireland are separated parts of a greater Armorican Plateau which once stretched north-westwards from Brittany ( Fig. 1 ) ; that the London Basin is the equivalent of the Paris one ; that in structure and characters parts of N.W. Scotland and N.W. Ireland are similar to Norway . When we examine the build of the islands , we find that we can recognise three main elements , in each of which the relief shows at least a general correspondence to the nature of the underlying rocks . These three are the English Plain , the Uplands with their mineral wealth , and the barren Highlands . In England , east of a slightly undulating line which extends from the Tees estuary to the coast of Dorset , all the rocks represented are geologically young ( later Secondary and Tertiary ) , and at least relatively soft . Nowhere else in our islands is there any extensive area of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plain proper . But in Midland England a wide western zone of early Secondary ( Triassic ) rocks appears , broken by outcrops of older and harder beds , and this belt extend , . to the west coast in the Cheshire Plain , thus giving the English Plain a narrower , north-western sea frontage , as well as its more extensive eastern and southern one . The same Triassic rocks extend southwards along the line of the Lower Severn valley , and the Severn estuary gives still another western outlet to the Plain . The Uplands of England and Wales are built of older ( Palaeozoic ) rocks , generally hard and resistant , and occur in three blocks ( Fig. 7 ) ; in the south-western ( Armorican ) peninsula ; in Wales , which is practically all Upland ; in northern England ( Pennines and Cumbrian Group ) . It is very important to notice that while as a broad generalisation we may say that England consists of a Plain to the east and of Uplands to the west and northwest , this statement suggests a continuous western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The two breaks , the Bristol Channel , continued into the Severn estuary and Severn valley , and the Cheshire Plain , breached by the estuaries of Mersey and Dee , give the Plain what we may call functional continuity from east to west . Rocks of similar type to those which form the Uplands of England and Wales extend into southern and central Scotland , and cover the greater part of Ireland . From the geological standpoint then we may say that these areas are the equivalent of the English Uplands , even though parts of them do not rise to any notable height above sea-level , and the less hard rocks included , such as the Old Red Sandstone , tend to form small plains . Finally , the Highlands of Scotland and of parts of N.W. Ireland are built of very old and very resistant rocks , largely of metamorphic origin , and are generally rocky and barren , without mineral wealth to compensate for their unproductivity . In Scotland particularly , where they attain their greatest extension , the Higl , land areas have remained consistently aloof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . This brief survey gives us a picture of our country as it presents itself to a continental observer . To such an observer the English Plain is but a smaller continuation of the mainland basins and plains , characterised by a climate slightly less favourable to crop production , and almost encircled by relatively unproductive Uplands . Northwards the English Upland passes into the wider , even less productive Uplands of Southern Scotland . Ireland is more remote from England than is England from France , and so far as food crops are concerned has an even less favourable climate . NATURAL RESOURCES . Since nature seems to have given relatively little , we naturally ask what has enabled Britain to become so densely peopled , and so important among the countries of Europe and of the world . It offers three main sets of resources to its inhabitants : the agricultural and pastoral products which can be won from its lands , particularly from the English Plain ; the minerals of the encircling Uplands ; the advantages of the position on the oceanic edge of a continent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the progressive utilisation of these resources . The Phoenicians came to Cornwall for tin ; before the dawn of history earlier adventurers seem to have been drawn to Ireland by the search for metals , and to have found some scanty deposits of gold ; we know that the Romans worked the extensive iron and lead deposits ; the surface coal-beds were utilised relatively early . Nevertheless it is true broadly that the great value of the minerals of the Uplands was a late discovery . On the other hand , the fact that the English Plain would carry some , though not all , of the common crops of the continent , and that it was also suitable for stock animals , was too obvious to be missed . So long , however , as England was purely an agricultural country , it could support only a small population , necessarily concentrated in the more fertile areas , and those with a climate suited to the growth of cereals . From Roman times right down through the Middle Ages , therefore , it was relatively poor and insignificant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to offer in return save the fine wool yielded by its sheep . The first signs of a change came with the era of the Great Voyages of Discovery , when men 's conception of the habitable world was widened . The marginal position , hitherto a drawback , now became a great asset ; instead of being on the outer edge of the main world highways , the islands now lay between the old world and the new . The outer ocean ceased to be an untraversed waste and began to take over what had been the function of the Mediterranean Sea , that of serving as a link between lands of different products . Thus the relation of Great Britain to the inner and outer seas became important . Before a country could take an active part in the voyages of discovery , access to the western ocean was essential . The republic of Venice had not this access , while Spain and Portugal possessed it to a marked degree . But the advantages of the S.W. peninsula of England ( note the Devon ports ) are nearly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the search for new routes to the wealth of the East . When eastern goods came by the Mediterranean route to Venice , her merchants could , if by difficult passes , transmit them to the markets of continental Europe . The obvious advantages of position enjoyed by Spain and Portugal in relation to the new ocean routes were largely neutralised in practice by their relative remoteness from these markets . England combined the advantages of easy access to the western ocean , and to the more populous parts of the continent . Note in particular the relation of Bristol to London . The Bristol Channel and the lower part of the Severn estuary have so breached the western belt of Upland that it is reduced to a very narrow strip , and even this strip is cut through by the Bristol Avon , so that there is no real barrier between Avon and Kennet and thus Thames . Thus Bristol could receive ocean-borne goods , in early days necessarily valuable in relation to weight and bulk , and transmit them to London , whence they could again be distributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new trade-routes , however , was not a great and sudden accession of wealth , as with Spain and Portugal , but the growth of an appreciation of the importance of sea-trade and of the command of sea-ways . The next series of changes was of much later date . Not till Watt 's work in improving the steam engine in the late 18th century did it become clear what an enormous amount of potential power is stored in our coalfields . That power was used in large-scale manufactures , and with these came a fuller utilisation of the advantages of position . Within the country again there was not only a rapid increase of population , but a notable change in its distribution . The margins of the Uplands , where coal and iron were worked , became the most densely-peopled areas , instead of the fertile Plain . But London , though somewhat remote from the great coalfields , was able on account of its position to maintain , and even to increase , its predominance . If then England differs from France and resembles Germany in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age of machinery , rather than the results of centuries of development , it yet differs notably from Germany and resembles France in that its capital has a long tradition behind it , and was not constructed deliberately to meet new conditions . The fact is of much significance . It reminds us that we must not exaggerate the extent of the change-over from the predominantly agricultural to the predominantly industrial mode of life , of the shift of the centre of gravity from the Plain to the margin of the Uplands . London is essentially the heart of the Plain , and it is almost as true to say that the industrial period has enabled London to annex the previously distant Uplands to its sphere of interest , as to claim that the large-scale industries have caused the Plain to lose its significance in the national life . Apart even from London other cities of the Plain , if relatively small as compared with the industrial towns , have yet retained their traditional influence . If then we think of France as a country with a continuous agricultural tradition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have to remember that England shows a characteristic blend of the two trends of development , and through all the historical changes has never wholly lost touch with the past . THE ENGLISH PLAIN . This has a characteristically grained or zoned structure , the more resistant beds , mainly limestone and chalk , alternating with softer beds , especially clays and alluvium , so that rounded hills margin vales or coastal plains ( Fig. 7 ) . From the Cotswolds to the Cleveland Hills , Jurassic limestones outcrop at the surface , having often a steep scarp on the north-west front , while south-eastwards they dip gently below younger beds . From Dorset to Norfolk an almost parallel belt of chalk appears , with the Chiltern Hills as its most conspicuous element . If we think of these strips , with their south-west to north-east direction , as forming the ribs of the Plain proper , we find that its wide southern continuation is similarly supported by a much dissected belt of chalk which runs nearly due east from Dorset to the coast of Kent and Sussex , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chalk belt is so dissected that we have two definite lines of hills , the North and South Downs , bounding by steep scarps the Weald area , with its marginal low-lying clays and central higher , because harder , sandstone hills . Westward the dissection is less complete , so that the two lines of the Downs merge into the single , broader chalk belt which forms the Hampshire Downs and Salisbury Plain . This belt stands back from the sea , so as to half-encircle the low-lying Hampshire Basin and Vale of Dorset , west of which the chalk again approaches the coast . The Hampshire Basin ( note Winchester ) is the southern equivalent of the London Basin , which lies in the region where the southwest to north-east belt of the chalk which forms the Chilterns converges to meet the west to east belt which gives rise to the Downs . But the river systems have pierced the low hills so that neither the London Basin , nor the Hampshire one , nor even the Weald , have the isolation that verbal description suggests . Everywhere there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chilterns ; the Goring gap where the Thames breaks through between the end of the Chilterns and the White Horse Hills ; the Guildford , Dorking and Maidstone gaps in the North Downs ; the numerous passage ways through the South Downs and their continuation , as well as the ease with which the west can be reached by the valley of the Upper Thames or of the Kennet . THE WESTERN MARGIN OF THE PLAIN . This survey indicates the physical basis of the original England , of the Plain with its chalky hills suitable for sheep , and its vales and coastal belts capable of yielding wheat . The only considerable river system is the Thames , the tributaries of which afford innumerable lines of access to the bridge-town of London . Because the Jurassic limestones can be traced nearly continuously on a relief map from the Cotswolds by the Northampton Upland , Lincoln Edge , and after a break to the North York Moors and Cleveland Hills , we may think of this elevated belt as forming the margin of the Plain in the limited sense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England and the newer England of the great coalfields . Its centre and broadest part is the Midland Plateau , with Cannock Chase , Charnwood Forest and the Clent Hills marking the more prominent rises in an area nowhere really high . Two considerable trunkstreams ? the Severn-Avon and the Trent ? carry water from this plateau to the sea , and Severn , Avon and Trent alike show by their strings of historic towns that their valleys have agricultural resources and have always served as lines of communication . Some of these towns have been " rejuvenated " in modern times , either because coal outcrops in the neighbourhood , or because it can be worked with profit beneath a surface covering of younger beds , so that modern industry becomes possible . Where this occurs the original market town tends to grow in harmony with the new needs ; the birth of clusters of towns , with no obvious advantage of position apart from the access to coal , which is so conspicuous a feature of the great coalfields , does not take place . Again , because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines of communication , we find that they have frequently become important railway stations ( Rugby , Shrewsbury ) . As examples of such towns we may note Gloucester , Worcester ( porcelain , gloves ) , Kidderminster ( carpets ) , Shrewsbury in the Severn valley , Evesham ( centre of a fruit-producing area ) , Stratford , Warwick , Coventry , Rugby in the Avon valley . Coventry is much the largest of these , and its industries have shown a curious series of changes . Originally a woollen town ( local wool ) , an influx of French Protestant refugees in the early 18th century resulted in the establishment of the manufacture of silk ribbons and watches . Coal is available from the small Warwickshire ( Tamworth and Nuneaton ) and Leicestershire ( Ashby-de-la-Zouch ) fields or the larger South Staffordshire one . Competition from other countries has led to the replacement of silk ribbons by artificial silk , watches by bicycles , motor-cars , sewing machines , and so forth . The valley of the upper Avon is practically continued into that of the Soar , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its stockings , but like Coventry adapting itself to changing times by developing new manufactures ( lace , elastic webbing , boots and shoes , machinery ) . Other towns of the Trent system are Stafford ( boots and shoes ) , Burton ( beer ) , Derby ( porcelain ) , Nottingham ( cotton goods , such as stockings , lace , curtains , etc . ) . Derby and Nottingham both lie near , though not strictly speaking on the Yorks. , Derby and Notts . coalfield . Further north Doncaster , on the Don , and York , on the Ouse , are other examples of historic towns more or less modified by the development of industry . Doncaster manufactures railway rolling stock , concealed coal measures being worked near by . The agricultural resources of the areas served by these towns lay originally in the possibility of combining crop production with stock-rearing . But the climate is less suited to wheat than that of the Eastern Counties , and with increasing competition from imported corn the tendency is to concentrate on products for which there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower Avon valley , barley-growing for beer in the Trent valley , cattle-rearing for dairy produce and meat almost everywhere . In the heart of the Midland Plateau , in a region with few obvious advantages so far as surface features are concerned , lies the great complex of Birmingham , with its ring of satellites ? a typical product of the coal period when wealth comes not from agricultural resources , nor the control of highways , but from hidden stores of minerals . Thus the sterilisation of the surface by pitshafts , factories , dwellings , railways , roads and canals is but an indication that it is the deeper layers , and not the surface soil , which have become important in men 's eyes . From the 16th century Birmingham , previously an unimportant settlement , began to flourish as an iron centre , smelting being carried on with local wood ( note the Forest of Arden ) . From the later 18th century the working of the extensive coal beds in the neighbourhood made greater developments possible , and Birmingham became renowned for all kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a drawback as competition increased , but the inhabitants have shown both great adaptability and ingenuity , and have overcome the difficulty of relatively costly transport by concentrating on goods requiring skilled labour rather than much raw material . It is customary to emphasise the central position of Birmingham in relation to the ports of Thames , Severn , Mersey and Humber ; but Gloucester , the nearest port , is of no real value , despite the Berkeley ship canal . Much more important is the Mersey estuary , to which Birmingham has access by the Midland Gate , the narrowed gap where the Pennine Upland approaches most nearly the Cambrian one . This leads to the wide Cheshire Plain , drained by the Weaver ( note the important railway junction of Crewe ) and the Dee . To the south-east of the Cheshire Plain , and strictly within a continuation of the Pennine Upland , lies the somewhat isolated industrialised region of the Potteries , situated round the Trent headstreams . The river is formed by small converging streams , flowing in a depression which is bounded to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the west by the Triassic rocks of the Plain , and is itself floored by Coal Measures . On the most westerly of the streams stands the old market town and route centre of Newcastle-under-Lyme , while a little further east , where the coals , clays and marls of the North Staffordshire coalfield are within reach , arose the originally separate pottery towns of Hanley , Burslem , Stoke , Longton , Tunstall , and Fenton , now amalgamated as the city of Stoke-on-Trent ( nearly 300,000 ) . Here from the 17th century onwards rough earthenware was made as a domestic industry , and Josiah Wedgwood ( 1739 ? 95 ) was instrumental in converting this into the " elegant art " of china-making . Except for the local coal and the coarse clay required for the saggers or cases in which the pots are fired , practically all the materials have to be imported ; kaolin or China clay from Devon and Cornwall , flints from Norfolk and Normandy , felspar from Derbyshire and Norway , bones ( for bone ash ) from South America , and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a striking illustration of the effect of tradition and of the genius and foresight of the founders . Wedgwood , in addition to his work as potter , was largely instrumental in causing the Trent and Mersey canal to be built as a means of connecting Liverpool and Hull with the Potteries , and thus facilitating the import of raw materials . This canal , which still retains much importance , runs from Runcorn on the Mersey to Long Eaton , six miles above Nottingham , passing through Stoke . It thus links the town to the navigable section of the Trent , which for barge traffic begins at Burton . No less striking than the great development of the Pottery towns is the continued aloofness of Newcastleunder-Lyme , now mainly a residential suburb of Stoke , which has consistently striven to preserve its own historical traditions as against the growing industrialism of its neighbour . The latter , in addition to the main industry and to coal-mining , carries on an important iron and steel trade owing to the presence of " blackband " iron ores , present here as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Least important of these economically is the south-western block . Tin is still produced , as round Camborne and Redruth , but not now copper , granite at Penryn and on Bodmin Moor , and slate near Camelford ; but only the kaolin mined behind St. Austell and near Newton Abbot is of much value . The port and dockyard of Plymouth ( cf. Brest ) reminds us of the earlier value of the peninsula as a basis from which a bid for sea power could be made , but Portsmouth and Southampton have now greater advantages , and most of the harbours of Devon and Cornwall are only fishingstations . The peninsula supplies London with early flowers and vegetables , and with dairy produce , and offers many holiday resorts , having thus a relation to the metropolis similar to that of Normandy and Brittany to Paris . The two latter areas , however , also come into London 's sphere of interest economically , despite the political frontier and the water barrier . The Channel Islands , geographically French , politically and economically English , quite similar in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , with the development of modern shipping , the physical break between the two main sections of Armorica counts for little , and that the pull of London , with its larger population , is stronger than that of Paris . The Welsh Upland , with its marginal coalfields , has been more profoundly modified by the growth of largescale industry . Originally an area of poverty , with little to give save wool from the mountain sheep , coastal fishing and some possibilities of farming in the narrow valleys and coastal plains , it has undergone evolution along two distinct lines . The larger part has been annexed economically to industrial England ; while the southern coalfield has been the seat of great and independent developments . The dense masses of workers clustered on the English coalfields require opportunities of obtaining fresh air and exercise ; the larger towns must have enormous supplies of pure drinking water . What , then , does Wales mean to the inhabitants of the industrial areas ? Primarily holiday resorts ( Llandudno , Barmouth , Aberystwyth , etc. ) , but also reservoirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like those of Liverpool and Birmingham , to acquire tracts of hillcountry ( catchment basins ) , and construct costly waterworks . The fact that certain local developments have taken place , such as the working of the slates of Carnarvon and the coal of Flint , hardly affects the truth of the general statement . Very different are the conditions on the South Wales coalfield . Geologically the field forms a trough elongated from east to west , from Pontypool to St. Bride 's Bay . With the shape and structure is associated a progressive change in the nature of the coal from east to west . In the east and north-east it is bituminous , cokes well , and is equally suitable for smelting and for domestic use . Here also ( Dowlais , Ebbw Vale ) it is associated with iron ore . In the centre , as at Merthyr Tydvil , Aberdare and the Rhondda Valley , it is semi-bituminous , giving off little smoke and leaving little ash when burnt . This steam-coal is particularly valuable for shipping . In the north-west anthracite , or true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upland standing slightly back from the sea , but the two bays of Carmarthen and Swansea penetrate the land sufficiently to bring some pits quite near ports , as at Llanelly and Port Talbot . Everywhere the upland is dissected by short streams , whose steep valleys afford a number of lines of access to the coast ( note the position of Cardiff and Swansea ) . From these facts it is fairly easy to deduce that the area will export coal , especially steam-coal ( Swansea , Cardiff , Newport ) , and also use its coal in metallurgical industries . The superiority of Spanish ores to the local ones has led to the shift of the iron industry from the interior to the coast ( Cardiff ) . The original access to the tin and copper of Cornwall has given Swansea very varied smelting industries , though tin is now imported from the Straits Settlements , Nigeria and Bolivia , and copper from Spain and elsewhere . Tin is used largely in the manufacture of tin-plate , for what we call " tins " and the Americans " cans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tin after being dipped in a bath of hot palm oil . The effect of these developments was to lead to a large increase of population and wealth within a very cramped space , in an area with earlier traditions only of poverty and scanty population . Postwar depression in trade has brought a new and more acute poverty problem . The Northern Upland consists of the Pennines and the Cumbrian Mountains , to which the former are linked by Shap Fell . It shows a combination of advantages which explains why this area was the seat of the great industrial experiments . Physically , Northern England is a narrowed belt of land , separated by a " waist " from Southern Scotland , and widening to the south . The Pennine Chain occupies the centre only , leaving space at either side for natural south-to-north highways . That these highways were utilised early is indicated by the rows of historic towns which mark their course ; Doncaster , York , Durham , Newcastle may be named on the eastern route ; Chester , Lancaster and Carlisle on the western . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some ( Carlisle , Chester , York ) are important railway junctions . Even where , as notably at Newcastle and Durham , the original significance of the site has been partly blurred by later changes , castle and cathedral remain to remind us that there has always been traffic , both through and local , along these routes . The drainage system is of great interest because of its bearing on lines of communication and sea outlets . Generally the tendency is for numerous separate streams , rising in the Pennines , to flow directly eastward or westward to the sea , to which they open by sheltered estuaries . The headstreams approach one another , or even interlock , giving rise to easy cross-routes , such as the Tyne and Aire Gaps . To this general description the Ouse forms a notable exception , for it is a trunk stream , running parallel to the Pennines , and gathering a number of smaller tribritaries from the narrow dales . But it should be noted that the chief streams which drain the South Yorks. , Derby and Notts . coalfield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Don . Though the Aire is regarded as a tributary of the Ouse , in point of fact it joins that river not far from the point where it expands into the Humber estuary , to which the Don and Trent also flow . Thus Aire , Calder and Don may be regarded as forming direct lines of access from the coalfield to the sea , making Hull its outlet , with Goole as a subsidiary port . Further north the Tees , Wear and Tyne , with the less important Wansbeck and Coquet , afford sites for ports in direct communication with the Northumberland and Durham field . On the west the bottle-necked Mersey estuary , with its twin outports of Liverpool and Birkenhead , and , owing to the ship canal , its inner port of Manchester , is the outlet of the South Lancashire field . The valley of the Eden , a stream which in relation to the Pennines resembles a miniature Ouse , is of much importance as a line of communication ; the course of the two railway routes into Scotland which converge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ports at the mouths of rivers originally served as fishing-stations , but now the industry tends to be concentrated at the larger ports ( note particularly Grimsby ) . In addition to the three main coalfields already named , and the North Staffordshire one discussed on p. 44 , we have to note also the smaller Cumbrian field . It resembles the Northumberland and Durham field in that the seams approach the coast , and are even continued beneath the sea , while the other fields lie on the actual margin of the Pennine Upland . These inland coalfields therefore use their coal mainly for local manufactures , while the Cumbrian field exports coal , especially to Ireland , through the ports of Whitehaven , Maryport and Workington . The Northumberland and Durham field uses part of its coal for its shipbuilding , engineering , chemical and other industries , but exports large amounts , particularly to the east coasts of England and Scotland and in normal times to the continent , and supplies also much coastal shipping . In addition to coal Northern England yields other valuable minerals and rocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposits ( Barrow region , Cleveland Hills ) ; the Pennines yield lead ; the Cumbrian Mountains slate and granite ; salt is found in the Cheshire Plain and in the Tees valley . Of other resources local wool is important as the starting-point of the great textile industries . Here then we have the essentials of the setting of the three great industrialised areas of northern England , which have played so leading a part in ensuring the commercial supremacy of the country . These three are : ( 1 ) the South Lancashire area ; ( 2 ) the West Riding region with its prolongations ; ( 3 ) the North-eastern area . Each has well-marked characteristics of its own . ( 1 ) The South Lancashire Area . Here the cotton industry , the greatest of British industries , predominates , but there are a number of subsidiary manufactures which have arisen as a result of Liverpool 's wide trade relations with overseas lands . In contrast to most British industries , that of cotton has always been wholly dependent on imported raw material ; there have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton and in the markets available for the finished goods . Both facts have exercised much influence on the people of Lancashire , who pride themselves on their wide outlook and on their readiness to adjust their products to changing conditions . The position of the manufacturing towns , that is of the areas of almost continuously dense population , depends , upon the detailed structure of the coalfield . From the Pennines there extend westward two spurs , the Bowland Fells , the higher and more northerly , lying between the Lune and the Ribble , while from the lower Rossendale . Fells arise to the north the Calder tributary of the Ribble , and to the south the Irwell and other right-bank tributaries of the Mersey . From the Bowland Fells , as from the Pennines proper , the coal measures have been stripped by denudation , exposing the older , non-productive formations beneath . This is partially true also of the Rossendale Fells , which consist mainly of millstone grit , with some not very important coal beds . But on the southern flank of the Fells lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are worked in an area forming an irregular crescent , and extending from near St. Helens through Wigan and Leigh , then across the Irwell to the east of Manchester and the northeast of Stockport on the upper Mersey . Further , on the northern flank of the Fells , though to a less extent , valuable seams are again worked , particularly in the Calder valley round Burnley . The carboniferous rocks , coal-bearing or not , are separated from the sea by the younger beds which floor the Lancashire Plain ; the coal measures are faulted too deeply beneath these younger beds to be reached . Faults also occur on the southern margin of the basin , which is in like manner separated from the Mersey by a lowland underlain by younger rocks . These two facts , the division of the coalfield into a larger and more productive southern portion and a smaller northern one , and the way in which as a whole it stands back alike from the sea coast proper and from the estuaries of Mersey and Ribble , have both had permanent effects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into two sets , the mainly weaving towns to the north and the mainly spinning ones to the south . The second has deprived the coalfield of much importance as an exporting area , and has kept the textile towns crowded together on the edge of the uplands , in the narrow valleys which originally supplied water power . The spinning towns extend from Bolton through Bury to Rochdale , then south past Oldham to Ashton and Stockport . This region has a high , well-distributed rainfall , a moist atmosphere and a small range of temperature , all important factors in spinning as permitting cotton thread to be subjected to high tension without snapping . Manchester is mainly a commercial centre , but spinning is still carried on on its outskirts . Its position at the convergence of small streams ( Irwell , Irk , Medlock ) should be noted as well as the narrowing of the Pennine axis to the east , which gives it easy communication by canal and rail with the West Riding . Part of the yarn made is exported , but much is sent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Accrington , Burnley , Nelson and Colne , to be woven into cloth . Preston is the most interesting of these towns . It is engaged both in spinning and weaving , has an engineering industry and is a market centre for the agricultural plain . Yet as a port it is handicapped by the sandbanks of the Ribble estuary , and ? in the pre-railway sense ? is relatively distant from coal , which was first brought to it by sea from the Mersey after having been carried to that river from near St. Helens by canal . Its position at a river crossing ( cf. Warrington on the Mersey ) should be noted ; but the skill and enterprise of its people count for much , as witness recent developments in the artificial silk industry . The towns on both sides of the middle and lower Mersey engage in a great variety of industries , partly dependent on the Cheshire salt beds . Thus St. Helens makes glass , Widnes and Runcorn chemicals of various kinds , Port Sunlight soap , and so on . There is also much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The outstanding feature of this region and its continuations is the elongated belt of exposed coal measures , which stretches , narrowing southward , from Leeds and Bradford in the Aire valley nearly to Nottingham on the Trent . The field is backed by millstone grit , yielding abundant soft water for washing raw wool . To the east the measures disappear beneath a covering of Permian ( magnesian limestone ) and Triassic beds , but , in striking contrast to the conditions in Lancashire , they can be worked beneath these in deep mines . It is this concealed field which has been progressively developed since the middle of last century , and there are great modern pits round Doncaster , and also near Mansfield and Nottingham further south . The northern part of the exposed field , between the Aire and the Calder , forms the woollen area . Its five large towns , Leeds , Bradford , Halifax , Huddersfield and Dewsbury , include more than a million people , and there are many smaller ones . Leeds , on the Aire where the valley opens out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial centre of the whole district , with a large variety of industries . South of the Calder the industries change in character . Barnsley , on the Dearne tributary of the Don , is a great coal-mining town , and manufactures linen , an industry once widely spread both in Lancashire and Yorkshire . The Don , which makes a sharp bend within the town of Sheffield , is the seat of a great iron and steel industry . The river appears to have changed its course owing to captures in its basin , but the essential feature is that from Penistone to Sheffield it runs roughly parallel to the Pennine Upland , and at Sheffield receives four small and rapid tributaries ( of which the Sheaf is one ) , and is itself coursing down a steep valley . The valleys were originally forested , supplying charcoal for smelting ; local iron ore and hard stones for grinding steel were present ; the streams furnished power for blast furnaces ; ganister or resistant sandstone is available for furnace linings . These facts were the basis of the original cutlery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the narrow valleys . From it was developed the great steel and iron industry of to-day , with few obvious local advantages save coal and tradition ? or " geographical inertia . " The cutlery industry persists , especially on the higher sites to the south and west , but the valley between the elbow bend and Rotherham concentrates on heavy goods , including ship plates , armour plates and ordnance , made largely from imported ore . Further south , as at Chesterfield , Mansfield , Derby and Nottingham , an iron industry is again carried on , chiefly with ore obtained from the Jurassic beds of Lincolnshire and Northampton . The textile industry also reappears , towns in the Derwent valley , such as Belper , making yarn for the lace and hosiery of Nottingham . Hull ( Kingston-on=Hull ) , which arose on a sheltered creek where a small tidal stream enters the Humber estuary , is the port of the basins of Ouse and Trent . A good deal of coal is exported , chiefly from the newer part of the field . Efforts are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which used to pass through London and , to a smaller extent , through Liverpool . The largest import , however , consists of oil-seeds , the basis of important industries , such as the making of cattle cake , refining oils , and producing fertilisers . There is extensive trade with the Baltic . 3 . The North-Eastern Area . This is characterised by the limited number of its industries , and particularly by the absence of textiles . The latter fact means that there is little outlet for female labour in industry . Women are more extensively occupied in outdoor agricultural work in Northumberland than is common in other parts of the country . The export trade in coal is very old , for the Tyne sent coal to London so far back as the 12th century , and is very important , the field supplying about onethird of the coastwise and foreign shipments of Britain . On the other hand , the great development of the iron and steel industry dates only from the latter part of the 19th century , and Middlesbrough is the most recent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two special features of interest . Obviously there must be peculiarities of structure and relief , which made the working and shipping of coal easy , even when methods of mining and transport were primitive , and continue to exert influence to this day . Again , on that ancient trade was superimposed a distinctively modern industry , which has its seat in part in the areas first developed and in part in entirely new towns . The coal measures are exposed in an elongat-d field extending from the lower Coquet to a few miles south of Bishop Auckland , which stands at the bend of the Wear . From the Coquet to the Tyne the exposed measures front the sea , but south of the river they trend gradually away from it , being concealed to the east under a covering of Permian rocks . This concealed field extends to the mouth of the Tees . As already noted the whole region is drained by rivers flowing direct to the sea , of which the most important is the Tyne , always navigable for sea-going vessels to Newcastle , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coal-carrying " keels " for a few miles further . The Tees is navigable to Stockton . Here then is the natural basis of the coal export trade throughout the centuries . In early days only the surface or shallow-seated deposits could be worked , and the main problem was to get the coal to the rivers . There it could be loaded on the keels , which in their turn loaded the sea-going ships . South of the Wear export was impossible , both because the concealed measures in the east could not be worked , and because the exposed beds further west were out of reach of navigable water . How important was the latter fact can be judged by recalling that the first railway , the Stockton-Darlington line opened in 1825 , was built to carry coal from South Durham to the navigable Tees . Before its construction coal was actually sent by sea from the Tyne to the Tees mouth , the land haul , short as it was , making it difficult to use the coal in the neighbourhood . Improvements in mining methods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in means of communication , account for the continual growth in the export of coal as the demand elsewhere increased . It only remains to add that the early and extensive use of keels on the Tyne played an important part in establishing the shipbuilding tradition . The local demand , and the ease with which the boats could be constructed at first from home-grown and later from Baltic timber , led to the development of skill and the accumulation of some capital in advance of the period when sea transport entirely changed in character . The South Durham coal , in contrast to the hard steam coal found especially in the more northerly area , proved to be an excellent coking coal . In 1850 it was discovered that the scarp of the Jurassic beds of the Cleveland Hills , overlooking the Tees estuary , contained rich seams of ironstone , while limestone for flux occurs in the Permian beds already mentioned , as well as elsewhere . These correlated facts account for the great development of the iron and steel industry , and the rise of Middlesbrough . West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its shipbuilding , is mainly concerned with the export of the coal won in the great modern collieries sunk through the Permian beds to the concealed measures below , and with the import of pit-props from the Baltic . It has to be noted , however , in connection with the whole Tees area , that Spanish and Swedish ores are largely imported , in addition to the use of Cleveland ore . It is thus clear that the momentum of the going concern is everywhere in evidence in Northern England , even if there are indications of a tendency for the newer industries , such as the making of artificial silk and electrical apparatus , to become localised in the plain to the south , rather than in the industrial north . Footnote SCOTLAND , both in structure and relief , is at once broadly simple and complex in detail . Two great fault lines , one , the Highland Line , running from Stonehaven to Helensburgh , and the other from Dunbar to Girvan , appear to divide it into three natural regions , the Midland Valley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characters . But though the approach of the Grampian Highlands to the sea near Stonehaven seems to mark a limit , we find that further north the hills again retreat from the coast , leaving plains which , e.g. round the Moray Firth and in Caithness , are floored with Old Red Sandstone rocks , just as are some of the most fertile regions of the Midland Valley . If then we say summarily that the Highlands are barren and scantily peopled , the Midland Valley fertile , coal-yielding and densely peopled , we have yet to remember that of the four large towns of Scotland one ( Aberdeen ) lies within the Highland Line , and that wheat is produced round the Moray Firth , an area even further within the Line than Aberdeen . The Midland Valley itself is less uniform than the name suggests . A belt of volcanic hills , of which the most conspicuous elements are the Sidlaws , Ochils , Campsie Fells and Renfrewshire Heights , traverses it obliquely from coast to coast , broken by three gaps cut respectively by the rivers Tay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced the north-westerly , which forms Strathmore in the larger sense , is predominantly agricultural , while the south-eastern belt with its coalfields shows a combination of agriculture and industry . Coal is worked in Ayrshire , where the beds approach the ports of Ardrossan and Irvine ; on the large Lanarkshire field , the seams reappearing across the Forth in the Clackmannan field ; in Fife and on the opposite shore of the Firth of Forth in the Lothians , the intervening section being sunk below the sea . The Firths of Forth and Clyde bear to one another a relation somewhat similar to that of the estuaries of the Mersey and the Humber , with the marked exception that no upland belt intervenes and that the distance from estuary to estuary is much less ( under 30 miles ) . If Edinburgh ( with Leith , over 400,000 ) be regarded as the equivalent of Hull , and Glasgow ( over 1,000,000 ) of Liverpool , then we find that in each case the Scottish town is larger than its English analogue , but that compared with the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The development of industry in Scotland is associated essentially with the growth of Glasgow and its satellite towns , the growth of the eastern towns , including Dundee , being largely of the nature of a reflex effect . As compared with England there was a marked " lag " in industrial development . Not till 1707 , when Glasgow was able to take part in the trade with the North American colonies of Britain , did its westerly position count for anything ; the Act of Union , that is , marked Scotland 's " discovery " of America . As against English competition , the cheaper labour was exploited , hand-woven coarse textiles , first linens and then cottons , with salt herring , both for the use of the slaves , being exchanged for tobacco , sugar and rum . The rapid development of steam-driven looms in industrial England led to a relative decline in the Scottish textile industry . From about the middle of the 19th century , however , the discovery of a way of using the " blackband ironstone " of the western coalfields laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derivatives , such as shipbuilding , engineering and so on . Blackband ores contain a certain amount of coal-like matter , which diminishes the cost of smelting . The iron industry is still very important , even though now most of the iron ore has to be imported . We may think of the wave of prosperity thus originating in the Clyde area as travelling outwards until blocked by the barren areas of the North-West Highlands , and the more elevated central area of the Southern Uplands . Within the latter , the tweed-making towns of the Middle Tweed Valley , the prosperous farm lands of the Lower Valley , the dairying industries of the southern counties , the fruit-growing of the Upper Clyde Valley , all remind us that the really unproductive lands are of limited extent as compared with the Highlands . In the Highlands there are the beginnings of industries based on hydro-electric power , as at Kinlochleven ( aluminium smelting ) . A larger scheme for utilising water-power is in progress ( Lochabcr scheme ) . Footnote IRELAND , geologically , may be said to be built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linked together by a boggy central plain , which is floored by limestone rocks . Thus the Mourne Mountains are composed of the same rocks as those which form the Southern Uplands of Scotland , and the Loughs of Carlingford and Strangford recall the similar bays on the opposite shore . The basaltic plateau of Antrim , with the large , shallow , Lough Neagh in the centre , is due to the same volcanic outbursts as the island of Mull and part of the adjacent Scottish mainland . A depression stretching south-westward from Lough Neagh is a continuation of the Midland Valley of Scotland , the little coalfield of Dungannon , in Tyrone , emphasising the fact . The Wicklow Mountains are formed of the same rocks as the Welsh Upland , and we have already emphasised the resemblance between South-West Ireland and the southwest peninsula of England , and between Donegal and the North-West Highlands of Scotland . The surface has , however , been greatly worn down by the agents of erosion , and even these marginal areas do not form extensive or continuous areas of high ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dublin to Galway and from Dundalk to Ballina , opens widely to the east , but has narrow exists only to the west through Killala , Clew and Galway Bays . It is divided by the Shannon , the longest river in the British Isles , remarkable for its slow upper course and its rapid descent after it breaks through the Killaloe gorge . It is near the // outlet from Lough Derg that a weir has been built , in connection with the electrification scheme , water being carried in an artificial channel to a power house at Ardnacrusha , a few miles above ' Limerick . It is hoped that cheap electric power may increase industrial development in Ireland . The width even apart from Loughs Derg and Ree , and the unstable boggy banks , have always made the Shannon a barrier rather than a main line of communication . Within the country generally there is a remarkable absence of converging routes . The concentration of the railway system on Dublin is the result of the economic dependence on England , and of the town 's position opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the build of Ireland . if Dublin marks the spear-point of English invasion , and Cork suggests the Bristol of an earlier England , the proximity of north-eastern Ireland to the Midland Valley of Scotland has rendered possible there developments at once linked and independent . Like the Clyde towns , Belfast has a shipbuilding industry , though both coal and iron must be imported ; like the Fife towns , Belfast , Londonderry and the associated towns manufacture linen . In this case the local production of flax gives an apparent advantage to the Irish area , but flax used to be grown in Fife . The remainder of Ireland , the Irish Free State , is chiefly pastoral , rearing cattle for the English market , to which also it sends much dairy produce . Despite the position trade relations with America are carried on mainly through English ports ; Ireland , that is to say , looks eastward towards the richer neighbouring island , has not functionally a double outlook , like England and Midland Scotland . Footnote // Footnote NORWAY is usually discussed with Sweden , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its resemblance to Highland Scotland , with which in earlier times its relations were close , make it better to include it here . It differs from the North-West Highlands in its timber resources ( about one-fifth of the total surface is woodland ) , in being more plentifully supplied with minerals ( iron , copper , silver , etc. , but not coal ) , and in its much greater resources of water-power ( utilised in metallurgical industries comparable to those of Highland Scotland but much more important , and also for making paper pulp , etc. ) , but resembles them in the large tracts of unproductive land ( reaching some three-quarters of the total ) , in the importance of the fisheries , and in climate as well as in structure . Norway approximates in size to Great Britain and Ireland combined , but has a population ( 21 millions ) less than that of the Irish Free State . The only town of any size is the capital , Oslo ( 260,000 ) . The west coast , with its skerry guard of islands bounding sheltered waters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As contrasted with rias , such as those of south-west Ireland , which shallow steadily landwards , fiords have a sill at the entrance , with deeper waters within , and are often much branched . Typically their walls are steep , so that streams plunge downwards in waterfalls . But at their heads , and occasionally at other places where considerable streams enter , alluvial fiats are present on which cultivation is possible , while on the glacial shelves of the plateau above summer pasturage can be carried on . Such narrow lowlands form sites for settlements , sea-fishing and stock-rearing supplementing the yield of the arable strip . But expansion is impossible , so that emigration must take place . Such small , isolated settlements are , however , but one // part ? and that the less important ? of the essential Norway . Trondhjem , an ancient capital , stands on a great fiord , hardly typical since it penetrates a depressed area between the narrow northern upland and the wider and higher southern one . From it there leads southwards an almost continuous valley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the south , expanding at the head of the Skaggerrak into the wide , lake-sprinkled lowland , in the centre of which is the fiord on which Oslo lies . Its status as capital dates from the period of Danish rule . It is this lowland area with its milder climate , its lands better fitted for agriculture , its wealth of wood , its position with respect to the European mainland , which is the heart of modern Norway . A third historic town , that of Bergen , is not on a fiord , but lies between the Sogne and Hardanger fiords . Once an important Hanseatic centre , it is to-day the chief port of Norway on the west , and is linked to Oslo by a difficult railway route over the plateau . The Arctic archipelago of Spitsbergen ( Svalbard ) belongs to Norway : considerable amounts of coal are produced . Footnote CHAPTER IV NORTH CENTRAL EUROPE : BELGIUM AND THE NETHERLANDS ? GERMANY BELGIUM AND the NETHERLANDS HOLLAND , or the Netherlands , forms the western con ? tinental margin of the Central European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western and northern Belgium , a country of more complex structure though of slightly smaller size and with a much shorter coast-line . The two countries have in common advantages of position , enabling them to act as intermediaries between overseas lands and the interior of continental Europe , and the possibility of considerable production of food and raw material from their agricultural lands . Nevertheless there are marked contrasts between them . These are due mainly to the more varied rocks of Belgium , which give to it mineral wealth denied to Holland , thus promoting large-scale industry , and to the fact that while Holland holds the lower courses of the important navigable rivers Rhine and Maas ( Meuse ) , Belgium has not even control over the whole of the estuarine portion of the Schelde . Holland is thus better fitted for transit trade than Belgium . Both countries have a very high density of population , greater in Belgium than in Holland because of the industries of the former . Holland ( Fig. 8 ) consists entirely of recent ( postTertiary ) beds , mainly the deltaic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characters of the soils in particular localities depend upon the part played in their forma-63 // tion by such agents as the sea , the rivers , the wind and the earlier ice-sheet . Local density of population , apart from the great ports , is influenced by the possibility of reclaiming the fertile marine and alluvial clays , the windblown sands and the coarse glacial detritus being mostly unproductive . NATURAL REGIONS OF BELGIUM . Belgium can be divided into three regions , on the basis both of structure and relief . To the south-east lies the Ardennes Upland , rising to heights of over 2,000 feet , a tiraberyielding and sheep-rearing area in its upper sections , but producing minerals near its gently-sloping north-western margin . That margin is faulted against an area of undulating plain , floored by Tertiary rocks , and forming a continuation of the similar plain of northern France . Northwards and westwards this Tertiary Higher Plain is in its turn margined by the Lower ( below 300 feet ) postTertiary Plain , that is by the prolongation of the plain of Holland and Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marginal dunes , parts of the surface are , as in Holland , below sea-level , but the depressed area is of much less extent . Belgium includes parts of two distinct river systems ( Fig. 9 ) . The Lys and the Escaut ( the Schelde headstream ) enter from France , and , after their union at Ghent , receive a number of smaller streams from the plains before passing Antwerp to enter the deltaic region in Holland . A low ridge separates the Schelde waters from the Meuse system , the Sambre being the most important tributary of the latter in Belgium . The Sambre rises in France , its valley-line being a continuation of that of the Oise , and flows along the margin of the Upland . The Meuse , after cutting through the western part of the Upland , receives the Sambre at Namur , and then swings round at a sharp angle to follow the same valley-line to Li6ge , where it bends to the north and enters Holland near Maastricht . 1 . Coastal sand-dunes ; 2 . Sandy beds of interior , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; 4 . The High Fens ; 5 . The Tertiary beds of the Plain of Flanders and the corresponding area in the Paris Basin . A. The ancient folded rocks of the Ardennes Upland ; B. The chalk Francco- Belgian coalfia d ca pat ofl the Ruhr coalfield is shown to the noth-easy . The chief towns are indicated by dots and initial letters ( see Fig. 9 ) . // The curious pocket-like southern bend made by the frontier of Holland here should be noted . It is difficult to exaggerate the importance of this Sambre-Meuse valley-line , and of the fertile Tertiary plain which lies parallel to it . From Cologne a natural route leads round the edge of the Upland past Aachen ( Aix-laChapelle ) to Liege , in the Meuse valley . From this point France can be reached by either of two routes . One leads by Namur to the Sambre valley and so past the French fortress of Maubeuge . Again , the Meuse can be followed south from Namur and so leads into France past the great battlefield of Sedan . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routes lead through central Belgium to the sea . From the dawn of history down to the great European war the valley highways and the plain have beentrodden by successi ve hosts of invaders , and some of the great battles of the world 's history have been fought here . The significance of the area has been increased by the local resources , which make it a desirable possession in itself as well as a potential line of invasion . The loess soils which support the rich wheat-fields of Picardy are continued into Belgium , extending from Tournai past Liege and into the Maastricht " pocket " of Holland , forming a wide productive belt . From Aachen along the Sambre-Meuse line also there stretches a coalfield which extends into northern France ( p. 28 ) , coal in Belgium being worked in deep mines , especially at Mons and Charleroi , as well as between Namur and Liege . Zinc and lead are obtained near Verviers . All this area is highly industrialised , Liege being particularly noted for its iron industry . A line running due west from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the division between the French-speaking Walloons of the south-east and the Flemings of the north and northwest , and the relations between industrial Belgium and the coalfield area of northern France are very close . The Grand Dueby of Luxemburg , wedged in between south ? eastern Belgium . Germany and France , is omitted . as NORTH CENTRAL EUROPE ( z The third zone , the low plain , generally resembles Holland both in its characters and in its problems . The coastal sand-dunes are less developed than in Holland , and the marshy strip behind them which , by the help of dykes , can be reclaimed for agriculture is less extensive . Further inland most of Flanders has a sandy surface soil , but this overlies clay which can be reached by deep ploughing , and the mixture of the two ( loam ) is very fertile . Centuries of effort have , therefore , made much of the plain highly productive . To the north-east , however , the sandy deposit becomes much thicker , sand-dunes occur , and we have the great barren tract called the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recently this area has acquired new importance with the discovery of coal , worked on a small scale in Dutch Limburg , and on a greater in Belgium . The reclaimed marshes and the loam of Flanders furnish both pasture and arable land , the soil and climate favouring flax cultivation , and the waters of the Lys being peculiarly suitable for retting . Manufactures were thus of early origin ; Bruges , Ghent and Ypres have long been woollen towns , while Ghent , Tournai and Courtrai make linen . The working of the coal of the south-east has given new importance to textile manufactures generally . The whole of the region is intersected by waterways which connect with those of France and also with the Sambre and Meuse . Antwerp has also water connection with the Lower Rhine through the channels of the delta area . But it has proved very difficult to maintain convenient direct waterways from such towns as Ghent , Bruges and Ypres to the sea , and except for the packet station of Ostend , and the newer port of Zeebrugge , sea traffic is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being linked to almost all parts of the country by waterways , and has easy direct railway communication with Westphalia ( the Ruhr // region ) . Brussels , the capital , on a tributary of the Schelde , almost halfway between Bruges and Liege , and between Antwerp and Mons , is , as one would expect from its position , an important railway centre . Its inhabitants speak French , though it is within the Flemish area . It is much the largest town , with a population , including the suburbs , of about 800,000 , slightly exceeding that of Amsterdam , the chief town of Holland . Antwerp , on the other hand ( about 300,000 ) , is smaller than Rotterdam ( about 500,000 ) . The fact that Holland thus includes two large ports as compared with one in Belgium is a result both of Holland 's advantage in controlling the mouths of the Rhine , and of the greater value of the trade with the Dutch colonies , particularly the East Indies , as compared . with that with the Belgian Congo . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the period when the Dutch took advantage of their position on the Rhine to act as intermediaries between the Far Eastern lands and the heart of Europe , so that Holland 's wider trade relatians depend essentially on geographical position . THE PLAIN iN HOLLAND . In the Netherlands the coastal sand-dunes fringe the numerous separate islands of Zeeland , and from the Hook to Helder form a continuous and high barrier protecting the low-lying lands behind , which constitute Holland in the limited sense . Northwards the barrier has been breached by the sea in historic times , so that the Frisian islands , like a broken dam , margin the flooded area now forming the shallow Zuider Zee , and are continued eastwards towards the similar but smaller flooded area of the Dollart . Behind the dune belt lies a wide tract of marine clay , which , in the provinces of North and South Holland , is intersected by bands of river clay along the streams , and by larger areas of Low Fen , that is of marsh where many generations of swamp plants have grown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or dyked and reclaimed // lands , which are the basis of the country 's agrionitural prosperity . The inner side of the dunes , with supplies of fresh water from the sands , and the possibility of mingling different types of soils , forms a favourite site for towns . Note particularly The Hague , the seat of the Court and Legislature , Leiden and Haarlem , the last noted especially for its bulbs and market-gardening . Except that the fertile river clays are continued eastwards along the courses of the rivers , particularly between the Lek and the Waal ( the Betuwe , or " good land " ) , the rest of Holland is mainly barren . We have already spoken of the Campine ( called Kempen in the Netherlands ) . The same sandy type of surface appears in the Veluwe , or " bad land , " to the south of the Zuider Zee , and is continued eastward , beyond the narrow strip of river clay which fringes the Yssel or Ijssel , passing northwards into the Bourtanger Moor on the left bank of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in places , giving rise to the High Fens . It is this limited amount of fertile land which has led to the great scheme , now in progress ( Fig. 10 ) , of reclaiming large tracts of the Zuider Zee by means of a dyke from the coast of North Holland to the island of Wieringen , continued to the coast of Friesland . Manufactures are mainly concerned with the working up of local agricultural produce ( note cheese-making , brewing , woollen and ligen manufactures , china ) , or of imported colonial produce ( cocoa , tobacco , diamondpolishing at Amsterdam , sugar-refining , etc. ) , coal being easily obtained from Germany or England . Rotterdam on the Lek , with its outport of the Hook , is the great Rhine port ; Flushing , on one of the Zeeland islands , is a passenger port competing with Ostend . Amsterdam was formerly unfavorably situated as a modern port on account of the shallowness of the Zuider Zee , but its two great canals , the longer North Holland canal to Helder and the shorter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased its trade . The Grand Duchy of Luxemburg is a small state within the Ardennes Upland , chiefly important because of its resources of iron ore , and now within the Belgium Customs Union ( note the large Belgian iron industry ) . Footnote GERMANY ( DEUTSCHEs REICH OR GERMAN REALM ) Before 1918 the German Empire and France were approximately the same size , but the former contained about 65 million people as against 40 million in France . Owing to loss of territory , particularly to France and to Poland , the post-war German Republic had a considerably smaller area ( about 181,000 square miles ) , with a population at the census of 1925 of under 62J millions . So far as density of population is concerned Germany thus occupied an intermediate position between England and Belgium on the one hand , and France on the other . But the distribution is very uneven , areas of very high density ( Saxony , 863 to the square mile ) alternating with others of low , ( Mecklenburg , 127 to the square mile ) . Such facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and when we note that in the two examples given Mecklenburg lies on the Baltic coast in the plain , and Saxony on the margin of the mineralised uplands , we are tempted to conclude that the plain is poor and thinly peopled . But we find that the capital , Berlin , now the largest city of continental Europe , lies in the heart of the lowlands , in a region which shares all the disadvant. // ages of the coastal strip ? a harsh climate , soils not naturally fertile , absence of mineral wealth , including coal ? and adds to them a situation relatively remote from the sea . Further ; Berlin is , despite its distance from coal , essentially a product of the late industrial period . In the middle of the 17th century , when Paris and London were already great , even by modern standards , and had a long tradition behind them , Berlin only contained some 6,000 people . Even in the middle of the 19th century Berlin had not reached half the size of Paris , and its population was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not , as Paris and London are , a natural route centre , and the causes of its rise must be complex . Further , the present-day frontiers of Germany date only from the post-war settlement , and the changes which that settlement made were extensive . Such a state is illadapted to a division into natural regions , which imply that some sort of adjustment has been reached between man and his surroundings . In this case we shall have to take more account of historical events than has been necessary in the countries already studied . STRUCTURE AND RELIEF . Of the three structural elements ? plain , upland , mountain ? represented in Germany , the mountain one is insignificant , being limited to a narrow strip of the northern Alps on the Bavarian frontier , between the eastern end of Lake Constance and the former frontier town of Salzburg . Broadly , the country may be said to be made up of parts of the North German Plain and of the Central Uplands of Europe . The Uplands ( Fig. 12 ) are complex , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground extending from west to east in about latitude 50 ? - 51 ? , broken only by often narrow river valleys . In the west we have the Rhine Schist Highlands , north of the river Main . The Rhine cuts through these in its gorge between Bingen and Bonn , and , together with its left bank tributary the // Moselle and its right bank one of the Lahn , cuts the upland into four blocks , the Hunsriick and Eifel to the west and the Taunus and Westerwald to the east . The latter are continued into the hill country of Hesse , again linked to the uplands of Thuringia and Franconia , and to the Ore Mountains and the Sudetes . As would be expected of such an upland belt , the Ore Mountains and Sudetes , under the Treaty of Versailles , formed a boundary with Czechoslovakia , despite the fact that the Elbe breaks through between them to enter upon its plain course . In the west , however , states included in the German federation transgress the central upland wall , and extend south of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus to the south-west we have a projecting block of German territory , mainly upland , but including a considerable tract of lowland in the Rhine valley upstream from the Rhine Gorge . This tract balances , as it were , the similar non-German block of the Bohemian Diamond further east . It is drained mainly by the Rhine and its tributaries , of which the Main and the Neckar should be noted , just as the Diamond is drained by the Elbe ; but part of its southern section is crossed by the Danube , which merely skirts the Diamond . Owing to the arrangement of the Central Uplands the North German Plain is narrow in the west and widens eastwards , where in the Oder Valley it practically reaches the southern frontier . Though its surface rarely exceeds 600 feet , it is not uniform . The generally infertile glacial deposits spread over its surface by ice advancing across the Baltic during the Ice Age form three series of roughly semi-circular ridges . The first is coastal . More distinct is the series forming the Baltic Heights , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peninsula to the Vistula and beyond , and reaches a maximum height of over 1,000 feet west of the town of Danzig . Finally , the Southern Heights begin in the Liineburger Heide , between the Elbe and the Weser , and // sweep round into Poland . More important than these ridges , which are hardly discernible on atlas maps , are the generally concentric depressions , or ancient valleys , which have had much historical importance . These depressions are partly occupied by the existing rivers , and it is owing to their presence that the rivers of the plain present such anomalous features ; in part , however , they are devoid of running water , and till the construction of canals within them were swampy and covered with brushwood . The more important are shown on Fig. 11 , and we should note first that they are widest and most branched in the region round Berlin , and second that they have a general east to west trend , and are thus sometimes crossed almost transversely by the great rivers which drain from the Central Uplands to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , not infrequently run along them from east to west . Two specific examples may be taken . The Elbe , from Magdeburg to its junction with the Havel , runs from south to north , while the Havel in its middle course , flows westward . But the ancient valley in which the Havel is flowing is continued eastwards to the great westward bend of the Oder , the intervening section being now occupied by the Finnow canal . The same ancient valley is continued eastward along the Warte , a tributary of the Oder , and along its feeder the Netze , which points , as it were , to the westward bend of the Vistula near the town of Bromberg . Here again there was once an empty swampy depression , now occupied by the Bromberg canal . Another ancient valley can similarly be followed from the Elbe by the Havel and Spree to the Oder and the Warte and is continued to the Vistula downstream from Warsaw . It is the existence of these and other ancient valleys which has made it possible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their plain courses by canals , and so facilitate greatly communication across the plain . // Footnote THE GERMAN STATES . After 1918 Germany became a federal republic composed of eighteen states or provinces , followed in 1933 , when the National Socialists came into power , by an autocratic and highly centralised government . Of these provinces by far the largest and most populous is Prussia , which sprawls across the plain from the extreme west to the extreme east and includes the Rhine Schist Highlands and smaller parts of the Central Uplands . Under the treaty of Versailles the eastern portion of Prussia was separated from the rest by a strip of Poland and the Free City of Danzig , one of the causes of friction leading up to the invasion and occupation of Poland in 1939 . Bavaria , the next largest entity , extending from the Thuringian plateau to the Alps and bisected by the Danube , is less densely populated than Prussia , and about a quarter of the size . No other state attains onetenth of the size of Prussia . The present states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having been absorbed , particularly by Prussia , the predominating partner . It was the King of Prussia also who became German Emperor in 1871 , when the German states , which then numbered twenty-six , were confederated to form the Empire . In a sense we may say that modern Germany is an enlarged Prussia , and the causes which have led to the growth of Prussia are thus important . Some of those causes were historical , but geography has exerted much influence . THE ORIGIN OF PRUSSIA . The kernel round which the state of Prussia grew was Brandenburg , the region in the // heart of the plain where the Elbe and the Oder bend towards one another , and for the origin of Brandenburg we have to go far back in history . In the early centuries of our era the Germanic peoples seem to have occupied a solid block of territory extending from the Rhine to the Vistula , and from the Danube to the shores of the North and Baltic Seas . Later the Slays advanced westwards across the plain , and by about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ElbeSaale line . The Saale is a left bank tributary of the Elbe , which joins it upstream from the town of Magdeburg , and has the same south-to-north direction as the section of the Elbe from Magdeburg to the Elbe-Havel confluence . By the beginning of the 10th century the Germans had established a frontier province , or march ( Mark ) , behind the Elbe here , with the fort of Magdeburg , ensconced at a bend of the river , as its centre . This , the Altmark , or old march , was the beginning of Brandenburg , and served as a starting-point of the German effort to recolonise the ground lost . The recolonising process meant the substitution of the German language and culture for the Slav , and in part it involved a blending of Germans and Slays to produce a mixed stock . More or less pure Slav stocks , however , tended to persist as cultivating peasants dominated by German overlords . Eastern Germany shows still a certain distinction of breed or racial stock between landowner and peasant . This is characteristic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this sense do not now exist , so that in this as in some other respects Germany is a transitional state between east and west . We have to note next that German reeolonisation took place in stages ; that Prussia was the main agent by which it was effected ; and that it was never complete . The early stages were the advance from the Altmark across the Elbe into the region between that river and the Oder , // with the foundation of the Mittelmark , or middle march , and then across the Oder into the Neumark , or new march . The Order of the Teutonic Knights undertook an independent crusade on the shores of the Baltic round the river Pregel , where their fort of Konigsberg was built in 1255 . This eastern colony became the Duchy of Prussia , and after its absorption by Brandenburg it gave its name to the state of Prussia . That state grew steadily through the centuries , spreading both east and west by conquest and absorption . It was necessarily organised on a military basis , and its military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east , and to absorb areas in the west already German . In two separate regions the geographical conditions enabled the Slays to maintain their language and culture as against the German advance . One region lies behind the barrier of the Ore Mountains and Sudetes . Within the Bohemian Diamond , that is , the Slays whom we call the Czechs found a refuge from the Germans of the plain . The Germanic stock , it is true , had always persisted in the upland region watered by the Upper Danube , but those Germans who became the Austrians were unable to penetrate the heart of the Diamond from the south because of its other bounding hills , the Bohemian Forest and the Moravian Heights . The reason for the persistence of the second Slav group , the Poles , depends on more subtle geographical detail . A map of the Poland created after the war of 1914 ? 18 shows a westward bulge in the region of the Warte and its feeders , the Netze and the Obra . The two latter , indeed , for small portions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wide ancient valley ( Fig. 11 ) which extends from the Oder to the Vistula by way of the Warte and Netze . Before it was drained this depression formed at once an obstacle to free movement and a convenient ditch of defence . In a quite general sense it still marks the limit between the // area to the north-west where the population is Germanspeaking and that to the south-east where it is mainly Polish-speaking . The Germans were able to push up the main Oder valley , but the Poles formed an almost solid block round the Vistula south of the Netze-Bromberg line , while along the lower course of the Vistula the two peoples were mingled , owing to the German advance along the coast , and a Polish one down the river . TRADE AND CENTRES OF POPULATION IN MEDIIEVAL GERMANY . German recolonisation of the plain involved continuous struggle , and for this there were three main geographical reasons . In the first place it was difficult to find satisfactory permanent , as distinct from ternporary , frontiers . In particular the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the centre raised a serious problem for Prussia , with its inherited fear of the Slays . Again , the plain seemed to extend endlessly eastward , and as was shown time and again its far eastern section formed a reservoir of migratory peoples , always tending to overflow . Finally , throughout its extension the plain does not show any such notable change in relief and climate as to lead to great differences in products . There was thus little to stimulate transverse trade , and even if there had been the ancient valleys , till they were drained , made communication difficult . In Eastern Germany then , right down through the Middle Ages and beyond , the land remained the main source of wealth , and no powerful trading class arose to diminish the contrast between noble and peasant . In western Germany conditions were quite different . The Alps constitute a climatic divide separating areas of quite different products , which could communicate across the passes . The Baltic Lands yielded furs and amber , while herrings were formerly abundant in the Baltic Sea , and parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a preservative . The Mediterranean Lands had not only valuable products of their iv TRADE AND CENTRES OF POPULATION 81 own , but through Venice and Constantinople they had access to the spices , silks , fine muslins and other treasures of the Far East . Thus during the centuries when Prussia was acting as guardian of the gate , groups of towns in the west were growing rich from the proceeds of transalpine trade . The map ( Fig. 12 ) indicates the position of some of these towns . In the south we note Ulm , at the head of navigation on the Danube ; Regensburg ( Ratisbon ) at the head of the great northward bend of the river , and near the entrance of the Naab tributary ; Augsburg , on the Lech , a right bank tributary ; Nurnberg , on a feeder of the Main , a right bank tributary of the Rhine . Nearly due south of Munich , a more modern town than those just named , lies the low Brenner pass ( Fig. 15 ) across the Alps . The Brenner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Middle Inn valley . The Adige leads to the North Italian Plain and so to Venice , while from the Middle Inn valley it is possible to reach the Danube over the Seefeld pass . These facts enable us to trace easily the reasons for the importance of the four towns named at the time when trade goods came by pack horse over the Alps . From the Brenner Augsburg could be reached over the Seefeld . Its river , the Lech , led to the Danube . If the Danube was followed upstream Ulm was reached , whence routes led to the Rhine either by the Neckar or by south-western routes , which also gave a connection with the important St. Gothard route across the Alps . Regensburg , again , could be reached by following the Danube downstream from the entrance of the Lech . From it routes led northward to the Elbe via the Naab valley , or westwards to the Rhine by Nurnberg and Frankfurt . So far as the distribution of the goods was concerned the great navigable rivers of the plain , together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Hanseatic League was the active agent . Its central // seaport was Lubeck , on the Baltic , at the mouth of the insignificant Trave river , but its influence extended up the great rivers to Cologne on the Rhine , Madgeburg on the Elbe , Frankfurt on the Oder and Thorn on the Vistula . Lubeck was well placed to command the traffic of the Baltic , where the amber of the Kurisches Haff and the Frisches Haff was important . So early as the end of the 11th century it was connected to the Elbe by a canal , and so tapped the traffic of that river . A land route led also from Lubeck round the margin of the uplands to Frankfurt on the Main , the great exchange centre . THE RISE OF MODERN GERMANY . This state of affairs was bound to undergo a change when the advance of the Turks and the discovery of the new way to India led to a shift of the trade routes from the Mediterranean Sea to the outer ocean . But the special feature so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , continuous change , but a hiatus , a sharp break in historical development . During the Thirty Years ' War ( 1618-48 ) the German states were involved in almost continuous fighting , which reduced the population greatly and led to general impoverishment . Recovery was slow ; new developments hardly began before the end of the 18th century , and were not rapid till after the Franco-Prussian war in 1870-71 . Not only then did the German states almost cease to count during the critical period of the 17th century , when England was laying the foundations of her colonial empire , but they remained relatively poor and backward even in the late 18th and early 19th century , when large-scale industry was beginning to develop in England . Between 1871 and 1914 , however , German development was extremely rapid , and owing both to the late start and to the geographical features of the country followed somewhat different lines from that of Great Britain . The utilisation of coal as a source of power in large-scale industry took place in both countries , and Germany is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It stands third among the states of the world , the United States having now the largest output . In Germany coal occurs especially on the margins of the Central Uplands , particularly in Westphalia ( the Ruhr field ) , Saxony ( near Chemnitz and at Zwickau ) , in the Saar region ( returned to Germany in 1935 ) , and in Silesia , where , however , the Upper Silesian field has now been mainly transferred to Poland . Between 1871 and // 1918 the main source of iron ore was the Lorraine region annexed from France ( p. 32 ) , but the fact that the chief iron industry is carried on on the Ruhr coalfield means that Spanish and Swedish ores can be easily imported by the Rhine . A great apparent disadvantage is the small North Sea seaboard , and thus the limited access to ocean routes , with the fact that Germany as a late-corner found it difficult to obtain colonial territories to supply the tropical and sub-tropical produce so necessary in modern industry . As against this , however , the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plain , already organised on an agricultural basis , and capable of supplying much of the food required for the growing industrial population . The output of these lands was greatly increased by improved methods , particularly by the use of artificial fertilisers . In this connection the deposits of potash salts , mined at Stassfurt , in Prussian Saxony , are of great importance . As contrasted with England , therefore , in Germany agricultural and industrial developments have gone hand in hand , and German dependence on imported food is still proportionately less than English . Since industry developed mainly in the west , particularly in the Rhine lands and in Saxony , while the east remained agricultural , there was now a possibility of exchange between the two parts of the country . This new need led to the great development of artificial waterways within the plain , and increased the importance of Berlin , their natural centre . Even more important was the fact that the plain proved admirably fitted for the construction of railways , Berlin being again the natural centre . It took over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the great exchange mart of Central Europe , just as the North Sea port of Hamburg took over the part formerly played by the Hanseatic town of Lubeck . The construction of the Kiel Canal , iv ) THE RISE OF MODERN GERMANY 85 completed in 1895 , put the Elbe estuary in direct communication with the Baltic . With the shift of trade routes the towns in the region of the Upper Danube necessarily lost importance , while those on or near the Rhine and in Saxony gained . Prussia , with its great centre at Berlin , dominated more and more , but failed to adapt its political methods to modern conditions , and the great catastrophe of the war resulted , and led to the loss of many of Germany 's earlier gains , including all the colonial territories . As regards industries , Essen , in the Ruhr region , is the great seat of iron manufacture . The textile industry is very important , being carried on both in the Rhine industrial region and in Saxony . In the former Barmen and Elberfeld manufacture woollen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Saxony Chemnitz is the great cotton centre . A peculiarly German set of industries is connected with the making of chemical and electrical apparatus , the former including dye-stuffs of which Germany used to have a practical monopoly . Ludwigshafen , opposite Mannheim on the Rhine , is the main seat of the chemical industry , while Berlin and Nurnberg manufacture electrical plant . Footnote CHAPTER V NORTH CENTRAL EUROPE : DENMARK-SWEDEN ? POLAND DENMARK THE PLAIN IN DENMARK . The North German Plain , with its thick mantle of glacial deposits , is prolonged northwards across the entrance to the Baltic Sea . As contrasted with the continuous mainland section this prolongation is divided into a western peninsula , of which a part only is included in the kingdom of Denmark , and an eastern archipelago , penetrated by three sea-channels . The whole resembles generally the rest of the plain , and though a strip on the eastern side of the peninsula , together with the islands , contains fertile , loamy soils , the local resources are small . The position , however , gives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twofold reason . The three channels form the only natural ( as distinct from artificial , e.g. the Kiel Canal ) waterways from the North Sea to the Baltic . Again , the lie of the island belt in relation both to the peninsula and to the southward prolongation of Sweden , enables it to act as a bridge between central Europe on the one hand and northern Europe on the other . Historically , the bridge function is emphasised by the fact that parts of southern Sweden were attached to Denmark till the 17th century , and that Norway was not separated till 1814 . Again , the present great importance of Copenhagen as a Baltic trade centre indicates the value of the control of the exit from that sea . 88 // Widest in the north ( Jutland ) , the peninsula narrows southward ( Schleswig ) . While to the north the population is solidly Danish , and to the south solidly German , there is an intermediate belt where the stocks are mingled . Part of northern Schleswig ( Danish , Slesvig ) was transferred to Denmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difficulty of finding permanent frontiers in the plain . The outstanding feature of the peninsula is that its western part is largely barren , and that the North Sea coast is dangerous and has few harbours . The small port of Esbjerg carries on some trade with England , but historically the peninsula has always looked east and not west , and the trade with England is a product of the industrial period . The islands fall into two groups , a western and an eastern . Fyen , with some smaller islands , is separated from the peninsula by the Little Belt , and from the island of Seeland , with Laaland , Falster and the smaller island of Moen to the south , by the Great Belt . The Sound , on which Copenhagen is placed , separates the large island of Seeland from southern Sweden . It is narrowest ( three miles ) at its north end , where Helsingor ( Elsinore ) stands opposite the Swedish port of Halsingborg . It was at Elsinore that the Danish tolls were formerly collected , but the town is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Swedish port of Malmo ( by train ferry ) . Malmo has direct railway connection to Stockholm , as has Copenhagen to Hamburg , by train ferries across the Belts . From Hamburg trains run to the Hook of Holland for Harwich , and also to Berlin . Copenhagen is thus a centre from which both Swedish and Danish goods can be sent to Germany and to England . The modern prosperity of Denmark comes from the great development of the dairying industry , with butter , cheese , eggs and bacon as direct and indirect products . // But though technical education , government assistance and the use of co-operative methods have increased greatly the quantity and quality of the products , the very large population of Copenhagen , in relation to the total for the country , shows how much depends upon its importance as a collecting and distributing centre for Baltic trade . Like Rotterdam , in Holland , it has much more than purely local significance . Footnote Of Denmark 's former large possessions only Iceland , Greenland and the Faeroes remain , and Iceland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is not without interest to note the contrast between the Arctic and sub-Arctic possessions of Denmark and the tropical ones of Holland . Though Iceland is nearly two and a half times the size of the homeland it has little economic importance . To the physical geographer , however , it is of great interest owing to the fact that extensive glaciers and active volcanoes co-exist . SWEDEN STRUCTURE OF SWEDEN . The inclusion of Sweden among the states of Central Europe , with its consequent separation alike from Norway and from Finland , seems at first sight difficult to justify . Structurally it is formed mainly by a very old crust-block , the Baltic Shield ( Fig. 1 , p. 7 ) , which is continued into Finland and the Kola peninsula . The central part of this resistant crust-block is sunk beneath the waters of the Gulf of Bothnia , but the original continuity is indicated by the Aland Islands , which form a broken bridge between its Swedish and Finnish sections . Eastward the limits // of the block are shown by the depression which extends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bears the large lakes of Onega and Ladoga on its surface ; beyond his limiting hollow lies the Russian Platform ( Fig. 17 1 .. 119 ) . On the north-west the Shield abuts upon the ancient worn-down fold-mountains which constitute the greater part of Norway , and are themselves a continuation of the similar ancient fold-mountains of Highland Scotland . Thus the actual continuity of Norway and Sweden , and the similarity of structure of Sweden and Finland , seem to suggest that the three areas should be considered together . On the other hand , in all that concerns the life of the people ? their occupations , their social and political outlook , their trade relations ? the essential Sweden , with its close connection with Germany through Denmark , with its traditional fear of that Russia which had its capital at Petrograd , belongs to Central Europe , rather than to the west like Norway , or to the transition belt between east and centre like Finland and the new Baltic states . To realise how this comes about we have to note the two great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from about Gavle on the Gulf of Bothnia to the Norwegian frontier on the Skagerrak divides Sweden into a northern and a southern region . In the southern one the surface rarely rises to 1,000 feet , and except for a central low plateau south of Lake Vetter , lies for the most part below 600 feet ; it is thus essentially lowland . Again , particularly in the wide lowland belt which stretches from sea to sea in the region of the great lakes , the old hard rocks of the Shield tend to be covered by recent deposits which make fertile soils capable of cultivation . In the extreme south , again , the secondary peninsula of Scania shares the structural characteristics of the Danish islands , and like them is covered by highly fertile loams . Here the beech occurs , as it does in Denmark , and with the oak forests of the lake belt it gives the // scenery a Central European aspect in striking contrast to the sombre pine and spruce forests of Norway and of northern Sweden . North of the Skagerrak-Gavle line Sweden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heights of over 3,000 feet , and with large tracts lying above 1,500 feet . Except along the lowland strip which borders the coast , also , the old rocks have often been scraped bare by the ice , and the soils are at best shallow and unproductive . As contrasted with the southern region , where mixed farming can be carried on ? the crops in Scania including wheat and sugar beet ? and dairying yields a surplus for export , the barren north must needs depend mainly on the less specialised occupations of lumbering and mining . These support a thinner and less concentrated population , so that the southern region has not only a greater density of population , but includes also all the important towns . TOWNS AND RESOURCES . Of these towns the three largest , and the only ones with over 100,000 inhabitants , are Stockholm , Goteborg and Malmo . All are ports , Goteborg being the chief Swedish port , and the fact brings out another advantage of the southern region . It has a double coast-line , washed by water less subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the capital , is not only centrally placed , but stands at the eastern end of the great midland depression . Goteborg , on the Gota river , which flows into the Kattegat , an arm of the North Sea , has access to all the ports of that sea , and trades Iargely with Great Britain , France and Germany . It is also connected by a continuous waterway through Lakes Vener and Vetter and the Gota canal to the Baltic coast , south of the port of Norrkoping . We have already spoken of the position of Malmo ( p. 87 ) . As emphasising the economic relations of the southern part of Sweden it is interesting also to note that Visby , on the large island of Gottland , was in earlier days a great // llanseatic centre , and traded with Constantinople by way of the great Russian rivers . Visby is practically in the name latitude as Goteborg , the port through which Sweden now imports the tropical luxuries which once Caine to Visby . This is an interesting example of the effects of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 92 ) . Apart from its dairy products , Sweden 's chief resources are its forests and its mines , and these lie mainly in the northern region . Iron is the most important mineral , coal being absent save for very small deposits in Scania . The oldest iron mines are those at Dannemora , south of Gavle , and thus within the southern region as defined here . More important are the far northerly mines at Gellivara , in Swedish Lapland . The Swedish port for the product is Lulea , on the Gulf of Bothnia , but this is inaccessible in winter , and a railway connects the mines to the ice-free Norwegian port of Narvik . Other important iron mines lie at Grangesberg , south-west of Falun , and copper is mined at Falun . In connection both with mining and lumbering the ample resources of water-power are important , and Sweden " exports " hydro-electric power to Denmark by cables across the Sound . Footnote POLAND COMPARISON BETWEEN POLAND AND GERMANY . SO far as area and population were concerned Poland after 1918 ranked among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made up of territories detached from the former Russian , German and Austrian Empires at the post-war settlement , so that friction with her neighbours was inevitable , and for many years it was not clear what part she would be destined to play as a political and economic unit . The constituent elements of the Polish Republic // were : Congress or Russian Poland , with the addition of part of the former Vilna territory ; Prussian Poland , with a part of Upper Silesia ; almost the whole of Galicia , which was formerly Austrian . In principle it thus included the lands where Poles form a majority of the population , and was a Slav state . As compared with the great Slav state of Russia , however , the Poles are predominantly Catholics instead of belonging to the Orthodox church . They form an outpost of Catholicism between the Lutherans of the plain to the west and the Orthodox peoples of eastern Europe . In Poland , as in western Russia , the Jews have constituted the commercial element in the population . So far as structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which it also resembles in its mineral wealth and the great development of the textile industry . In particular , Poland resembles Germany in that it includes a large stretch of the North German F lain ; it extends also to the Carpathians as western Germany extends to the Alps ; it has in Galicia an area of high plain comparable to that which constitutes so much of Bavaria and Wurttemberg , There are , however , two obvious differences from Germany . One is that while the latter country has a wide Baltic coast-line , and a North Sea one which , though short , contains important ports , Poland 's coast-line was limited to a very short strip west of the Danzig Free State . In its difficult access to open water Poland resembles the eastern states of Europe generally . The other distinction is that the wall-like belt of central highland , so marked in Germany ( p. 73 ) , is not so easy to trace in Poland . We described that highland belt as ending in the Sudetes , which overlook Upper Silesia , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Upper Silesia is not , as it appears on an atlas map , true plain country , but rather a region of low hills . East of the river the lend rises again , reaching in the Lysa Gora a height of // 2,000 feet . This plateau is , as shown by its constituent rocks , really a part of the Central Uplands of Europe . Though lower and less continuous than the German highlands , it tends in a similar fashion to repel lines of communication , and separates lowland Poland , centring round Warsaw , from the high plain and the Carpathian slopes , with Cracow and Lemberg as centres . The two sections are linked by the Vistula and its tributary the San . The Upper Vistula flows broadly from west to east , skirting the southern edge of the upland , and then swings round it in a great curve , to flow generally northwards to Warsaw . THE MORAVIAN GATE . The Vistula rises on the northern slopes of the western Carpathians , and its headstream before turning eastwards is not far distant from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudetes . The narrow gap between the two mountain groups is the Moravian Gate , one of the most notable features of this part of Europe . Its importance is twofold . In the first place it allows passage from the Oder valley , and so from the North German Plain , to the March , and so to the Danube near Pressburg ( Bratislava ) . Secondly , it gives a line of access from the Upper Vistula to the Oder and to the Danube . The Upper Vistula can be reached from the shores of the Black Sea by a route following the outer margin of the Carpathians . Thus the Moravian Gate lies at the junction of three routes ( Fig. 13 ) , two from the Black Sea , by the Danube main stream or by the outer Carpathian slopes , and one from the Baltic . Cracow , on the Upper Vistula , has thus an important strategic position , though it is some distance from the actual gap . The Moravian Gate should be compared with the Gate of Burgundy ( p. 22 ) the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former is that between the Sudetes and the Carpathians , and also with the Austrian Gate , upstream from Vienna , where the Danube breaks through between the Bohemian Diamond to the north and the eastern Alps to the south . Vienna always remained the capital of Austria ; Cracow was the capital of an earlier Poland , but in the new Poland gave place to Warsaw . Upper Silesia has always been a bone of contention among the states in its vicinity . Part of the reason is found in its relation to the Moravian Gate ; but it has also much economic value . At the western edge of the Polish Upland , that is , to the east of the Upper Oder , very rich coalfields occur . The most productive lay before 1918 in German territory , where coal was worked at Konigshutte , Gleiwitz , Beuthen and other places . Less important were those included in Russian Poland , while a more isolated area occurs near Teschen , once a part of the old Austrian empire , between the head-streams of the Vistula and the Oder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron also occur . Practically the whole of this richly mineralised area passed in 1918 to Poland . In addition // to this mineral wealth on the margin of the Upland , salt deposits occur near Cracow on the Galician high plain , and petroleum wells on the Carpathian foothills , southwest of Lemberg ( Lwow ) . One is tempted to think of Poland as mainly agricultural , and the areas which formed part of pre-1919 Prussia are very productive . Russian Poland , however , showed a remarkable development of industry , particularly the textile industry , Lodz ( pronounced Wudsh ) and Warsaw being the main centres . The textile industry was largely under German control , and its main advantage was the free access to the large Russian market . This was cut off by the new frontiers of the treaty of Versailles . Footnote CHAPTER VI SOUTH CENTRAL EUROPE : THE ALPINE-CARPATHIAN AND BALKAN STATES SWITZERLAND As Alpine-Carpathian states , we have included Switzerland , Austria , Czechoslovakia , Hungary and Roumania , because of their relation to the great chain of young fold-mountains known in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carpathians . But though Switzerland and Austria resemble one another in being Alpine states , the former differs notably from the other four in one respect . Austria , Czechoslovakia , Hungary and Roumania , in their present boundaries , date only from the post-war period , being results of the break-up of the former Austro-Hungarian Monarchy . Switzerland , on the other hand , is one of the few continental states whose frontiers have remained unchanged since the close of the Napoleonic era . Austria-Hungary was characterised both by the racial diversity of the included peoples , and by the antagonism between the racial elements . The basis of its subdivision was , at least in theory , racial , the idea being that the new states should be as far as possible racially homogeneous . It is , then , all the more remarkable to find that stable Switzerland is remarkably heterogeneous as regards its population . Not in racial origin , not in speech , not in religion do its inhabitants show unity , and only to a minor extent can it be said that the different cantons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Italian , are recognised officially , and 96 // a small minority speaks the Romonsch dialect . The French-speaking Swiss live in the west and south-west , and form about 21 per cent . of the total population . In the canton Ticino , which extends over the southern slopes of the Alps , Italian is spoken , but only by about 6 per cent . of the total population . The Romonsch dialect is confined to the large eastern canton of Grisons , and the rest of Switzerland is inhabited by German-speaking people who form about 70 per cent , of ' the total . In religion about 57 per cent . are Protestants and 41 per cent . Catholics , but while , there are cantons almost purely Catholic , like Ticino and Valais , and others like Zurich and Vaud mainly Protestant , there is no general correspondence between language and religion , save that the Italian-speaking people of Ticino are Catholics . NATURAL REGIONS . Switzerland can be divided into three distinct Natural Regions , the Jura , the High Alps , and the intervening Midland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Midland Region lies at an average height of from 1,200 to 2,500 feet above sea-level , and has a very irregular surface , having been so moulded by ice and water action as to display no extensive level areas . Essentially the space between the steep south-eastern slopes of the Jura Mountains and the more gradual rise to the great heights of the Swiss Alps , it is narrowest to the south-west , where Alps and Jura converge , and wider to the north-east , where they stand well apart . If we disregard its south-western extension in the small canton of Geneva , compressed between the Alps of Savoy and the Jura Mountains , we may say that the Midland Region stretches from the north shore of Lake Geneva to the south shore of Lake Constance . It is drained , save for a small section sending water to Lake Geneva and thus to the Rhone , by the Aar , one of the great tributaries of the Rhine . For a considerable part of its course the Aar flows in a hollow at the base of the Jura @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where it is occupied by the large lake of Neuchatel and the smaller one of Bienne . The presence of this hollow means that the limit between Jura and Midland is more sharply marked than that between Midland and High Alps ; this has a considerable bearing on the sites of towns . The Jura Mountains , which are built of limestone , do not rise much above 5,000 feet in height , but like many limestone tracts , form a considerable obstacle to communication , and make an effective boundary . They are relatively poor and thinly-peopled , but minor industries , e.g. watch-making ( La Chaux-de-Fonds ) , are added to the natural resources of wood and pasture , and some cultivation is also carried on . The Swiss High Alps rise to heights of over 14,000 feet , and are characterised by the large areas covered by permanent snow and the size and number of the glaciers ; there are thus large reserves of water-power . Further , they form the focal point of the drainage system of Central Europe , water flowing to the North Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , to the Adriatic ( Ticino ) , and to the western basin of the Mediterranean ( Rhone ) ; but the greater part of Switzerland is drained by the Rhine , both headstreams originating within the country . The Swiss High Alps are well wooded , but the local demand for timber as fuel and building material is too great to permit of export , and Switzerland is on balance a timber-importing country , obtaining even firewood from Yugoslavia . The Swiss Alps are poor in minerals , and their chief resource is found in the high pastures ( alps ) which form the basis of the stock-rearing industry ( mainly cattle and goats ) , and thus of the export of cheese , condensed milk and milk chocolate . The magnificent scenery leads also to a large influx of visitors both in summer and winter , and this traffic is a considerable source of wealth . In the valleys , particularly those to the south , a certain amount of cultivation is carried on , including wheat and the vine ; but rye is the characteristic cereal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real significance of the Swiss Iligh Alps , however , lies in the fact that they are so interpenetrated by the headstreams of the Rhine and by the Upper Rhone as to afford many lines of access to the Plain of Lombardy , and thus to the Mediterranean area . There are m.Aii ? y ja se 's crossed by carriage roads , but functionally then ( ( are new , replaced by the two great international railway , r9Utgs of the Simplon // and the St. Gothard ( Fig. 14 ) . On Basel , admirably placed where the Rhine breaks through between the Jura and the Black Forest and turns sharply northwards to enter the Rhine Rift valley , converge routes from Paris , from Brussels , and from Cologne , and thus from Holland and western Germany . From Basel the northern end of the St. Gothard tunnel can be reached either via Lucerne or via Zurich , and that tunnel connects the valley of the Reuss , a tributary of the Aar , with the Ticino , a tributary of the Po . From the Upper Ticino @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which it crosses , and then skirts the end of Lake Como , to reach Milan . The rival Simplon route takes off from Dijon , on the main Paris-Lyon-Marseille line , and crosses the Jura to Lausanne . It then ascends the Rhone valley to Brigue , whence the Simplon tunnel brings it to a feeder of the Tosa , which enters Lake Maggiore . That lake is skirted till the Plain of Lombardy is reached , a direct connection being given both to Milan and to the cities of the western part of the Plain . The main Simplon route is now supplemented by the Lotschberg route , which gives a through connection from Paris via Berne . The Lotschberg tunnel passes through the Bernese Oberland between the village of Kandersteg and the Rhone valley , the line joining the main route at Brigue . The Great St. Bernard Pass , leading from the bend of the Rhone at Martigny to Aosta on the Dora Baltea tributary of the Po , has lost the importance which it possessed in earlier times , though it is used for motor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spliigen Pass , reached from the ancient town of Chur ( Fig. 15 ) , placed near the point where Vorder and Hinter Rhine meet . Chur , it should be noted , is nearly due south of Ulm ( p. 81 ) . Of much interest , both in relation to relief and to the lines of coininunicat , ply , is the situation of the chief towns of Switzerland . Apa t from Basel , the larger towns all lie in , twO'irT.egvlar ' rows in the Midland Region . One // row is placed at the base of the Jura , and beginning at Geneva , is continued through Neuchatel and Soluthurn to the railway centre of Often . The other row begins at Lausanne and is continued through Berne , the capital , to Lucerne , Zurich , Winterthur and St. Gallen . Four of these towns , - Zurich , Basel , Geneva and Berne , have more than 100,000 inhabitants but only Zurich reaches 200,000 , and Berne is the smallest of the four . Its position on a bend of the Aar , nearly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep in touch with all parts of the country , and it is the focal point of the railway system within the country , while Basel , Zurich and Lausanne are of more importance in connection with international thoroughfares . Associated with the development of these great thoroughfares , we have the growth of industry within the country . There is a large textile industry , cotton being manufactured at Zurich , silk at Zurich and Basel , embroideries at St. Gallen and elsewhere . The absence of coal makes the effective utilisation of water-power essential , and the Swiss are noted for their engineering skill and for their manufactures of electrical and textile machinery . Scientific instruments are made at Geneva , less favourably placed for the import of bulky raw material than the northern towns , with their easy access to Germany . The stability of Switzerland is associated on the geographical side with the multiplicity of her external relations by means of the great through-routes . By them she must import both food and raw material and export the products of the industry of her skilled and educated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other points of view is essential to her prosperity and even to her continued existence . Footnote // THE FORMER AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN EMPIRE As already noted , the basis of the 1919 division of Austria-Hungary was the desire to establish racially homogeneous states . This ideal was most nearly attained in Austria ? whose inhabitants were almost wholly German-speaking , though not all German-Austrians are included ? and in Hungary , where 90 per cent . of the people are Magyars , though , again , not all the Magyars of the former Hungary live within the new frontiers . In Czechoslovakia , on the other hand , Czechs and Slovaks together made up less than 64 per cent . of the population , nearly 23 per cent . were Germans , and there were considerable numbers of Magyars and Ruthenians ( Little Russians ) . Exact figures for Roumania are not available , but there also a considerable non-Roumanian element prevents the population being homogeneous , Magyars , Germans and Ruthenians being present . Not only , then , is the population of this part of Europe diverse , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three distinct relief features are present in the lands formerly included in Austria-Hungary ? the old crust-Hock of Bohemia ( the Bohemian Diamond ) , the Hungarian Plain , and the mountain chains which encircle the latter . Bohemia ( Fig. 12 ) is demarcated by the Bohemian Forest on the south-west , and the Ore Mountains to the north-west , these two diverging from the mountain knot of the Fichtel Gebirge , and by the Sudetes on the northeast . On the south-eastern side its limits are less clear , for here there is no well-defined belt of hills , but only the upland of the Moravian Heights . Within the bounding walls of the Diamond is an undulating region , lower towards the north , especially in the Elbe valley , but showing nowhere any considerable tract of level land . It is drained by the Upper Elbe system , the most im104 SOUTH CENTRAL EUROPE ( z portant tributary being the Moldau , which rises near the southern end of the Bohemian Forest and nearly bisects the southern half of the Diamond . The Elbe is navigable only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly large boats can reach Prague on the latter river , and smaller ones can ascend to Budweis . But despite the direction and navigability of the rivers , Bohemia has always been more closely connected with the Danubian Lands to the south than with the North German Plain . The Hungarian Plain is so nearly ringed round with mountain chains , although it is traversed by the Danube , that its limits are best realised by looking at the mountains . The great chain of the Central Alps is continued from Switzerland into Austria , but the Austrian Alps are lower ( under 13,000 feet ) , and have much less permanent snow than the Swiss Alps . Of the passes the Brenner ( p. 81 ) is the most important . Before the war Austria extended far over the pass and the crest of the adjacent Alps , including the whole of the Upper Adige ( Etsch ) valley . The Italian frontier was thrust up to the crest and to the Brenner , but a large number of Germanspeaking inhabitants were subsequently transferred to Germany . The Semmering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and circuitous routes to Trieste and the Adriatic from Vienna . A special feature of the Eastern Alps is the frequent presence of longitudinal valleys containing streams which flow for a part of their course parallel to the crest in which their headwaters rise . The Middle Inn valley ( Fig. 15 ) is one of the most important of these , and it is connected by the Arlberg tunnel to the Rhine valley between the town of Chur and Lake Constance . This tunnel gives a direct route from Zurich to Vienna , past Innsbruck . In the north the Eastern Alps appear to end in about the meridian of Vienna ; but to the south-east they are continued by a belt of high ground which acts as a barrier // between the plain and the Adriatic Sea , and further south becomes the Dinaric Alps of the Balkan Peninsula . The Carpathians , in the strict sense , begin to the east of the Upper Oder valley ( Fig. 13 ) and sweep round in a great south-easterly curve . They then change suddenly in direction and run westwards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the Danube leaves the plain through the gorge known as the Iron Gate , are continued with a new change of direction as the Balkan Mountains . But this is not the whole story ( Fig. 16 ) . On their inner ( concave ) side are certain accessory mountain and hill groups which modify the apparent simplicity of this description . From the western end the White Mountains and Little Carpathians extend south-westwards towards the Danube at Pressburg ( Bratislava ) , and , with the lower hills on the other side of the river , separate the basin of Vienna from the Lesser Hungarian Plain . East of the White Mountains is an irregular mass of high ground , containing in the Tatra group the highest of the Carpathians , and extending in the Matra Mountains far south into the gap between the rivers Danube and Theiss ( Tisa ) . Still further east , however , this inner belt of mountains is absent , and the Forest Carpathians form a single chain of no great elevation which separates the steppe-like Greater Hungarian Plain from the wider and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily crossed are the Forest Carpathians by many passes that they have never been a real barrier to invaders . Here it was that the Magyar horsemen , coming from the wastes of Asia , found an entrance into the lands which became Hungary . Beyond this narrowed region stands the great bastion of Transylvania , rising steeply above the surface of the plain . Its hilly interior is dissected by the great rivers forming the tributaries of the Theiss . The Alt or Aluta , however , breaks through the Transylvanian Alps at the Red Tower Pass , and flows across the outer or Wallachian Plain to enter the Danube direct . vI RELIEF AND RACIAL DISTRIBUTION 107 Two minor relief features remain to be noticed . From the bend of the Danube upstream from Budapest there stretches south-westwards an upland belt , the Bakony Forest , with the long and narrow Lake Balaton at its base . Still further to the south-west , between the Drave and the Save , is a long stretch of hill country , serving as a transition area , both as regards relief and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Balkan Peninsula south of the Save river . The result is that the inner Danubian Plain , in the large sense , can be divided into three sections . From the Carpathians and Transylvania to the Danube extends the Greater Plain or Alfold , watered by the Theiss . This is the true Magyar land . North-west of the Bakony Forest lies the Lesser Hungarian Plain , traversed by the Danube which here breaks up into several arms enclosing islands . From the Bakony Forest there extends to the Drave and the Danube an undulating , loess-covered belt where Magyars are mixed with Germans . Beyond the Drave the land of the South Slays begins . For a part of its course that river now forms the boundary between Hungary and Yugoslavia ( Yugo = south ) . But though Yugoslavia , or the Serb-Croat-Slovene State , thus extends into Central Europe , its centre of gravity lies within the Balkan Peninsula , and it is better regarded as a Balkan State . RELIEF AND RACIAL DISTRIBUTION . We have seen that the Hungarians entered the Greater Hungarian Plain across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last invaders from the Asiatic steppes , even if they were the only ones who gained a permanent footing within the Carpathian crescent . The racial patchwork of the old Austria-Hungary was the result of agelong action and reaction between invaders and invaded , and the land forms naturally exerted great influence during the Struggle . In the early centuries of our era the Romans , with the // object of protecting a weak point in their long land frontier , founded the province of Dacia , which extended over both Transylvania and the Wallachian Plain . The province was soon abandoned , but the descendants of the Romanised inhabitants , who speak a language derived from Latin , and call their country Romania , the land of the Romans , are the Roumanians of to-day . Before the war Roumania consisted of the plain of Wallachia , itself but a continuation of the Russian Black Sea plain , and of the plateau region of Moldavia . Many Roumanians , however , lived in Transylvania , where they were mingled with Magyars , and with Germans ( Saxons ) who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gate . Of the Slays we have already said something ( p. 78 ) , but we have to note that the Magyar occupation of the Hungarian plain separated them into two great groups , the West and South Slays . To the former belong : ( 1 ) the Czechs of the Bohemian Diamond , and also of Moravia , which is essentially the area lying between the Moravian Heights on the one hand and the White Mountains and Little Carpathians on the other , drained by the March ; ( 2 ) the Slovaks of the hill country which extends ( p. 98 ) from the Carpathian crest southwards towards the gap between Danube and Theiss ; ( 3 ) the Poles , north of the Carpathian crest . Further east the Ruthenians are Slays of the Russian group without the cultural individuality of the Czechs and Poles , or even of the Slovaks . The South Slays include : ( 1 ) the Serbs of the Balkan Peninsula , who belong to the Orthodox Church ; ( 2 ) the Catholic Croats of the hilly region south-west of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Alpine Slays or Slovenes of the north-west . Two other complications remain to be noted . The Germanic peoples have always kept their hold on the Austrian Gate , upstream from Vienna , and with a solid mass of German-speaking peoples behind them , in the Northern Alps , the Bavarian High Plain and the Central 1 . // Uplands , they have exerted a continuous eastern push , just as they did from Brandenburg in the North German Plain . They have penetrated the hilly margins of the Bohemian Diamond ; they have infiltrated the plain , particularly in its higher areas ; as already stated they founded colonies in Transylvania . As regards the plain it is particularly interesting to note that the Hungarian capital , Budapest , is in origin a twin city . On the western bank of the Danube stands Buda ( German , Ofen ) , originally a German fortress and outpost ; its relation to the hill belt of the Bakony Forest should be noted . Pest , on the lower eastern bank , is similarly a Magyar outpost of the Alfold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balkan Peninsula into Hungary and to the approaches of Vienna . In its early stages it led to the flight of great numbers of Slav refugees from the peninsula into the south of the Hungarian Plain , as well as to the hilly regions of the west ( including Croatia-Slavonia ) . In the southern part of the plain , therefore , Slays are mingled with Magyars and Germans . This survey enables us to look at the separate states with some appreciation of the problems involved . AUSTRIA With an area twice that of Switzerland , that is about 32,000 square miles , and a population of 6 millions , Austria after 1918 was a small state , traversed by the Danube from Passau to a point just west of the river-port of Bratislava , but essentially a mountain and for the most part an Alpine state . The lower region near the Danube is , however , important as it permits of the cultivation of some wheat and sugar beet . The hilly regions produce timber , and have a cattle-rearing industry like that of Switzerland , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardy crops like rye and oats . There // is practically no true coal , but brown coal or lignite is mined near Graz . The chief minerals are salt and iron . Salt is produced especially in the Salzkammergut , the region where the three provinces of Upper Austria , Salzburg and Styria meet . The deposits here have been worked since prehistoric times , and the salt trade was important in linking together economically Austria and Bohemia , which depended on Austrian salt . Iron occurs in Styria and Carinthia and iron manufactures are carried on at Graz and Klagenfurt , as well as elsewhere . The most striking feature of post-war Austria was the disproportionate size of Vienna , the capital . Though the population had dropped below the pre-war total of two millions , Vienna contained nearly 29 per cent , of the people of Austria ( cf. Copenhagen , p. 88 ) . Before the war its huge size was justified by the fact that Vienna was the centre of a great empire , and was so placed as to command communications with all its parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other towns which have a population exceeding 100,000 are Graz and Linz , the latter on the Danube upstream from Vienna , the former on the Mur tributary of the Drave . CZECHOSLOVAKIA With an area of over 54,000 square miles and a population now estimated as over 14 millions , Czechoslovakia before 1988 was much larger than Austria and had more abundant resources . It has a peculiar elongated shape from east to west , owing to the inclusion of the Carpathian slopes with their Slovak and Ruthenian peoples . The broader western portion , inhabited by the industrialised Czechs and by Germans , is richer and better peopled than the narrowed eastern area . Prague ( Praha ) , the capital , shows even more markedly than Vienna the disadvantage of an eccentric position in relation to the state as a whole . It has to be noted further // that while Vienna was the railway centre for the whole of Austria-Hungary , and has lines radiating outwards from it to all parts of the present Austria , Prague was only the centre of the railway system of Bohemia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria-Hungary . The railways of Slovakia and Carpathian Ruthenia are but sections of the lines which in the old Hungary converged on Budapest . Apart from Prague ( about 700,000 inhabitants ) the only large town is Brunn ( Brno ) , in Moravia , with over 200,000 . The great contrast between the western part of Czechoslovakia , which includes Bohemia , Moravia and part of Austrian Silesia , and the eastern section , made up of Slovakia and Carpathian Ruthenia , is due to the fact that the former contains both the richest mineral deposits and the best agricultural lands . The most fertile region is in the north of Bohemia , where in the Elbe , Eger and Moldau valleys sugar beet is cultivated on a scale large enough to permit of extensive export . Next to the German plain , indeed , this is the most extensive sugar-producing region of Europe . In this region wheat is also produced . In the country as a whole , however , rye and oats are the cereals most extensively grown , a fact associated with the relative infertility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cereals , especially wheat . Among minerals coal is very abundant , the republic having rich deposits both of true coal and of lignite or brown coal . The most important beds are those at Ostrau , near Teschen ( p. 94 ) , in what was formerly Austrian Silesia , those near Kladno , west of Prague , and those near Pilsen . Lignite is worked especially near Teplitz , at the base of the Ore Mountains . Iron is not present in large quantity , and the Bohemian iron industry depended formerly on the iron ore obtained from Styria . The presence of coal has led to a large development of industry , particularly textiles , glass , porcelain , beer and fancy goods . Pilsen is the great beer-making centre , Brunn has woollen // industries , and Prague has a great variety of manufactures , including textiles , machinery , gloves and others . The northern and western frontier districts , known as the Sudetenland , are inhabited mainly by Germans . In 1938 this district , and , in the following year , the provinces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the new states Hungary suffered most severely from the drawing of the 1919 frontier lines . With an area of about 36,000 square miles . and a population of about 81 millions it has less than one-third of the territory of the former state , and more than one-third of the population . The loss of the forested marginal hills , and of a considerable part of the southern Alfold to Roumania and Yugoslavia has greatly diminished its resources , and with the passing of its former port Fiume from its control it has no direct access to the sea . Though some coal occurs in the bend of the Danube near Budapest , and also near Pecs in the south-west , Hungary is essentially an agricultural state , and the fact that wheat and maize are the most important cereals , both as regards area 4nd yield , is an indication both of the nature of the climate and of the fertility of the soils . The original steppe-like appearance of the Alfold has been largely modified , extensive planting having taken place ; many of the original swamps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theiss system . Apart from the loss of the timber resources the new frontiers mean that flood prevention is now much more difficult than formerly , when the mountain streams were under Hungarian control . The fact that wheat is by value the highest item in the list of exports , animals for food or draught coming second , is an indication of the progress made by cultivation at the expense of the former stockrearing industry of the plain . Horses , cattle and pigs are , however , still very largely reared . That timber is // now the highest item by value in the list of imports is an indication of the changes due to the new frontiers . Next to timber come cotton fabrics . This fact , together with the small import of raw cotton , shows that Hungary has few industries save those concerned with the working up of its own agricultural raw material . The only large town of European type is Budapest , with a population of under a million in the city proper , and over this figure if the suburbs be included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the most part gigantic villages , showing traces in their arrangement of their primative origin as tent-settlements of the ancestral nomads ? ROUMANIA Compared with the other Alpine-Carpathian states Roumania covers a very large area ( 122,000 square miles ) , but with a population of about 17 millions it has a considerably lower density . To its original territories of Wallachia , the slopes from the Transylvanian Alps to the Danube , and Moldavia , the land between the Carpathians and the river Pruth , drained by the Sereth , have been added Bessarabia , Bukovina ( the area between the Upper Pruth and the crest of the Forest Carpathians ) , Transylvania and a part of the Hungarian Plain . As contrasted with the other states it possesses a considerable stretch of coast-line , with ports of its own . The chief river ports of the Danube are Galatz and Braila , and the main Black Sea port is Constantsa . The last is connected to Bucharest , the capital , by a railway which crosses the Danube by a bridge at Cernavoda , for the river takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its three mouths , of which the central or Sulina arm is the main waterway . The land between the bend of the Danube and the coast forms the Dobruja , a steppe-like country . The plains , both in Wallachia and Bessarabia , are remarkably fertile , producing maize and wheat in abund114 SOUTH CENTRAL EUROPE ( x dance . Maize forms the main cereal food of the peasants ( cf. the polenta of Northern Italy ) , while the more valuable wheat is mainly grown for export . Transylvania is largely forested , and timber comes after cereals as the main export of Roumania . Petroleum stands third , mineral oil being produced on the slopes of the Carpathians and the Transylvanian Alps , especially near Ployeshti ( Ploesti ) , north of Bucharest . Salt is also produced on the Carpathian slopes , and various other minerals are present , including coal and iron , in the Banat region of the south-west ; but Roumania is predominantly an agricultural country , industry being little developed . Bucharest has over 300,000 inhabitants . THE BALKAN STATES Yugoslavia , Bulgaria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of less than one million , and the limited part of Turkey which lies in Europe , are most conveniently regarded as an annex to Central Europe . All differ notably from Greece , which is essentially a part of the Mediterranean Lands . In the northern , wider part of the Balkan Peninsula the climate , except for a small strip on the Dalmatian coast , is of the Central European , not the Mediterranean type , having cold winters and warm , moist summers . The natural vegetation is similarly Central European , the forests including beech and oaks . The cultivated plants , again , which include maize and wheat among cereals , tobacco ( Plate V ) and sugar beet , and the more temperate fruittrees , especially plums , with the vine , are those characteristic of the lands to the north , the olive being excluded save on the Dalmatian coastal strip ( Plate II ) . The most extensive level areas are found in Bulgaria , north and south of the Balkan Mountains , but Yugoslavia extends into the Hungarian plain ( p. 112 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its considerable elevation above sea-level , and for the complexity of its structure , small // basins alternating with mountain chains . The river valleys are thus of great importance as affording lines of communication , and two great international routes traverse the broad northern section . Both start from Belgrade , the capital of Yugoslavia , situated on the Danube at the junction of the Save . Downstream another right-bank tributary of the Danube , the Morava , gives a line of access to the hilly interior . From the Morava it is possible to reach the Vardar valley , the river entering the iEgean to the west of the Greek port of Salonika . Salonika , where there is a free zone , is the chief port of Yugoslavia , which has only difficult access to the shores of the Adriatic . The other route takes off from the Morava valley by way of the Nishava tributary and leads to Sofia , the capital of Bulgaria . From Sofia the route is continued into the Maritsa valley , from which Constantinople is reached . Yugoslavia has an area of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The new kingdom includes not only the old Serbia , with Montenegro , Bosnia , Hercegovina and Dalmatia within the peninsula , but also large tracts of land north of the Danube-Save line obtained from Austria and from Hungary . Considerable mineral resources occur , including coal and copper , but there is little large-scale industry , and the state depends mainly on the products of its agriculture and stock-rearing ( especially pigs ) , its fruit ( especially plums in the form of prunes ) and its forests . There used to be little difference in size ( about 100,000 ) between Belgrade , the former capital of Serbia , and Agram or Zagreb , the former capital of Croatia-Slavonia , placed in a fertile basin on the River Save ; but Belgrade has grown rapidly and is now estimated to contain 250,000 people . Footnote // European Turkey has shrunk greatly , and Con-stantinople , with a population of less than one million , is no longer the capital . A train ferry across the Bosporus connects it with the new capital , Angora , by the Anatolian Railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many Greeks . Before the war it was a very important trade centre , owing to its wonderful position at the crossing of routes from Europe into Asia Minor , and from the Black to the ) Egean Sea , and its fine harbour , the Golden Horn . CHAPTER VII EASTERN EUROPE : RUSSIA AND THE NEW STATES THE Konigsberg-Odessa Line , which we have taken ( p. 5 ) as marking approximately the limit of Eastern Europe towards the west , has never been a political boundary . But though in the pre-war period Germany extended to the east of it , and Russia stretched over it to the west , particularly in the great salient of Russian Poland , and also if somewhat less markedly in Bessarabia , the land between the Dniester and the Pruth , now Roumanian , we may yet say broadly that European Russia coincided formerly with Eastern Europe . The old Russia in Europe covered fully half the total land surface of the continent , and contained some 132 million people . THE RUSSIAN PLATFORM . Thus the first characteristic of Eastern Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be obscured on atlas maps by the fact that cartographers commonly draw the map of the Russian lands on a smaller scale than that used for other European countries . The second characteristic is the relative simplicity of structure ( Fig. 17 ) . We have already seen ( p. 88 ) that the Baltic Shield , that ancient crust-block which forms so large a part of Scandinavia and includes Finland ( Fig. 1 ) , is bounded on its eastern and southern sides by a depression , largely flooded by water , which extends from the White Sea to the Gulf of Finland . Excluding this Shield , Eastern Europe consists mainly of the great Russian Platform . From the Arctic Ocean to the Caspian Sea and the Caucasus Mountains ; from Lake Ladoga and the Gulf of Finland 117 // to the Black Sea ; from the Carpathian slopes to the Ural Mountains ? there stretches a vast series of unfolded and undisturbed sedimentary rocks , of various ages . The more northerly part of the platform so formed is covered by glacial deposits , but , as contrasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thick enough to conceal completely the underlying rocks . The general uniformity is broken to some extent in the south , where a ridge of granitic rocks extends in a northwesterly direction from the Sea of Azov across the great elbow of the Dnieper . Where the river cuts its way through the granite , below the town of Ekaterinoslav , navigation is impeded by rapids ; but even this belt of granite has little effect on surface relief . The whole surface is indeed remarkably level . Nowhere does it rise much above 1,000 feet , the Valdai Hills forming one of the most notable swellings . A large part lies below 600 feet , and the whole may be regarded as a plain . Of the marginal mountain belts the Caucasus are a continuation of the fold-mountains of Central Europe , the mountains of the south-eastern coast of the Crimean Peninsula forming a broken link between the Balkan Mountains and the Caucasus . The last rise to over 18,000 feet , and are extensively glaciated . The Urals seem to resemble the central uplands of Germany , that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has undergone uplift . They do not attain an elevation of much over 5,000 feet , and are devoid of permanent snow . On the European side they rise very gently from the plain . The Timan Hills , though not high , are structurally interesting because of the older rocks which crop out in them . The extent of the Russian Platform and its generally level surface means that the climatic type is broadly similar throughout , if with much difference in detail . As compared with the rest of Europe the winters are characteristically cold , the cold increasing north-east120 EASTERN EUROPE i wards ; equally characteristic is the summer rainfall , the total fall diminishing to the south-east , where also the period of fall tends more and more to be limited to the early summer . The contrast with the variety of relief and of climatic type in the rest of Europe is so great that one tends to think of Eastern Europe throughout as uniform and monotonous . But this is largely a misconception ; it would be as true to say that the differences between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The appearance of uniformity is due mainly to the fact that , because marked relief features are absent , what would elsewhere be regarded as separate natural regions here grade into one another . There are no obvious boundaries ; but instead wide zones of transition between one region and the next . The effect of this on man has been very great . No unalterable physical features separate one natural region from the next , or determine the direction of the main lines of communication . Both the boundaries of the different types of communities and the great through routes have undergone constant changes , because they have depended on such phenomena as the distribution of forests and the presence of swamps , which can be modified by human effort . Russian history , so complex and apparently so meaningless , from the geographical side is explicable as man 's struggle to find limits where nature has set none , to link together areas very different in the sum-total of their geographical elements but topographically similar and structually continuous . To understand the meaning of these statements we must look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ index at once of climate and of possible modes of life , and second at the zones of contact with surrounding lands , and the varying relations of internal lines of communication to these , as shown by the course of historical events . THE PLANT COVER . The main points in regard to this are shown in Fig. 18 , but it should be realised that the // map is necessarily very generalised , the transitional belts having been omitted for the sake of clearness . We may conveniently begin with the belt of mixed woodland , the home of the true Russians . The forest here contains , in addition to conifers , such deciduous trees as oaks and linden , but not beech . Such deciduous trees will not tolerate excessively cold winters , especially when windy , and require a considerable summer rainfall . In consequence the mixed forest occupies , or originally occupied , southern and south-western Finland , and a large section of the centre of the Russian plain , particularly towards the west . Its northern limit is a line running to the south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the south , to strike the river Kama before it enters the Volga at the great bend below the town of Kazan . The southern limit is marked by a row of towns , a fact of considerable historical importance . It is an undulating line which passes from Kiev on the Dnieper to Tula , on a tributary of the Oka , itself one of the great feeders of the Volga , and then to Kazan on the Volga ( Fig. 19 ) . South and south-east of this line lie the grasslands , becoming semi-deserts in the dry region round the Caspian Sea . The true grasslands , as contrasted with the semideserts , correspond broadly to the distribution of the famous Black Earth , a highly fertile soil type rich in humus , or decaying vegetable matter , which when broken down by bacteria forms valuable plant food . The soils of the Black Earth area have proved to be admirably adapted for wheat production , but the grasslands were for long the home of pastoral nomads . North of the belt of mixed woodland the climate becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent of the taiga of Asia , appears . Because of the thinning out of the mixed woods to the east , taiga and grasslands abut on one another in the region crossed by the Kama river ; further west they are separated by a broad belt of deciduous forest . On vu RESOURCES OF VEGETATION ZONES 128 the shores of the Arctic Ocean , again , conditions are too severe to permit of the growth even of pines and firs , and a strip of frozen tundra appears , though within Europe this is comparatively narrow . One other vegetation type remains to be mentioned . On parts of the European shore of the Black Sea , particularly on the south-eastern coast of the Crimean peninsula , the winters are mild and rainy , and the vegetation is of the Mediterranean type . RESOURCES OF THE VEGETATION ZONES . Of the six zones of vegetation mentioned , the Mediterranean belt is too narrow to be of much significance . Further , by considering the tundra and the taiga together as areas in which little cultivation is possible ? or none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as areas originally mainly pastoral , we may reduce the total to three . In tundra and taiga the natural resources are fishing and hunting . Hunting includes the collection of furs , and the domestication of the reindeer has given such primitive peoples as the Lapps and the Samoyedes an important accessory resource . Further south a certain amount of stock-rearing can be carried on . In modern times the softwood timber yielded by the pines and firs has become highly important . In addition to tar and pitch , which have had commercial value for a prolonged period , paper pulp has quite recently formed a large export , particularly from Finland . The mixed forest zone has carried a denser and more settled population since very early days . In addition to following such primitive occupations as hunting in the woods and fishing in the great rivers , its inhabitants can engage in farming , including both the tilling of the ground and stock-raising . In the Baltic area conditions are not very favourable for cultivation , and the poorer cereals , like rye , barley and oats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hemp , are mainly grown . Further south the number of possible crops becomes much greater . On the // other hand , the grasslands and semi-deserts for a long period of time seemed suited only for stock-rearing , and the spread of cereal cultivation , particularly of wheat , is a comparatively modern phenomenon within the steppe area proper . We have thus in Russia three great ? but undemarcated ? natural regions ; the northern area of taiga and tundra , which seem mainly suited for the collection of wild produce , with some stock-rearing ; the central area , where mixed farming was originally carried on in clearings in the woodlands ; the grasslands and semi-deserts , the home of nomadic stock-rearers . In a very broad and general sense we may say that each of the three had in early days its own racial stocks , adapted to the local conditions . Russian history hardly begins before the 9th century of our era . At that time a part of the mixed forest zone was occupied by the Slays or Russians proper , who were separated from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present Letts and Lithuanians are the descendants . Tundra and taiga were occupied by Finnish stocks . Even then the grasslands and semideserts were occupied by Turkish peoples from central Asia , and a fresh inroad of Asiatic horsemen was to occur a few centuries later . STAGES IN THE GROWTH OF RUSSIA . ( 1 ) Kievan Russia . Beginning with this conception of Eastern Europe as an area which , despite its physical uniformity , has always been diverse as regards its plant cover , its resources and its racial elements , we have next to consider the causes which led to the growth of a vast Russian Empire . Among these causes external influences played a large part , and the zones of contact with the outside world thus become important . From the days of classical Greece to those of the mediaeval trading republics , the shores of the Crimea attracted Mediterranean man ; but while the climate and natural vegetation resembled those of Greece and Italy , vn STAGES IN THE GROWTH OF RUSSIA 125 behind the coastal strip lay lands of very different characters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted successively by Greeks , Byzantines and Genoese showed in consequence not a little analogy to that of the European powers who in our own days have founded trading stations on the coast of China . The conditions were such as to make exchange of goods profitable , but the risk of an advance into the troubled interior was too great to be undertaken . Thus the long period of Mediterranean settlement on the Crimean coast had little permanent effect on Russian history . Much more important was another less favoured part of the Black Sea coast , that bay into which open the Rivers Dniester , Bug and Dnieper , on the shores of which stands the modern grain port of Odessa . Of the three the Dnieper is the chief . It rises not far from the source of the Volga , in that central plateau which reaches its greatest height in the Valdai Hills , and is the main waterparting of Russian rivers . Here also rises the Duna or Western Dvina , which enters the Gulf of Riga . On its journey southwards to the Black Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receives a large rightbank tributary , the Pripet . This flows in a west-to-east direction , through an extensive series of marshes , the Pripet or Pinsk swamps . These swamps have always been a great barrier to movement , both from the north ( i.e. from the Baltic area ) to the south , and from the west , that is , from Poland , to the east . All early lines of communication tended to avoid them , routes from the Baltic to the Black Sea in particular being diverted to the east or to the west . East of the marshes an important route was that which utilised the main stream of the Dnieper . According to the story , towards the end of the 9th century of our era the Russian Slays called in certain Swedish folk , the Varangians , to aid them in organising their territories . The Varangians sailed into the Gulf of Finland , found their // way by the Neva river into Lake Ladoga , and followed the Volkhov , the stream which enters Lake Ladoga from the south , to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here arose Novgorod ( " new town " ) , called The Great because of the part it played in mediaeval commerce . From Novgorod to the shores of the Black Sea a direct route led by way of Lake Ilmen , its feeder the Lovat , and the Dnieper , the headstream of which could be reached by a portage from the Lovat . Not only was trade carried on by this route , but since from the mouth of the Dnieper the Varangians could reach Constantinople , they introduced the Greek or Byzantine form of Christianity among the Russian Slays , and thus brought them into contact with Mediterranean culture . Later , Novgorod became an important Hanseatic town , as was also Riga , which was connected with the NovgorodBlack Sea route by way of the Western Dvina . The influence of the Hanseatic League and of the Teutonic Knights ( p. 79 ) meant , however , that the whole of the north-western strip , from our selected limit at Konigsberg to Lake Ladoga , was Baltic and not Russian . Racially , the inhabitants belonged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian Slav one , and cultural influences came from the Baltic States further west , not through Constantinople . The real centre of this early Russia was Kiev on the Dnieper , and as it is still an important city , its advantages of position should be noted . It stands ( 1 ) in the junction zone between forest and grassland ( p. 122 ) ; ( 2 ) on a navigable river forming part of a great highway ; ( 8 ) at the junction of the left-bank tributary of the Desna , the headstream of which approaches the Oka , a rightbank tributary of the Volga , the greatest river of Europe . This first , or Kievan Russia , was overthrown by the Mongol invasions of the 18th century . The Mongols advanced through the wide Asiatic Gate , the gap between the Urals and the Caspian Sea , and occupied the grass128 EASTERN EUROPE lands . The forest belt possessed no attractions for them , though for a time they succeeded in making the Russian Slays pay tribute to them as overlords . ( 2 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Tartar invasions were not only great , but permanent . We can , indeed , only understand the break-up of Imperial Russia into new states in the post-war period by noting some of those effects . In the first place , the Mongol occupation of the grasslands was unproductive . The invaders were warriors , plunderers , to some extent carriers of trade goods ; but the tribute from the Russian Slays was fundamentally an expression of the fact that they had to be fed by the industry of the farmers of the forest belt . Secondly , while Kiev was a marginal city between forest and grassland , the Mongol advance led the Russian Slays to seek refuge within the heart of the forest , and attempt to consolidate themselves there . What actually happened was that the Tartar Khan found it convenient to appoint one Russian prince as tax-farmer , entrusting him with the duty of collecting tribute from all the Russian states . This ruler first overcame his rivals , and then found himself strong enough to throw off the Tartar yoke . This dominant principality was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town of Moscow , on the Moskva , a tributary of the Oka . Thus we have next to look at the Russian " Mesopotamia , " the area between the Oka and the Volga before the two rivers unite at the town of Nizhni Novgorod . Oka and Volga both rise in the central plateau area , which extends southward from its culminating point in the Valdai Hills , though at a considerable distance from one another . The actual plateau , despite its elevation , is swampy and unsuitable for settlement , but as they leave it the rivers flow in definite valleys , affording good agricultural land . The definite emergence from the plateau may be said to be marked by the towns of Rshev on the Volga and // Kaluga on the Oka . Downstream from these towns the two flow roughly parallel to each other , with an easterly course , Moscow being virtually midway between them . Thereafter they change in direction , the Volga flowing north-eastwards and the Oka south-eastwards , both finally swinging round again to unite at Nizhni Novgorod . The two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on them and on certain tributaries important towns arose . We have already spoken of the Moskva ; the Klyasma , another feeder of the Oka , has on its banks the town of Vladimir , which preceded Moscow as a Russian " capital . " It was in this area , between Oka and Volga , that the new Russia arose after the fall of Kievan Russia . The contrasts between the two are striking . Kiev and Moscow are 6 ? apart in latitude , corresponding broadly to Brussels and Edinburgh , and 7 ? apart in longitude , a distance similar to that which separates Berlin from Konigsberg . The easterly position gives Moscow a colder and longer winter than Kiev . Further , not only is Moscow more remote from open water than Kiev , but the Muscovy of early days could only reach the sea through foreign territory . A route which left the Upper Volga at the town of Tver connected it to Novgorod , and so to the Gulf of Finland ; but Novgorod was a non-Russian republic . Another route led to Smolensk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and thus Riga , could be reached via Vitebsk ; but Riga , again , was not Russian . From Smolensk it was also easy going , north of the Pinsk marshes , to Vilna , on a tributary of the Niemen , whence it was possible to reach either the Baltic coast , or Warsaw on the Vistula ; but Vilna and Warsaw were the centres of enemy powers , and the Baltic coast was not Russian . From the Oka , again , it was not difficult to cross to the Desna , and thus reach Kiev ; but Kiev was at first within the Tartar zone and later became Lithuanian . The Volga itself led first to Kazan , and then south to the // Tartar centre of Sarai , on the left bank of the river , within the westward-pointing elbow . From this point it was easy to reach the Don , which bends towards the lower Volga , and then flows to the Sea of Azov ; but all this was Tartar territory . Not till 1558 did the English seaman , Richard Chancellor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ocean . He entered the White Sea , and showed that the Northern Dvina and its western headstream , the Sukhona , afforded a means of access to the Upper Volga . The port of Archangel was founded as a result of his journey , but this northern route could only be used during the warmer season , and led through thinly-peopled lands , at first non-Russian . This description brings out the essential facts in regard to the early Muscovy , with its Great Russian inhabitants . It was an admirable centre of internal routes , but all led to the sea through non-Russian lands . The fact that in the 16th century Tsaritsyn ( now called Stalingrad ) , a Russian town on the right bank of the Volga functionally replaced the Tartar centre of Sarai , which disappeared , is a sufficient indication of the trend of events . Muscovy , that is , expanded by conquest along the great highways , thus becoming Imperial Russia . But the great obstacles to that expansion were not the unorganised Finnish stocks to the north or the Tartars to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was for long blocked , and the collapse of the power of the Teutonic Knights was of little importance , for the expansion of Sweden in the 17th century brought in a more formidable foe . Of greater significance , however , was the rise of Lithuania , which became united to Poland , and detached large areas of truly Russian lands . ( 8 ) The Rise of Greater Lithuania . The essential points are that the Lithuanians of the Niemen Valley , thanks both to the characters of their ( forested ) lands and to the vii ) STAGES IN THE GROWTH OF RUSSIA 181 presence of the Pinsk marshes , were saved from attack by the Tartars . Even before Muscovy was strong enough to resist the payment of tribute , therefore , the Lithuanians were pushing southwards , occupying lands previously Russian , and driving back the Tartars . They had received their Christianity from the west and belonged to the Catholic , not the Orthodox faith . This was a bond of union between them and the equally Catholic Poles , but increased the antagonism between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 14th century , the Lithuanian State , in addition to including the area inhabited by the Lithuanian people , extended over the region between the Upper Dnieper and the Pripet , peopled by White Russians . By conquering Kiev and the lands down to the Black Sea coast , it came to include also the territory of the first Russia , with its Little Russian people . For a time the very existence of Muscovy seemed to be threatened by Lithuania , Smolensk , on the route between Moscow and Warsaw , being a bone of contention between the two states . ( 4 ) Imperial Russia . It was inevitable then that , once fairly started on a career of expansion , Muscovy should seek not only to retake the lost Russian lands , but to include also a part of Poland with Warsaw , and Lithuania with Vilna , as a security against a possible new attack . Equally natural was the absorption of the Baltic provinces , which had been bandied about from power to power , but had never been Russian , and , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The foundation of St. Petersburg by Peter the Great in 1702 , as a window on the Baltic , may be regarded as the beginning of a forward western policy , intended to make Russia definitely a part of Europe . Among the difficulties which that forward policy had to face we may note that it was carried out by the Great Russians of Muscovy , for long isolated within their forested Mesopotamia , and thus out of touch with the west , and deeply influenced by their contact with the // Tartars . Again , though the peoples over whom rule was established ? Poles , Lithuanians and Letts , Estonians , Finns ? seemed , in varying degrees , primitive and backward in the eyes of the inhabitants of western Europe , yet they had been influenced by western culture , and had passed the stage when absorption was easy . The attempt to russify them only increased their sense of the difference between them and the Great Russians . During the 19th century and the early years of the present one , however , Imperial Russia was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon an extension across Asia , which was easy in the interior , but brought the antagonism of Britain , who feared for India , and of the rising power of Japan . On the European side , the railway connects Warsaw , partly by the old route , with Moscow , and then with Samara on the eastern elbow of the Volga . Here it is continued into the TransSiberian. proper ; but another line runs south-east to Turkistan ( Fig. 26 , p. 209 ) . The spread of wheat cultivation in the Ukraine , the area south and south-east of Kiev , was a response to the new demand for grain due to the industrialisation of western Europe . Industry in Russia itself made considerable progress , owing to the presence of coal ( with iron ) ( 1 ) in the Donets valley , the Donets being a right bank tributary of the Don , ( 2 ) in the region south and southwest of Moscow , where again iron is present , and ( 3 ) on the flank of the Urals not far from Perm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Urals are rich in other minerals , including iron and platinum . Textile industries , based on home-grown flax and the cotton of Turkistan , developed especially at St. Petersburg and Moscow . The railway system of the country was also fairly extensive . THE NEw STATES . The war and its consequences led to the disruption of this vast empire , and to something approaching an economic collapse . The greater part of the old European Russia is included in the Union of // Soviet Socialist Republics . The main element in this is the Russian Socialist Federal Soviet Republic , which also includes large Asiatic territories . Its area is given at the enormous total of 7i million square miles , and the population at over 100 millions . The capital is Moscow , not St. Petersburg , and this change is significant . St. Petersburg , by a process of russification , became Petrograd during the war , and is now called Leningrad . Its population has decreased and it is said to contain about 1 million people as against 2 millions in Moscow . The two other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , capital not Kiev , but Kharkov , on a feeder of the Donets , area about 174,000 square miles , population about 29 millions ; and White Russia , capital Minsk , on a tributary of the Pripet , area 49,000 square miles , population about 5 millions . Essentially the new Russia , so far as Europe is concerned , may be said to be Muscovy Russia plus Kievan Russia , plus certain of the conquests of the former . The displacement of the capital is an indication that the earlier aloofness from the rest of Europe has been re-acquired . Russian Poland , merged in the new Polish republic after the war of 1914-18 , was re-occupied by Russia in 1939 . Finland , Estonia and Latvia became independent republics , but with grave doubts whether they would retain their independence in the face of pressure from Russia . Lithuania , also an independent republic , regained from Poland her historic capital , Vilna , but she has lost to Germany the port of Memel . The considerable German minorities , which were an important element in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalled to Germany . Finland , Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania have as common characters the fact that their lands are not well-suited for crop-production , and mixed farming with the emphasis on dairying seems to offer the best prospects for the future . Finland has a great resource in its coniferous forests ( see // Fig. 18 ) , and with water-power , iron ore and good ports is making rapid progress . It has an area of 183,000 square miles , but a population of only 8i millions . The capital is Helsingfors ( Helsinki ) , and Abo is another important port . Estonia and Latvia are small states , both as regards area and population ( Estonia , area 18,000 square miles , population over one million ; Latvia , area 24,000 square miles , population 2 millions ) , but include important ports . Reval is the capital of Estonia , Dorpat and Narva being other towns . Riga is the capital of Latvia , Libau and Windau being other ports . Footnote CHAPTER VIII MEDITERRANEAN EUROPE AND ITS MARGINS THE RANGE OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CLIMATE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural region because within them the peculiar Mediterranean climate , with its mild , moist winters , and warm , dry summers , is widely , if discontinuously distributed . This climatic type is present also in latitudes of about 85 ? to 88 ? on the west coasts of other continental masses , as in California , Chile , the Cape of Good Hope , and southwestern Australia . This shows that it is primarily a result of position , that is , is due to the general wind circulation of the globe . In all the regions named , however , the Mediterranean type of climate occurs over a very limited area . Its great extension round the Mediterranean Sea is due to the fact that here earth movements have occurred in recent geological time on a vast scale ; that these movements have not yet entirely ceased is suggested by the frequency of earthquakes and the presence of active volcanoes ( cf. Vesuvius , Etna , Stromboli ) . The movements have expressed themselves in two separate ways , by the rise of young folded mountains , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and both mountains and seas affect the climate . The mountains give shelter from land influences , from cold winds in winter , and hot , excessively dry ones in summer , and cause the condensation of moisture from the sea winds of winter . The flooded areas , forming the Mediterranean Sea and its branches , carry 138 // ocean influences far into the interior of the continental mass , and supply the winter winds with their moisture . It is thus clear that the characteristic climate must depend on proximity both to the sea and to a mountain belt . The fold-mountains , however , do not form a com-plete ring round the Mediterranean Sea . In particular , the fact that they are represented on the north coast of Africa only by the Atlas chains , means that the greater part of that coast has not a Mediterranean climate , but a desert one . On the European shore the fold-mountains are all but continuous from the Andalusian Mountains of south Spain and the Pyrenees of the north to the chains which run from Greece across the islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being insignificant . But other factors intervene here , so that we can not hastily assume that the Mediterranean climate reigns supreme throughout . The mountains are folded against ancient crust-blocks , horsts , as they are sometimes called , which , being composed of hard rocks , determine the direction of the folds . Though some parts of these crust-blocks have sunk , others remain as elevated areas ; the meseta or plateau of Spain , the similar plateau of Central Asia Minor ( p. 156 ) , the plateau of the shotts or salt lakes of Algeria , are examples , and there are others . Because of their height above sea-level , of their relation to the marginal mountains , and often because of their extent , such plateaux tend to have an air circulation of their own , and differ notably in climate from the coastal areas . Common characters are an increase in the cold of winter , and a difference in the amount and distribution of the rainfall , which exclude typical Mediterranean crops like the olive , and the typical Mediterranean scrub forest or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitive to winter cold and wind. , The place of the maquis tends to be taken by herbaceous plants , including grasses , so that the plateaux form pasture lands , suited , however , to sheep and goats rather than to cattle . // Other sections of the crust-blocks have sunk downwards , but only to a limited extent , so that they were rapidly silted up by the rivers flowing from the neighbouring mountains , and have become plains . Whether or not such plains display the typical Mediterranean climate depends mainly on their latitude , their relation to the sea and their extent . The plain of Andalusia ( Fig. 20 ) , widely open to the Atlantic , is one of the most truly " Mediterranean " parts of Spain , but that of Aragon , ringed round by mountains , and so cut off from the sea , is arid and cold in winter . Perhaps even more striking are the conditions in the North Italian Plains . At the base of the Alps , notably on the shores of Lakes Lugano and Como , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central European type of climate , with cold winters , and summer as well as winter rain . At Milan slightly more rain falls during the period from April to September than from October to March ? a very striking contrast with the climate of Athens or Naples ( Fig. 4 ) . It is thus clear that while the Iberian Peninsula , Italy , Greece , Asia Minor , Syria with Palestine , the Atlas Lands ( Tunisia , Algeria and Morocco ) and the islands form the Mediterranean lands , these are far from uniform throughout . The islands , large and small , peninsular Italy because of its narrowness , peninsular Greece both because of its narrowness and because of the long sea-inlets , are virtually Mediterranean throughout , save that the higher mountains have a heavier rainfall than the lower grounds , and , except where it has been destroyed , are often clothed with high forest , including deciduous trees like some of the oaks and sweet chestnut , in addition to evergreens . Elsewhere Mediterranean conditions tend to be limited to coastal strips or valleys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diminish from west to east , but is greater on coasts exposed to westerly winds blowing over a great expanse of water than on coasts facing east or exposed only to westerly winds blowing over narrow seas .. // Thus on the coast of Algeria it increases from west to east , because opposite , e.g. the town of Oran , the sea is narrowed by the proximity of Spain . THE CHARACTERISTIC CROPS AND PRODUCTS . Whether the total rainfall is considerable in relation to summer temperatures , as at Naples , or small , as at Athens and Seville , and whether the hottest months are or are not rainless , cultivated plants consist characteristically of a combination of fruit-bearing trees and short-lived herbs . This is sometimes expressed by saying that cultivation is of the garden type , with the hoe rather than the plough as its symbol . Since , except in anomalous areas on the northern and western margins , such as the North Italian plains and the north-west of the Iberian peninsula , summer rainfall is at best small , typical trees are of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and with the same exceptions , typical herbaceous crops are those which can make their vegetative growth during the wet cool season , and be harvested before the intense drought of high summer sets in . This means that from the cultivator 's point of view the heat of summer is largely wasted . It is notable also that there is an inverse relation between intensity of summer ' heat and summer rain . Naples , with average July and August temperatures of 75 ? , has nearly two inches of rain during those months . Seville , with July and August average temperatures of 85 ? , has practically no rain at all then . But although many of the shorter streams dry up in summer , the higher mountains , with their greater rainfall , feed perennial rivers , the water of which can be used for irrigation . Such irrigation water makes it possible to grow water-demanding plants introduced from other climatic belts . The Arabs or Moors , invaders from desert lands where all cultivation depends on artificial watering , played a great part both in laying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their influence being particularly marked in Spain and // Sicily . Irrigation was , however , carried on before their invasion , and has made much progress in recent times . But the areas within which it can be , or need be , carried on on any scale are not large , and broadly it may be said that , in contrast to the desert areas to the south and east , cultivation is nowhere wholly dependent upon it , even if the cultivators everywhere adopt simple methods of conserving the water furnished by the rainfall . Wheat , vine and olive are always grown without added water . Of these the olive , with its small , silvery , evergreen leaves and its slow-ripening , oily fruit , is peculiarly fitted to the Mediterranean type of climate , and is scarcely grown on a commercial scale outside its range ( Plate V ) . The vine , a deciduous , climbing shrub , with long roots , is not limited to Mediterranean Lands , but grows there with great freedom . There are many other fruit-bearing trees which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even if they may also be grown elsewhere on irrigated land . Among these are fig , carob or locust-bean , apricot , pomegranate , almond . Figs and apricots are readily dried in the sun and thus preserved , and the others named are coated fruits easily kept and transported . Similarly there are many herbaceous plants which can generally be grown with the natural rainfall , even if the cultivator may find it advantageous to supply stored water if the showers do not come at suitable intervals , or may use the plants to fill up spaces on lands irrigated primarily for more valuable crops . Among these are pulses ( peas , beans , etc. ) very important as a source of proteid in lands where meat is scarce , flavouring substances like- onions and garlic , used to correct the tastelessness of much vegetable food , with salads and green vegetables of all sorts . Very different are the crops which quite definitely require water in the hotter season . We are apt to think of the citrus fruits ( the various kin-Is of oranges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all are very sensitive to frost and are thus limited to the warmer parts , and in these the rainfall is not as a rule sufficient to permit of the swelling of the juicy fruit , so that they are usually grown on watered lands . Rice ( North Italy and Spain and to a small extent Southern France ) , sugar cane ( Spain ) , cotton now hardly grown except in Asia Minor and Greek Macedonia ) , bananas ( Algeria and also south Spain ) are other examples of these alien crops which need more water than falls from the skies . The date palm , grown in groves at Elche on the south-eastern coast of Spain , and in scattered specimens nearly everywhere , is even more of an intruder . The dates ripen at Elche , but the tree generally is grown within the Mediterranean area proper mainly for its leaves , much used for decorative purposes . A third group of plants cultivated within the Mediterranean area includes those which need summer moisture without being very exigent in the matter of temperature . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( north-western Spain , North Italy , where it becomes the bread plant ) , and also on a smaller scale on irrigated or naturally flooded lands . To this group also belongs-the mulberry , grown extensively in North Italy , and to a smaller extent in Spain , there chiefly on irrigated land . The mulberry is a deciduous tree with thin leaves , by origin a Chinese or summer-rain tree . Since it is grown for feeding silkworms a mass of young foliage is important , and this is best obtained by liberal supplies of water . The North Italian plains , with their fairly heavy rainfall , have thus an advantage over other areas in the matter of silk production . The fact that they are Central European rather than Mediterranean in climate is indicated by a number of other crops , such as sugar beet , flax mainly for seed rather than for fibre , hemp and so forth . All the plants so far named are cultivated in the sense // that they differ widely from their known or supposed wild progenitors . A considerable number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on tilled ground . Thus the cork oak , grown especially in northwestern Spain and in Portugal , has great importance in connection with the wine industry . Alfa ( esparto ) grass , which covers vast tracts in Spain and the Atlas Lands , has always been of importance as supplying material for baskets and hampers as well as cords . Recently it has become valuable as a paper-making substance and is largely exported . Tanning and dyeing materials are extracted from many kinds of trees and shrubs , a fact related to the development of the leather industry in those parts where goats are reared extensively . Sumach shrubs are much cultivated in Sicily for this purpose , while Asia Minor exports , under the name of valonia , acorn cups which form a source of tannin . Many of the plants and shrubs of the maquis are rich in scented oils , resins , gums , etc. , which apparently help them to resist summer drought , and some of these are utilised in commerce , if on a comparatively small scale . Mention may be made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all exported from Dalmatia , the last forming the basis of insect powder . The widely-distributed mastic tree yields a gum , collected especially in some of the Greek islands . The main interest of such products is the way they emphasise the semi-arid conditions , for gums and resins are mainly produced in desert lands . The Mediterranean Sea is rich in fish , though these are not generally such good eating as those of the North Sea ' and Atlantic , and sponges and coral are also obtained . TRADE AND EXPORTS . The intensive type of cultivation described , carried on mainly without elaborate irrigation , means that the land can support a considerable agricultural population , and yields a variety of products , including many which in the eyes of the inhabitants of other parts of Europe are luxuries , The variety of pro142 MEDITERRANEAN EUROPE z ducts , combined with the ease of communication over the sea , goes far to explain the early rise of civilised communities here , while the ruins of the magnificent buildings constructed by those early communities , and the luxuriant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth . But though to the more northerly peoples , as well as to those from the deserts to the south and east , the Mediterranean Lands have seemed a veritable paradise , they are in reality to-day poor and sometimes overcrowded . The general absence of coal has made the development of modern large-scale industry difficult , a striking difference from western and parts of central Europe , and both climate and relief make the export of bulky agricultural products , like the wheat of Russia , impossible . Nor are there forests of sufficient extent to permit of the export of timber , so important a source of wealth to the lands of the north of Europe . Spain is richly mineralised , and certain mineral products occur elsewhere , but as a whole the Mediterranean Lands have no great source of wealth in the sub-soil . The most characteristic exports are the products of the intensive cultivation , particularly of fruit trees , the products being frequently worked up in some way before being sent out . Olive oil and preserved olives formed commodities in regard to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tree as a commercial crop into other lands of Mediterranean climate , particularly California . The wines , on the other hand , especially in Italy , and even more markedly in Greece , are as a rule less valuable than those of extra-Mediterranean France , which are more carefully prepared , and keep better ( p. 29 ) . It is curious to note also that while dried grapes , such as the raisins of Spain , the currants of Greece ( mainly produced in the Ionian Islands and on the western side of the mainland , but exported from the shores of the Gulf of Corinth , // currant being a corruption of Corinth ) , and the sultanas of Asia Minor , had no competitors till the recent development of the Californian and Australian dried fruit trade , the fresh grapes of south-eastern Spain and Portugal command lower prices than those grown with or without protection in the lands further north . Figs form a somewhat analogous case . The dried figs of Asia Minor ( Smyrna ) are ? or were ? unique , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in California , but the fresh figs of Mediterranean Lands are not comparable to those grown under glass elsewhere . Oranges , especially from Spain and Portugal , the Atlas Lands and Palestine , lemons , especially from Sicily , and other citrus fruits have always been important , because the Mediterranean Lands form the nearest source of supply for the rest of Europe . Competition from other areas is , however , now severe , particularly as these fruits can be grown on irrigated lands ( Southern California , Australia , South Africa ) ; in areas with a considerable summer rainfall , such as Florida ; and in many subtropical and tropical islands . Silk , since the introduction of the silkworm and the mulberry from the east , has been very important , but here the competition from China and Japan is severe , for the rearing of the silkworms demands much patient and cheap labour . North Italy is much the largest producer of raw silk in the Mediterranean area , but silk manufacture there lags behind that of France , and much silk is exported in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to the plaited esparto or alfa of Spain and the Atlas Lands , straw hats and straw plait are exported extensively from Italy where , especially in Tuscany , wheat is sown very thickly in spring to obtain the lanky stems used . In Italy , the most densely peopled of the Mediterranean Lands , and the only one containing large territories which share the economic life of Central Europe , as they do also // its climate and products , great efforts are being made to develop ' hydro-electric power as a substitute for imported coal . North Italy has a considerable development of manufactures , including both textiles and various branches of the iron industry , especially motor-cars ( Turin ) . Barcelona in Spain is also a modern manufacturing town , contrasting as notably with the cities of the rest of the country , as do centres like Turin and Milan with those of peninsular Italy . Elsewhere large-scale industry has hardly developed , and in the Atlas Lands and Syria in the larger sense the arts and crafts of an earlier world still linger little altered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are shown in Fig. 20 . The meseta covers a large part of the surface and has everywhere steep edges , and includes uplifted areas , often presenting the appearance of jagged mountain chains ( sierras ) . A belt of such high land , the mountains of Castile , forms the main water-parting , and north-west and south-east of these are areas in which the older rocks are covered by a thick mantle of younger ( Tertiary ) beds . These constitute the ' high plains of Old and New Castile , which are more or less steppe-like and mainly devoted to wheat cultivation and sheep-rearing ; the former predominates in Old Castile , with Valladolid as its centre , the latter in the drier New Castile . The merino sheep , with its fine fleece , was brought here from the Atlas Lands by the Moors , and Spain served as its centre of dispersion to other lands . From the point of view of world commerce , however , the wool production of Spain is now insignificant . Of the two series of fold-mountains the northern is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and separated from the plateau by the plain of Aragon , crossed by the Ebro . The southern series is formed by the Andalusian mountains , with the Sierra Nevada as the chief element . The Andalusian plain , watered by the Guadalquivir , is the southern counterpart // of that of Aragon , but differs in being open towards the Atlantic , and thus Africa , while the latter is shut off alike from the Mediterranean and the Bay of Biscay . It was from Africa that the Moors or Arabs entered Andalusia in the 8th century . At the time of their greatest extension they occupied the peninsula except for its north western part , so different in its climate , with copious summer rainfall , in its natural vegetation , with woods containing deciduous trees , and in its high and complex relief from the plateaux and river valleys in which the Arab modes of life could best be practised . This area served as a centre for the re-conquest of the rest of the peninsula . The frontier of the Frankish Empire also overlapped the Pyrenees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last stronghold of the Moors in Spain was Granada , not captured till the end of the 15th century . Apart from the valley plains of the Ebro and the Guadalquivir the only lowlands of any extent are found on the coasts of Portugal and of Valencia and Murcia in south-eastern Spain . The last , in an area of low rainfall , are irrigated by help of the coastal streams , particularly the Guadalaviar , Jucar and Segura , and form the huertas , or watered gardens , with their multiplicity of crops . Irrigation is also practised round Granada , the Jenil tributary of the Guadalquivir , fed by the snows of the Sierra Nevada , being used , and in Aragon , where the water of the Ebro is the agent employed . Of the rich mineral deposits the iron ores deserve special note as they enter largely into external trade . Iron ores occur at a number of points along the north coast , being exported mainly from Bilbao and Santander ; also along the south-east coast , where Cartagena serves as one exit . Coal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to occur in inaccessible situations . The chief mines are at Oviedo in the north , with Gijon as the port . Silver and lead are found at Linares , on the south slopes of the Sierra Morena , and also on the south148 MEDITERRANEAN EUROPE I east coast , with Almeria as the outlet . Important copper mines occur in the Rio Tinto region , with Huelva at the mouth of the Rio Tinto as port . Quicksilver is mined at Almaden , north of the Sierra Morena . Madrid is placed on the Manzanares , a small feeder of the Tagus , in the centre of the meseta . As capital it dates only from 1561 , and like Moscow , in Russia , repre-sents the result of a series of experiments undertaken with a view to finding a suitable centre from which to rule very diverse territories . There is indeed not a little analogy between the historical geography of Spain and Russia , // both countries having to struggle against invaders , and being much modified in the course of the struggle . But the Moors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and various arts and crafts , and had a highly developed intellectual life , were very different from the Tartars . Barcelona is the outlet of the plain of Aragon as well as of its own province of Catalonia , but lies well to the north-east of the Ebro mouth , the river bringing down too much silt to permit of a large port being established there . Seville , though 70 miles up the Guadalquivir , can be reached by ocean-going steamers . Cadiz , on a bay south of the river mouth , is less important as a port of call than Gibraltar , which has a good harbour and is a coaling station . Valencia , at the mouth of the Guadalaviar , is the port of the productive irrigated lands of the south-east . Spain has a total area , without the islands , of 190,000 square miles , and a population of about 22 millions , not very much more than half that of Italy . The density is only about one-third of that of Italy . Madrid , the capital , and Barcelona , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order of three-quarters of a million , Barcelona being rather smaller than Madrid . The only other towns with populations of over 200,000 are Valencia and Seville . Portugal , with an area of 34,000 square miles and a population of 5i millions , is a small state . Lisbon , the capital and a port , contains half a million people . Oporto , with its outport of Leixoes , is the only other important town . The population of Portugal is mainly agricultural , and the percentage of illiterates is much higher than in Spain , being stated to reach 80 per cent . of the total . Wines , cork and sardines in oil are important exports ; the mineral wealth is considerable , but little developed . ITALY differs markedly from Spain in its central position , both as regards the lands of Central Europe and the Mediterranean Sea . Though it is ringed round by the Alps to the north , these are crossed by many passes , and the great railway routes traversing the Mount Cenis , Simplon , St. Gothard ( Fig. 14 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy forms also the boundary between the eastern and western basins of the Mediterranean Sea , and all the seaways from east to west pass some part of the Italian coast . Thus the Italian ports are points where sea routes meet some of the most important land routes of Europe ; this made many of them great centres of mediaeval trade . The discovery of the seaway to India , and of America , with all the associated political and economic changes , led to the collapse of this trade . Modern Italy is of very recent origin , and when as a unified state it awoke to the new possibilities resulting from the opening of the Suez Canal and the development of world commerce , it was to find rival powers established on the shores of the Mediterranean . Thus the ancient port of Genoa suffers from the competition of Marseille , that of Venice is less suited to present-day steamer traffic than Trieste , which is , however , now like Fiume , Italian . Again , though the pressure of population is much greater than in France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protectorate over Tunisia and occupies Algeria . Italy annexed Tripoli ( Italian Libia ) in 1912 , but this is a poor and barren land compared with French North Africa . British control of Gibraltar , Malta and the Suez Canal means that the west to east route across the Mediterranean is not Italian as it was once Roman , nor has Italy eastern stations in the sense that the republics of Genoa and Venice had , even if she occupies Rhodes and other smaller islands ( the Dodecanese ) off Asia Minor . As compared with Spain , Italy has a much more northerly position . Milan , the largest city , is in a slightly higher latitude than the French town of Bordeaux , Rome than Barcelona . The parallel of 40 ? practically bisects Spain , while of the provinces of peninsular Italy only Calabria and a small part of Apulia lie south of this line . This is the result of the north-west to south-east trend of Italy , which leads to Turin in Piedmont being 10 ? of longitude west of Brindisi in Apulia . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtains in Spain between Vigo in Galicia and Barcelona in Catalonia , despite the great difference in the breadths of the two peninsulas . One result is to make the Adriatic Sea very narrow , especially at its southern end ( Strait of Otranto , about 50 miles ) . Till the collapse of AustriaHungary at the end of the war , that power was not only firmly established on the eastern shore of the Adriatic , but also extended far down the Adige valley . If , therefore , Spain is peculiarly aloof from mainland Europe , to which it is linked mainly by railways at either end of the Pyrenees , Italy , despite the apparent barriers of the Alps and the Adriatic Sea , is closely linked to it . While to the north , Switzerland forms a convenient buffer state , to the north-east and east the collapse of AustriaHungary and of Turkey as a European power has brought new and not yet wholly solved problems . Italy may be regarded as divided into four natural regions , ( 1 ) the northern plains with their mountain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Southern Italy , ( 4 ) the islands . To the north and west the northern plains are bounded by the Alps , and these pass into the Apennines . The division between the two is taken as the Altare pass , a gap through which runs the railway from Turin to Savona . The plains are drained for the most part by the river Po , but eastward a few streams , such as the Adige , Brenta , Piave , etc. , reach the Adriatic independently . The coast is very liable to silting , and the fact that Venice lies well to the north of the delta of the Po should be noted . In its plain course the Po is liable to flooding and its neighbourhood affords a dangerous site for towns . Thus while Turin is on the river , Milan ( silk goods and cutlery ) is one of the few large inland towns of the world not placed on a great river . As well as the crops already named , the plains produce fine pasture and forage crops , often on irrigated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world in general in the great development of the // dairying industry . Minerals are scanty , as they are in Italy generally as compared with Spain . Central Italy may be said to extend to the Campania plain round Naples . It has a cooler climate than the south , so that citrus fruits are absent ; the Apennines swing to the north-east , so that plains , such as those watered by the Arno and the Tiber , are fairly extensive ; the people also have a northern strain , even if this is less marked than in the plains . Rome , the third city , being surpassed in size by both Milan and Naples , owes its selection as capital both to its historic prestige and to its central position . In Southern Italy the Apennines approach the western coast , so that south of the Campania such plains as there are lie on the Adriatic side . In Apulia the large flocks of sheep and the extensive cultivation of wheat recall the plains of Castile , while on the moister Tyrrhenian coast oranges and lemons are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area and an important port . The islands contain most of the limited mineral resources of Italy , sulphur being obtained in Sicily , iron in Elba , and zinc and lead , with other ores , in the large island of Sardinia , which is , however , comparatively thinly peopled , and much subject to malaria . Sicily is exceedingly fertile , Palermo and Catania ranking among the large towns of the kingdom . Footnote GREECE , which has now an area of 50,000 square miles , obtained a large extent kin of territory as the result of the Balkan wars , and , in addition to the peninsula , the large island of Crete , and the IEgean islands , now includes a large stretch of territory on the north shore of the.iEgean . As against this , however , Greeks have practically disappeared from Asia Minor , and the large refugee population , // amounting to a million and a quarter , has been settled in the new lands . Owing to the absence both of coal and water-power there are practically no large-scale industries , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea traffic of the Eastern Mediterranean is in their hands . The total population is now some 6 millions . Athens , with its port , the Pireus , is a large city of modern type , now linked to the railway system of Europe generally . Salonika is the only other large town , but has a considerable non-Greek ( especially Jewish ) element . The whole of ASIA MINOR is included in Turkey , a state which has undergone great changes in recent years . Its area is estimated at 500,000 square miles and its population , at the census of 1927 , was about 131 millions . The Christian population , Greek and Armenian , has now virtually disappeared , and it is believed that this is likely to affect the amount of those products , such as olive oil and silk , which demand delicate manipulation . Many of the minor industries also , such as carpet-making , fig-packing and so on , were mainly carried on by the Christians . Asia Minor is very rich in minerals , including some coal , but these are little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SYRIA is mandated to France under the League of Nations and PALESTINE to Britain . Cyprus , with a large Greek but a considerable Turkish population , is a British colony . Of the Atlas lands , TUNISIA and ALGERIA have been already mentioned . Both show much resemblance in climate and products to southern Spain , and Tunisia produces olive oil ( p. 30 ) , dates and esparto grass in large amounts . The minerals include phosphates ( Tunisia ) , and zinc and iron ores . MOROCCO is interesting in that it is for the most part a French protectorate , the Spanish zone being small . There is also an inter152 MEDITERRANEAN EUROPE I ? VIII national zone round the port of Tangier . The French are doing much to develop the country , and a certain amount of French settlement has taken place . There are several ports on the Atlantic coast , Casablanca being well equipped . Footnote CHAPTER IBC GENERAL SURVEY OF ASIA POSITION . Asia , the largest of the continents , lies mainly in temperate latitudes . The Tropic of Cancer crosses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Further India , and skirts the extreme south of China proper ; a northern coastal strip extends beyond the Arctic Circle ; but the mass of the continent lies well within these limits . Tomsk , in the heart of Siberia , is in the same latitude as Edinburgh , Peking is in that of Madrid . In position Asia resembles North America where only part of Mexico with Central America extends into tropical latitudes . Peking corresponds to Philadelphia , Shanghai to New Orleans . The three southern continents , on the other hand , have not only great extension in the inter-tropical belt , but Africa and mainland Australia do not reach 40 ? south latitude , and only a very narrow part of South America extends beyond 50 ? south . STRUCTURE AND RELIEF . We have already seen that Europe is but a western peninsular prolongation of Asia . If we call this greater continental mass Eurasia , we find that it possesses one unique feature . This is that it is traversed by a great series of fold mountains of Tertiary age , that is geologically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountains in the Americas have a general north-to-south direction , and Africa and Australia have no mountain belt of similar characters . The build of Asia is very complicated , and the details have not yet been worked out fully ; but the presence of 155 // the folded mountain belt is the essential feature . In harmony with the greater size of the continent as compared with Europe , we find that within it the mountains possess certain special features . In Europe and on its margins the chains are not perfectly continuous , because of the sinking of blocks of land beneath the sea : thus the Pyrenees are separated from the Alps ; the Atlas Mountains from the mountains of Sicily and the Apennines of Italy ; the Dinarie Alps of Greece from the mountains of the islands and of Asia Minor ; the Balkan Mountains from the mountains of the Crimea and from the Caucasus . No such breaks of continuity occur in Continental Asia . From the Taurus of southern Asia Minor to the eastern end of the Himalayas and their continuations there is an uninterrupted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a greater elevation , the highest mountains on the face of the earth being found in the Himalaya , and with the greater width of the folded belt . Further , the belt shows a curious alternation of swellings and constrictions . Beginning in the west we find that the Taurus Mountains in Asia Minor are widely separated from the Pontic Mountains , the two bounding the plateau of Anatolia . These chains , together with the Caucasus , converge towards the Armenian mountain knot . A new divergence follows , giving rise to the great plateau of Iran , beyond which is the knot of the Hindu Kush . To the east lies the Plateau of Tibet , with its bounding mountain chains . This , the structural equivalent of the Iran plateau , reaches a much greater elevation , with correspondingly loftier bounding mountain chains . Eastward the more northerly chains are continued into Western China , while the more southerly bend southwards to enter Further India . South-west of the Iran plateau on the one hand , and south-east of it and south of the Tibetan one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly or partially filled up by the waste of the mountains to form great river Zx STRUCTURE AND RELIEF 157 ' plains . These hollows form ( 1 ) Irak , or Mesopotamia in the larger sense , and ( 2 ) the Indo-Gangetic plains . The second has been completely filled up by alluvium , giving rise to a crescent-shaped belt of plains extending from the mouth of the Indus in the Arabian Sea to that of the Ganges in the Bay of Bengal . The alluvial filling in the case of Irak is much less complete , as is shown by the presence of the Persian Gulf . But even in historic times , as we know by the position of former ports , the united Tigris and Euphrates have pushed their deltaic deposits outwards into what was once the head of the Gulf , so that we may think of it as in the act of being silted up . Similarly , we can look back in imagination to a time when the great rivers had not yet begun their transporting work , and a belt of sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarged Persian Gulf intervened between Western Persia and Armenia on the one hand , and the peninsula of Arabia on the other . These two peninsulas , indeed , are strikingly different from continental Asia . That Arabia is but a fragment of Africa , incompletely separated by the deep but narrow Red Sea , is perhaps obvious . The belief that peninsular India , or the Deccan in the larger sense , was once united to a greater Africa is based chiefly on geological evidence . The fact that , like a large part of Africa , it is an old crustblock , forming a tableland with steep sea edges , the Western and Eastern Ghats , and a fairly steep drop to the northern plains , is of much geographical importance . This description gives us a general notion of the structure of the southern part of Asia . It is traversed by a belt of mountain folds , taking the form of gigantic beads separated by great knots , the two great plateaus of Iran and Tibet forming the chief of the " beads . " These plateaus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the crust-blocks of Arabia and peninsular India . The mass of the mainland lies north of the broad belt // of folding . We may think of it as corresponding ? with an enormous difference in size ? to the part of Europe which extends north and north-west of the Alpine fold system . Here , as in Europe , we have a combination of plains and ancient uplands , with the difference that in Asia the plains lie to the west and the uplands to the east . The greatest area of continuous plain is that which extends from the Ural Mountains eastward to the Yenisei river and forms Western Siberia , which is but a continuation of the plains of Eastern Europe . Beyond the Yenisei the plains stretch along the coast in a wide tundra belt , but further inland they give place to broken country , becoming more and more mountainous to the east in the dissected plateau areas called the Yablonoi and Stanovoi Mountains . The plains of Western Siberia are separated from another lowland area to the south by a low swelling , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This second lowland , or Turan , bears the Aral Sea on its surface , and consists of steppe and steppe-desert . Round the north end of the Caspian Sea it is continuous with the semi-deserts of European Russia ( p. 122 ) . To the south and south-east of Turan offshoots of the fold mountains , starting from the Hindu Kush knot as the Pamirs and continued into the Tien Shan Mountains , help to define the Tarim basin , another desert area , resembling Turan but lying at a higher level ( Fig. 27 ) . North-east of the Tarim basin is the great plateau of Mongolia , with the Gobi desert , structurally a part of the eastern Siberian tableland , as is also the much more dissected plateau of Manchuria , still further east . China proper is a region of complicated structure , the essential geographical feature of which is the presence of great fertile river valleys . Finally , as is shown by the rows of volcanoes and the frequency of earthquakes , the whole of the east coast of Asia is an area where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of great blocks of land , and the persistence of long chains of mountainous islands bounding the seas formed by the subsidence . This extraordinary series of marginal seas consists first of the Bering Sea , bounded by the Aleutian Islands , which extend from the peninsula of Alaska towards that of Kamchatka . Then comes the Sea of Okhotsk , bounded by the festoon of the Kurile Islands . These are continued into the main Japanese archipelago , which bounds the Sea of Japan . The East China Sea has a less complete boundary in the small Luchu Islands and Formosa , while the South China Sea is margined by the Philippines , which continue the line of Formosa . Further south the large islands of the Malay archipelago bound other , less important , seas . NATURAL REGIONS . We shall not attempt to divide Asia into natural regions in anything like the detail given in the ease of Europe ; but some broad contrasts between the different parts must be noted . The most fundamental of these is climatic , and climatic conditions in Asia are greatly influenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of the mountain chains . Owing to the great area , places in the interior may be as much as over 1,500 miles from the sea , and are thus " continental " in a sense very different from the meaning of the term in Europe . The central mountains and plateaus also act as barriers to warm influences from the south , and increase the continentality of the interior . As a result we find that inland Asia is characterised by the severity of the winters , which reaches its maximum in north-eastern Siberia , and also by the generally low precipitation , which is in many areas insufficient for crop production . A further consequence of the size and of the nature of the relief is the intensity of the winter high pressure system of the interior , this centring over the Gobi desert . In summer , on the other hand , as the land heats up , an intense low pressure system develops over Baluchistan and Sind , and spreads to the north-east throughout the            @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 