@@774296

txt  | parts against the requirements of production orders , for otherwise production control may suffer . The balance of stores records for such items directly aid the work of coordinating certain phases of purchasing , accounting , storing , inventory control , and production , and may therefore be set up as a section under the production control department . The head of the balance of stores department is frequently called the balance of stores clerk . He should have some knowledge of industrial accounting , and the ability to supervise a large amount of detail . In very large concerns engaged in the continuous manufacture of standard products , no balance of stores records for direct materials may be necessary , control of such inventories being achieved by other means . However , inventory records for indirect materials are still necessary , and are almost invariably located in the materials division . The Personnel Division. ? The personnel division is a technical staff unit and has two principal functions : the procurement , selection , and maintenance of the organization 's personnel ; and the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , training , and experience required for personnel functions are quite different from those for other technical staff units . The status of the executive in charge of the department varies to a great extent in different industries , to some extent with the size and character of the business , but to a greater extent with the progressiveness of the concern . We shall call him the personnel manager and class him as a major executive reporting to the vice-president in charge of production . The personnel manager should possess sympathy and an understanding of the worker 's point of view , inasmuch as he is dealing primarily with human rather than mechanical forces . He must have tact , personality , and the ability to win the confidence of the employees . In addition to the social phases of his work , there are business and managerial phases which are equally important , and for which he must have business acumen . In connection with the manufacturing program , he should anticipate the necessity of increasing or decreasing the working force . In many instances this requires some analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the company 's business cycles . The personnel manager should have sufficient knowledge of manufacturing methods and problems to enable him to judge the effects of proposed personnel methods on the concern . In other words , his work has passed beyond the stage where it can be placed in the hands of an intelligent clerk and forgotten . Its techniques have been developed and improved to the point where specialized training is required . The principal phases of personnel work are employment , medical supervision , safety and compensation , employee services , industrial relations , education and training , and personnel planning and research . Again , the structure of the personnel department will vary in some respects in each  | concern . Large organizations may have a trained executive in charge of each of these phases . The employment section , under an employment supervisor , is concerned with labor procurement and to some extent maintenance . It does such work as selecting employees , hiring , placing , transferring , promoting , controlling wages , and firing . In most cases , its relations with the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the employment section may maintain personnel records and supply information and advice , but the final decision as to promotion usually is made in the line organization . The employment section replaces with more scientific methods of selection and placement the haphazard methods of hiring and firing until the right man for a given job is secured . It can do much to reduce labor turnover , a cause of great loss to both the employer and the employee . The medical section is supervised by the plant physician or a medical supervisor , and is concerned with the development and maintenance of the physical efficiency of the employees . It has developed in industry as a result of the growing realization of the relation between the employee 's health and production , stimulated in part by labor legislation for the control of accidents , occupational diseases , and other industrial problems . Some examples of the work of the medical section are the physical examination of applicants for jobs , periodic health surveys of the personnel , plant sanitation , the operation of industrial hospitals , and the study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety . and compensation developed originally as a result of factory legislation ; but in many progressive concerns it has gone far beyond any legal requirements because of its important contributions to organization effectiveness and employee morale . It includes such work as the investigation of all accidents , the study and design of devices for accident prevention , the development of safety rules and regulations , the maintenance of safety and compensation records , appearance before the industrial commission in connection with compensation cases , safety education , etc . The service section is under the direction of a service supervisor , or an executive having some similar title . It endeavors to develop and maintain good morale in the operative force by providing those frequently intangible values that are often an important part of the employee 's personal objectives , This section administers or assists in such activities as house organs , suggestion systems , social or athletic activities , plant restaurants , employee housing , pension systems , group insurance , length-of-service bonuses , credit unions , and similar work . Some of them offer an opportunity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations function is closely related to the service function . It involves conferences with employee representatives with a view to devel-  | oping a mutual understanding and agreement concerning the proper solution of mutual problems ? for example , a satisfactory hourly rate structure . Its work may properly include the prompt and satisfactory adjustment of individual grievances ; but inasmuch as such adjustments usually are made initially by the line organization , the minor line supervisors may need education in the proper handling of grievances and disciplinary and other problems that may affect industrial relations . The work may also include the general education of the operative force in the economics of the business , to the end that they will better understand the functions and contributions of management , the basic principles governing the relations between personal and service objectives , etc . Industrial relations problems involving group values may be quite serious . While the industrial relations section is expected to advise , the final decisions and agreements must as a rule be made by higher administrative executives . The education and training section has the problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with particular regard for the needs of the organization . It provides an opportunity for self-development which is requisite for both real interest in one 's job and maximum production , and does much to develop and maintain morale . It reduces the time and expense of training new employees . In addition , of course , it may make a direct contribution to increased economy and effectiveness in specific functions . Training involves the development of satisfactory skill and knowledge with regard to the requirements of a specific craft or job , and includes the supervision of whatever training methods may be used , such as the apprentice system . Industrial education is concerned with such problems as the continuation of the education of young employees , the development of company schools which will give employees general instruction on subjects of benefit to them in their work , the operation of plant libraries , the publication of the company paper , etc . In general , it is concerned with the problem of greater personal effectiveness and the satisfactions to be gained through an increase in knowledge , and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or kind of work . The function of personnel planning and research has been developed highly in a few concerns . The development of better personnel methods may require extensive investigation and analysis of the characteristics , requirements , and relations between functions , physical factors , and human faculties in the particular situation . The work may include the making of job analyses and job classifications , the development of job specifications and rating scales , the evaluation of tests for selection , etc . Although the heads of the other personnel sections may not have either the time or the training required for such studies , in small concerns they must do this work themselves , employ outside consultants , or let it go undone . In large concerns ,  | however , a personnel research group may be set up . It is an example of a secondary technical staff element attached to a technical staff function . As was stated at the beginning of the discussion , management functions in the large plant are greatly magnified and can therefore be studied in detail ? an executive may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function . The same functions are present in the small plant ; but in the interests of economy an executive and his department may be responsible for a number of functions , and hence it may be difficult to distinguish the different management functions clearly . Yet it is equally important that adequate provision for their proper performance be made . The fact that the management mechanisms are simpler and somewhat different is not particularly important , because it is always desirable that organization structure and procedure be developed in accordance with manufacturing conditions in the particular plant .  | PLANT LOCATION ' Physical Factors in Manufacturing Operation. ? We have noted previously that the performance of functions in any organized business activity is usually conditioned in some degree by certain physical factors that are peculiar to it . The purpose of such factors is to supplement and extend the abilities of the individuals and groups composing the organization , to the end that they may do their work more economically and effectively . In a manufacturing concern , these physical factors may include such items as materials , machines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this it is evident that most of the fixed and working capital is represented by such factors . It is the responsibility of ownership , through the agency of management , to implement the organization with the proper kind and amount of these physical factors . What constitutes the proper kind and amount will differ with each manufacturing problem . The characteristics and requirements of manufacturing functions , both managerial and operative , are determined fundamentally by the company 's service objectives . In part , they are expressed concretely in product and process specifications , with their related standards of quality . Inasmuch as physical factors must be supplied to individuals for the proper performance of their work , the characteristics and requirements of these factors must be determined primarily by the requirements for proper performance . Of course , secondarily these factors may modify the characteristics of the individuals who use them and the work they do . In manufacturing , an important phase of the work of management is the selection , standardization , and procurement of the various physical factors , and their proper relation to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of these factors never ends , as long as the organization continues to progress . In this and the next three chapters , we shall discuss certain physical factors that enter directly into manufacturing economy , such as plant location , the physical plant and its equipment , facilities for handling materials , and lighting , heating , and ventilating . There may be some question as to the logic of discussing them before taking up such matters as product design and the various functions of the manufacturing organization ; but we be ' Before reading this chapter , review pp. 21 , 61-62 , dealing with the fundamentals governing the general relations between physical factors and functions in organization and operation .  | lieve the logic valid , for from such a discussion the reader gets a pict a rc of the factory environment that should aid him later in understanding various management processes . There are other physical factors , such as power , that could and perhaps should be discussed ; but we are interested primarily itt the relation of physical factors to functions . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often an important factor in success or failure . On it may depend the company 's ability to serve customers satisfactorily , to obtain an adequate and continuous supply of raw material at minimum cost , A , tnd to maintain a sufficient and competent labor force . Sometimes a poorly managed plant is able to enjoy a considerable measure of success because of a good location , whereas a wellmanaged plant in a poor location has difficulty in competing in certain markets . Although a manufacturer may be operating successfully in his present location , he has no assurance that he will not be faced with the problem of selecting a new plant site at some time in the future . Habits and customs , centers of population and trade , channels of communication and transportation are constantly changing ; and he may find , in ten or twenty years , that his plant is no longer economically well situated . When the problem arises , the manufacturer will discover that the selection of a proper location involves a number of economic factors , some of which are rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors affecting the location of the plant are : ( I ) the relation of the site to material supplies , ( 2 ) its relation to the market in which the product is distributed , ( 3 ) the character and availability of transportation facilities , ( 4 ) the labor supply , and ( 5 ) power . In many industries the relation of the site to supplies of raw materials may be the dominant factor in plant location . If the raw material is costly , heavy , or bulky , it may be more economical to ship the finished product a longer distance to the market than to ship the raw material to the plant . The farther the site from the sources of materials , the larger are the reserve stocks of materials that must be maintained . Hence , more capital is tied up , interest charges on raw material inventories are larger , greater storage space is required , and handling charges may be increased . In addition , there is the danger that the arrival of materials at the plant may be held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interruptions of plant operations . However , the influence of the availability of raw materials may be modified considerably by other economic factors . For example , as the direct material cost decreases in proportion to the total cost of the product , the importance of the materials factor decreases , although not necessarily at the same rate , because of the increased importance of storage and continuity of supply . Thus the great sawmills necessarily follow the receding forests , but iron ore is shipped many hundreds of miles by water or rail .  | The proximity of the site to markets may be very important in the case of small concerns that fill a local or emergency demand . Ice cream plants are located in or near the cities that they supply . A machine repair shop must be located near the industries that it expects to serve ; in addition , for the shop to succeed , there must be a sufficient number of plants that will need outside repair service . Often , plants which supply more than the local demand may find it advisable to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nearness to their principal markets will increase the promptness with which they can serve their customers . If the cost of shipping the finished product is greater than that of shipping the raw material , nearness to markets may effect considerable savings in transportation charges . The desire of buyers to inspect and choose goods in large buying centers makes it advisable for dress manufacturers to locate near such centers ; this is said to be one of the factors which has retarded the growth of the cloak and suit industry outside of New York City . In general , it is natural for an industry to locate near a market ; and where there are several markets , the selection of the proper location , in so far as the market factor is concerned , is a matter of balancing against one another such considerations as population , purchasing power , and buying habits . Other things being equal , the best location , from the standpoint of transportation , is that at which the cost of moving raw and worked materials to and from the plant is at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation costs and services may be an important factor in the decision to locate the plant near the source of raw materials or near the markets . Cities which are served by a number of railroads sometimes have more favorable tariffs and provide better service than those which have only a single road . The manufacturer who is located in the latter may find that his transportation costs are as high as , if not higher than , those of his competitor in the railroad center , and that he has greater difficulty in getting cars when there is a shortage . In addition to offering choices of routings for incoming and outgoing shipments , many cities with several railroads have a belt-line railroad connecting the principal roads . A car loaded at a plant on the belt line can be switched to any road in the city . This reduces transportation costs because of the greater facility in loading and unloading cars and the elimination of trucking to the siding of the particular road over which the shipment is routed . In large railroad and industrial centers , sites near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices ? some in Cleveland are reported to be valued at $50,000 or more per acre . The junction points of railways and waterways often offer desirable market opportunities as well as transportation facilities . Obviously , if transportation is a small part of the total cost of the product , the importance of locating near either the source of raw materials or the markets will be greatly diminished . These and similar considerations must be weighed when the transportation factor is evaluated .  | The character of the labor supply may affect the selection of a site in a number of ways . If wage rates are high , labor costs may be high also . If the labor which must be used is unionized to a great extent , the introduction of modern management methods may be hampered and per capita production may be low . On the other hand , because of their employees ' skill and familiarity with the work , industries that otherwise are located disadvantageously sometimes operate successfully in the localities in which they originally developed . Skilled workers accustomed to earning good wages can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many own their homes and have established other ties that bind them to that particular community . An important consideration is the adequacy of the labor supply ? the extent , kind , and character ? to meet varying production demands . This involves the amount of training , housing , and other employee service work that must he undertaken . In some industries , such as the high-grade furniture industry , this may be the most important factor in the location of the plant . For the majority of industries , power costs are a major factor in plant location . Cheap power often attracts industries , particularly those in which this cost is an important element in the total cost of manufacturing . There are several large electrochemical plants near Niagara Falls because of the availability of relatively cheap electric power ; and this factor has been important in building up the Pittsburgh manufacturing district . With the growth of large central stations and the development of superpower projects , an increasing number of concerns are finding it more economical to purchase rather than produce power . The operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and fixed charges that must be met whether the concern is producing or idle , whereas when power is purchased , its cost fluctuates more closely with fluctuations in the volume of production . Whether it is more economical to purchase or produce power depends to a large extent on the size of the plant , the nature of the product , and the quality and cost of local power service . Industries that use large quantities of steam , as in the manufacture of rayon , often find it more economical to generate their own power . Secondary Factors Affecting Location. ? Other factors also affect plant location . Although , in general , they may be regarded as secondary , they may prove of prime importance in an individual case . Some of the more important are : ( I ) the cost of land and buildings , ( 2 ) the possibility for expansion , ( 3 ) the presence of service industries , ( 4 ) financial facilities , ( 5 ) water supply , ( 6 ) water and tax rates , and ( 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varies greatly between manufacturing communities . Desirable sites range in price from a few hundred dollars per acre or less in the smaller towns and cities , to many thousands per acre in large cities . In the latter the cost of erecting factory buildings may be high . If land is reasonably cheap , sufficient acreage can be acquired , buildings can  | be located in proper relation to one another to facilitate maximum production , and they can be constructed to meet the needs of the particular business . On the other hand , if land is very valuable , the cost of sites for certain types of construction , such as single-story , sawtooth buildings , may be prohibitive .. Furthermore , the interest charges and taxes on land and buildings are often an important item in the indirect expense of manufacturing . A related consideration is the availability of land for expansion . If a business prospers , it may eventually become necessary to erect more buildings or to add to existing ones . If new buildings have to be located at some distance from the plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be important to some plants , particularly the smaller ones . If a plant is not self-contained , it may require the services of jobbing foundries , machine shops , parts manufacturers , public warehouses , and various service agencies . The willingness and ability of the community to cooperate in financing the activities of the company may contribute materially to its success ; hence the strength , progressiveness , and far-sightedness of the community become important factors . To some industries which use large amounts of water in the generation of power or in industrial processes , the nature of the water supply and water rates may be important . Because taxes have mounted rapidly in recent years and have become a serious burden on manufacturing operations , the tax rates and their application must be investigated in selecting a plant site . In some instances state labor laws may be a factor . For example , many of the southern states have attracted plants from the North because their factory laws relieve the manufacturer of certain expensive regulations . Classes of Plant Sites. ? Plant sites may usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I ) large , ( 2 ) small , ( 3 ) suburban , or ( 4 ) specialized manufacturing communities . The last-named is really a special case of the other three . Large Manufacturing Communities. ? Large manufacturing centers , such as Buffalo , Chicago , Cleveland , Detroit , and Philadelphia , have many manufacturing advantages to offer . In general , they afford excellent transportation facilities , for they are served by a number of competing railroads which in many cases are connected by belt lines . Moreover , such cities usually have an abundant supply of all classes of labor . One of the greatest difficulties in building an organization is securing sufficient minor executives and skilled labor . Such help can generally be secured in the city on relatively short notice . Furthermore , the labor supply is constantly fed by the urban trade schools and technical high schools . These large centers provide discussion groups ? such as the sales , production , and employment managers groups- - which often are organized and conducted under the auspices of the local chamber of commerce , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid in their development . The large manufacturing community is vV ( I I equipped with theaters and other amusement places ; its recreational and educational advantages are such that personnel work along this line is re - duced to a minimum . Often it provides a good market for the product , particularly in the case of the small plant . It is well supplied with service organizations of the kind which have been mentioned above . Power can usually be purchased from central stations at reasonable cost ? another distinct advantage for the small plant . Finally , the large city offers superior financial resources and services . Against these advantages must be set a number of disadvantages of sufficient importance to induce many manufacturers to move their plants from the larger to the smaller manufacturing communities or to establish branch plants in them . In the large cities , land is expensive and the number of desirable sites is limited , making expansion of the plant difficult . Taxes are relatively high . The ' cost of living usually is higher than in the small town , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large cities , the labor situation in certain trades may be greatly influenced by powerful labor unions . If this is true of the particular trades which a plant needs , there is the possibility of lower per capita production and labor trouble . The presence of small loft concerns in the same industry may disorganize local markets and the labor situation in the city . The distance which urban workers must travel to and from their work is great . A site which is suitable in other respects may be so far from a car or bus line and from the workingclass residential districts that it will be difficult to maintain a labor force . Many manufacturers feel that the appearance of their grounds and buildings is a good advertisement , as well as a factor making for good employee morale ; the closely built , smoky industrial districts of large cities offer little opportunity for beautifying the plant and its surroundings . The beautiful grounds of the National Lamp Works ' laboratory at Nela Park , on the outskirts of Cleveland , offer a striking contrast to the appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manufacturing Communities. ? The manufacturer in the small community has many advantages not enjoyed by the city manufacturer . For example , labor conditions are often better . His labor is likely to be nativeborn and more intelligent , and a larger percentage own their own homes and are permanently attached to the community . Often they can enjoy a higher standard of living on a lower wage level , because of lower living costs . In many cases the plant is a dominant factor in the life of the community , and for this reason it is possible for the plant executives to enjoy closer and more cordial relations with the working force . Since land is usually cheaper and construction costs and taxes are lower , sufficient land can be easily secured for present and future needs . The small  | town or city often has a highly developed community spirit , and to encourage manufacturers to locate there , it will offer such inducements as a free factory site or rebates of taxes . Its chamber of commerce may sponsor the sale of the company 's securities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction of a plant and the operations of the new concern . Such inducements are tempting , particularly to the firm which is not strong financially ; but they often lead to the improper location of the plant , for the executives are apt to overlook the fact that there are other economic factors in plant location besides cheap land and taxes . The penalty for the disregard of these other factors may be the company 's failure after a few years ; the community which sponsored it will suffer accordingly . Opposed to the advantages of the small community , however , there are a number of disadvantages . If the company must build up its working force by bringing in workmen from other communities , it may be difficult to maintain an adequate force . In some instances , particularly in the companyowned towns of large corporations , it has been necessary to establish company schools and to engage in other educational activities , for the majority of the better workmen want proper educational facilities for their children . Educational and amusement facilities may be limited , and considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers are brought to a small community which lacks these advantages , it may be necessary to supply them to keep the employees contented . Likewise , important executives with large salaries may feel the absence of social advantages ; this may make it difficult to hold them . The small manufacturing community may not have a sufficiently broad labor market to provide an adequate supply of all kinds of labor on short notice . If workers are imported in large numbers , housing problems may arise , and a considerable investment in workers ' homes may be necessary before a large permanent increase in the working force can be made . Furthermore , the small manufacturing community may be less desirable because of inferior transportation facilities , the absence of a local market for the product , and the lack of other advantages that the city can offer . Suburban Locations. ? In many respects , suburban locations combine the advantages of the small community and the city , without their disadvantages . Suburban manufacturers are able to draw on the neighboring city for labor . Since their employees are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more contented and probably more stable . Educational facilities usually are good , and the employees can avail themselves of the amusement facilities in the city . The transportation facilities of many suburbs are nearly as good as those of the city . While wage rates and construction costs may not he much lower than they are in the city , land costs and tax rates usually  | are . The more important executives can live in or near the city and thus enjoy its social advantages . For these reasons the suburban manufacturing community seems to be coming into favor . Specialized Manufacturing Communities. ? Although other goods are also produced , certain cities have become noted for certain kinds of manufactures ? Akron for its rubber products ; Detroit for automobiles ; Grand Rapids for furniture ; Battle Creek for breakfast foods . While such communities are special cases of the preceding classes , they have certain advantages peculiar to themselves which make it advisable to consider them separately . For example , they have an abundant supply of labor skilled in the processes in the particular industry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community . As a result , the amount of training which the individual concern must provide is reduced . Because of the large number of concerns in the same industry , dealers in materials and supplies can carry larger and more varied stocks , thus making it possible for the purchasing department to obtain necessary supplies on short notice from local sources . For the same reason , the specialized community is probably well equipped with various service organizations peculiar to the industry . Similarly , it may be easier to finance operations because local bankers are thoroughly familiar with the needs of the industry , and a new concern will probably find it easier to dispose of its securities because local investors have the confidence born of other companies ' previous successes . Finally , the fact that the concern is located in a city noted for the products it intends to manufacture gives it a certain prestige , for the city 's reputation in the field attracts buyers from long distances and results in a desirable local market . Relative Advantages of Locations. ? The relative advantages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the particular concern . In general , the large company which is more self-contained as regards operations can settle in the small community to better advantage than can the small concern . For the small plant , on the other hand , the city , with its varied service organizations , excellent educational and amusement facilities , broad local markets , good labor supplies , cheap power , and other similar advantages , is often better . Determining the Plant Location. ? The modern manufacturer who finds it necessary to relocate his plant or to establish a branch plant has a number of sources of information to aid him . In addition to the numerous books and articles on the subject , census reports and various reports of the Department of Commerce are helpful . Many chambers of commerce in manufacturing communities maintain industrial bureaus which furnish information on the economic advantages of their particular community ; and the industrial agents of railroads and electric power companies are glad to  | give similar information in relation to their fields . There are also a few consultants who specialize along this line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant site involves the evaluation of certain physical and human factors which are conditioned by plant location to determine their relative effects on the economy and effectiveness with which the various business functions can he performed . However , some of these factors are intangible , and an accurate objective evaluation of some of the others is difficult . The best available data on taxes , labor , freight charges , and other cost factors should be collected for each locality under consideration , and a detailed cost estimate should be made for each of the principal products at each site . Other things being equal , the site which makes possible the lowest unit cost is the one that should be chosen . But since other things usually are not equal , the final decision may depend on a qualitative evaluation of the intangible factors . The Decentralization of Industry. ? The problem of plant location is of great current interest because of the trend toward the decentralization of manufacturing operations , a trend which may be related to but is distinct from the tendency of some industries to locate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons for this trend . For one thing , large organizations concentrated in a single locality are more vulnerable to attack by political and labor leaders , particularly when these concerns are engaged in continuous manufacturing . Furthermore , a number of small plants located strategically around the country may be able to serve the public more effectively than a single large plant . In line with this movement toward decentralization , there are indications that a great deal of the rubber goods industry will be transferred from Akron to smaller plants in various parts of the country . The Ford Motor Company has been decentralizing operations for several years , one of its reasons being to develop a relationship between farm and factory that will aid in regularizing employment and the workers ' income . PROBLEM Some years ago , the president of a manufacturing company in Pennsylvania wrote the industrial commissioner of the Chamber of Commerce in a large Ohio city for information concerning available plant sites . When he came to the city later , representatives of the Chamber showed him many sites and secured for him whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was as much if not more interested in the social opportunities of the large city as in the advantages of the various sites ; and therefore the Chamber of Commerce men spent more time in introducing him to the big names around town , entertaining him at the better clubs , etc. , than in putting him in touch with industrial real estate agents , getting detailed figures on tax rates , etc . The Chamber got the new industry for its city . After his company had built a new plant and had operated it  | for some time , the president began to complain of the high construction costs that had tied up considerable capital , the high wage rates , the high tax rates , etc . Of course it was then too late for the company to give up its new location . What principles of plant location were violated , in so far as this can he determined from the limited number of facts given above ? What could be clone to prevent such a serious error ? What other management principles were violated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Plant. ? Most successful concerns find themselves forced , sooner or later , to build new plants or make additions to existing ones . The growth in their volume of business may make it necessary for them to provide additional manufacturing floor space . We have noted previously that the degree of centralized control that makes for maximum economy and effectiveness tends to vary inversely with the size of the concern and the complexity of its functionalization , and that increasing functional differentiation results , in part , from increasing managerial and operative specialization . The operation of these principles may eventually result in the necessity for a decentralization of manufacturing activities and their control . For example , the volume of production of a new product may be small when it is first introduced , and existing plant facilities may be ample to handle it along with other production requirements . However , the scope and quality of the service rendered by the new product may be increased greatly through the work of the company 's research laboratories ; the cost of manufacturing it may be reduced through constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price reductions and intelligent advertising may greatly increase the demand for it . Hence , within a few years it may be economical and necessary to differentiate completely its manufacture , and to set up a division for it that is largely autonomous . In such a case , new plant and manufacturing facilities will probably be needed . Of course , the various factors in plant location may make it desirable to locate the new plant at some distance from the parent plant ; and if so , the necessity for decentralization is still greater . The usual effect of this is to make necessary certain office , service , and other plant facilities that might not be needed to the same extent if all the manufacturing activities and their control could be centralized . However , it is of course expected that economies in other directions will compensate for any increased charges for additional facilities . In some instances , other factors and forces may create plant problems . For example , a shift in the location of markets or the development of new sales territories for the company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or assembly plants , branch warehouses , etc . The successful concern is constantly expanding its service objectives . Because of this , and also because the plant obviously is an item of productive equipment , problems of plant and equipment tend to be recurrent . The 164  | are acquired . But some flexibility in the arrangement of the outlets for these power lines is necessary if they are to serve the equipment properly , for the arrangement of machinery and equipment tends to change with changes in product or process . Access to power lines for maintenance purposes must also be considered . Dean Kimball uses a continuous-process stamp mill as an interesting example of the relation between manufacturing processes and the type and design of the building . ' This plant is built on the side of a hill in order that the force of gravity may be used to carry ore through processes . Many other illustrations could be offered to show that the facilitation of manufacturing processes is an important consideration in plant design . In fact , many of the following may be regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a minimum of fatigue are requisites for maximum production , a great deal of thought is being given to the reduction of noise and vibration within the plant . Noise is a definite factor in fatigue . One may become accustomed to it , but it has its effect nevertheless . Because a quiet plant is a more pleasant place in which to work , the reduction of noise tends to improve organization morale . In this , as in most management problems , the service objectives of the management and the organization are closely identified with the personal objectives of the employees . Acoustic blocks , plaster , and other sound-reducing materials are being used increasingly in the interior surfaces of factory buildings . Floor materials also have a bearing on employee fatigue , for the person who has stood or walked on concrete all day is more likely to be tired than one who works on wood , wood blocks , or some resilient composition flooring . When certain processes require the use of complex , delicately adjusted machinery , excessive vibration may lower the rate of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and seconds . It is obvious that production is interrupted whenever it is necessary to check the adjustment of a machine . Therefore modern plants using heavy machinery set such equipment on separate foundations which can be insulated from the adjacent floor slabs , in concrete buildings , by the use of semi-plastic materials that will absorb vibration rather than transmit it . Light machinery also may be insulated against the transmission of vibration to and through the building . In some cases , the various sections of a building have been insulated to reduce vibration through its frame . Good illumination and good ventilation , which are important physical factors in performance , may affect the design of the building . The quality and intensity of illumination directly affect the quality and quantity of production . Good lighting is a factor in the reduction of accidents , and also in morale , for a well-lighted work area is more pleasant to work in , and one i n which a person can work more effectively . In so far as natural illumination 2 Dexter S. Kimball , Principles of Industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1933 , p. 78.  | the junctions of interior surfaces in modern buildings frequently are rounded . The charges for maintaining floor surfaces vary considerably with different flooring materials and different manufacturing conditions . Wood flooring is not suited to processes using large quantities of water if the floors are damp or wet much of the time . Concrete tends to " dust " under heavy trucking . In consequence , changes in manufacturing processes and conditions may make it necessary to change the floor surfaces in certain areas . Modern singlestory buildings eliminate the necessity for elevators , and the expense of operating and maintaining them . Some buildings have monorail tracks around the top of the exterior wall surfaces . Scaffolds suspended from trolleys greatly facilitate the work of window cleaning . Concerns that are developing new products or improving existing ones find it necessary to change the layout of their machinery and equipment periodically . Large companies engaged in straight-line production and continuous assembly of standard products usually have to make extensive changes in layout every year . The cost of these changes may run into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arrangement of equipment must greatly affect the economy of manufacturing . A detailed discussion of this point will be given later ; here , however , certain manufacturing economies that are related to the characteristics of the plant building should be noted . One objective in plant layout is a physical relationship between equipment such that work will move from operation to operation with a minimum of back-tracking or crisscrossing on its way toward the finished goods storeroom , the assembly floor , or the shipping dock . Such distances should be as short as possible . This tends to reduce congestion , speed up the movement of work in process , reduce the investment in work in process as a result of higher turnover , etc . A concern 's ability to approximate a straightline layout of equipment depends on the flexibility of the floor space ? the more it is integrated in larger rectangular areas free from columns or other obstacles , the easier it is to meet this requirement . Some factories are merel ; aggregations of buildings of various types , sizes , and vintages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional floor space has been felt ; there may be no logical relationship between the various buildings , and the floor space may be cut up badly . Under such conditions , it may be impossible to achieve the most efficient equipment layout . In some cases , this has been the principal consideration that has induced the management to modernize its plants or build a new one . A problem that must usually be considered in building a plant or changing its layout is the handling of materials . In some concerns , 6o per cent or more of the time that work is in process is non-productive " dead " time ? time during which the work is moving between operations , waiting at a machine for the next operation , moving to or waiting for inspection , moving between departments , etc . Much of this dead time may he unnecessary  --  how much  | depends on several factors , such as plant layout , production control , etc . An important factor , as a rule , is materials-handling equipment , such as cranes , conveyors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment together with good internal transportation speeds up the movement of work and increases the turnover of work in process , and may aid materially in the control of production . It reduces the labor and cost of handling materials , and makes other important contributions to economy in manufacturing . If certain types of equipment , such as traveling cranes , will be needed , their requirements should be considered before the building is designed . Some modern multistory buildings have ramps to facilitate the movement of battery trucks and truck trains between floors . If automatic elevators and spiral gravity-roll conveyors are to be used to move materials between floors , this should be taken into account . It is evident that the requirements of efficient materialshandling equipment affect building design . Conversely , the characteristics of the factory building affect a concern 's ability to use this equipment efficiently . The maintenance of economical relationships between the various physical factors in performance depends in large part on the ease and economy of plant expansion . As we have seen , these relationships are affected by the extent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If economy in production is to be maintained , new manufacturing areas must be integrated with and related logically to the existing floor space . The ease and economy with which this may be done varies with the type of factory building . The amount invested in land and building , and tax and insurance rates , are also affected by the type and construction of the building . These will be discussed later . In the course of this discussion , we have noted a number of factors that affect the ability to achieve certain objectives in constructing a new plant or modernizing an old one . The more important of them are : ( I ) the characteristics of the product , ( 2 ) the characteristics and requirements of manufacturing processes , ( 3 ) the volume of production and its secular trend , ( 4 ) the general type of manufacturing activity ? continuous or intermittent , ( 5 ) the characteristics and requirements of materials-handling equipment , ( 6 ) the effects of manufacturing activities and environment on the employees , ( 7 ) the requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other factors in plant location , and ( p ) the characteristics of various types of building structure and construction . Types of Industrial Buildings. ? The more common types of industrial plants can be grouped into four classes : ( I ) single-story buildings with either a flat or a sawtooth roof , ( 2 ) monitor types , ( 3 ) multi-story buildings , and ( 4 ) special types . , Single-story Buildings. ? The single-story building has a number of advantages . When it is equipped with a sawtooth roof , as shown in Plates 4 and 5 , the natural illumination in the shop is excellent . Almost any desired  | siderable time . There is an opportunity to get it under control before it assumes serious proportions . Slow-burning construction involves the use of heavy timbers and planks so that a fire must burn deep before the columns and floors fall or it eats through to other floors . Ten-inch beams and threeor four-inch floor planks are often used . The building is broken up into manufacturing rooms by means of fire walls at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separated from other rooms by fire doors . All openings between floors , such as elevator shafts , are incased in slow-burning construction , and designed so that they can be closed off completely from the floors on to which they open . Hollow passages between floors through which fire might pass are eliminated . The corners of all woodwork are rounded to prevent it from catching fire easily . Ceilings are equipped with sprinklers . Insurance rates on this type of construction are lower than on other types , with the exception of reinforced concrete equipped with sprinklers . Because of the massive construction , the slow-burning construction prevents the transmission of vibration from machinery much more than do the woodframe and brick types . Yet openings can be cut and alterations and extensions made with relative ease . Although slow-burning construction is still the cheapest in many cases , it has been largely superseded by steel-frame and reinforced concrete buildings . Steel-frame Construction. ? Steel-frame construction involves the use of steel columns , beams , girders , and roof trusses . The outside and fire walls usually are brick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the side walls are constructed of corrugated sheet steel ; however , this depreciates rapidly , even when properly protected . Because such buildings are hard to heat , they are suitable only for housing processes which give off considerable heat . As a rule , floors are wood , mastic , or concrete . The roofs are often constructed with planks laid on steel roof trusses and are covered with some fireproof roofing material . All steel work should be fireproofed with concrete or some other suitable substance to prevent it from twisting and warping during a fire . Steel-frame construction has the advantage of low first cost . The larger construction companies which specialize in industrial buildings have standard designs for steel-frame construction that can be erected quickly . Alterations and extensions are relatively easy to make . On the other hand , if the steel work is not properly protected , and light wood floors and roofs are used , the depreciation is more rapid and the fire hazard is greater than in the case of reinforced concrete buildings . Reinforced Concrete Construction. ? In the buildings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is incased in reinforced concrete . Floors frequently are constructed of reinforced concrete slabs supported directly on the columns ; but in some cases , the floor slabs are supported on girders between the columns , with beams between the girders . Wood floors are often laid over the concrete so that machinery may be anchored easily , the noise of  | equipment , and operations that will make possible a satisfactory degree of economy and effectiveness in processing . The principal objectives in plant layout are as follows : ( t ) Increased turnover of work in process , ( 2 ) better customer service , ( 3 ) lower investment in manufacturing equipment , ( q ) more economical use of factory floor space , ( 5 ) simplification of control , ( 6 ) reduced cost of moving materials , ( 7 ) a better quality of product , ( 8 ) fewer accidents , and ( 9 ) better working conditions for the employees . Good plant layout involves both an attempt to eliminate points of congestion in the flow of work , and a study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Almost invariably , the question of using faster and more reliable materials-handling equipment is taken up . As a result of these and other improvements , the flow of work through the plant is speeded up . Shortened flow lines and better handling equipment result in great savings in the cost of moving materials . The reduction in manufacturing time results in increased turnover of work in process , which in turn releases working capital and decreases interest charges . In addition to better service for the customer , other economies may be possible . For example , if a shoe factory can reduce the manufacturing cycle from two weeks to ten days , it can still give the shoe dealer prompt delivery , but have lower inventories of finished goods , and less necessity for overtime work . Another important consideration in plant layout is the development of " balanced capacity . " By this we mean such a balance between machine capacity or man power on successive operations , and the productive capacities of departments , that ability to handle work at a given rate is approximately equal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a given kind for a given operation , or in a department , that it is idle much of the time , while orders are held up elsewhere because there is insufficient capacity to handle them as scheduled . Balanced machine capacity usually means that a given volume of production can be handled with less equipment than would otherwise be the case . It eliminates some of the unabsorbed overhead that should be charged against idle capacity , and reduces the interruptions to production , resulting from " bottle necks , " that make production control more difficult . A better arrangement and balance of equipment often makes possible a more effective use of factory floor space ; in fact , the necessity for an addition to the plant has been eliminated in some cases by better layout . Good plant layout and materials-handling equipment have often resulted in a better quality of product , fewer accidents , etc . For example , in the case of fragile goods or worked materials with accurately finished surfaces , there is a chance for damage every time that the work is moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tends to reduce both the number of moves that must be made and the distance the work must be moved ; the use of the proper type of materials-handling equipment may reduce still further the  | danger of damage . As a rule , attention is also given to methods of storing goods in process , and to the provision of adequate storage space . When work must be trucked through or between departments , aisle lines are often painted on the floor , and all work must be piled within these lines in a neat , orderly fashion . Not only does this speed up the movement of work in process , but it may also reduce the accident hazard , for a disorderly shop is a breeding ground of accidents . In still other ways , good plant layout usually results in better working conditions , in which both employees and executives are interested . In consequence , plant layout may contribute to the development of better organization morale . Factors and Principles in Plant Layout. ? Anything that affects the proper physical relationship between plant , equipment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ layout . Obviously there may be a great many of them , and they tend to be peculiar to the type and kind of industry ; however , some are so basic that they affect most industries . In an assembled product , for example , the principal factors usually are : ( I ) The volume of work to be handled ; ( 2 ) the manufacturing policy ; ( 3 ) the products to be manufactured , their component parts , and subassemblies ; ( 4 ) the assembly relationships between the component parts and subassemblies of each product ; ( 5 ) the operations needed on each part , subassembly , and final assembly ; ( 6 ) the kind , size , and capacity of the machines required for each operation ; ( 7 ) the conditions necessary for manufacturing processes or operations ; ( 8 ) the characteristics and locations of the manufacturing areas for each part , subassembly , and final assembly ; ( 9 ) the characteristics and requirements of auxiliary services necessary for production ; and ( 1o ) materials-handling equipment . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handled in connection with the production of parts , assemblies , and finished goods affects greatly the amount of productive capacity , both man and machine , that is necessary for each operation on them . In many cases , it affects the type of employee and machine that can be used most economically , as well as the kind and amount of materials-handling equipment . The volume of work determines largely the kind of manufacturing that is most profitable . Inasmuch as the volume of business may vary in an infinite number of degrees within an industry , it follows that manufacturing activity may vary greatly . At one end of the scale is the concern that is engaged in highly intermittent manufacturing , where men and machines can be applied to materials for only limited periods of time . An operation on a given order may keep a machine busy for a few hours , but at the end of that time it will probably be necessary to change the tools and reset the machine so that it can be used for another order . The so-called " job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the customer 's order and specifications , necessarily engages in this kind of manu-  | a change in the lighting . Similarly , changes may be necessary when certain operations require air conditioning . In continuous production or assembly , a flat-roll conveyor or some other type of non-portable conveying device may he used to integrate operations into a whole , and its space requirements must be considered . The expense of these collateral changes should be taken into account when the desirability of a proposed layout is studied . In most cases , the layout problem has to do with the re-layout of machinery and auxiliary equipment within the existing plant . It is customary to block out roughly the space requirements of departments and products , on the basis of past records and experience , before the new layout is actually started . Certain jobs are assigned to certain " bays " in the plant , the general assembly relationships and the conditions necessary for processing being taken into consideration . Since a large part of the layout problem frequently is to get the required operations into the available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristics of this space will be extremely important . In the course of our discussion , we have noted a number of general principles affecting plant layout , the more important of which may be summarized briefly as follows : I. Manufacturing policies condition operations , and should be determined before the plant is laid out . 2 . The volume of each kind of work that must be done in a normal work period governs the amount of each kind of productive capacity that must be supplied . In consequence , accurate business forecasts are important . 3 . Information concerning the manufacturing requirements of products and processes should be as complete as possible . 4 . The relation of new and improved equipment to the economy of manufacturing should be considered before making the plant layout . 5 . Economy of production depends on the provision of adequate space for the storage of work , the operation of machines , and the movement of work . 6 . There should be a minimum movement of work between operations . 7 . Work should move with a minimum of back-tracking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shipping department . It should move in a straight line , in so far as practicable . 8 . The materials-handling equipment is important , and should be considered in conjunction with the layout and servicing of equipment . 9 . Service centers facilitate operations and must be located accordingly . To . Machine capacity and man power should be balanced between operations and departments . ir . The physical relations between equipment and facilities should be sutli-  | sufficiently flexible to permit its adjustment to changing manufacturing requirements with a minimum of time and expense . These adjustments may be made necessary by expansions or contractions in the volume of work beyond that forecasted , the changing character of work , the secular growth of the business , etc. 12 . The requirements of operations and their relation to the general manufacturing environment must be considered in making the plant layout . The Method of Plant Layout. ? The fundamental principles of plant layout may be applied in any manufacturing concern , their application necessarily varying with the type of industry , the kind of manufacturing , special conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is usually easier to see and understand their application in the continuous manufacture of an assembled product such as a radio , washing machine , automobile , or some similar item . As we have noted previously , the volume of work here is large enough to permit the selection of equipment which will meet the production requirements of each part or subassembly entering into the finished product . The layout of the equipment may strictly follow the sequence of operations in which it is to be used . The problem of getting an economical balance is simpler . Because improvements in product and process are integrated annually in the form of new models and changes in plant layout , manufacturing conditions remain highly stable throughout the manufacturing year . For these and other reasons , we shall use the above conditions as the basis of a general example of plant layout . We do not imply , of course , that the problem of layout is simpler in the large plant engaged in continuous manufact uring than it is in the small plant engaged in intermittent manufacturing . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former necessitates and makes possible a greater division and specialization of operative functions ; and the possible use of specialized machinery , more highly developed materials-handling systems , the higher development and specialization of various service functions , etc. , may complicate the problem greatly . Proper physical relationships between primary operative functions , the physical factors that enter into and condition them , and the various human faculties that are necessary for them are affected extensively by such considerations . Before we can lay out the plant , someone must make a quantitative determination of our service objectives . It is obviously our hope that our new models will improve our competitive position . To do this , they must offer to the public increased value at the same price , the same value at a lower price , or additional values that are commensurate with any necessary price increases . ( This statement is subject to modification , of course , with regard to monopoly , inability of the public to determine quality accurately , etc . In general , however , it tends to be true . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in market and product research and product design , and have  | for a peak production of 32,500 units of Model A , on the basis of a working month of 18o hours . Since the master plan of work for Part Too shows that five pieces are required to assemble one unit of Model A , we must tool up the job for a peak production of 162,500 pieces per month . Machine capacity usually is expressed in terms of machine-hours . The time , in hours , necessary to complete an operation on a part , multiplied by the total number of parts that are required during a period of time , gives the total capacity required of the type of machine to be used . The number of machines required for the operation may be determined by dividing this MASTER PLAN OF WORK PART NAME : PART NO : /00 MATERIAL : Cast Iron USAGE : 0.428#lpc . USED ON MODELS A // Fie . 2o. -A Master Plan of Work . figure by the number of hours that one machine will run during the period . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any machine ; no management can ever entirely eliminate machine breakdowns , failure of the materials supply , excessive scrappage of work , and the other causes that make it impossible . Consequently , the theoretical capacity of a machine must be reduced by some factor which takes such interruptions into account . These relationships may be expressed as follows : N 6o H.F. in which N ? Number of machines required for a given operation . T ? Standard time per piece for the operation , in minutes . P ? Maximum production per month that is required . H ? Number of hours worked per machine per month . F = A factor of use that is frequently estimated to be o.8. qwq  | Using this equation and the information given for Model A and Part too in Fig. 20 , we can easily determine the number of machines that will be required for Operation t on this part : o.z X 16z,5oo N 6o x 18o x o.8 ' or 3.76 W-type machines . When continuous production is conveyorized , as indicated in Fig. 7 , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a machine to an operation . Therefore we must apply four machines of this type to Operation t . This example shows several reasons why it is not possible to get an exact balance of capacity , even with a large volume of production . S-. 22Ca1. - 16- M 5 ? n w t 30 ca/- 7-10 FIG. 21 . ? Flow Sheet for the Barrel Shops of a Munitions Manufacturer . Before attempting to determine the exact location for each machine , production line , or assembly line , it is usually desirable to make flow sheets for each part and assembly . A flow sheet , an example of which is shown in Fig. is a diagram showing approximately the routing and flow of work for a part or assembly . We could proceed directly to locate individual operations kind machines , but the preliminary analysis of space and flow relationships usually saves considerably more than the time and expense of making it . ' The general locations and directions of the lines of flow are based on the general assembly relationships that must be maintained in the manufacture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locations of operations and departments , the adequacy of any general space allotments that have been made , and the general characteristics of the equipment layout within then . For other examples of flow analysis , see the special section on " Plant Layout " by Allan H. Mogrnmm in Factory Management and Maintenance , May , 1936.  | the line organization , except in the few cases where a completely functionalized relationship is practicable . Hence , the signatures . After the final tracing has been approved , blue prints will be made and sent probably to the millwrights ' section in the maintenance department . The millwrights will move the specified equipment to the locations indicated , and set it up in accordance with the layout plan . When they have done this , they must get an O.K. from the plant layout section which releases them from their responsibility . When the new department or section is approved by the production division , the plant layout section is released from its responsibility , and we are ready to go into production of Part zoo , at least in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and primary operative functions are concerned . We shall probably be required to get these O.K. 's in writing on some prescribed form , to prevent any shifting of responsibility later on . Perhaps we have gone somewhat further into the problems of the plant and its equipment than is justifiable in an elementary discussion of management , but it is important that we appreciate the contributions of these factors to economy in manufacturing . What is far more important , we have tried to show that planning and organizing the use of these factors conforms closely to the theory of organization and operation discussed previously . PROBLEMS r . A small company is engaged in the manufacture of metal novelties . The line includes a wide range of items , and is constantly changing because of the changing whims and fads of the public ; but quality standards for the products are not high . Most of the operations have to do with the blanking , drawing , forming , piercing , or crimping of sheet metal . Because the items are small and a light-gauged metal is used , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involves considerable vibration . The company is growing rapidly , but its financial condition is none too good because of the recent business depression . However , its present plant is inadequate and obsolete , and the management feels that a new one must be built . Good industrial plant sites are available in that community at approximately $r000.00 per acre . In your opinion , what general type of factory building is best suited to the needs of this concern ? What economic aspects of construction should be considered ? Why ? What fundamentals of organization and operation enter into this case ? The time needed to complete a given operation on a certain part is 0.2 minute . The production required per month is 500,000 pieces . The plant normally runs 8 hours per day and 20 days per month . Using a production factor of o.8 , compute how many machines will be required for the operation .  | MATERIALS HANDLING Materials Handling and Economy in Manufacturing. ? Much of the work of operative employees has to do with the handling or movement of raw , worked , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must be moved from the cars or trucks in which they are shipped , to the floor of the receiving department . After they have been checked in , they must be moved to a storeroom or to production . In the storeroom , they must be moved to the point of storage , and frequently they must be handled as they are piled , stacked , or stowed . Their subsequent release to the point of use requires movement , and probably handling . In the previous chapter we saw that much of the primary operative work had to do with or was directly affected by materials handling . In consequence , the provision of materialshandling equipment has to be considered in connection with plant layout . As a rule , the problem of materials handling begins with the receipt of materials into the plant , and ends only with the shipment of the finished product . In some industries it is necessary to move from fifty to one hundred tons of material for each ton of finished material that is shipped . There have been cases in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production from io to 50 per cent . For all these reasons , materials handling is an important factor in economy in manufacturing . Management 's Objectives in Materials Handling. ? Some types of materialshandling equipment are expensive . The development and installation of improved methods often raise some difficult problems , and may interfere seriously with current operations . Therefore , the materials-handling system must produce values that are commensurate with the expenditures of time and money required for its introduction and operation . The objectives of the management in materials handling usually include some or all of the following : ( I ) Lower unit cost of moving and handling materials , ( 2 ) a reduction in and more rapid turnover of inventories , ( 3 ) greater production per employee , and lower unit costs , ( 4 ) better production control , ( 5 ) the release of valuable factory floor space , ( 6 ) better control of quality , and ( 7 ) improved morale . At the beginning of this century , pig iron was being handled by hand at the Bethlehem Steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Taylor , who was employed by the company at that time , became iK6  | interested in the problem . One result of his investigation was the discovery that a first-class workman , handling a 92-lb. pig of iron , can be under load only 43 per cent of the working day ; he must be entirely free from load during the remaining 57 per cent of the time . A more fundamental result was Taylor 's discovery of the law of heavy laboring : " For each given pull or push on the man 's arms it is possible for the workmen to be under load for only a definite percentage of the day . " 1 Today , pig iron is lifted and moved by a conveying system in which modern materials-handling equipment is used . The advantages of this modern equipment are manifold . Because of its greater power and its ability to work continuously , it greatly increases the materials-handling capacity of the workman ; furthermore , it obviously is not subject to Taylor 's law of heavy laboring . The increase in the worker 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is an important consideration , the necessity for increased materials-handling capacity may be quite as important ; for in most cases , it would be impossible to handle manually the vast quantity of materials required by a large factory , except at a prohibitive cost . An organized system of materials handling with modern equipment usually means a faster movement of materials , and lower inventories of work in process . Working capital is released and interest charges are lower as a result of the higher turnover . In part , this may be due to better production control made possible by the prompt , speedy handling of materials at a predetermined rate , with a minimum of interference with deliveries . Better production control usually enables the better planning of inventories , both of goods in stores and of work in process . The more efficient handling of materials to and from the machines results in greater production per employee . If the materials-handling system has been integrated properly with plant layout , the congestion of materials around machines and work places is greatly reduced . The worker 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work place , nor is he held up by the failure of material to arrive when he needs it . ( The relation of operations to the stowage of materials in process is illustrated in Fig. 81 on page 456 , showing the use of flat-roll conveyors for this purpose in a paper box factory . ) The release of the employee from the arduous work o lifting and moving heavy materials diminishes fatigue greatly . The natural reaction is frequently a more diligent , continuous application to the more productive phases of the job , and less need for supervision . Furthermore , the time that must be spent on the preparatory phases of work is reduced . As a consequence of these improvements , the production of the man or the machine is increased still more . it should he evident also that the installation of materials-handling equipment tends to increase rather than diminish the identity of interests between ' F. A. Copley , Frederick W. Taylor , vol. ii , p. 41.  | management and the operative employees . The first effect , of course , may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy and effectiveness of operations is usually the result of some saving in labor , it tends to result in unemployment in some degree . In most cases , however , its subsequent effect is to increase employment , for , over a period of time , more goods and services are made available to more people in the lower income groups as a result of cost and price reductions . The potential consumption capacity of these groups is far greater than that of the higher income groups . As we have seen , identities of personal and company interests tend to produce good morale , but not unless the nature and extent of the identity are understood . Therefore , the installation of materials-handling equipment should be accompanied by educational work to the end that the employees will realize its ultimate benefits , as well as its immediate effects . Another effect of materials-handling equipment is to increase the productive life of the employee by reducing the importance of physical strength in work . In many lines of work , older men would have an advantage , as long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience and better judgment . ' The electric hoist mounted on a jib crane shown in Plate 12 is used with a boring mill . With its aid , the operator can pick up the casting from the floor and land it on the bed of his machine with little physical effort . Without mechanical assistance , he would have to lift it by his own strength , with consequent danger of injury to himself . If it were too heavy , he would require the assistance of one or more nearby mechanics ; their machines would be idle while they were helping him , which would mean additional expense for the company , and lower per capita production . Quality is quite as important in economy in manufacturing as quantity ; frequently it is even more important  --  it may be a determining consideration in the selection of materials-handling equipment . For example , the writer has a blue print of the plant layout for the piston department in a large automobile factory . In the initial stages in its processing , the piston rolls down tracks made of angle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage , however , the pistons ride on a flat canvas-belt conveyor , end up . The reason is that extremely accurate and highly finished surfaces are being formed by grinding and lapping processes , the permissible variation from the specified diameter of the piston being a fraction of a thousandth of an inch . If these pistons were to continue to roll and bump their way down angle-iron tracks , it is unlikely that they would give the automobile buyer the service he has a right to expect . 2In an editorial entitled " More Men over Forty-five " in its issue of January 14 , 19 ; 8 , the Bridgeport Works News of the General Electric Company comments on the relation between mechanization and working age . It quotes census figures showing that the number of industrial employees between ages 4.5 and 65 increased approximately from 20 to 25 per cent between t ) on and 1930 . It feels that the transfer of physical strain from the than to the machine has been an important factor in this .  | In any industry , a well-organized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relieve congestion , reduce inventories of work in process , and make possible a better utilization of factory floor space for storage or other purposes . Plate 18 shows a carrousel conveyor serving a flat-belt conveyor in light assembly work . Component parts and subassemblies are stored on trays in the air , and the assembled product is stored on the belt conveyor between operations . Provision for floor storage obviously is unnecessary . A similar situation is shown in Plate 35 , in which a production line is served by a flat-roll conveyor , the worked materials being stored on the conveyor and moved between operations in steel tote boxes . The use of materials-handling equipment in the storeroom enables bulk materials to be piled to far greater heights than would otherwise be possible . Thus Plate 54 shows an elevator truck stacking a pallet load of crates filled with fragile materials . In various other ways , materials-handling equipment may effect the release of valuable factory floor space . Principal Phases of the Materials-handling Problem. ? The principal operative functions of production that involve materials handling are processing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , processing breaks down into two principal phases : setting up the machine in preparation for the operation , and doing the actual operation . It is often necessary to handle heavy tools , dies , and attachments in connection with the set-up of equipment . Plate 34 shows a heavy-duty , high-lift truck being used in setting dies in a sheet-metal press ? a heavy task without the aid of some such materialshandling device . Much of the physical labor of doing an operation such as that shown in Plate 12 is concerned with handling materials coming to or from the machine . Another phase of this problem is shown in Plate 13 . Storing involves the handling and movement of large amounts of materials of various kinds , sometimes loose or bulk materials . Plate 20 shows malt being moved from a barge to a warehouse by a pneumatic conveyor . Some goods are packaged and must be stacked or piled properly . An idea of the handling problems involved is given by Plate 49 , which shows the storage of bulk packaged materials in a warehouse . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much so that it is frequently an important factor in storeroom layout . As we have seen previously , it is often necessary to provide for the temporary storage of work in process ; this usually creates some problem in materials handling that is peculiar to the particular case . We noted in connection with plant layout the large proportion of manufacturing time that is devoted to the movement of materials . Direct materials must he moved from the receiving dock to stores , then to the production departments , to the machines , to inspection , between departments , and , in large factories , between plants . Each movement usually requires some kind  | of materials-handling equipment , and creates a handling problem that is peculiar to it . Plate 13 gives an idea of the problem of the intra-departmental movement of work , as well as of handling it coming to and from the machine . Plate 25 illustrates inter-departmental and inter-plant transportation . Kinds and Classes of Materials-handling Equipment. ? The economy and effectiveness of materials handling tend to be at a maximum when the distances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are at a minimum , and the proper equipment is used . There are various types and kinds of equipment , many of which have been standardized . Some are intended for loose or bulk materials , and others handle individual items or groups of items ; some give continuous delivery of the particular item , and others are designed for non-continuous delivery . In the selection of equipment , mobility is often a factor . Some types are portable , some are self-propelled , but others are immobile , being operated from a permanently fixed location . Some classification of this equipment , based on function and characteristics , is necessary for a satisfactory analysis of the materialshandling problem . The following is a modification of one that has been widely used : ' Classification of Materials-handling Equipment 1 . Hoisting machinery : a . Cranes of various types . b . Hoists . c . Cable and tramways. d . Excavating equipment . 2 . Package-handling equipment : a . Flat-roll , gravity-roll , and live-roll conveyors . b . Belt conveyors . c . Slat and platform conveyors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and telphers. e . Push-bar elevators. f . Chutes. 3 . Conveyors for loose materials : a . Skip hoists . b . Screw conveyors . c . Continuous bucket conveyors . d . Gravity conveyors . e . Belt conveyors . f . Pneumatic conveyors . 4 . Elevators. 5 . Trackless transportation : a . Platform trucks . 3 L. P. Alford , Cost and Production Handbook , p. 856.  | b . Hand trucks . c . Lift trucks . d . Storage battery or gas trucks or tractors. e . Truck cranes . f . Trailer cars . 6 . Industrial rail transportation : a . Locomotives . b . Cable cars . c . Hand-propelled cars . This classification is considerably abridged , and many important types are not mentioned . Moreover , space limitations restrict our discussion to those in the above list that are most important in industry . Hoisting Machinery. ? A great variety of cranes and hoists are used in industry . Traveling cranes , of the type shown in Plate 14 , are well adapted to the movement of heavy loads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storage yards . While heavy-duty cranes are operated from a cab , very light traveling cranes may be electrically controlled from the floor . A gantry crane used in the yard storage of heavy , bulky materials is illustrated in Plate 47 . Plate 50 shows a light crane equipped with an electric hoist , in use in a large warehouse . In Plate 56 , a small locomotive crane , gas-engine powered and equipped with a grab bucket , is handling metal turnings in a salvage yard . In most cases , hoists are used to lift and handle heavy , bulky materials locally , but in conjunction with some other type of handling equipment they may be used to transport such materials . We shall see some examples of this shortly when we discuss package-handling equipment . An electric hoist mounted on a jib crane was shown above in Plate 12 . An interesting application of a portable , hand-operated chain hoist is shown in Plate 45 ; it is being used by maintenance mechanics in tightening the belt of a live-roll conveyor . Package-handling Equipment. ? The classification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used in the continuous handling and transporting of specific units of materials in volume . These units may be individual items such as castings , containers holding definite quantities of worked materials , goods that are packaged and transported in barrels , crates , boxes , etc . In other words , the materials are in such form that they may be handled and transported as individual packages . As the following examples suggest , such equipment is used more frequently and more extensively in process or continuous assembly industries than in intermittent assembly industries . Roll conveyors are a common example of it , the principal types ? flat-roll , gravity-roll , and live-roll conveyors ? being used in all kinds of manufacturing industries . Plate 35 shows a typical use of flat-  | roll conveyors and steel tote boxes in a production line set up for the continuous manufacture of connecting rods for automobiles . The rolls are mounted on ball or roller bearings and of course spin easily . When a workman completes a tote box of work , he gives it a shove , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 and i6 show the intake and discharge ends of a system of spiral gravity-roll conveyors in a biscuit manufacturing plant . The system of live- and gravity-roll conveyors shown in Plate 51 is used in connection with the movement and storage of oil drums in a refinery . The construction of a live-roll conveyor is shown in Plate 45 . The belt is cut and laced to give the proper belt tension , and is held against the rolls by means of idlers . The crates on the conveyor move in a direction opposite to that of the power-driven belt . Materials can be transported continuously over longer distances , inasmuch as their movement does not depend on gravity or human power . Flat-belt conveyors also give continuous delivery , and in some cases they compete with live-roll conveyors . They are used frequently for individual items for which smooth delivery on a soft , smooth surface is essential for the protection of quality . They are well adapted to the handling of materials between light assembly operations . They may be used to elevate materials , provided the angle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friction of the belt for the particular material . Plate 37 shows a flat-belt conveyor used in packing confectionery . Slat conveyors provide a broad , fairly continuous surface that can stand up under hard use . Plate 17 shows this type in use in the continuous assembly of refrigerators . The loader piling sacks of grain in Plate 49 is a common type of portable slat conveyor . A competing form of equipment that has greater capacity and flexibility is a portable screw conveyor for handling sacked materials . Power-driven platform conveyors are just what their name implies . They usually consist of platforms , running in tracks , that are linked together by a power chain . They are used frequently in continuous foundries because the broad , flat surfaces of the platforms are well adapted to the transportation of molds from the molding machines to the pouring stations , through the cooling tunnel , etc . Plate 36 shows an interesting application of a hand-propelled platform conveyor , running in tracks , to the continuous assembly of refrigerators . Such a conveyor is usually more flexible than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overhead handling of materials . They make possible the speedier transportation of particular materials , relieve congestion in the flow of materials through the aisles of factory departments , and enable the more effective use of factory floor space in the storage of materials . The three types noted ? carrousel conveyors , monorail chain conveyors , and telphers ? are frequently used in manufacturing plants , particularly in those engaged in continuous manufactur-  | ing . A carrousel or " merry-go-round " conveyor consists of a power-driven chain that travels on a monorail track ; from the chain are suspended hooks , trays , baskets , or similar devices . The path of the track is not necessarily circular , but it usually covers a relatively limited area . A common application is in the continuous assembly of relatively small mechanical products . An example is shown in Plate i8 . The conveyor passes through a substorage area , or " loading station , " that is contiguous to the assembly line . The various parts required for assembly are placed in the appropriate receptacles and travel down the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assembly conveyor ? a flat-belt conveyor in Plate 78 . As the receptacles pass the successive assembly stations , the assemblers take the material needed for the particular operation , and the empty receptacle returns to the loading station . If a particular item is not needed at the moment , it continues to ride on the " merry-go-round " until needed . The monorail chain conveyor shown in Plate 19 is used in a pie factory , and has to handle production at the rate of 6000 pies per hour . So far as the details of construction are concerned , this type of conveyor is similar to the carrousel . However , it is quite different functionally , for in most cases it handles and transports worked materials continuously through the successive steps in the fabrication of a product , rather than its assembly . A telpher is a cab-controlled , power-driven hoist , usually electric , that runs on a monorail track . Plate 55 shows one that is being used to move wire from a warehouse to a gondola for shipment . Such equipment is capable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By supplying suitable trackage and switching devices , it can be given sufficient flexibility to enable it to cover any area , but it lacks flexibility in so far as ease of adjustment to changes in plant layout is concerned raise or lower materials between floors . We have noted previously that belt conveyors may be used to move materials up light gradients . By special manipulation of their hoists , telphers also have been used to move materials between floors without rehandling . A more common device is the push-bar elevator shown in Plate 46 . This type of conveyor consists of two strands of chain , connected at intervals by crossbars . The example shows its use in conjunction with a short length of gravity-roll conveyor to move materials from a receiving dock to the storerooms above ; packaged materials are pushed up a sheet steel slide that is almost vertical . Some installations use a belt conveyor , in which case the speed of the belt and of the push-bars must be the same . Spiral or straight chutes are often used to move packaged materials downward between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flat-belt conveyor , a portable chute , and a length of portable roll conveyor for storing bulk packaged materials . The chute is equipped with a deflector to divert the packaged  | material from the belt . This combination has considerable flexibility , as well as large capacity . Conveyors for Loose Materials. ? In certain circumstances , conveyors for loose materials may be important in an industry . For example , materialshandling systems employing some combination of skip hoists and continuous bucket conveyors are commonly used in industrial powerhouses for handling coal . Industries whose raw materials are in loose bulk form must use this type of equipment . Plate 20 illustrates pneumatic equipment for moving malt from a barge for storage in a brewery . When large quantities of liquid materials are used , they are usually conveyed by being pumped through pipe lines . Although process industries , such as soap manufacturing plants , pump their materials , the best-known example is the oil companies , who convey crude oil to the refineries over hundreds of miles through their pipe lines . Elevators. ? Specialization in the vertical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These elevators range from large passenger or freight cars that require the services of an operator , to automatic elevators for handling particular kinds of materials . The latter , an example of which is illustrated in Plate 21 , may be regarded as special packagehandling equipment for the vertical movement of materials . Such elevators can be set to discharge automatically at any desired floor . Portable handoperated elevators are often used in storing materials , but they have been superseded largely by elevator trucks or other competing equipment . Trackless Transportation. ? This form of transportation includes many kinds of industrial trucks and tractors that serve a variety of purposes . Their principal advantages are speed , mobility , and flexibility . They can go almost anywhere within the plant , and handle almost anything within the limits of their capacity . Devices that must operate on tracks or from a fixed position necessarily are less mobile and flexible . Trucks and tractors differ greatly in their characteristics , depending on the requirement of the materials-handling problem . Some are hand-powered , and others are powerdriven ; some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treads . They may have three wheels or four ; this affects the radius in which they can turn , and is sometimes important in connection with aisle widths and corners . Platform trucks are an important subclassification of trackless transportation . Hand trucks fill an essential need where it is necessary to move loads locally within a radius of approximately 200 feet . Hand dollies are found frequently , but they have been largely displaced i n manufacturing by hand lift trucks of the type shown in Plate 22 . Lift trucks are used in conjunction with skids , as shown in the plate ; this combination affords maximum flexibility . For anything except local and usually intradepartmental transportation , the power-driven truck is likely to be most efficient and economical . It may be powered by either a gasoline motor or  | an electric storage battery . Such trucks may be classified as low-lift or highlift platform trucks , and elevator or tiering trucks . We have already seen , in Plate 13 , a power-driven , low-lift truck that is used for the delivery of materials to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run under the skid and elevated to give sufficient clearance to permit the transportation of the load through the shop ; this represents about the limit of its elevating capacity . Of course , materials may be stacked in containers or piled directly on the platform , but this necessitates an additional rehandling operation . The high-lift truck generally has a rigid , structural steel column that is an integral part of the truck frame . The platform may be elevated approximately to the height of this column , as shown in Plate 53 . This equipment is quite adequate if lack of head room or the nature of the material limits piling to about eight feet . An elevator or tiering truck , such as that in Plate 54 , has an extension column that telescopes within the main column when not in use . The platform may be elevated approximately to the height of the extended column . In general , the greater the elevating capacity that is required , the more costly is the truck . Furthermore , industrial trucks are often built with special equipment when some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipped with a crane which is used in a foundry for setting a core in a mold . When ferrous materials must be handled , the hook sometimes is replaced by an electromagnet . Industrial trucks in rolling mills are often equipped with rams for handling sheet metal , as shown in Plate 24 . All high-lift trucks do not have fixed columns . In some it is possible to tilt the load slightly by tilting the column . This type of truck , with special attachments , has been used successfully for handling heavy rolls of paper in the printing and paper industries . Tractors are used extensively for hauling loads between plants or widely separated departments . Plate 25 shows an industrial tractor mo-ling a trailer trainload of fenders between buildings in an automobile plant . Industrial Rail Transportation. ? The last classification , industrial rail transportation , hardly requires comment . Most people have seen small industrial locomotives operating in the yards of large manufacturing plants . They are used to spot freight cars at the receiving docks , to move loaded cars away from the shipping docks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common examples of this class of equipment in manufacturing industries . The Principles of Materials Handling. ? A review of the principles that relate the objectives , functions , and factors in the economical handling of materials may be a desirable way of summarizing this discussion . We are not concerned , of course , with the principles that underlie the designing of materials-handling equipment , for they fall within the province of the engineer . Nor can we discuss the various special principles and rules that enter into the operation of particular kinds of equipment , for their number and detail exceed the limitations of a general text such as this . We are concerned  | with those general principles that are common to most materials-handling problems , which the line executive must know if he is to participate intelligently in the selection and use of such equipment . We have seen that the materials-handling problem should be studied in conj unction with plant layout , to the end that the number of moves of a given material , and the distance moved , may be reduced to a minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the materials-handling problem begins with the receipt of raw materials and supplies , and ends only with the shipment of the finished product . The maintenance of a continuous , uniform , maximum rate of movement of work in process , consistent with the type of manufacturing , the capacity of the equipment , and the well-being of the employees , is a requisite for maximum economy in production . Therefore , wherever possible , materials should move continuously between and through the operations that must be performed . An example of this was shown in Plate 19 . The proper application of this principle usually speeds up the movement of work in process inventories and increases their turnover . In some cases , per capita production is increased as a result of a reduction of congestion at work places . Floor space may be released if the conveyor carries much of the work in process inventory , and if the necessity for large banks of work is reduced by a more efficient movement and more positive control of materials . The continuous movement of materials introduces rhythm into work ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improves morale , and increases per capita production . However , unless the capacity of the materials-handling equipment is equal to that of the men or machines that use it , it is more likely to cause bottle necks , interferences , and irregularities in the flow of materials , than to eliminate them . In this connection , the size and characteristics of the load to be transported- or stored are important factors in materials handling , for they affect the type of equipment that should be used . As we shall see later , the control of production in continuous manufacturing depends largely on the control of the movement of materials to the production or assembly lines . Plants engaged in this type of manufacturing take into account the manner of transporting and storing materials , the type of equipment that is best suited in view of the volume of materials to be moved , the size of a unit load , the frequency of deliveries , and other similar factors . The deliveries of materials from the storerooms are likewise carefully scheduled and controlled . In so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can probably be used economically wherever heavy physical exertion is required in the movement or handling of materials . As a general rule , loads of over ioo pounds should be handled mechanically , although there may be cases in which lighter loads may be handled more economically by this means . Materials-handling equipment speeds up the  | handling of work at and around the machine and saves the employee from the effects of fatigue , thereby increasing the output of the machine . An application of this principle was shown in Plate 12 . It is evident that there is a direct relation between materials-handling equipment and economy of motion in operative functions , and this must he considered . Each materials-handling operation requires some expenditure of time , money , and effort . In consequence , the rehandling of materials should be reduced to a minimum . This principle is illustrated in Plates 54 ( the use of the pallet and truck system in storing ) and 13 ( the use of the truck and skid system in production ) . Wherever practicable , the ceiling should be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the floor . Overhead materials handling , such as the monorail telpher ( Plate 55 ) , avoids traffic congestions and releases floor space for productive purposes . The quality of materials and products must frequently be considered in the selection of handling equipment . Highly finished surfaces , difficult contours , accurate dimensions , and other attributes are expensive to create , and serious waste may result if they are damaged subsequently through mishandling . The materials-handling system must have sufficient flexibility to permit effective and economical service over the normal range of variation in manufacturing conditions within the plant . In general , its flexibility tends to vary inversely with the extent to which it is designed to serve a special purpose , but the necessity for flexibility usually decreases as the standardization of manufacturing conditions increases . When conditions can be highly standardized , special-purpose equipment may be entirely justified by its greater efficiency in the particular materials-handling task . It is obvious that the flexibility of equipment tends to decrease , the more its operation is limited by physical restrictions . For example , if it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tracks , or for other reasons can not be moved about easily , it may not he able to meet the materials-handling service whenever and wherever it arises , as well as can a general-purpose type of trackless transportation of the same capacity . In most cases , flexibility , mobility , and portability go together . Finally , the monetary savings made possible by a proposed installation of materials-handling equipment should be sufficient to amortize it at a rate that will preclude obsolescence . There may be cases in which a certain kind and quality of service must be had , regardless of cost , but this is not usually the case . The following section is devoted to the analysis of materialshandling costs and savings . The Analysis of Materials-handling Economies. ? To analyze materialshandling economies requires an investigation of the cost factors that enter into both the present and the proposed methods . The savings to be produced  | by the new equipment should be capitalized at a rate sufficient to cover equipment maintenance , interest , depreciation , obsolescence , taxes , and other fixed charges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be spent on the equipment . Furthermore , most concerns feel that this kind of equipment must pay for itself within a relatively short time , usually one or two years , although the time may vary with the type of equipment and the nature of the installation . This may appear to be an unreasonably severe test . However , materials-handling equipment frequently must operate under unfavorable conditions , and must stand hard use . Its utility is dependent on the characteristics and requirements of current manufacturing functions ; these are changing constantly . Finally , the fact that manufacturers of handling equipment have always been aggressive in the development of their products increases the danger of obsolescence . The American Society of Mechanical Engineers has developed certain formulas for estimating the economies possible with handling equipment . ' The following factors in handling costs are taken into account , and are indicated by letter : A ? Percentage allowance on investment . B ? for insurance , taxes , etc . C ? " maintenance . D ? " depreciation and obsolescence . E ? Yearly cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . S ? Yearly saving in direct labor cost , in dollars . T ? " " fixed charges , operating charges , or burden , in dollars . U ? " or earning through increased production , in dollars . X ? Percentage of year during which equipment is used . I ? Initial cost of the equipment . The relations between these factors are expressed by the following formulas : Z ? The maximum justifiable investment , in dollars : ( S+T+ U ? E ) X A+ B+ C+ D Y ? Yearly cost of maintaining ready for operation : = I ( A + B + C + D ) . V ? Yearly profit from the operation of the equipment , above simple interest : = ( S + T + U ? E ) X ? Y. P ? The estimated rate of profit : = V/I+ A. H ? Number of years required for amortization of investment out of earnings : roo P+ D A simple example will illustrate the general approach . We shall assume that the full time of three men is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of these formulas , see a paper entitled " Formulas for Computing the Economics of Labor-saving Equipment " by James A. Shepard and George E. IIagemann , presented bcfnre the A.S.M.E. at Milwaukee in May . 0 ) 25.  | ment of work in process by means of hand trucks . The work is unskilled and is paid at the rate of $0.40 per hour . Deliveries are irregular and unsatisfactory . A study of delays in production shows that those attributable to poor deliveries and congestion of work in process cost the company about $350.00 per year . The management believes that at least this much can be saved through the mechanization and better organization of interdepartmental transportation , and they find that a motor-driven lift truck can handle all this work . The best truck for their purposes will cost about $185o.00 , and its operator will earn about $0.50 per hour ; there will also be an operating cost for gas and oil not necessary for the hand truck . It is estimated that the new truck will use about 0.33 gallon of gasoline and 0.028 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per gallon , respectively . Operating on a 4o-hour week , the factory runs approximately 2000 hours per year at the maximum , but current business conditions are such that it will not average more than . 70 per cent of this figure . The management allows 4.5 per cent to cover insurance and taxes , and estimates the expense of maintenance and repairs at 15 per cent . With good maintenance , the equipment should have a life of five years . Savings must cover at least 6 per cent on the investment . Burden is charged against indirect labor at the rate of 20 per cent . On this basis : S = ( 2000 hrs . X $0.4o/hr . X 3 ) ? ( 1000 hrs . X $o.5o/hr. ) , or $1400.00 . T = $1400.00 X $0.10 = $280.00 . U = $3S0.00 . E = ( z000 hrs . X 0.333 gal. /hr . X $0.17 ) + ( z000 hrs . X o.018 gal. /hr . X $0.70 ) $151.00 , approximately . X = 7o% . I = $1850.00 . Then : ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ + $180 + $350 + $151 ) 0.70 = $1315.00 , approximately . A= 6% . B = 4.5% . C= 15% . D = 1o% . And A+ B + C + Therefore : D ) = 45.5% . Z = $13I5 = $189o.00 , approximately . 0 455 The cost of the equipment installed is well within this limit . Y = $1850.00 X 0.455 = $841.00/yr. , approximately . V = $1315.00 ? $841.00 = $473.00/yr. , approximately . P = ( $473/1850 ) + 0.06 = 0.316 , or 31.6% , approximately . II  --  100 = 1.94 years , approximately . 31.6- 10  | Inasmuch as the investment will write itself off within two years , it should be safe , as well as quite profitable . PROBLEM The management of a company recommended that a hand-operated device for handling materials be replaced by a power-operated machine . The new equipment will cost approximately $450.00 , and the cost of operating it , exclusive of labor and maintenance , is estimated to be $200.00 per year . The present equipment requires two unskilled laborers who receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semi-skilled operator at $0.55 per hour . The plant is not expected to average more than i800 hours of work during the corning year . The company 's accounting department makes a burden charge of 15 per cent against indirect labor . It is estimated that the new equipment will be in operation approximately 8o per cent of the time throughout the year . It is not anticipated that it will make any appreciable contribution to increased production . In purchasing equipment of this type , it is the company 's practice to charge 5 per cent on the investment , 4.5 per cent for insurance and taxes , 15 per cent for maintenance and repairs , and 20 per cent for depreciation and obsolescence . Assuming that these allowances are approximately correct , should you approve this recommendation ? Why or why not ?  | LIGHTING AND AIR CONDITIONING LIGHTING The Importance of Good Illumination. ? Management is interested in good illumination because it aids greatly in the achievement of certain objectives that are important to the organization 's success , and therefore to its own . They include such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less scrap , fewer accidents , and improved morale . There have been many cases in which the installation of a modern lighting system has increased production by amounts ranging from io to 3o per cent , and sometimes more . Quality has to do with the development of certain attributes , such as form , finish , color , dimension , strength , etc. ; when the creation of these characteristics requires close , careful attention to detail , illumination may be a very important factor . The relation of good lighting to quality is obvious in such operations as color-matching . Speed of vision , a factor affecting the individual 's speed of reaction in his work situation , tends to increase with the intensity of illumination , beyond the lighting levels usually found in the average manufacturing plant . The employee 's ability to proceed confidently , decisively , quickly , and accurately with his work , conditions his ability to maintain high production standards continuously , without detriment to his well-being . High wages , both real and monetary , usually depend on the continuous achievement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some degree . Poor illumination , in addition to causing eyestrain because of glare or insufficient light , tends to increase the probability of serious accidents which means a serious loss of earning power and increased expense for the employee , and loss of production and increased expenses for the organization . It is evident that good illumination involves several identities between the personal objectives of executives and operative employees on the one hand , and the service objectives of the company on the other . In consequence , it is a factor in the development of morale . It is a physical factor in manufacturing that conditions performance in many ways , and for this reason it has received careful consideration from progressive managements . The subject of illumination breaks down into two fundamental phases : natural and artificial lighting . In discussing them , we shall follow our previous assumption ? that the reader 's interest is executive rather than tech-20I  | nical ? and present merely the minimum information that a line executive should have to exercise judgment or cooperate with lighting engineers on lighting problems . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun through apertures in the building . Daylight is the principal and sometimes the only light that is used during the greater part of the working period , and for this reason the problem of natural lighting has affected building design and plant layout . Conversely , the building is a most important factor in the effectiveness of natural lighting . The problem presents two major phases : ( I ) the admission of sufficient light to make possible a satisfactory intensity of illumination , and ( 2 ) the effective utilization of this light to provide a uniform intensity wthout glare . Solutions of these problems will differ for single-story and multi-story buildings . Providing the Maximum Amount of Natural Light. ? The admission of sufficient light is dependent on the number , size , and location of the windows or other apertures . In a multi-story building , the effective wall area for natural lighting extends from the bench level to the ceiling ; in modern buildings , more than 8o per cent of this area is usually in glass ; with " daylight " construction it is possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 and 7 show , the tendency in modern design is to use a maximum amount of glass in long , continuous strips , both for lighting efficiency and for effect . Low ceilings in multi-story buildings usually mean poor illumination . The ratio of ceiling height to floor width should be as large as possible , for more light can thus get to the center of the shop . For example , ceilings should be from 12 to i8 feet high in buildings between 6o and 8o feet wide . In single-story buildings , or the top floors of multi-story buildings , it is possible to provide some means for overhead lighting . This is desirable , of course , because light can then penetrate directly into the center bays of the shop which are difficult to light from the side walls . The usual means of overhead lighting are : ( I ) skylights , ( 2 ) monitors , and ( 3 ) sawtooth roofs . Although the first two are relatively inexpensive to construct and greatly increase the amount of light coming into the shop , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun ; this tends to cause glare unless special glass is used . Glass block has been used in the monitor in Plate 6 to diffuse light . Though more expensive , the sawtooth construction shown in Plate 5 is more efficient . When it is oriented to the north , a uniform reflected light is admitted evenly over the whole floor . Since the back surface of each tooth should act as a reflector for the tooth behind it , both the interior and exterior surfaces of the sawtooth should be whitewashed or painted white . In the usual sawtooth construction , the depth of each bay is about 25 feet . The area of the tooth face that is in glass should be from 3o to 35 per cent of the floor area of the bay , the height of the tooth being governed accordingly . See p. r73.  | The Intensity and Distribution of Natural Light. ? In the average multistory factory building , the intensity of light varies considerably . There may be a very high intensity in the areas adjacent to the windows , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary to use artificial light even in the middle of the day ? for the most part , a needless expense . For example , if clear glass is used in the windows , the intensity of light in the floor area within six feet of the east windows may exceed 500 foot candles ' on clear sunny days , but drop below too foot candles on cloudy days . The intensity in the interior of the shop may be less than two foot candles , despite the high intensity at the windows , because most of the light has been absorbed by the floor and objects near the windows . Most kinds of work require a much higher intensity , as we shall see shortly . Conditions : Clear , h Sunny , Noon . o Variation in Illumination across Shop Floor FIG. 22. - Variation in Illumination Across the Shop Floor . The above conditions tend to produce glare . When areas with a high intensity of light are surrounded by areas in which the intensity is much less , the eye has difficulty in adjusting itself . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may affect the quality of work adversely . As is shown in Fig. 22 , the curve of illumination across a shop in the average multi-story building is roughly a broad-based U. The problem is to flatten this curve as much as possible , diffusing and distributing the intense . light at the windows evenly over the whole floor area . As we have seen , this problem is largely eliminated in the single-story building through overhead lighting . 2 The unit of illumination is the foot candle . It is equivalent to the intensity of light from a %trndard candle at a distance of one foot . 0 Curve of illumination intensity  | The Improvement of Natural Lighting Conditions. ? Many organizations are housed in multi-story buildings that are not modern , and there may be little or no possibility of building a new plant in the near future . Under the circumstances , what can be done to improve the lighting conditions ? The several possibilities , none of them particularly expensive , include : ( i ) the use of diffusing window glass , ( 2 ) good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interior reflecting surfaces , and ( 4 ) the elimination of belts driven by overhead line or jack shafts . Clear glass is the most efficient possibility from the standpoint of light transmission . Its disadvantage is that it admits light directly which concentrates within a relatively small area , producing glare . One still sees , at rare intervals , clear glass coated with white paint to reduce glare . This is poor practice , for such glass may absorb more than 30 per cent of the light falling on the windows . There are many special types of glass that redirect and diffuse the light rays . A light-diffusing glass has been used in the building shown in Plate 7 . Prism glass bends the light rays , which fall on the window at an angle , so that they pass horizontally into the room . However , it is seldom used in industrial buildings , ribbed glass or some similar diffusing glass being used as a compromise . Ribbed glass is less expensive than prism glass and gives the same results , to a lesser degree , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horizontally . It breaks up and diffuses the direct light rays , redirecting much of the light to the walls and ceilings from which it is reflected to the plane of work . However , it collects dirt and is hard to keep clean . The glass blocks which are being increasingly used in industrial buildings act as light diffusers as well as heat insulators . Much of the lighting value from large , well-located windows equipped with good glass is lost if the windows are not kept in good condition . A thick film of grease and grime on the panes can exclude a large percentage of the light that would normally pass through a window . For this reason , the window-cleaning service is highly organized in some plants . It has been standardized ; the window washers work continuously on a definite schedule , progressing from building to building , and are paid in proportion to their production . Some modern multi-story buildings are constructed with monorail tracks around the tops of the outside walls , from which scaffolds may be hung . A special form of telpher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a multi-story building are important as light reflectors , much of the daylight that reaches the center of the shop being received indirectly by reflection from them . Their efficiency in this respect depends largely on their color treatment . For example , white surfaces will reflect about 8o per cent of the light that falls on them , whereas a dart : mahogany will reflect only about 8 per cent . For this reason , many concerns whitewash or paint their shop interiors white at regular and frequent in-  | tervals . Most of the light that falls on the machinery will be absorbed i f the machinery is painted with the conventional dead black ; therefore some concerns have specified that new equipment shall be painted in battleship gray . " In many shops , probably a majority of them , the machinery is driven by belts running over pulleys mounted on jack shafts or line shafts , and hence a network of belts screens the center of the shop from the windows and prevents much of the light from reaching it . To improve natural lighting as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more concerns are turning to individual motor-driven equipment , even though the expense of operating and maintaining a large number of small motors may be greater . Some are using group drives from floor shafts , with silent chain belts . Artificial Illumination. ? Sometimes the artificial illumination is poor in plants in which the natural lighting is good . Yet some artificial illumination may be necessary from zo to 40 per cent of the working period , depending on the latitude , the season of the year , the weather , and natural lighting conditions in the shop . In considering the problem of artificial illumination , a number of factors should be taken into account , the more important being : ( I ) the proper type of illumination , ( 2 ) the correct kind of lighting unit , ( 3 ) the effect of glare , ( 4 ) the proper intensity , ( 5 ) the distribution of light , ( 6 ) the quality of the light , ( 7 ) the type of light source , and ( 8 ) the physical characteristics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal types of illumination are : ( t ) general , ( 2 ) local , and ( 3 ) a modification of these two . General illumination has to do with the uniform distribution of light over the whole department in a sufficient intensity to satisfy the requirements of the general manufacturing conditions within it . This is accomplished by spacing lamps of the proper wattage equidistant from one another , the spacing depending on the distance between the floor and the bottom of the globe or reflector of the lighting unit , or luminaire . This distance is called the mounting height . In general , the spacing should be approximately equal to the mounting height ; in no case should it be more than one and one-half times this distance . " 8 The writer recalls a visit to the plant of a nationally known manufacturer not many years ago . It was a beautiful sunny day in early summer , but every clectric , light in the shop was burning , and still there was a depressing half-gloom . The sickly yellowish light coming from windows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by hundreds of belts teaching to the ceiling , and by bulky machines that were without exception painted black . Up to a level of about four feet the walls and columns were painted a drab brown so that dirt and grease would not show conspicuously ; above , the color was indeterminate . Yet the buildings were modern ? the latest double-sawtooth type . It is definitely not good management to make an expensive investment to secure good light unless one expects to maintain the equipment in good tundition. 4 " ' I'hc Westinghouse Illumination Design Handbook , " Westinghouse Lamp Co. , Bloomfield , N. J. , 1936 , p. 20.  | Local illumination involves the provision of a more intense light at the point of work or for areas adjacent thereto . Such light should supplement the general lighting of the department , for reasons that will be apparent shortly . Plate 26 shows a power sewing machine in the clothing industry illuminated by a goose-neck lamp mounted in a deep-bowled reflector . In some cases , one group of machines may require a higher intensity of light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lighting scheme must be modified to provide this intensity . This is known as group lighting . The Type of Luminaire. ? Lighting systems may be grouped into four classes : ( I ) direct , ( 2 ) semi-direct , ( 3 ) semi-indirect , and ( 4 ) indirect . " The type of luminaire is determined by the type of lighting system to be employed . Direct lighting , the usual form found in shops , may be defined as any system in which substantially all the light is directed downward from the light source by the luminaire and falls directly on the working surface . In most instances , the lighting unit consists of a light source mounted in a dished and enameled metal reflector . The R.L.M. standard dome reflector is widely used for the general illumination of industrial interiors ; where smoke or dust is prevalent , it may be equipped with a dust-tight glass cover . When more than 12 foot candles intensity is required , the standard reflector with a glass diffusing bowl shown in Plate 27 is desirable . By slotting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to the ceiling , sharp contrasts between a brightly lighted working plane and a dark ceiling are avoided . In ordinary industrial concerns such luminaires may be mounted at heights ranging from 9 to 12 feet . The mounting heights may be greater if necessary , but this is undesirable . High mounting reflectors must be used above 20 feet ; these are designed to concentrate the light from a considerable elevation on the plane of work . Their use is required with the cranes shown in Plate 14 , for obviously the lights must be mounted above the cranes . Such lighting may be supplemented by light from symmetrical or elliptical angle luminaires . When the mounting height is less than 8 feet , deep-bowl reflectors must be used . Small deep-bowl reflectors , of the kind shown in Plate 26 , and small industrial flood lights are frequently used for local lighting . Semi-direct lighting includes any system in which more than 50 per cent of the light falls directly from the source on the working surface , but a substantial proportion is directed by the luminaire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by reflection . Semi-indirect lighting is any system in which more than 50 per cent of the light is directed by the luminaire to the ceilings and side walls , from which it is received by reflection , but a substantial proportion falls directly from the light source on to the working surface . The light bulb is often housed in a semi-opaque glass bowl . These lighting systems are less efficient than direct lighting , in so far as the cost of " Illumination Design Data , " published by the General Electric Co. , Nela Park Engineering Department , Cleveland , Ohio , 1936 , p. 12.  | light production is concerned , but the light is softer and better cliff Much of the light is absorbed by the reflecting surfaces in the luminair , glass diffusing bowl , the ceiling and side walls . Such luminaires are commonly in offices , and occasionally in shops that require maximum dom from shadows in producing a fine , high quality of work . Indirect lighting is any system in which substantially all of the lig ' directed upward by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mitted from those surfaces to the plane of work by reflection . The source is housed in opaque reflecting bowls . From the standpoint of indirect luminaires are the least efficient light producers . Their mainten cost is greater , and unless they are cleaned frequently , the accumulatio dirt seriously reduces their efficiency . However , they produce a soft , hi diffused light that gives the room a pleasing appearance . They are use industry chiefly in general offices or other places where the public or rf sentatives of other organizations have access . Glare and Its Efects. ? Glare has been defined as " any brightness wi the field of vision which causes or tends to cause discomfort , interfer with vision , or eye fatigue . ' It may be caused by sharply contrasting of brightness and darkness , for the eye has difficulty in adjusting itse ; such contrasts . The interior of the textile mill shown in Plate 28 is illumin by standard enameled dome luminaires hung from drop cords within a feet of the plane of work . As a result , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This picture also illustrates another dition which is sometimes called " reflected glare . " When a light-colorer highly polished material is being worked on , it may reflect light from source directly to the operator 's eyes ? a condition which is most unplea for the employee , and which makes it almost impossible for him to obs accurately the details of his work , particularly when he is working polished metal surfaces . Plate 29 shows the interior of the same shop aft modern lighting system was installed . Direct glare may result when a very brilliant light source lies within field of vision . Too few luminaires of too great brilliancy , spaced too apart , is a common cause of direct glare , as is also local illumination means of clear lamps hung on drop cords at the machine , shielded by proper reflectors or entirely unshielded . A condition of this kind is show plate 30 . Direct and reflected glare may be reduced by adjusting the spay and height of the lamps so that there is a wide angle between the eye , work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper luminaires ; anc using lamps of the proper wattage to give the correct intensity of urination . " L. I ' . Alford ( ed . ) , Management 's Handbook , Ronald Press Company , New York , 192 340.  | The Intensity and Distribution of Light. ? The amount of light produced depends largely on the factors noted above . Insufficient light tends to produce eyestrain and fatigue , and makes it difficult for the employee to work quickly and accurately . The proper intensity of illumination is a function of the type of manufacturing and the class of work , as shown by the following classification of intensities : Industry Operation Foot Candles // Assembly line 50-zoo Breweries Brew house 5 // Clay products Grinding , filter presses , kiln rooms 5 Molding , pressing , cleaning and trimming zo Color and glazing zo Cloth products Cutting , inspection , sewing light goods zo Sewing dark goods zoo or more Foundries Charging floor , tumbling , cleaning , pouring , and shake out 5 Fine molding and core making zo Glass works Mix and furnace rooms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , polishing , beveling , etching , and 30 50 decorating Inspection 50-zoo Machine shops Rough bench and machine work zo Medium bench and machine work , ordinary automatics , rough grinding , etc. zo Fine bench and machine work 50-zoo Extra fine bench and machine work zoo or more Shoe manufacturing Hand turning , miscellaneous bench and machine zo work Cutting , stitching , inspecting , and sorting light zo materials Cutting , stitching , inspecting , and sorting dark ma- zoo or more terials // Woolen textiles Carding , picking , washing , combing zo Weaving light goods zs // // Office work General , no close work zo Close work zo // When more than 30 foot candles intensity is required , it is usually best obtained by supplementing the general illumination with some form of local lighting . The present trend appears to be toward higher intensities than have been considered necessary in the past . The correct distribution of light is also dependent on the basic factors discussed previously . Not only is it an important consideration in such prob7 " The Westinghouse Illumination Design Handbook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intensity , but it enters into the problem of getting the light to the point where it is needed . We have already noted the use of deep-bowl reflectors , side mountings which use angle reflectors , flood lights , etc . The Quality of Light and the Type of Light Source. ? In some cases , the color of the light may be important . Thus special lights ( daylight lamps ) have been developed for department stores and industries that have to match colors closely . In drafting rooms and other places where the work is fine and must be accurate , the light should minimize or eliminate shadows . An important factor in this problem , of course , is the distribution and diffusion of light . Its quality is also a factor , as we shall see shortly . The luminaire should afford a steady , uniform light . A flickering light , with its succession of lights and shadows , is most unfavorable for good work . Nor should the light source discharge impurities into the air . However , with modern lighting equipment , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quality of light and the type of light source are closely related . The principal light sources used in industry today are the mercury vapor light shown in Plate 6 , and the incandescent light . Light is produced in the ordinary mercury vapor lamp by passing an electric arc through mercury vapor in a long , small-diameter glass tube housed in a trough-like reflector . Its advantage is that it does not produce sharp shadows ? one reason for its frequent use . This light has a bluish-green color that gives the workers and their surroundings a most unnatural and unpleasant appearance , but it is not injurious ; men become accustomed to it and work under it contentedly for years . A high-intensity mercury lamp has recently been developed that largely overcomes these objections . It produces a pleasing , blue-white light ; however , it contains no red light , and hence can not be used where color discrimination is necessary . Combinations of high-intensity mercury lamps and incandescent lamps are being used to get a light that closely approximates daylight in quality . Clusters of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in the installation shown in Plate 29 ; but for most purposes properly designed installations of incandescent lamps are quite satisfactory . The Physical Characteristics of the Room. ? The physical characteristics of the room have an important influence on the design of lighting installations . The three most important factors are : ( I ) the general proportions of the room , ( 2 ) the color and condition of the walls and ceilings , and ( 3 ) the condition of the air in the room . The room proportions affect the spacing of the lights , their mounting heights , and the amount of light that will be reflected . ( We have pointed out previously that much of the light that reaches the plane of work is reflected . ) The amount of light that is absorbed depends on the kind , color , and condition of the reflecting surface .  | The effect of color is shown by the following table : ' Percentage of Color of Reflecting Surface Light Reflected White 85% // // // // // Blue II // Brown 9 Deep blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantities of dust , smoke , soot , or fumes , which may absorb much of the light . Luminaires quickly become dirty ; this reduces their lighting efficiency , and in addition makes the cost of maintaining them in good condition correspondingly high . Special luminaires may be required to resist corrosion . Obviously , such conditions must be taken into account in analyzing the lighting situation ; the analyst usually classifies them as very good or fair , depending on his observation and judgment . The Analysis of Lighting Conditions. ? The large lamp manufacturing companies have prepared pamphlets which explain the principal phases of the industrial lighting problem in terms that should be understandable to anyone with average intelligence and an ordinary education . They have also developed simple methods of analyzing lighting requirements of typical manufacturing conditions . ' The first step usually is the determination of the kinds and types of work in the area to be lighted . The proper number of foot candles may then be found by referring to the illumination tables for these particular conditions . The actual intensities May be checked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portable instrument known as a foot-candle meter . The type of luminaire must next be considered on the basis of the factors discussed above . The lighting conditions are evaluated qualitatively ? as favorable , average , or unfavorable ? by reference to other tables dealing with room proportions , the color of the reflecting surfaces , and the maintenance problem . The layout of the outlets is then checked . As was said above , in the average industrial plant the mounting heights of the luminaires should be from 9 to 12 feet above the floor , and the outlets should be spaced uniformly , the distance between them being equal to or slightly greater than the mounting height . The area of illumination per outlet is found by dividing the total room area by the number of outlets . With these data , the determine8 " Illumination Design Data , " appendix : " Reflection Factors of Various Colored Paints . " a " The Westinghouse Illumination Design Handbook " and the General Electric Company 's " Illumination Design Data , " cited above , are examples of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soo-watt lamp or some other one should be used in each outlet is merely a matter of referring to other tables . Finally , the capacity of the wiring system should be checked to make certain that it can carry any increase in load that may be necessary . We have presented the subject of illumination in some detail to make clear the nature of the information that the line executive , who must take the ultimate responsibility for the decisions of his line and staff subordinates , should have in dealing with special problems . This knowledge does not enable him to dispense with the services of a technical specialist in difficult problems , any more than the knowledge of business law which he may have makes the services of a lawyer unnecessary . We have merely attempted to show that such information may be obtained without great difficulty , and that as a rule its comprehension requires no highly specialized background and training . AIR CONDITIONING Air Conditioning. ? Air conditioning may be defined as the control of the relationships between certain characteristics of the air ? such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? to the end that the air will meet the requirements of a particular situation in a room or building . The sharply upward trend of new orders received by manufacturers of airconditioning equipment is a good index of the increasing importance that management is attaching to the problem . The installation of a complete air-conditioning system always involves considerable investigation and study by the management , a relatively heavy investment by the owners of the business , and a continuing cost for operation and maintenance . Therefore the system must produce sufficient values to warrant these expenditures . As a rule , the most important objectives of management in taking this step are : ( I ) better health for employees , ( 2 ) removal of unpleasant odors , ( 3 ) greater per capita production , ( 4 ) better quality of product , ( 5 ) minimum deterioration of materials in storage , ( 6 ) reduced maintenance charges , and ( 7 ) better morale . In many ways , the temperature , humidity , and purity of , the air are factors in the health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testify that a bad epidemic of colds in a department lowers production seriously as a result of both absenteeism and a temporary reduction in the productive capacity of employees . Not only is this costly to the organization , but it may mean a serious expense to the employee in the form of doctors ' bills and lost earnings . During the first year after the Philadelphia Electric Company installed a complete air-conditioning system on the main floor of its head office , the time lost because of respiratory disorders decreased 33 per cent ; ( hiring the second year , the decrease was 46 per cent.10 This experience " ' See Ihr special section on air conditioning in Factory Management and Maintenance , January . I ) ( 6.  | has been repeated in other departments of this company , as well as in other companies . Certain types of manufacturing operations impregnate the air with injurious fumes or foreign matter . For example , employees in grinding rooms often wear gas masks to prevent the fine , gritty materials in the air from entering their lungs ; furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When many people are congregated in a relatively small enclosed space , the air soon becomes vitiated and acquires an unpleasant odor unless it is changed frequently . Air conditioning may also affect greatly the quantity and quality of production . We shall see later that there is a definite relation between the employee 's comfort and productivity on the one hand , and temperature and relative humidity on the other . As the temperature approaches 8o degrees Fahrenheit , it becomes increasingly difficult to maintain conditions under which people can work with maximum effectiveness . The ease and speed of processing materials in the textile industry are dependent on the maintenance of certain conditions of the air ; air conditioning enables southern manufacturers to provide a northern climate in their plants in summer . Plate 3i shows air-conditioning equipment in use in the tobacco industry ; with its help , northern manufacturers can produce Havana cigars that are quite as good as any made in Havana . In many other industries , such as foodstuffs , candy , drugs , and chemicals , it has increased the ease of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some cases it has enabled manufacturers to regularize the production of goods that are subject to rapid deterioration with changes in weather . Thus in the meat-packing industry , air conditioning aids the packers in handling livestock offerings ; the meat is put in storage within a relatively short time after it is shipped to the market . Air conditioning can effect economy in manufacturing in many other ways . For example , the corrosive fumes or excessive moisture thrown off by some processes may be injurious to the machinery as well as to the employees ; failure to correct these conditions may greatly increase maintenance charges . It should be evident that the installation of air conditioning tends to advance the interests of both the organization and the individuals who cornpose it . However , it should be backed up by adequate educational activities if the company is to obtain the improved morale which should result . The problem of air conditioning varies with the seasons . In winter it is necessary to heat and humidify the air , whereas in summer the usual problem is to cool and dehumidify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be supplied if the natural ventilation is inadequate . An efficient airconditioning system must be able to control the important characteristics of air at every season of the year under all conditions . The characteristics of the building greatly affect the efficiency of the airCourtesy ? The Carrier Corporation . PLATE 3r. -Air-conditioning Equipment in an American Cigar Company Plant .  | conditioning system . The ordinary factory building is far from air-tight ; siderable air leaks in around the window frames and other apertures. thermore , in spring and summer when the weather is pleasant , the empk may open the windows without realizing the effect on the air-conditio system . No air-conditioning equipment can function satisfactorily in the of outside weather conditions . For these and other reasons , a few con ( have built windowless buildings with doors that can be sealed , in ordi supply the employees with as nearly perfect light , heat , and ventilatio possible . The Control of Air Conditions. ? Most manufacturing plants are he by steam or hot water produced on the premises . Large plants may re ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more economical to pro electrical power than to purchase it . In such cases , exhaust steam fronengines or turbines may be used . Where there is no integrated system c conditioning , " unit heaters " are being increasingly used instead of stan ( iron pipes or banks of radiators . These unit heaters are usually suspei from the ceiling and consist of a radiator through which hot air is draw a fan . Their advantage is rapidity of heating because they provide a heating surface in a small space , they can be located at strategic p throughout the room , and they move the air more rapidly than convey currents do . The fact that they can be located almost anywhere gives t greater flexibility than the conventional heating units of the past . Heat duction and distribution can be closely controlled by means of thermo These heaters may be equipped with humidifiers , but the relation bete temperature and humidity can not be regulated accurately . Although i nstallation costs are low , maintenance and operating costs are higher . Humidity is a condition of air dependent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at any given time . The amount of water vapor that air will increases with temperature . When we use this term , we usually mean Live rather than absolute humidity . Relative humidity is the ratio of Actual weight of water in a cubic foot of air to the weight of water i equal volume of saturated air at the same temperature . A simple d known as the " wet and dry bulb " thermometer makes it possible to mine it readily . The temperature for maximum human comfort and f tiveness varies inversely with the relative humidity . The exact relations between individuals , but in general they conform to those in the folio , table : Temperature in Degrees Fahrenheit Relative Humidity 65 degrees 8o per cent // // 72. .. 30 .. //  | According to this table , most of us will be just as comfortable at 68 degrees with 6o per cent relative humidity as at 74 degrees with 20 per cent humidity . The production of a supply of pure air involves two problems : the cleansing of the air and the ventilation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by passing it first through baffle plates , and then through a fine spray in an enclosed chamber , which washes out most of the foreign matter . The air has a tendency to become saturated with moisture as it passes through the washer , but its relative humidity may be adjusted subsequently by running it through a drier , by raising its temperature , or by other means . Ventilation has to do with the removal of air that has become vitiated , charged with fumes or unpleasant odors , etc. , and the renewal of the supply of fresh air . Ventilators in single-story buildings may use air from windows in the faces of the sawtooth roofs or in the monitors ; in multi-story buildings they may depend on the windows in the side walls . Some plants are equipped with roof ventilators . Exhaust fans are frequently used for general ventilation , as well as for ventilation in special processes that make the air impure . The disadvantage of such methods is that they are not integrated with the other elements of an air-conditioning system . While they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air , they make it difficult or impossible to control its temperature and humidity with sufficient accuracy . In summer , the air-conditioning problem usually is to maintain the air in the room or building at a temperature and humidity lower than that of the outside air . Here air motion is a factor , the temperature of moving air for comfort being higher in summer and lower in winter than it is for still air . The movement of air affects the rate both of evaporation of perspiration from and of heat transfer to the body . However , the velocity of air in the room should not be noticeable ; it should not exceed 50 feet per minute . As we have noted above , the comfort level may be maintained by decreasing the relative humidity as the temperature increases . In summer the temperature in the building should be kept above 68 degrees Fahrenheit to avoid too great a contrast with the outside air . Customers leaving an air-conditioned department store often experience great discomfort if the temperature difference between the store and the street is too great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the characteristics of the air should be integrated into a complete system . In such a system , the necessary volume of fresh air is drawn in from the outside by means of a fan . The volume varies , of course , with circumstances ; but in most cases from 2000 to 3000 cubic feet of air per person is required . The air is then passed around baffle plates to remove the heavier matter . From here it passes through a washer which further cleanses and humidifies it , and it then goes through a drier which provides the moisture content proper for the desired temperature . Next it passes over heating or cooling coils which give it the desired temperature . The conditioned air is then piped to outlets located at  | strategic points throughout the building , and is discharged at the proper velocity . Circulation is maintained by drawing off and discharging air to the outside at the same rate that it is taken in . With such a system , the temperature and humidity of the air may be controlled accurately by means of thermostats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not difficult to gain an understanding of the objectives , general principles , and methods of air conditioning , the solution of specific problems frequently raises some intricate difficulties . They require a technical knowledge that is usually not found in the average manufacturing concern , wherefore it becomes necessary to rely on and work closely with the engineers of reliable manufacturers of air-conditioning equipment . The Significance of Physical Factors in Factory Operation. ? In discussing the fundamentals of organization and operation , we pointed out that the proper performance of functions necessarily depends upon the presence of certain physical factors of condition . In connection with standardization , we noted that there is usually a one best state and interrelationship for these factors for maximum results in a specific situation . Therefore , the determination and use of the best criteria of condition improves the quality of work , increases the magnitude of results , and reduces the cost of operations , at least i n some degree . It is the function of capital to provide the organization with suitable physical factors in performance . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these physical factors when needed , and in the kind , degree , and quantity required . It must also assume the responsibility for properly planning , organizing , and controlling their use in the achievement of the company 's service objectives . As these and other concepts suggest , the practical solutions of such physical problems as plant location , the factory building , manufacturing equipment and its layout , etc. , rest directly on the philosophy of management that was presented earlier in the text . One purpose in presenting these problems in some detail has been to make clear this relationship .  | PRODUCT AND PROCESS PLANNING ' Creative Planning and Design. ? We have discussed earlier the role of creative planning in the field of business , and have said that the process of planning begins with the determination of business objectives and proceeds from them to more specific problems . As we shall see , these basic generalizations underlie the planning both of the product and of the processes by which it is to be manufactured . Industrial design involves the determination of how certain utilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the particular goods or services that the industry produces . They must enable the public to enjoy the kind , quantity , and quality of satisfactions it desires at a price that it is willing and able to pay , for otherwise the concern may not obtain the volume of business necessary for its profitable operation . These values constitute the company 's service objectives . In order to achieve them satisfactorily ? which involves knowing what they are and understanding their requirements ? design uses the facts developed by market and industrial research . It will be seen that there are two major phases in the problem of design : the determination of the attributes which the finished product should have to enable it to render the required service , and the determination of how the various elements that compose the product should be produced to create these attributes economically and effectively . The first phase constitutes the field of product design ; the second , the field of process design . The Relations Between Design and the Line Functions of Production. ? Before undertaking an examination of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizational relationships that should exist between the function of design and the primary line functions of the manufacturing division . Design is a technical staff function , and , like any staff function , it usually develops by evolution from the functions of the line organization to which it is attached . Its purpose is to render either specialized assistance in the creative planning of product or process , or some related service of facilitation to other units of the company . The line organization consists basically of the functional hierarchy of administrative management , operative management , and primary operative performance . The function of design must reside in it originally . Thus in many small manufacturing concerns which 1 Before reading this chapter , review pp. 20 , 23-29 , 35-36 , 42-43 , 85-87 , 02 , dealing with the economics of business objectives , creative planning , administration , and staff functiunalizati , n. 216  | can not afford an expensive staff of specialists in product and process design , the line executives confer with one another on what changes should be made in their products , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and what improvements should be introduced in their manufacturing methods . However , if the concern is progressive and alert , its administrative officers may authorize the limited use of a consulting service to obtain not only some of the advantages of specialization but an outside point of view . As the company grows , technical staff units for product and process design begin to appear . Under a normal staff relationship , the technical staff executive works through the line executives rather than over them ; he may be in direct contact with line functions , but he does not have direct authority and control over them . This is the relationship that usually exists between the design functions and the line functions in the manufacturing division . For example , in a plant which makes an assembled product , the engineering division may work out an improved design for a particular component part , but in most cases it can not order the production division to discontinue the old part on a given date and to manufacture thereafter on the basis of the new design . Before such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the superseded part on hand , current orders that must be serviced , changes in the operation list for the new part , etc. , must be answered . The engineer 's recommendation must usually be accepted by the production manager and approved by the head of the manufacturing division before it can acquire line authority . Changes in product or process are so expensive that most concerns find it more economical to hold such improvements until they can be integrated in the annual new models . There are some important exceptions , of course , to the relationships just discussed . For example , in a chemical process industry such as the manufacture of paints and varnishes , the testing section of the research department may have one or more control stations on the floor of the plant which take samples from the runs that are going through . On the basis of their analyses hey issue orders to department foremen for the control of conditions affecting the quality of the product . In such a case , a technical staff function has direct contact with and control of primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created . This is often practicable and desirable under such conditions , because a distinct and clear differentiat ion between technical and executive responsibility and authority is possible ; hut in general , completely functionalized relationships should be avoided when possible . PRODUCT DESIGN Product design is that phase of creative planning in manufacturing that has to do with the determination of the attributes of the finished product .  | Its objective is a relation of product elements and their functions that will assure to the customer the particular satisfactions that he desires from such a product . What these values are depends on the product and the services that it is expected to render . For example , the housewife who buys a kitchen stove usually wants one which will enable her to produce the best cooking of which she is capable , and relieve her of as much physical labor as possible . She wishes to avoid the physical discomfort of working in an overheated kitchen . Moreover , she wants a stove that has some beauty , that harmonizes with the other appointments of her kitchen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pride . Since in most households she is responsible for the household budget , she is also interested in the economy of operation of the stove . If the stove manufacturer is to enjoy her patronage , his designers must so plan the stove that it will have the requisite utilities ? in other words , so that it will provide the various satisfactions that she desires . Thus , the oven should have accurate temperature control , and should maintain heat at a constant level . It should be insulated properly so that it will retain heat instead of transmitting it to the surrounding atmosphere . Ease and speed in cleaning the stove are important , and therefore it must be possible to get at the various parts with a minimum of disassembly and lifting . It must have the proportions and finish that will appeal to the housewife ? it would be difficult today even to give away the old-fashioned , black enamel gas range to many customers . In order that the finished product may possess these utilities , the various component parts and subassemblies must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performing their functions properly in the finished stove . These attributes may be such qualities as form , dimension , weight , color , finish , etc . For example , what properties should an insulating material have to be suitable for the oven ? What kind of material does this indicate ? What problems are involved in using it under present manufacturing conditions ? How should it be set in ? What thickness should be specified ? These and other similar questions must be answered and reduced to objective terms in the form of mechanical drawings and product specifications . A simplified example of dimension specification on a mechanical drawing is shown in Fig. 53 . We have chosen a familiar household appliance to illustrate these points , but there are many products on the market that are far more complicated . The complexity of the design function appears to increase at an equal or faster rate as the product increases in complexity . The problem of product design in most products today can be broken down into two general phases : the mechanics of design and the aesthetics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be defined as that phase of product design which has to do with the product 's utilization of physical forces or the properties of materials in the performance of its functions . The  | various parts of an automobile motor must be made of the right materials and properly proportioned and related if the motor is to deliver the maximum power possible from the fuel it consumes . At the same time , it must give reliable service throughout the normal life of the car , even with hard use . This is the job of the mechanical engineer . The aesthetics of design is concerned with certain aesthetic attributes of the product , such as mass , proportion , finish , color , etc. , which enable the customer to enjoy certain feelings of beauty , fitness , strength , reliability , etc . It deals largely with his reactions to the appearance of the product ? psychic satisfactions that are just as much values as any physical satisfactions that he may obtain . That an attempt to make the product more salable through proper attention to them is both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the industrial or style designer ' in recent years . This distinction between the aesthetics and the mechanics of design is apparently having a great effect on staff organization and procedure in design . There are a great many important industries of a so-called " non-engineering " nature , such as printing , clothing manufacturing , meat packing , shoe manufacturing , etc . For the most part , the distinction between the creative planning of product and of process holds for them , as well as for industries making a complex mechanical product . However , the engineering departments of the latter have reached a high point of development . If we remember that fundamentals may be applied in some degree and manner in most manufacturing industries , even though the details may not , we may safely use the engineering division for a concrete example . The Engineering Division. ? In industries manufacturing a mechanical product the creative planning of the product is often a major technical staff function , and , as shown in Fig. 23 , it may be placed on a major organization level , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparable line executive . When the product is highly technical , it may be differentiated completely from the line organization of the manufacturing division . Usually in such cases an engineering division is organized , and placed on an administrative level in order that its head may have greater prestige and exert greater influence on manufacturing policy . Of course this does not change its status as a technical staff division . The head of the engineering division , who may be called the chief engineer or the vice-president in charge of engineering , depending on the division 's status in the organization , should have good technical training and experience . Some production experience is desirable , inasmuch as he must understand the problems of the line executives if he is to work through them effectively . As the size of the concern and its volume of business increase , the scope and complexity of the engineering function also increase , as well as the number of people required for it . The head of the engineering division has less and less to do with the detailed work of design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning of the work of his division , in organizing and coordinating its activities . In a large engineering division , therefore , superior executive ability may be quite as important as superior technical ability . ' The engineering function in any company tends to break down into a number of distinct functions , as shown in Fig. 24 . In addition to these , there President Exec . Asst . To Presiders Secrl tary l V. P. Sales Executive Committee V. V.P. Mfg . Comp Irollerl Trea s urer Production Master Chief Mana. er Mechanic Enqineer ' ME Purchasing Agent Superintendents Production Control General Foremen Foremen Operative I Employees FIG. 23. - Principal Functions Concerned in Product and Process Planning . may be others in particular organizations . In general , however , its principal functions are product design , style design , drafting , research , and a general staff function of control which includes the handling of the engineering records . The basis of functional similarity is found in the similar scientific and engineering background , training , and experience that are required . The personalities and abilities that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likenesses . They are all directed primarily toward the same ultimate objective ? a plan for a product that will serve the public satisfactorily in competition with like products ; and therefore the problems that arise are either similar or closely related to one another . ' The author knows of an instance in which the chief engineer of a nationally known corporation was replaced by a man who at first thought would be considered inferior . The chief engineer had a fine engineering education , including a doctor 's degree . The second man was not college-trained , but he had acquired a good technical knowledge of the particular field through self-education . In addition , he had what was required to get things accomplished , which the man he replaced did not . Each man on his staff was a highly capable , trained specialist in his ! Lutirular field . In this case , executive ability was the deciding factor . This , of course , is an unusual r , ur and is merely used to point the argument . The ideal situation is to have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but such men unfortunately are not always easy to find .  | The Research Function. ? Industrial research is the function of investigating and analyzing scientifically the physical factors , forces , and effects that enter into product and process , in order to develop new facts and principles that may be used to increase their economy and effectiveness . While it supplies information that is necessary for improvements in design , it does not enter directly into design . It may also render certain technical facilitating services to other units of the engineering division , or to other organizations in the manufacturing division . Hence it is apparent that it must be classified as a secondary technical staff function , inasmuch as it is concerned primarily with providing a staff service to a secondary chain of command . This by Chief Engineer Executive Product Style Chief Research Engineer Designer Designer Draftsman Director Squad A Squad B Draftsmen Tracer 's Squad C Checkers Research Testing Experimental FIG. 24. - Principal Functions in Product Planning . no means implies that the research function is of minor importance ? we are all familiar with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid progress of American industry . In very large corporations research may be differentiated completely from both the engineering and the manufacturing divisions , as for example the General Motors Research Corporation , which is an independent entity , subject only to the general administrative policy and control of the management of the General Motors Corporation . 1lowever , even such a development as this does not change the status of research ; it is still a secondary technical staff function ? a fact that is an important consideration and one that the skilled organizer must take into account . There are three distinct phases in the industrial research functions in manufacturing concerns : research , testing , and experimental engineering . The first phase , research , may be broken down into three suhfunctions : pure research , product research , and process research . Pure research in industry is generally found only in the laboratories of large corporations . The scientists pictured in the rotogravure sections of the Sunday papers producing five-million-volt  | thunderbolts or something equally startling in the great laboratories of Westinghouse or General Electric , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of electrical equipment . They hope to gain a greater understanding of the laws of electrical science , and to extend these laws , particularly as they relate to the design and production problems of the industry . Eventually , the factual data they develop will be put in a form that will permit its practical use by the company 's designers . Product research is concerned with the development of new uses for old products or new products for new needs . In so doing , it applies facts and principles that have been developed through pure research . The speed with which steel can be cut affects greatly the cost of machining steel parts . The Battelle Institute recently has developed , for a well-known steel manufacturer , a leaded steel in which high machinability is obtained without any sacrifice of other desirable attributes . It is one of the new products of the steel industry , and may revolutionize metal-working processes . Process research is concerned with the development of new or improved production methods . The research of the American Rolling Mill Company that resulted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The testing function is concerned with the investigation of the properties of materials and products to assure that they conform to whatever specifications have been set up for them . For example , a company 's purchasing department may have contracted for many carloads of coal covering its requirements for some time in the future and involving a large amount of money . The purchase order may specify the permissible content of ash , sulphur , moisture , etc. , as well as the required heating value per pound . When a carload of coal arrives , the company naturally wants to be certain that it is getting what it contracted for . But the analysis of coal requires a scientific technique that can he applied only under laboratory conditions by trained technicians . Since the employees of the receiving department or the receiving inspection department have neither the ability nor the equipment to make the necessary tests , coal samples from the car will be sent to the testing section of the research laboratories for analysis . A copy of its report will go to the purchasing department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above the service rendered by the testing section in the paint and varnish and other chemical process industries in connection with controlling the quality of work in process ; in still other ways and in other industries the testing function makes important contributions . Experimental engineering is the function of checking the validity and accuracy of the designers ' plans through building and testing experimental models . We shall not go into it at this point , since it will be discussed later in connection with the administrative control of product and process plan  | fling ; and we shall see then that it contributes in no small measure to the achievement of the objectives of product design . Product Design and the Drafting Function. ? We have defined product design as creative planning applied to the determination and specification of the attributes that the product should have to enable it to supply the values required by the customer . These attributes may be expressed in the form of written specifications , sketches , or mechanical drawings in the case of a mechanical product . The quality of the service rendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the various elements that enter into it . In the case of a mechanical product , these elements are the component parts and subassemblies that make up the finished product . As we have noted before , certain qualities of some of these components may derive from certain properties of the material from which they are made . In consequence , the complete function of design often includes a decision on the material to be used , and progresses through the determination of the attributes of each component part to their proper relationship in the final assembly . Thought concerning design must necessarily begin with the requirements of the product 's service objectives ; the detailed work must end with a plan for their reasonable achievement . Like any other function , product design may be broken down into significant phases which , because of the law of functional growth , must be differentiated more finely as the organization increases in size . As shown in Fig. 24 , a number of design groups may report to the product engineer or chief designer . These groups usually represent the breakdown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal functional groups of parts or assemblies that make up the completed product . For example , in the familiar case of the automobile , there may be the chassis group , the engine group , the electrical units group , the body group , the final assembly group , etc. , each headed by an engineer who is a specialist in that particular field of automotive design . hi many concerns this man is called the " squad leader . " Each group in turn may be broken down on the basis of its subfunctions , representing further specialization . For example , there may be a distinct differentiation of the carburetor design function within the engine group . It will probably be headed by an engineer , who is a highly trained specialist in this field and who may have one or more junior engineers working under his direction . It is thus apparent that in a large engineering department in any concern manufacturing a complex mechanical product , the differentiation of the product design function may result in a definite hierarchy of responsibility and authority . This may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering division because the devolution of the design function leads directly and immediately to the creation of those values that represent some achievement of the division 's objectives . For the most part , this is not true of the other elements of the engineering department . They are secondary staff  | units , and the values they contribute enter into the engineering design process chiefly through the design group . Inasmuch as the chief designer 's organization represents the principal hierarchy of responsibility and authority of a staff department , and as such is set up to serve the primary chains of command or other staff organizations , it is of course a secondary chain of command . The drafting function has to do largely with routine design , and with putting the engineer 's plans in a readily usable form . It may therefore he regarded as a further devolution of the product design function . In some concerns , draftsmen are directly attached to the various design groups and work under the direction of the squad leader . In many engineering departments , however , drafting has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been organized as a central drafting service under the leadership of a chief draftsman . This makes possible the more economical use of the draftsmen 's time , better service for units outside of the engineering department , greater uniformity of drafting practice , better training of beginners , etc . The work of the drafting room may be broken down into three principal subfunctions : drafting , tracing , and checking . Drafting is primarily the function of empirical design . In most mechanisms there are many standard elements that have been standardized by the company , or nationally by some national engineering society ? for example , hand wheels for making adjustments on the finished mechanism in operation , mechanical fastenings such as semi-standard bolts , etc . They may be designed on the basis of rules or formulas representing a codification of the practical experience of many years . Since their detailed design does not require the services of a highly trained engineer , such work is usually turned over to a draftsman . The nature of the tracing function should be obvious . This has to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineer 's plan for the part or product , in so far as it is shown on the drawing or sketch that he sends to the drafting room . Any number of blue prints can be made from this tracing , much as a photographic print is made from a negative . In this convenient and semi-permanent form copies can be sent to everyone in the organization who has any legitimate use for them . Original drawings and tracings are extremely valuable , and are seldom permitted to leave the engineering department . The checking function is essentially one of inspection . The blue print will show only what appears on the tracing . The production division has no authority to deviate from product specifications and blue prints , although it is of course expected to make inquiries if it suspects that it has received incorrect information . Hence if a tracer leaves out a line , copies a dimension incorrectly , or makes some other error , it may carry through to the shop and cause losses running into large sums of money . To guard  | against such possibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing or sketch to make certain that no error has been made . Style Design. ? We have noted previously that the aesthetics of design is concerned with certain aesthetic attributes of the product , such as mass , proportion , finish , color , etc. ; that it deals largely with the customer 's reactions to the appearance of the product . Its objective is a design that will enable the customer to enjoy whatever psychic satisfactions , such as a feeling of beauty , fitness , strength or reliability , he desires . In some concerns , planning the external attributes of the product so that it will have the desired aesthetic qualities is known as style design . In Fig. 24 the style designer has been placed in a secondary technical staff position because mechanical products are being used as examples . Not all engineering departments have a style designer ; but when there is one , he must work closely with and usually through the final assembly group under the product engineer , despite the fact that , strictly speaking , style design is a principal design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but its contributions must be secondary to the proper mechanical functioning of the product . In any event , style design should be differentiated completely from the other design functions in the engineering department . Its roots lie in the field of the fine arts , whereas engineering has its roots in the physical sciences ; and hence it requires a background , training , and experience that are fundamentally different from that required of the engineer . We have mentioned previously the many manufacturing industries , some of them highly important , that are often called " non-engineering . " In such concerns , particularly those that manufacture so-called " style goods , " the aesthetics of design may be the principal design function , the mechanics of design occupying a distinctly secondary position . Using the term " style " to cover all phases of the problem , we may break down the aesthetics of design into two chief phases : style design , which has to do with the styling of the product , and package design , which is concerned with the styling of the container which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not merely a device to exploit the gullible consumer . On the contrary , it serves the public 's real need and desire for beauty and certain related psychic satisfactions ; if this were not the case , style design could not have had its remarkable increase in importance in. the world of manufact tiring . Furthermore , this desire for beauty , distinctiveness , or what not , is not confined to certain types of shopping or specialty goods that obviously are affected by style . Let us examine for a moment the career of such a humble device as the coffee grinder . The hand-operated grinder on the lower shelf of the right-hand stand in Plate 32 is the type that our great-grandmothers used in Civil War days . In those days coffee enjoyment was not affected by the relative merits of the vacuum pot , drip pot , percolator , or open pot method . At the end of the last cent ury the grinder on the middle shelf of Plate 32 was in use ,  | but people were beginning to have their coffee ground by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bought a power-driven grinder like that on the top shelf ? a strictly matter-of-fact , business-like , materialistic device which made no claims to beauty . On the stand at the left is a coffee grinder of the type used by the modern grocer . Not only does it do a better job of grinding coffee , but it adds appreciably to the appearance of his store and to its attraction for customers . One would hesitate to accept the job of selling the oldfashioned power grinder to the grocery trade unless he were blessed with an independent income . Even in such industrial goods as machinery and equipment , it has been found that simplicity , beauty , and economy usually go together , and decrease sales resistance to the product . In part , package design is also the result of the public 's increasing demand for beauty and distinctiveness , as well as utility . A box , carton , or bag that merely conveys the product to the customer in good condition is not sufficient today ; even common convenience goods that formerly were sold exclusively in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of beans adds no succulence to the contents , but a housewife will usually select a can that is labeled attractively , in preference to one of the same price and quality that is not . Apparently she appreciates certain values that the container supplies over and above its contents . The increasing influence of style on manufactured products has added appreciably to the cost and complexity of manufacturing . It requires only a glance at Plate 32 to see that the parts that entered into the power grinder of the ' nineties were necessarily of a different design from those in the modern grinder . When for any reason the design of a part is changed , most if not all of the operations that enter into making that part must also be changed . We have seen the effect of such a change on production records , routings , plant layouts , equipment , etc . If a concern creates too many models in an effort to satisfy the demand for style , the volume of business for certain of them may not be sufficient to permit economical operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a considerable range of choice of style and service features ; the number of their possible combinations in the finished product is of course much greater . It is evident that this creates some nice problems in coordination for the production manager and his subordinates , particularly the manager of the final assembly plant . For example , a chassis on the final assembly conveyor of an automobile plant is tagged for a dealer in Boston who has indicated that he wants a green body on the car , the color specified by his customer . Obviously , if a red body is dropped on this chassis when it arrives at the body assembly station , the customer will not be satisfied ; furthermore , green wheels must be hung on it at the wheel assembly station farther up the line . Many people , particularly those who have never worked in such a plant , believe that the workman on the final assembly line performs the same simple hand motion Courtesy ? Hobart Manufacturing Co . PLATE 32. - The Evolution of the Coffee Mill .  | hour after hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind , but they far fewer than is popularly supposed . In general , the routinization of we tends to vary inversely with the trend toward greater styling . There may course be a considerable difference between the standardization of prod ' and the routinization of work . In still other ways , the aesthetics of design 1 exerted a profound influence on economy in manufacturing ; and it is to t credit of the American manufacturer that he has been able to supply t public with a product that gives better service and looks better , and is many instances priced lower . The Executive Engineer. ? As an organization grows and functional C. ferentiation takes place , the internal problems of control also increase , u ; ally in geometrical progression . The increasing need of coordination mat it necessary , sooner or later , for the responsible executive to delegate so ' of the details of control to subordinates . This is usually the beginning of t evolution of a general staff function , and may occur in either a primary li or a staff organization . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the control of the division 's work . He usually also acts as liaison officer between his division and the other divisions of the compai notably the sales , legal , comptroller 's , purchasing , production , and mas mechanic 's divisions . Obviously he must be classified as a secondary gene staff executive , inasmuch as his chief function is to assist the principal chi of command of a staff organization in the exercise of control . The functions which come under the jurisdiction of the executive engirt ( vary , of course , with each concern , depending on the extent of his respon bility . It is likely that he will be responsible for the engineering departmen vault in which are stored the original drawings and tracings , on which m depend patent rights worth millions of dollars in some cases . Their rece must be recorded accurately ; their withdrawal is usually closely restrict ( As a rule he is also responsible for the blue-print room , engineering recos and specification files , etc . He may supervise a group that is preparing pre uct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meats . All bills of materials , blue prints , and other product informati usually must be released through his office . To control such releases , 1 signature will probably be required on all engineering release notices in much as he acts as the chief engineer 's executive officer . The executive engineer is the modern version of the old-time chief de : The important contribution which he makes to the smooth running of 1 division depends much more on his executive ability than on his technic ability . We shall appreciate better the nature of this contribution when ' examine the administrative planning and control of design later in tl chapter . Product Design and the Small Manufacturer. ? The question natura  | arises as to how the small manufacturer who can not afford such a highly developed specialization of these functions can compete with the large manufacturer . In the first place , these functions usually are simpler and less expensive in the small concern , for the law of functional growth operates here as elsewhere . Furthermore , the small manufacturer is quick to imitate the innovations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protected by a patent , he may operate under a license from the holder of the patent . Finally , research and specialists are available to him . Trade associations engage in research and make the results available to their members . The Mellon Institute , the Batelle Institute , and the research laboratories of many large universities will carry on a research project at a reasonable cost . The moderate use of the competent consultants who are available in every specialized field does not involve a prohibitive charge even for the very small manufacturer . The record shows that he is able to compete successfully , provided he has good managerial ability . PROCESS DESIGN The physical functions and factors that enter directly into the fabrication of the product must have certain characteristics and relations if the product is to have the utilities that the customer requires . Process design may be defined as that phase of creative planning that has to do with the determination of these characteristics and relations . Whereas product design deals primarily with what the product shall be , process design is chiefly concerned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple illustration of the principle of a drill jig . Some product designer must have determined the length , width , and thickness of the plate to be drilled , as well as the material from which it is to be made . In addition , he probably determined the degree of accuracy necessary for these dimensions . On his drawing he showed the exact location and dimensions of the hole in the plate . But this was probably as far as he could go , because the determination of how this hole is to be made requires more practical manufacturing experience than a designer has as a rule . This hole could be bored by setting it up in a milling machine , or in a lathe with a special fixture , or in a horizontal boring mill , or in a vertical turret lathe ; it could be broached if necessary , or some other device for making a hole could be used . ' The final decision to use a drill press probably was made by 3 What are a milling machine , a horizontal boring mill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only that they are different types of machine tools that may be used in a metal-working concern to make holes in metal . One might never hear of them in the publishing business , clothing or shoe manufacturing , etc. , where quite different types of equipment are used . Although valuable help may be obtained from books and school shops , practical experience is generally the best means of learning what machine can be used for certain mechanical functions in a particular industry , and what the probable results will be . It should he remembered also that generalpurpose equipment is related to but different from production equipment of the same general kind . If the reader is particularly interested in drilling machines , he can see a multiple-spindle drill press in Plate 13 , and a gang drill in Plate 35.  | someone familiar with the industry and its manufacturing methods ; he took into account the degree of quality possible with each type of equipment in relation to the quality specified , the time required to set up and adjust each type , the quantity of parts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that enter into economy in manufacturing . The objective of process design is a plan , such as that shown earlier in Fig. 20 , that will enable a concern to produce economically and effectively . In small concerns , the process design function may be handled by the line executives of the manufacturing division . Inasmuch as practical experience plays an important part , they may do a very good job . But as the volume of production increases with the growth of business , increasing specialization of mechanical functions occurs ; this of course adds to the complexity of process planning and facilitation . At various stages in the organization 's growth , it becomes desirable to make a distinct differentiation of the prinMaster Mechanic I I I Executive Standards Process Time-Study Maintenance Assistant Department Design Department Department I I I I Process Tool Plant Materials Layout Design Layout Handling 25. - Principal Functions in Process Planning . principal phases of the process design function in order to permit specialization in their execution . In large concerns they may be completely differentiated from the line organization and brought together in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown in Fig. 25 . Usually , however , this does not occur until long after the product design functions have been completely differentiated . The Master Mechanic 's Division. ? To get a more definite understanding of the functions of product design , we shall discuss them briefly as they are grouped together in the master mechanic 's division of a large metal-working concern manufacturing an assembled product . Since we used this example in discussing the engineering department , we must continue it in order to get a consistent tie-in ; but the same or analogous functions will be found in any manufacturing industry , although they may not be developed to the same extent . " Master mechanic " is a title that is used by a large automobile factory ; however , another concern might use another title , inasmuch as there is no standard designation . As shown in Fig. 25 , the more important organization elements in this division are likely to be the process design group , the time study department , the standards department , the maintenance department , and the executive assistant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies in the fact that all of them have to do with the investigation and analysis of processes , the creative planning of processes , or the facilitation of processing . In consequence , they deal with like or similar factors in production , and take up similar or closely related problems whose solutions require a similar background , training , and experience . It should be remembered that a major process-planning department usually is found only in a large concern . Many of these functions , which we shall encounter later under different circumstances , are directly and intimately related to the line functions of production , some of them so closely that it will be necessary to give them special attention later . In consequence , we shall consider them only briefly at this point . The Process Design Group. ? The head of the process design group may be known by some such title as the process engineer or the manufacturing engineer . His function forms the principal chain of command of the master mechanic 's division because its devolution leads directly to the development of a process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the group as a whole in carrying on its work , or help the line organization to execute the process plan by rendering some technical service of investigation or facilitation . As a rule , the principal phases of process design are : ( I ) process layout , ( 2 ) tool design , ( 3 ) plant layout , and ( 4 ) materials handling . As we have seen , a procedure is , among other things , a related series of complementary functions , each step of which must produce certain values that will combine with the values from successive steps to produce the desired end result . A moment ago we considered a metal plate in which a hole had to be drilled in a specified location . The job of drilling this hole is an operation , or step , in making the plate ; the end result of the process procedure is a plate that will meet the dimensional and other specifications of the product engineer who designed it . Before this hole can be drilled , certain operations must be performed ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plate ; the second , to mill one side , etc . Again , it is not necessary for our purposes that we understand the mechanical characteristics and requirements of these operations . It is apparent that the plate must have its basic dimensions before it is placed in the jig , because it is necessary to have certain reference surfaces from which the plate can be held in the jig . If these surfaces are not in the right dimensional relation to one another , the hole can not possibly be drilled in the correct location with reference to them . From this it is evident that certain values had to he created before the values associated with the drilled hole could be created economically and effectively . The order in which these values are required has established the order in which the various operations must be performed . Thus far , two things must have been determined on the basis of the product designer 's specifications : the functional content of the various major steps , or operations , in the procedure for making the part or  | assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the principal phases of process layout . In addition , it is necessary to make a preliminary decision as to the equipment and tools that will be required for each operation . The general nature of the facts thus determined is shown in Fig. 20 . In some industries , such as clothing manufacturing in which most of the primary operative functions are sewing machine operations , tools may be a minor factor in production ; but in metal-working industries they are extremely important . Large concerns in such industries usually have a tool design department which designs the jigs and fixtures for holding work in the proper relation to the tool , gauges for determining the degree of quality , and the tools and auxiliary attachments that are necessary to equip machines properly for specific jobs . We shall designate them all simply as " tools . " The function of tool design is the determination of the requisite attributes of the devices which extend the functions of the machine and enable it to adapt them economically and effectively to the requirements of particular operations . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become dull sooner than it should ; the machine must be shut down , the dull tool taken out and sent to a tool-grinding center , a sharp tool must be set in , and the machine readjusted until the work conforms to the quality required . Poor tool design may increase costs by making it difficult to maintain the maximum rate of production , and it may also directly affect the maintenance of quality standards . It is evident that tool design is a phase of the creative planning of process ; it can not be performed until the product design and process layout have been completed for the particular part or assembly . At this stage , blue prints of the product and a copy of the master plan of work , as it has been developed thus far , are turned over to the head of the tool design department , who assigns the job to a particular tool designer . But what happens in the small plant that can not afford a tool design department ? This work is done by the line executives on the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tool designer attached to the superintendent 's office , and with the help of the executives of some local jobbing tool and die shop that builds the company 's tools . In a large concern , when the tools for an operation have been designed , blue prints and the proper orders are sent to the tool room , which builds these tools to the designer 's specifications . The tool room is a service shop , and is frequently under the production division . The finished tools may be sent directly to the procuction department that is to use them ; but in a large organization it is more likely that they will be sent to some central tool storage crib to be held until requisitioned by the department . The plant layout and materials-handling functions are closely related to process layout and tool design . Since we have considered them at some length previously , we shall not take them up again at this point .  | Production Standards and the Time-study Department. ? Production standards are criteria of economy and effectiveness in the performance of operative functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under which a given operation should be done , standards of procedure for the correct performance of the operation , and standards of performance by which to gauge the results in so far as a proper rate of production is concerned . Production standards should not in any way break down the quality standards for the particular operation ; they must be fair to the workman as well as to the company . In laying out the operations on the metal plate that we have been using as an illustration , we included , at some point , drilling the hole . The time-study department will study and analyze this operation , at the machine if necessary , to determine what elementary or suboperations must be performed . For example , after the earlier machining operations have been completed , these plates may be delivered to the proper drill press in trays , and the first elementary operation may be : " Pick up pieces and place in drill jig . " The time study analyst will also study such factors in work as lighting , and the equipment for storing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this investigation and analysis should be the best practicable method of getting the most results under the best working conditions that can be maintained . From this it is apparent that the time and motion study of operative functions is an extension of operation layout into the operation itself . Production standards are directly affected by tool design , plant layout , and materials handling , and there should be close cooperation and intimate relationships between the groups that perform these functions . Nevertheless , the time-study department is frequently placed elsewhere in the organization , particularly in small concerns . In one company of which the writer knows , time study is under the personnel department because wages are paid on the basis of production , and hence production standards may cause conflicts between the organization 's interests and the personal interests of the operative employees . In another , it comes under the " budget and standards " department because production standards enter into budgetary control . In still another , time and motion study is under the production control department because production standards enter into the scheduling and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the cost department for a time , because production standards enter into estimating costs and pricing the product . It seems reasonable to assume that all of these can not be the one best location for the function of production standardization . In our opinion , it is a phase of process design , and should be associated with other process design functions in conformity with the requirements of functional similarity . As has been indicated , it has close complementary relationships with other functions of the manufacturing division . In such cases as the above , these various relationships should be established through business procedure  | rather than through organization structure . Because of its importance , we shall go more thoroughly into time and motion study in a later chapter . The standards department is responsible for the determination of miscellaneous mechanical standards . Many concerns purchase all their standard tools . The drills we have been talking about have been well standardized as to size , style , and design ; and certain twist drill manufacturers have special equipment and a volume of production that enable them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make them for themselves . However , different makes of drills vary as to length of life and efficiency under different conditions . Hence the standards department in one concern conducted exhaustive tests of different makes of drills to determine their relative economy for specific operations on specific parts . In the course of the year a concern may purchase many thousands of dollars ' worth of expense materials ? materials that are necessary for manufacturing but do not enter directly into production . They should be standardized if the company is to enjoy economy in their use , and specifications should be set up for their purchase ? another job frequently undertaken by the standards department . This group may handle any other problem of standardization that has not been assigned to another technical staff division . The head of the department may perform a general staff function in so far as he aids in coordinating the various standardization functions throughout the company , and in this capacity he may act as secretary of its standards committee . Because we feel that there is greater functional similarity in that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have assigned the standards department to the master mechanic 's division . However , a good case can be made for assigning it to the materials division . A few concerns place it under the engineering department , but this seems the least desirable solution because the standards department does not determine product standards or influence them to any extent ; its problems are likely to be more economic than engineering . 772e Maintenance Department. ? The maintenance department is a technical staff unit that renders a specialized service of facilitation chiefly to the line organization of the manufacturing division . Its head may be known as the maintenance superintendent or , in some cases , as plant engineer . Its objective is to maintain certain production factors , principally plant and equipment , in a condition that will make possible continuous , economical manufacturing . To this end it inspects equipment regularly to prevent its breakdown , makes emergency and other repairs on it , takes care of whatever building services may be assigned to it , such as window-washing , janitor service , elevator service , etc . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production factors that must be considered in process planning , its head is often in a position to contribute valuable suggestions in the solution of such problems . In many respects , his background and ex-  | perience are similar to that of the process designer . Certain maintenance functions enter directly into organizing for the execution of process plans . We saw previously that blue prints for new plant layouts are usually turned over to the millwrights ' section of the maintenance department , the millwrights , electricians , and other maintenance workers making whatever changes are necessary . For these and other reasons , we believe that the maintenance department should be located in the master mechanic 's division ; in smaller concerns , however , it may have an independent staff position . Because of its importance , we shall go into the maintenance function in greater detail in a later chapter . The Executive Assistant. ? The executive assistant to the master mechanic performs a secondary general staff function . Relative to the work of the division , the objectives and characteristics of his function are similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He assists his superior in coordinating the activities of the division , and he may assist in the exercise of control , under direction . As a rule , he is responsible for keeping the records relating to process and equipment , used in common by a number of organization units . He acts as liaison man with other groups in the company , and hence any information released to them from the master mechanic 's division usually must clear through his office . Administrative Planning and the Control of Design. ? We have surveyed briefly several fields of activity that have to do with the creative planning of product or process . These functions are present in some form in any industry , but they may differ in their characteristics and development , depending on the nature of the industry and the particular organization problem . Economy and effectiveness in manufacturing depend largely on the plans that are formulated by the engineering and master mechanic 's divisions . The reader has undoubtedly realized that the work of these two groups affects that of the sales division , the comptroller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as the production manager . As has been said , the engineering and master mechanic 's divisions are technical staff organizations . While they have certain responsibilities and authority for the development of certain plans , they seldom have the right of final decision , or the authority to force their plans on coordinate line and staff organizations . This they do not want as a rule because of the danger that thereby they might lose the much-needed cooperation of these other groups . It is the responsibility of the administrative executive to make certain that the organizational interests of all the groups under his direction are adequately considered and provided for , and that their activities are properly coordinated , not alone with regard to any specific operative project , but with regard to the achievement of the common objectives of all the groups . It is evident , therefore , that we can not pass on to other problems without giving brief consideration to the administrative planning and control of design .  | Continuing our use of illustrations from the metal-working field , we shall base our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an assembled mechanical product . In general , the principles involved will apply to either engineering or non-engineering industries , but the details of the procedure will of course be different in every concern , depending on its size , the nature of its manufacturing problem , etc . However , as with most business problems , there is a general method of approach , and it may be broken down into certain rather definite phases , an understanding of which is necessary for the development of a detailed procedure in a particular situation . In our opinion , these phases are : r . The inception of design . 2 . The establishment of the basis of control . 3 . The preliminary design of the product . 4 . Experimental testing of this design . 5 . The final design and the release of engineering information . ' 6 . Process design and the release of process information . 7 . Cost control of design . 8 . Organization for manufacture of the new product . Research is not a phase of the administrative planning and control of design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the results of a research project will be or when they will be available . They can not enter into design until the research department has put the basic data in usable form , and perhaps built a model showing how the fundamental principles operate . There is usually considerable difference between a laboratory model and the commercially salable product . In a large organization , the inception of design is usually the approval of the manufacturing division 's plans by the company 's executive committee , which in Fig. 23 reports to the president . Further approval by the board of directors or its executive committee may be required , particularly with regard to financing and general policy . The executive committee of the company correlates the ideas of the various groups on proposed objectives , policies , programs , etc. , and advises the president regarding them . This committee is composed of the major administrative executives , such as the secretary , the treasurer , the vice-presidents in charge of sales and manufacturing , the comptroller , and such others as may have specific contributions for particular problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this group will probably require such information as preliminary sketches and product specifications from the engineering department , estimates of product costs from the cost department , and estimates of plant changes , new tools and equipment , etc. , from the master mechanic 's division . Because of his responsibility for financing , the treasurer may wish to know the estimated value of the  | initial inventory of raw , worked , and finished materials ; and this will probably be furnished by the production and materials divisions . Before the detailed designing can be begun , it is necessary to know the price class or classes in which the proposed product is to be sold . Effective competition is measured by the company 's ability to supply the public with maximum quality at minimum cost in the particular price class . Volume is a factor in costs and profits . If the concern elects to merchandise the new model in a low price class , it may be able to estimate on the basis of a large volume of sales , a small unit margin of profit , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reverse may be true . In the end , the committee may decide that the new model should cost not more than , say , $zo.00 to make . To this must be added the necessary percentages for general business expense , selling expense , and profit , to determine the selling price . The sales division should know this price before it spends any large sums for advertising and sales promotion , because price is usually an important factor in the public 's decision to buy . For example , if it is not stated in advance , the potential customer is likely to decide what price he will be willing to pay ; if the price announced later is higher than the customer anticipated , much of the advertising appropriation may be wasted because the customer must make a new decision to buy . It is evident that the permitted cost-to-make influences the quality of the product , and therefore its design . In many industries , seasonal buying habits affect the time of introducing new models ? new models of men 's straw hats are not brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is to be distributed to the general public , the announced date of showing the new model is important . It is the sales division 's task to develop public interest in it to the point where an active demand of satisfactory proportions will be manifest on or about the time when it is first to be displayed . If for some reason the company is unable to stock dealers adequately until some time after this date , the public is likely to buy a competing product rather than wait . In effect , the concern has spent some of its sales and advertising appropriation to increase its competitor 's business . A year or more may be needed before product design , process design , plant layout , organization changes , and preliminary manufacturing result in the production of the new model in the required volume . Hence it is evident that considerable administrative control is needed to assure proper coordination between these activities , selling , and other functions . This is difficult because in its initial stages the work is largely mental . To achieve this coordination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the approximate date of showing , and establish " dead lines " largely on the basis of practical experience with the time normally required for each phase of design , organization , and production . In doing this , it conditions once more the work of product design . There are many other problems that the committee must consider ; for  | example , the sales division probably has several ideas on style or service features that it would like to have incorporated . Because these problems are largely economic , the initiation of design must rest to a great extent with a committee whose members , for the most part , are not engineers . In the engineering division the chief engineer and his assistants must also establish dead lines . First , the correct order of design must be decided as definitely as possible ? obviously no one designing an automobile would start with the top decking and work down through the various component parts to the tires . With most mechanisms , the designer must start with the central moving parts and work out . If the concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order of design has probably been established by long practical experience , unless the forthcoming model is entirely new . Knowing this order of design , the chief engineer can set the approximate dates when the designs of certain base parts and subassemblies must be completed by the design groups to which they have been assigned . It is impossible to fix the number of designs to be completed per day , or anything else like this , because design involves creative planning , which is mental work . As the dead lines approach , some members of the various design groups may have to work overtime ; but this is to be expected , for if the engineering department is late in completing its work , the subsequent phases of manufacturing the new model may also be late . In addition , final decisions must be made as to what parts can be carried over from the old model , what ones must be redesigned , what new parts must be designed , what parts shall be purchased , etc . Some of these decisions probably will require conferences with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization groups . The engineering department usually has various forms for authorizing the execution of these decisions , in so far as they are internal . These forms should be originated by the executive engineer at the direction of the chief engineer , and on the recommendation of the designing engineer concerned . The latter must keep various engineering records while the preliminary design is being made . If these decisions affect other departments , it may be necessary first to send copies to the executive assistant to the president or to some other general staff officer at the major administration management level , in order that administrative coordination may be assured . As the preliminary designs are completed , they are released by the executive engineer to the experimental engineering section , where experimental models of parts and subassemblies are built and tested under conditions approximating the extremes of use that the customer will give them . A record is kept of their performance . If they fail to give the proper service , the causes thereof arc analyzed to determine whether the service that the customer has a right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past , manufacturing concerns often carried on their experimental work at the public 's expense . For cxamplc , their designers would work out new designs that were apparently  | all right . After testing a small number of completed products , these manufacturers would produce and distribute them . When too many complaints of a given kind were received the designs would be changed to eliminate the fault . In consequence , there has until recently been built up a strong resistance to new models which has hampered the efforts of sales divisions . During the course of the experimental testing , there are frequent conferences between the designers and the experimental engineers to determine the significance of results . When the tests are completed , the designers alter the preliminary designs to conform with the test findings . After tracings have been made by the drafting room and all the engineering records are completed , blue prints , specifications , bills of materials , and other engineering information are released through the executive engineer by means of engineering release notices that require his signature and that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchasing department for estimates of material requirements , contracts , etc. ; by the cost department for cost estimates ; by the master mechanic 's division for process planning , and by the production division for control purposes . We have noted previously how this information is used in process planning . The master mechanic 's division records its process information on " process layout sheets " or " master plans of work " similar to that shown in Fig. 20 . Copies are made for each part and subassembly , and sent to the cost and production control departments , and possibly to the engineering department for its files . The cost department should play an important part in the control of design . In modern practice , the selling price is usually predetermined on the basis of the estimated cost-to-make after this estimate has been accepted by the various functional heads as reasonable . The cost of materials for a part can . be estimated on the basis of bills of materials from engineering , estimated purchase costs from purchasing , estimated scrap allowances from production control , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation list for the part , the type of machine , the estimated rate of production , etc . The production division can tell what class of labor will be used , and the personnel department can estimate the average hourly rate that must be paid . Thus there is a basis for an estimate of the prime cost of the part ; to this must be added a percentage for factory overhead and administrative expenses to get the estimated cost-to-make . As the plans for the various parts and assemblies are released , first by the engineering and then by the master mechanic 's divisions , the cost of the finished product is gradually built up . If the engineering division has completed about 25 per cent of the work of product design and has spent about 40 per cent of the estimated cost-to-make , obviously it had better call a halt and reexamine its plans . It may be able to simplify the design of certain parts , or to use a less expensive material . Perhaps the master mechanic 's division can simplify or eliminate  | certain operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of manufacture . What will happen if this is not done ? In many modern concerns , the cost department will make its final report to the executive committee . The latter will note that the selling price of , say , $15.00 , was based on an original allowed cost-to-make of $1o.00 , whereas the final estimated cost is $11.80 . Inasmuch as the price of the product can not be raised without danger of serious marketing difficulties , and in most cases the profit margin will not permit the concern to absorb the difference , the committee will probably tell the heads of the production , process design , and product design groups to cut out the excess cost of $1.80 . Hence , these groups must reexamine their plans anyhow . In addition , they may have serious trouble because they will still be expected to meet the announced showing date . Eventually the concern will have purchased such new equipment as may be required , and any needed changes in plant layout and organization structure will have been made . The purchasing department will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other problems that may cause the company trouble will have been solved . Finally it will go into production , and if the management 's work has been well done , the dealer will get his stock of the new models when they were promised . We have devoted some time to product and process planning because these functions are vitally important in manufacturing operations . Furthermore , they give us a more practical understanding of the fundamentals of planning that were discussed earlier . PROBLEMS Some years ago , a large automobile concern brought from the Pacific Coast a new style designer , a young man who had made a brilliant record in a relatively short time . Partly on the basis of his reputation , he was able to sell the management on a new and distinctly different body design for its cars , which , he felt , represented an anticipation of the trend and would place the company well ahead of its competitors . This company 's dealers and customers had been remarkably loyal to it for many years , and as a result its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its price class . When the new line of models was presented to the public , the customer reaction was unfavorable , although the mechanical quality of the new cars was as high as or higher than that of previous models . The company lost its strong competitive position , and its volume of sales dropped almost to the bottom for its price class . Partly as a result of this innovation and a subsequent business depression , the company operated at a loss for a number of years . What principles of creative planning and administration were violated in this case ? I-Iow would adequate product and process planning have prevented the company 's decrease in business ? 2 . A manufacturer of office equipment came out with an important improvement in his product , and his sales jumped immediately . Within a short time he was  | sued by his largest competitor , who claimed that it had developed , several years previously , a device that was functionally identical with the new improvement . While it had not patented the device or used it in its product , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violated , and asked the court to assess damages . It also demanded an accounting of the manufacturer 's past sales of the product using this device , for the purpose of determining royalty payments to be made . However , the competitor lost its case because it could not produce the original engineering drawings and records for its device . Today , this company 's engineering department has a modern steel vault and an excellent engineering record system ; some people have said that it cost this company approximately $2,000,000.00 to discover that such things as original drawings and records are not of minor importance . What function of the competitor 's engineering department was insufficiently developed ? How would you classify it ? What principles of procedure may have been ignored in handling original records ? 3 . When the single-piece fender was first brought out several years ago , one automobile company spent approximately $650,000.00 in developing a method of processing it . Most of the money was spent in designing and making the dies for the drawing presses , which were similar to that shown in Plate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the superintendent of the sheet metal plant , a highly competent man with long practical experience . The general method involved much trial and error . Thus after 9 die had been designed in accordance with the fender design , a highly skilled die-sinker cut it in a large and expensive block of die steel . A paper pattern , or template , of the fender was then cut ; if this lay smoothly in the die , the latter was approximately correct . Next the upper and lower dies would be set up in the press and a few fenders would be drawn . If the dies were not right , the sheet metal would tear or wrinkle , or some other trouble would develop , and further work on the dies would be done in an effort to correct it . Some of the dies were spoiled in the process , which ran up the expense . In general , there was no body of knowledge concerning the characteristics and requirements of such dies that would make possible their rational design . Designing had to be empirical , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of functional differentiation is this particular phase of tool design ? What possible further differentiation and development occur to you ? What would be the responsibilities of administrative management in this type of development ?  | FUNDAMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN PRODUCTION CONTROL ' In our discussions of responsibility , authority , and organization structure , organizational activities were classified in two broad groups : managerial and operative . Managerial functions were broken down into three organic phases : creative planning , organizing , and controlling . In the previous chapter we surveyed briefly certain functions that had to do largely with the creative planning of product and process , and with organizing for the manufacture of the new product . In the next few chapters we shall examine the control of production . The Meaning of Production Control. ? Production control may be defined as the function of regulating and constraining those manufacturing activities that relate directly to production , in accordance with the requirements of manufacturing plans , to the end that the final objectives of primary operative projects will be achieved with maximum economy and effectiveness . The ultimate objectives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the product on the date promised the customer , a faster turnover of work in process and a lower investment of working capital , quicker deliveries , less overtime , less unabsorbed overhead expense , less employee " retainer time , " less " dead time " in the movement of work in process , and relief of the line executive from much of the routine work of control . In addition , good production control creates other values that result in greater production of the required quality at lower unit costs , and better customer service . The immediate objectives in a particular operative project are good coordination of manufacturing activities , assurance that the various production factors will be available when needed , and prompt , accurate information on interferences with the execution of the project , as well as the general status of production in the shop . Economists define production as the function of creating or conserving utilities , such as time , place , form , or possession . The term as generally used in industry refers to the application of men and machines to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important . Before a production program can be executed , a company must be equipped with sufficient man power which has the abilities required for the varied kinds of work that must be done , and which is properly trained and Before reading this chapter , review pp. 85-93 , r06-120 , on the economics of staff functionalization and control . 241  | supervised . There must be some control to insure that this man power is used as continuously as possible , and with the greatest economy . An adequate supply of materials of the right kind and quality must be obtained and so controlled that they will be available on the job when needed . Machinery of the right kind , type , and capacity must be supplied and maintained in a condition which will permit it to operate constantly and efficiently . The application of these factors to one another at each step in the production process must be so controlled and coordinated that the work flows smoothly . Production Control and the Kind of Management. ? We have distinguished previously between conventional , systematic , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the principles of reflective thinking are applied to the solutions of the particular business problems on the basis of verified facts . They relate to the quality of business plans . Inasmuch as the latter are the bases of business action , the kind of management greatly affects the quality of operative performance and its control . Under the conventional type of management , there is little or no orderly , thorough , pre-planning of production . The quantities to be processed are based either on actual orders or on the experience of the head of the production division . Orders to process or assemble component parts are issued when in his opinion the time is right . No records of the shop capacity are required for orders planned or in process , and as a result there is no definite assurance , other than the knowledge of the line executives gained by daily observation , that the machines required for any given operation will be available when needed . The lack of available equipment is a frequent cause of delay in such plants . With such management production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him a force of men , known as stock-chasers , whose duty is to follow the progress of work through the plant , and who are responsible for its arrival at the assembly floor at the proper time . The orders for the individual parts of a given product may be issued by the stock-chaser who is responsible for it . In the case of a machine , the orders for the heavy parts , such as the base , frame , etc. , are issued first because the stock-chaser knows from experience that this is necessary if the machine is to be completed and shipped as promised . Orders for the smaller parts which can be produced in a relatively short time are issued later at his discretion . In most instances , there is no difficulty in connection with the heavy parts , for they are so important that any interference in their production is noticed immediately and taken care of . The smaller parts often cause a delay . Because they are small and produced with relative ease , their progress is not followed so closely ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result , the assembly of the machine may be held up because some small part is not ready at the proper time , and delayed quite as effectively as though the base or frame were not on hand .  | If assembly is delayed beyond the promised shipping date , pressure may be exerted on the production division by the sales department . As a result , the stock-chaser goes into the shop to speed up the parts which have failed to arrive at the assembly floor on time ; he will often personally follow the progress of these parts through the shop . Current production is put aside and the delayed work is placed in the machines . Time is lost while the old set-up is being torn down and the machine reset for the new job . In addition , there is the extra expense of set-ups . The rhythm of production is broken and morale may be lowered because of the evident inefficiency of the production division . Moreover , when work is put through the shop under pressure , there is always the danger that the quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various parts may be issued by the superintendent or the stock-chaser , the actual beginning of the work on an order often rests with the foreman . He may be influenced more by the convenient distribution of the load on his department than by the relations of the parts to one another from the standpoint of final assembly . This can hardly be otherwise , for he does not have a complete picture of the production situation . Furthermore , he may be persuaded by the more aggressive stock-chasers to put their orders through at the expense of other orders . In some plants , hardly 50 per cent of the promise dates made to customers are met . A delayed shipment often interferes with the customer 's own production program , causes him great inconvenience , and results possibly in the loss of his business . One of the best assets of a plant is the reputation for delivering on the dates promised . This is only a partial summary of the losses that may result from poor production control . As a rule , there are many others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs of the shop , the failure of material to arrive at the bench or shop on time , lack of standardization of materials and methods , etc . Scientific management , as we have seen , is that kind of management which employs the scientific method in planning , organizing , and controlling business activities ; and the scientific method is merely a logical , orderly method for the solution of problems . Inasmuch as our subsequent discussions have to do with this kind of management in various manufacturing situations , we shall not go into it here ; we shall merely note that the achievement of the objectives of production control is not likely to be satisfactory unless management methods have some reasonable scientific validity . Factors and Functions Affecting Production Control. ? There are many physical factors that enter into or immediately affect production . Some of them , such as plant layout , machine tools , materials-handling equipment , condition production directly . The utilities of the product result directly from primary operative performance . Even though the requisite factors and facul-  | ties are available , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and effectiveness unless managerial functions , both line and staff , are efficiently carried on . Among these functions are materials control , tool control , quality control , plant maintenance , etc . It is the purpose of production control to facilitate the proper relation between physical factors , functions , and human faculties in the achievement of the primary service objectives of the manufacturing division . In consequence , anything that affects the economy and effectiveness of primary operative performance may become a factor in production control . Since we shall take up later certain factors and functions in some detail , here we shall merely note some of them that exert a broad , general influence on the control problem , such as the type of industry , the type of manufacturing , the type of control , the fundamental characteristics of control procedure , and the general relationships of functions in the production organization . Types of Industry and Production Control. ? The types of industry and manufacturing greatly affect the general type of control that may be employed . To classify them and their relationships with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been found helpful : Type of Type of Industry Manufacturing Type of Control Assembly industries Intermittent Order control Continuous Flow control Semi-process industries Intermittent Block or order control Process industries Mechanical process Intermittent Block or order control Continuous Flow control Chemical process Intermittent Block or order control Continuous Flow control An Assembly Industry. ? In an assembly industry , a number of component parts are united by mechanical means to make the finished product . Each part passes through a series of operations which in most cases is peculiar to itself . Its manufacture proceeds independently , except that all the parts must be completed at the proper time for assembly into subassemblies or the finished product in accordance with the schedule . In some operations it may be necessary to process two or more components together . The various components may be made from the same or very different materials . Thus the manufacture of a machine tool , such as the drill press discussed in the preceding chapter , may require a cast-iron base , machine-steel shafts , fiber gears , bronze bushings , etc . Under certain manufacturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shop toward the assembly floor . Fig. 37 , a manufacturing diagram for an assembled product , is a simple illustration , but it suggests the complex situations that may arise . A highly developed control system may be required to make certain that the necessary materials , tools , machine capacities , and man power are available when and Cowlery ? Logan Conveyor Co . PLATE 33. - View of a Foundry , Illustrating the Use of a Gravity-roll Conveyor in an Intermittent-process Type of Manufacturing .  | where they are needed , and that the various activities are properly coordinated with one another . A Process Industry. ? A process industry is one in which one or a very few raw materials come together in or near the initial operation . They travel together , often in a state of chemical union , until the product is completed . In such industriesli all products go through the same general stages of the basic process , the number of operations in each stage being varied to suit the specifications of different products . In a brass rolling mill , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about four feet long by one foot wide . They are passed first through the roughing mills , which are heavy , power-driven rolls that " break down " the slab , making it thinner , longer , and somewhat wider . The elongated slab is broken down further by successive mills until it arrives at the finishing mills . Here it is rolled to the exact gauge that is desired . In its final form , it is a long , thin sheet that is handled in about the same manner as the sheet steel shown in Plate 24 . In the intermediate stages of rolling , the slab may go through a mill one or more times , depending on the composition of the brass and the gauge desired . Rolling tends to harden brass ; therefore it must be annealed after each breakdown to restore its ductility . While these operations may vary , all sheets of brass go through the same general stages from the rough breakdown to the finishing mills . In our discussion of organization , we saw that process is one of the bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As would be expected , it is also the basis of the organization structure for production in process industries . The brass plant may have a superintendent in charge of the brass foundry , and another in charge of the rolling mill ; in the rolling mill there may be a head roller or foreman in charge of each mill or group of mills . In this respect a process industry differs from an assembly type of industry , for production in the latter must be organized primarily on the basis of a product or equipment division of functions . We may distinguish also between mechanical and chemical process industries . In the former , as a rule , a single material passes through the various phases of the process , undergoing some change of form but not of state ; in other words , it retains its original identity . The rolling mill process is an example . In a chemical process industry , the materials are brought together i n or near the initial operation , and in the course of processing they undergo a change of state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as synthetic or analytical . In the former , a number of materials are chemically united to form a new compound . Steel is an example ? iron ore , coke , limestone , manganese , and other ingredients are fused to produce steel of a predetermined quality . In an analytical process , one or a few materials arc broken clown into their elements , which are drawn off in some form . The hy-product coke industry is the usual example . Coking coal is subjected to  | heat ; the various gases which are driven off are caught and treated to obtain the various coal tar derivatives from which are made dyes , explosives , and many other products . Semi-process Industries. ? Intermediate between assembly and process industries are certain industries that have some of the characteristics of both ; they may be classified roughly as semi-process industries . They are characterized by a typical process that breaks down into certain fundamental phases on which the structure of the operative organization usually is based . All products must pass through these phases , but the number of operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this type is similar to a process industry . But frequently the product is an assembly of a number of component parts . The different parts may be made from different materials which retain their identity throughout the processing . The operation list for each part tends to differ from that for every other part . The product may he affected by changes in style or model . In these respects , such industries are similar to assembly industries . Confectionery manufacturing , printing , clothing , shoe manufacturing , and many textile concerns are examples . The dividing line between assembly and semi-process industries on the one hand , and semi-process and process industries on the other , is sometimes hard to distinguish . Different manufacturing conditions in various types of industries reflect themselves in different control problems . The control procedure must be adapted to the manufacturing environment in which it must operate . Types of Manufacturing. ? Manufacturing operations may be classified on the basis of their continuity into intermittent and continuous operations . There may be an infinite number of degrees of continuity between completely intermittent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the scale of manufacturing . Intermittent manufacturing is that type of manufacturing in which labor and equipment are applied continuously to materials for a relatively limited period . As a rule , plans are made , materials and tools are procured , and machinery is set up and adjusted for a specific order or lot of the product . A relatively short time is required to complete any given operation on a part or product , whereupon the set-up is dismantled and the machine reset and adjusted for a perhaps quite different operation on another part or product . Continuous manufacturing may be defined as that type of manufacturing in which labor and equipment are applied continuously to materials for an extended period of time . Hence plans are made , materials and tools are procured , and machinery is set up and adjusted to produce and supply continuously a large quantity of parts or products to the storeroom or the assembly floor over a considerable time . Once a machine has been put on an operation on a given part , it may be run on this operation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the replacement of worn tools or equipment . In industries in which mass production of annual models is the rule , many machines may run throughout the year on the same operation . The most important factors in continuous manufacturing are standardization and the volume of production , the latter apparently being more important . Products and manufacturing conditions may be highly standardized ; but unless the volume of production for a standard part is sufficient to keep a given machine busy at its normal rate of production , it must be shut down eventually or shifted over to some other operation on another part that requires this type of equipment . Because of the importance of volume , large manufacturing concerns are more likely to be able to engage in continuous manufacturing ; but it does not follow necessarily that this type of manufacturing is not feasible for small concerns . For example , the writer once saw in a small foundry the continuous assembly of brass petcocks that were being made for a large automobile manufacturer . The assembly operations were largely hand work ; the assembly bench @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no great investment ? the concern intended to junk it when the contract was completed . The principal requirement for continuous manufacturing is a sufficient volume of production over a considerable period of time to permit a satisfactory balance of productive capacity between each operation on the particular part or assembly , and a reasonable standardization of manufacturing conditions . In general , it is easier to establish such a balance for hand operations than for machine operations . It is evident that the type of manufacturing also will greatly affect the type of control that will be most economical . Any industry may find it advisable to engage in either intermittent or continuous manufacturing , depending on the degree to which it can meet the requirements for the latter . The semi-process industries are a possible exception , for with increasing volume and organization growth , they tend to become either continuous assembly or continuous mechanical process industries . Furthermore , extreme degrees of continuity may be found in different concerns in the same kind of industry . We usually think of automobile manufacturing as being a highly continuous assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there were a few concerns that manufactured what were virtually custom-built automobiles for the very wealthy who were able and willing to pay for distinctive differences ; they could select the hardware , interior trim , body design , and within limits the kind and make of motor that they wanted . Since such concerns catered to the highest price class , their production volume necessarily was very small and their manufacturing operations highly intermittent . The pro duct ion control methods that would be applied in a General Motors , Chrysler , or Ford plant today could not have been used by such concerns .  | In any intermittent assembly industry , the basis for the division of operative responsibility is the classification and grouping of operative functions on the basis of the kinds and types of equipment required . As we saw in connection with Fig. 6 , this affects the characteristics of factory organization structure , which in turn affects control procedures . Furthermore , because of the smaller volume of production , control has to be extended to each order or lot of product . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this complicates the internal transportation problem . Other factors that affect the control problem grow out of the type of industry and manufacturing conditions . In continuous assembly industries , operative functions usually are classified and grouped on the basis of the products to be made . The general effect on the manufacturing environment and organization structure has been illustrated in Fig. 7 . Here the concern is manufacturing to a production program or schedule that covers its production requirements for at least the next month . Its problem is to maintain a continuous flow of parts and assemblies from each production and assembly line to meet the requirements of its production program . To do this , it has balanced production between each item of equipment and each production or assembly line as accurately as possible . There is obviously no point in breaking up this stream of production into lots or orders , and in controlling each lot individually as it moves to the assembly line . Still other differences in manufacturing conditions have an important influence on control . In consequence , the type of control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not work in a continuous industry of the same kind , and vice versa . Continuous manufacturing as a rule is less flexible but more economical than intermittent manufacturing , as long as the volume of production does not drop so low as to impair seriously the balance of capacity . As a manufacturing business grows , it tends to develop a higher degree of operating continuity , a change which usually has a profound effect on the type of control that can be used . The general nature of the economic advantages in continuous manufacturing were covered in our discussion of plant layout for continuous production . Types of Production Control. ? There are two kinds of production control : order control and flow control . The type of industry exerts a greater influence on the detailed characteristics and requirements of control procedure than it does on the kind of control . Since , as we have seen , the type of manufacturing har , a direct and important influence on the type of control , our distinction between the two kinds of control is more closely related to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based on the control of the progress of the order , or lot of work , through the successive operations and depart ments in its processing . As indicated in Fig. 26 , each order must arrive in the right  | department and work center at the proper time so that certain specified operations can be performed on it in accordance with its time schedule . There must be sufficient machine capacity of the right kind when the work arrives , and tools and materials must be on hand . The control methods must ORDER / M.l M.2 M.3 A DEPT. / // M.4 M.5 M.6 Ftc. 26. - Order Control Diagram . indicate the status and location of the order at all times , and its progress in relation to its time schedule . Flow control methods are based on the maintenance of a predetermined rate of flow of work from each machine or work center ; the cross-hatched areas in Fig. 27 represent this flow . As indicated , the materials and work in ' n M , %////. // D111 gi W/0 d Ftc. 27. - Flow Control Diagram . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : fairly constant rate . To attain this , the machine capacity applied on each operation must be balanced properly . As a rule , the rate of tool consumption is determined , and an adequate supply is always on hand in the shop tool cages . Here the control methods must indicate , at all times , the current and cumulative quantities produced on each operation , or each production or assembly line , depending on the degree of operating continuity that is possible , and their relation to the scheduled rate of flow . A work center is any area in the shop which contains like machines or produces a particular kind of work . In intermittent manufacturing , it may include one or more machines with the necessary space for the workman and the storage of materials . In continuous manufacturing , it may include a series of machines whose functions are related by physical contiguity , complementary relationships , and conveying equipment to form a production err assembly line . , rni  | As we pass from highly intermittent industries , such as jobbing tool and die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to highly continuous industries , such as continuous mills for making sheet steel and cement , and radio , washing machine , automobile and other continuous assembly plants , the type of production control gradually changes from pure order to a pure flow control . There may be many hybrid types in between , as when a concern applies flow control to its high-volume products , and order control to its low-volume lines . Because of its distinctive characteristics , the best known of these hybrid types is " block control , " which is found most frequently in semi-process industries , where it is highly important . With this form of control , orders or batches of product are assigned to " blocks " of work , usually in accordance with their due dates . In order for it to work effectively , these blocks must represent equal amounts of work in each department , and therefore equal blocks of time . All the blocks must go through the same fundamental phases of the basic process , and the production division must be departmentalized on the basis of these phases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise these blocks will move through different departments at different rates . As blocks of work are released , they are numbered serially , and as a rule they must be processed in this order . The progress of the blocks through their successive departments can be shown easily by means of relatively simple reports and control devices , and any order or batch in a block which is held up can be spotted quickly . When assembled products can be manufactured under these conditions , differences in styles , sizes , and models can be taken care of without great difficulty . It will be noticed that these conditions correspond closely to those in semi-process industries ; hence , as would be expected , shoe factories , clothing factories , and printing plants offer excellent examples of block control . A brief glance at the hundreds of industries , each of which may include thousands of concerns manufacturing a great variety of products under widely differing conditions , makes the problem of production control appear baffling because of its complexity . The analysis of a control problem may be greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , manufacturing , and control , and then remember that any such problem can be broken down into the organic phases of control ? routine planning , scheduling , preparation , dispatching , direction , supervision , comparison , and corrective action . Thus the writer has yet to find one that could not be analyzed on this basis , provided he had sufficient facts and some experience either with the particular industry or with others . In the next few chapters we shall attempt to trace the influence of these control functions on the control of production , beginning with highly intermittent manufacturing and ending with highly continuous manufacturing .  | First , however , we must examine the organization structure of the manufacturing division more carefully than we have done thus far . The Organization of the Production Division. ? Production is one of the organic functions of a manufacturing business . We have seen that the devolution of an organic function through the process of differentiation , with growth of business and size of the organization , results gradually in an increasing separation of managerial and primary operative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division of a large manufacturing concern : managerial functions break down into line and staff activities , the latter into general and technical staff functions which may be appended to the line organization at any service level where they may be needed . Inasmuch as we are now approaching the level of primary operative performance , the technical staff functions more and more become functions of technical facilitation rather than of creative planning . The line organization of the production division extends from the vicepresident in charge of manufacturing , through the production manager , superintendents , foremen , and assistant foremen , to the primary operative employees . The general structural relationships are illustrated in Fig. 28 . Near the operative level , the executive functions of creative planning and of organizing the work of others decrease , but never entirely disappear ; and the proportion of the executive 's time that must be spent on control becomes correspondingly greater . Although the emphasis shifts , creative planning , organizing , and controlling continue to be the functions of management at every executive level . Furthermore , the executive is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operative projects . As this suggests , going down the line organization from the vice-president to an assistant foreman in a shop department , managerial activities change gradually in nature from those that are largely administrative to those that are largely operative . The assistant foreman 's functions are concerned almost entirely with operative management . The production manager is the active operating head of the production division , subject to the direction and supervision of the vice-president in charge of manufacturing . The other functions for which the latter is responsible are staff activities . In a large concern , several superintendents may report to the production manager ; but if more than five or six do so , there is danger that the normal span of executive control may have been exceeded . It is probable that the chief inspector also will report to him , for reasons that will be brought out later . If control methods are well developed , a control supervisor will probably be in charge of the production control department . The work of the production manager has been summarized above in connection with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control department performs a general staff function . With the aid of his staff , the control supervisor assists the line executives chiefly in  | the exercise of operative control . He may also coordinate creative planning and organizing for changes in product or process , in so far as this work is done in the line organization . This phase of his work may be important , for in many concerns staff plans can not be put into effect until they have been approved by the coordinate line executives affected , as well as by the higher administrative executives . In small concerns , much of the work of process planning may be done by the line organization . ' VICE-PRESIDENT OF MFG. l I I PERSONNEL MATERIALS PRODUCTION ' MASTER CHIEF DIRECTOR MGR . MGR . MECHANIC ENGINEER CONTROL SUPERVISOR SUPT . SUPT . CHIEF INSPECTOR PREPARATION CAPACITY PROGRESS CONTROL RECORDS ROUTINE PLANNING SCHEDULING DISPATCHING // RECORDS FOREMAN FOREMAN FOREMAN ' SHOP CLERK ASST . ASST . ASST . JINSPEGTORS FOREMAN FOREMAN FOREMAN SHOP TOOL TRANSPORT . CRIB OPERATIVE OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES Fin. 28. - The Production Organization . Inasmuch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the organic functions of control form the basis of the functionalization of the production control department . As shown in Fig. 28 , this department may have a planning section that prepares the production orders , requisitions , and other records necessary for the control and execution of production . There may be a scheduling section which schedules orders to assure their steady , rapid progress and completion in accordance with the due dates . It may have a preparation section that places tool orders with the tool department and follows them through , originates purchase orders for special materials , checks the material requirements of each order , and carries out other phases of preparation for production . Other sections may perform other control  | functions , as shown in the figure . It is of course evident that the extent and manner of differentiating these functions will vary greatly between concerns , depending on the type of industry and of manufacturing , and the size of the concern . Thus there may be twenty or thirty people or more in the control department of a large company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern . The relation of control functions shown in Fig. 28 would be suitable , with modifications , for a fairly large assembly industry engaged in intermittent manufacturing , but , for reasons that will appear later , some of these functions would not be found in the control department of a continuous assembly industry . While none of the organic control functions can be eliminated , it may be advantageous to have certain of them performed elsewhere in the organization . It will be noted that Fig. 28 makes no specific provision for direction , supervision , and corrective action in the control of operations ; but we shall see later that the control department does render some routine assistance . In general , however , these are essentially functions of the line executive , and therefore can properly be delegated to a general staff unit only in a very limited degree . Each superintendent is the active head of a branch of the primary line organization , and is usually responsible for directing and supervising from four to six foremen . He may have a clerk and stenographer for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others should be kept in the control department to avoid duplication . The department is there to serve him , not compete with him . The foreman is a minor but highly important operative executive . Modern management regards him as a key executive and , to emphasize this , gives him the title of department manager . In a large concern , he may be responsible for the management of a shop department employing from 50 to 150 workers , with five or six assistant foremen and a shop clerk reporting to him . The shop clerk assists the foreman in control ; his work is an interesting example of an operative general staff function . Because of its importance , we shall discuss it later in more detail . One of the assistant foremen usually is responsible for the storage and issuance of tools , the movement of work between machines , etc. ? a minor technical staff function of facilitation at the level of primary operative performance . The chief inspector is a major technical staff executive who assists the line organization in the control of quality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function , on the basis of product and process specifications , to determine the extent to which the product conforms to the quality standards that have been set up . Frequently he acts as a buffer between the line organization for production , which tends to be interested primarily in quantity and unit costs , and the engineering division , whose primary interest is quality , sometimes without sufficient regard for quantity and costs . For this reason , the function of quality control should he independent of both di-  | visions . In Fig. 28 the chief inspector reports to the production manager because his division assists the line in this phase of production control . While he renders a technical facilitation service for control , he can not be placed under the control supervisor for three reasons : ( I ) this would violate the principle of functional similarity ; ( 2 ) pressure for the completion of schedules might impair quality control ; and ( 3 ) such a subordinate position might interfere with the proper development of the function to a degree commensurate with its great responsibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The next few chapters will deal largely with the work of the production control department , and it is therefore unnecessary to go into it in any detail here . However , it may be well to recall certain principles that govern the relations of general staff and line executives . A general staff executive may issue orders and instructions to the line , over the signature of his line superior , when authorized to do so by established control procedure . When the situation is covered not by standard practice instructions but by policy , he may do this provided he is able to get the approval of the coordinate line authority . When the situation is not covered at all , orders and instructions usually require the personal approval of the superior line executive . In an emergency , if his superior is not available , a general staff executive may issue orders directly , but in so doing he deliberately exceeds his authority . He must inform his superior of his action at the earliest possible moment , and justify it on the basis of the emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deny to a general staff executive authority in his own right to issue orders to a line executive at any time , except in an emergency . When he has this authority , a completely functionalized relationship has developed , which is likely to cause trouble sooner or later . PROBLEMS I. All rubber tires go through the same stages of manufacture , except for differences in the time and details of processing made necessary by the specifications of particular types or sizes . One of the large producers markets its tires through a chain of service stations ; it also manufactures original equipment for auto mobile manufacturers , and does a good replacement business . Hence its normal volume of production is very heavy . This concern retained a nationally known consultant to install a system of production control which he had publicized widely . It paid him a large fee for his services , and incurred additional heavy expenses because of the necessity of training its employees , etc . A brief description of the way in which the comparison function was performed will indicate the general type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control office , there was a control board for each department . Cards for each machine in the department were arranged vertically along the left-hand edge of the board , the number , type , and kind of machine being typed on each card . Divisions across the top of the board represented time in days , and in them the  | actual dates for the particular month were entered . The tires were put through the plant in batches . The production papers prepared for each batch authorized the plant to process the number of tires indicated , showed the operations to be done on each tire , the department in which each operation was to be done , the machine to be used , the time required for each operation , etc . A paper tape was cut to a length representing the time required to complete each operation , as measured by the time scale on the production control board . This tape was posted horizontally on the control hoard of the department responsible for the operation , opposite the machine specified . The left end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right end under the scheduled finish date ; and the information necessary to identify the lot was entered on it . As the operations were completed , the departments reported to the control office , which removed the corresponding tape from the departmental control board and checked off the progress of the batch on its records . Thus it could at any time see the status of the lots in any department in relation to scheduled progress . Although this system had been successful and profitable in a number of plants , in less than two years this concern had thrown out most of it . Make a rough sketch of the control board . What general type of control was applied ? Why was the system thrown out ? What general types of control might have given satisfactory results ? The many similar cases which have occurred have led some executives to regard scientific management as theoretical . Should scientific management be charged with this failure ? Where should the responsibility be placed ? Should calling in consultants be avoided by management ? 2 . As the result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern which manufactured sporting goods came to the conclusion that the organic functions of production are planning , preparation , scheduling , production , and inspection . With this as a basis , the manufacturing end of the business was broken down into four major divisions , each headed by a superintendent who reported to the vice-president in charge of manufacturing . Each of these four divisions was broken down into five sections headed by planning , preparation , scheduling , production , and inspection supervisors , respectively . The planning supervisor was responsible for all records other than those used currently in production control , and for the origination of various production papers . The preparation supervisor originated tool manufacturing requisitions for the tool department , placed purchase requisitions with the purchasing department for materials and supplies needed by the division , and handled other related duties . The scheduling supervisor scheduled all orders for the shop . The production supervisor dispatched orders to the shop , followed them up , and saw that any interferences with production were promptly removed . The inspection supervisor posted to the progress records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress reports for the superintendent and coordinate line executives , etc . The five supervisors in each division acted as staff assistants to the superintendent . Each of the four major divisions was broken down into groups of shop departments , each group headed by a general foreman . This plan of Iunctionalization was followed in the general foreman 's as well as in the foreman 's office in many of the larger shop departments . It produced excellent results and did not increase overhead expense seriously , except in                     