@@773623

txt // each of some ninety-seven museums obtains a new loan every fifteen months . As a rule , the loan consists of three or four case collections . The exhibits sent to schools consist mainly of framed material , such as reproductions and photographs of examples of industrial art , original textiles , metal work , etchings , and drawings . Of late years a growing proportion of original material is being sent , particularly to schools of art . Examples of textiles , lace , embroideries , ceramics , and even of furniture are thus circulated . By this means , twenty to thirty frames , together with other objects , mainly photographs , are sent annually to each of two hundred and thirteen schools of art ; while ten to twelve frames , as well as portfolios of photographs , are sent to each of some three hundred secondary schools and training colleges for teachers . Lantern slides are also loaned in considerable numbers to all the above named types of schools , 18,662 being issued in 1925 . For the last few years the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the museum budget for the purchase of new material . CHAPTER V THE MUSEUM AND INDUSTRIAL ART IN AMERICA WHAT place should industrial art occupy in American museums ? In what type of museum should it be housed ? What should be the scope of the collections , the manner of display , and what educational activities should be associated with them ? In western Europe there are separate industrial art museums in many of the larger cities on the continent . At least seventy-eight such institutions exist , while many other important industrial art collections are to be found in regional museums or in museums containing some other branch of art or of science . For over fifty years industrial art has been recognized in these countries as possessing paramount importance in respect to the adornment of daily life , and a value similar to that of painting and sculpture as a means of educating public taste . The distinction between the fine and applied arts on the basis of material , technique , and economic significance , has not been ignored , but no line has been drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values . Great sums of money have been spent upon the establishment and maintenance of industrial art museums and industrial art collections ? expenditures financially justified because industrial art production is recognized as a source of national wealth . Museums and schools have each sought to advance industrial design ? the first 51 // by collections and other activities , and the second by formal instruction . In the United States , on the other hand , industrial art has occupied a vaguely defined sphere . Until recent years our art museums have given it but scant practical consideration , and only very lately have we begun to realize the importance of this field as a phase of artistic expression . Only slowly have we come to see that industrial art reaches the home life of our people more widely and more intimately than the so-called fine arts , and that the aesthetic opportunities of the American home lie mainly in this field . Along with this gradually growing appreciation , but even more slowly , has come the admission that creative design in this field is worthy of museum encouragement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied art in the United States . An atmosphere created by fine things is unquestionably one of the most important stimulants to creative effort in design . We lack the background furnished by the public monuments , buildings , and endless examples of fine and applied art to be found in Europe . Perhaps we shall never possess these in a like measure . For this reason our American art museums discharge a peculiarly important function . We are dependent upon them for our artistic education to a far greater degree than is the case in Europe . By virtue of these various considerations , museum opinion has arrived at a fairly general agreement that industrial art is worthy of attention . Where should it eventually be housed ? There is much to be said for the establishment of separate industrial art museums in the United States . The field of the art industries is so vast , it touches in such intimate fashion the aesthetic possibilities of the American home , that thorough provision for the cultivation of public taste in this field and // comprehensive measures for service to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Separate institutions would have the advantage of singleness of aim and would be free from the questioning and sometimes condescending attitude of art museum authorities . Freedom from restrictions and opportunity for concentration upon service in a special field would undoubtedly make for increased efficiency . Testimony in support of this position is not difficult to cite ? one notable case being that of the Musee des Arts Decoratifs , which , under the active and progressive policies of the Union Centrale continued over a period of thirty years , has been an important factor in raising French decorative art from a confessedly low level to the eminent position it occupies today . However , in the situation existing in the United States , serious objections to the separate museum arise . For some years American art museums have pretty generally , though somewhat haltingly and vaguely , followed the lead of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in giving an important place to collections of applied art . This policy , although often lacking definiteness of purpose and application , is apparently destined to continue and to receive increasing emphasis in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of applied art is very large , and marked advantages must be demonstrated to justify the establishment of a new set of institutions to deal solely with this field . Moreover , among practically all the progressive museums of industrial art in Europe , many of which have been long established , there has emerged of late years an agreement that the first and highest purpose of industrial art collections is the education of public taste . As noted in previous pages , this accord has been followed by the adoption of certain policies of display , making // little distinction between fine and applied arts . This point of view is in harmony with the larger principle that a true flowering of the arts can come only through a common inspiration , and that we can not expect one line of natural growth in the fine arts and another in the applied arts . When these considerations are weighed together with the educational activities developed in certain of our American museums , it would seem hardly possible to justify the foundation in this country of separate museums of industrial art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must look to an increasing inclusion of industrial art collections in our museums of art . At present the policies of these museums towards applied art range from mere toleration to serious and systematic efforts to render the collections of maximum value both to the public and to manufacturers , craftsmen , and distributors . These diverse attitudes arise in part , but not altogether , from the differing size of the cities served by these museums and from the varying degree to which industrial art interests are to be found therein . Some of the main facts concerning applied art in our museum situation are as follows : A score of museums possess collections of industrial art ranging from those of modest size to extensive accumulations of great value . As to the scope and character of these collections , no uniform principles seem to obtain . These museums present their applied art collections in displays differing greatly in quality and effectiveness . Four museums have each designated an official to include with his other museum duties the task of making the collections of service to manufacturers , designers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Art , has established a department with a staff member in // charge who visits shops , factories , and designing rooms and ascertains at first hand the means of making the museum useful . Several museums provide study rooms in certain departments of the applied arts for the benefit of designers , craftsmen , and students . At least three museums hold exhibitions of craft work yearly which in two cases are accompanied by the award of prizes and medals . The Metropolitan Museum holds each year the exhibition of American industrial art which is referred to in later pages . A number of museums include topics relating to the applied arts in their lecture arrangements and give space to the subject in their publications . The Metropolitan Museum offers each year two series of demonstration talks mainly for the benefit of sales people and department store buyers . One series is given on Sundays and is free , while the other is held during business hours on a week day and involves a fee . The talks include such subjects as The Principles of Design , Technique of Textiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based as far as possible on the practice of contrasting commercial examples with museum specimens . No standardized program in regard to applied art is applicable to all our museums , but there are certain considerations to which experience and good practice point which would seem to possess significance for all cases . From an ideal standpoint , museum collections should exert an influence upon the maker of industrial art material , upon the seller , and upon the consumer . Of these the last is unquestionably most important . Whether or not a community contains the maker or the seller of industrial art in any large fashion , it always holds the consumer , and for America the education of public taste can // be designated without fear of controversy as the foremost function of applied arts collections . First of all , then , it may be well to examine the factors that chiefly affect this function , leaving the question of service to workers for later consideration . In the matter of scope , our American institutions are faced at once with a problem of selection . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art are of a uniform pattern . The main displays are those representing the particular national culture in its various aspects . Outside of these , and varying according to the size of the museum , are to be found almost universally some examples of Italian decorative art , together with a collection of Chinese ceramics and sometimes other branches of Oriental art . In the Victoria and Albert Museum , the need for inspiration from other than English sources was recognized , and displays of Italian , French , Spanish , and Dutch material figure prominently , as do also the very extensive collections from the Far and Near East . With our limited national traditions in art , we are compelled to look even further afield for our artistic background and in consequence we need to have prototypes of all that is best in the art of the old world made available to us . All types of decorative treatment that are representative of highly developed styles are obviously important for our education . This does not mean a collection of over-elaborate or unusual objects ( often referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of examples , each one of which embodies in a high degree the spirit of artistic feeling prevalent at a certain time , among a certain people , as expressed in a particular technique . Such a collection of carefully selected examples would not be a grammar of decoration , but would represent pages from the real story of art . // There is another principle that should be mentioned with caution and that yet possesses validity for museums of moderate size which can not hope to secure a comprehensive representation of all types , ? namely , the principle of choosing accessions on the basis of their relation to our present social life and tastes . The danger in this direction is that this principle is likely to be interpreted in terms of material of only passing value , rather than in much more important and significant prototypes of the past . It can not be too strongly emphasized that the multiplication of similar objects in any special field displayed in public galleries is of questionable worth in the aesthetic education of the layman . A multitude of similar objects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and do not return educational values commensurate with their cost . This is also likely to be true in the case of special minor collections made because of historic significance or special curatorial interests . For example , considerable collections of early American blue china and of European pewter can hardly , on the basis of their value to present-day industrial art , justify the occupation of precious space . As a matter of fact , great collections in any particular field of applied art are not required for the education of the public . A few examples of the highest artistic value tastefully arranged with other objects of the same aesthetic quality will prove much more inspiring than large arrays of material in special fields . If our public is to enjoy and gain in appreciation and if our designers are to be inspired by the achievements of the past , it will be first of all through the careful assembly and display of objects representing a common quality of design brought into artistic relationship , rather than by large 5 8 INDUSTRIAL ART AND THE MUSEUM collections of specialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the moment the trend in our most important museums is toward the use of " original rooms " or authentic wall settings for the display of furniture and other objects . Where such backgrounds are essential or helpful to convey the full effect of a period style , and where fine original examples are still available for museum purchase , their use is both justifiable and desirable . They lend vividness and color by allowing the furnishings displayed to be seen in their proper settings and make possible a unity of impression to be gained in no other way . As the sole vehicle for primary displays , however , such arrangements , as discussed in a previous chapter , are subject to severe limitations which are perhaps at present not receiving full recognition . If European experience has validity for us , these limitations will almost inevitably claim attention in the future and the value of display rooms not architecturally treated , but filled with composite displays , will gain at least equal recognition . Rooms of the latter type afford the opportunity for a purely museum disposition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not only harmoniously assembled , but so arranged as to allow intimate inspection . If rooms with original wall coverings are used , it would seem most desirable to provide this other type of room in close proximity to round out the opportunities for comprehensive display . The one disposition from which both good taste and wise scholarship will refrain is the decoration of such rooms by modern hands in the " style of the period . " The instances in which original rooms or original wall coverings and furnishings have been most happily incorporated in our museums up to the present time are // those relating to the decorative art of the early American home . In the American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum , the Pendleton House of the Rhode Island School of Design , and the series of colonial buildings in Fairmount Park administered by the Pennsylvania Museum , we have preserved for all time delightful and informing documents from our culture history . From the museum standpoint , these houses and rooms may well be viewed as possessing a special character and as deserving a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not wholly by their quality as examples of decorative art , but also by their importance as historic illustrations of early American manners and customs . From this point of view , the examples noted are most valuable and illuminating , but delightful as they are and successfully as they fulfill their special function , for the reasons given above they can scarcely be regarded as comprehensive types of general museum display . While composite arrangements hold the largest values for our great museums , they offer special opportunities from the economic , aesthetic , and educational aspects to moderate sized museums . It is manifestly beyond the possibilities , or at least beyond the wise limits , of expenditure for such museums to accumulate considerable collections in the many branches of industrial art . It is , however , distinctly within their resources to acquire gradually fine examples of applied art in various fields , possessing both high aesthetic value and relevance to our present life , and then to exhibit these in composite displays which , while occupying a limited space , will be thoroughly suggestive in character . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential for these displays . One of the happiest possibilities in this connection is the display of larger objects // among paintings of the same period and provenance . Departmental organization militates against such dispositions , but where the museum is of moderate size and its applied art possessions small in number , the arrangement suggested offers a solution possessing merit from both the aesthetic and practical standpoints . Thus , an Italian group , a French group , or an English group may be developed possessing added charm and atmosphere as compared with more formal arrangements . It should be recognized that the dwellers in our large cities are being highly educated in the art of display by the finer store windows to be viewed from the easy vantage of the sidewalk . A museum that will attract and educate must have an equal appeal and a finer story to tell . Up to the present , great department and specialty stores and illustrated magazines have probably exercised a far greater influence in the development of taste for better things in our homes than have our museums . The museums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they can present models of fine arrangement of superlatively beautiful things that will stand as permanent lessons in good taste . It would seem clear that upon such composite displays museum collections of industrial art must largely depend for their influence upon the public . Even with such displays , there is the need of doing something to renew interest from time to time . No exhibit , however fine , that remains unchanged , can fulfill the museum 's educational responsibility . The static , or frozen , exhibit soon loses its message , even to those who visit the museum with the keenest interest and the best preparation for profiting from its collections . If the museum is to be an active and continuing force in the art life of the community , it must possess a definite clientele , as does a library , of persons who enter its doors // not merely once for the sake of recreation or curiosity , but who visit it with some regularity for the purpose of enjoying and learning from new experiences . For this highly important group it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduce new themes , but bring forward new aspects of old ones . It is probable that such variation of exhibit material would require additions to present staff organizations for the effective classification and rearrangement of reserve material ; but the value of the service is beyond all question . As regards opportunities for those who desire further and more specialized study , the museum can render service in proportion to its resources . ' Whether provision to this end should be made in public galleries is open to question . Special collections of western applied art , grouped according to material and technique , such as ceramics , glass , silver , textiles , or furniture , have great value for the designer , craftsman , amateur , and student , but little for the general public . Their real importance is as study material . To fulfill this function in thoroughly satisfactory fashion , these collections should be withdrawn from the main lines of travel , but arranged with as much care as if they were intended for primary exhibits . They should be set forth , some in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display , so as to be seen in their entirety and not , as is commonly the case with textiles , doled out by single specimens from cupboards or drawers . The only question is whether such collections should be placed in secondary galleries open to the public , or in rooms with closed doors which open readily upon request . Wherever such special collections are placed , it is clear that real service to the designer or craftsman requires that every opportunity for study be afforded to qualified applicants . If the principle that large special collections are justified mainly to the extent that they // benefit workers and students is once recognized , it becomes obvious that such collections must be so administered as to permit intimate inspection at short notice of whatever kind is desired . Inspection of an object in a case is often not sufficient . Accurate knowledge of material , structure , texture , form , and color is frequently essential ? knowledge that can be acquired only by close study which comes through actual handling . When we consider the dissipation of energy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large museum and the inevitable accentuation of this condition through future accumulations , it is evident that the segregation of all large special collections in study rooms has much to commend it . If lay visitors are to receive an impression of beauty on entering a museum or any section of a museum , if they are to view the displays with a sense of pleasure and to depart with a feeling of exhilaration , they must be kept from limitless wanderings among objects which , however interesting as documents in the history of art , are not inspiring in the mass . In other words , if visitors will not save themselves , is it not a duty of the museum to protect them from themselves ? Considerations of this sort are forced to the front as soon as the emphasis is transferred from the logic of accumulation to the psychology of observation and emotion . The plan of reserve study collections , originally put in practice by museums of science , was first applied to a museum of art when the Boston Museum of Fine Arts moved into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been adopted to a limited extent in several other museums . Its acceptance on a more comprehensive scale by our larger museums would seem essential if the collections as a whole are to render the greatest benefit both to the general public and to the visitor with special interests . // One of the policies that almost uniformly characterize the progressive industrial art museums of Europe is the practice of holding frequent temporary exhibitions . This practice , which has been actively pursued in the fine arts field by some of our western museums , has received little attention from the great museums on the Atlantic seaboard . For the industrial arts such exhibitions are of prime importance . They are invaluable as opportunities both to bring into relief material from the regular collections that is of special timely interest and to display significant contemporary productions . In several of the older countries , the temporary exhibition is regarded by museum authorities as their chief opportunity for assisting and stimulating design in industry . Exhibitions that deal with present-day conceptions are considered of dominant importance . In the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to such exhibitions in the industrial art field . We have , however , in this country one example of a well organized exhibition of this type of great potential value . Perhaps no act of the Metropolitan Museum of Art is calculated to render greater service to the industries of America than its provision for an Annual Exhibition of American Industrial Art . Among the regulations concerning this exhibition are the following : objects admitted are required to be the work of manufacturers who produce a number of pieces at a time from a single design , or make , from time to time , a number of identical pieces from models , moulds , or drawings retained for the purpose ; they must be or represent the regular work of the exhibiting firm ; and they must be exhibited by the manufacturer who is directly responsible for the creation of the design . When one contemplates the many different attitudes toward industrial art still held by museum officials in // America , the frequent failure to comprehend the significance of quantity production and the conception sometimes entertained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doors of a museum are those of the individual craftsman , the importance of the step taken by the Metropolitan Museum of Art be- - comes obvious . One element of especial promise should not be overlooked , namely , the association with the museum officials in the conduct of this exhibition of a broadly representative Advisory Committee of individuals prominent in the art industries . Up to the present time it is safe to say that no step has been taken by any other American museum of art that represents an equal indication of purpose to cooperate effectively with the industrial system upon which our hope for better art in American homes must largely rest . Outside of mass production , however , the artist craftsman must be considered . Here we are lamentably weak as compared with Europe , where the artist craftsman possessing thorough technical knowledge and skill combined with the power to create new forms of beauty is a distinct asset . In the severer conditions of competition in the older countries , individuals of exceptional energy , intelligence , and artistic talent are often found working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create new techniques as well as new manifestations of design . These craftsmen play a twofold part in production , first , by the quality of their own creations and their influence upon the public taste , and secondly , by their influence upon quantity production . In the second rOle , they often serve as artistic pioneers and through successful achievement provide quickening inspiration for commercial production . The possibility of obtaining finer things at moderate cost undoubtedly depends on quantity production , but // we can little afford to forego the stimulating influence of the worker who creates in direct contact with his material apart from the limitations of the machine . The craftsman who is simply a good technician will do us little good , nor will the creative artist without technical knowledge be of great service . We need individuals of exceptional quality ? true artistic craftsmen who can create things of beauty and execute them in a way unimpeachable in all technical requirements . Persons of such quality can render an important service in the advancement of our art industries . Whether the conditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , however , a question . Apparently they will not , unless the future brings forth greater encouragement than the past . Recent developments suggest the possibility that our great industrial establishments may gradually absorb a number of superior artistic craftsmen and so bring them into direct relation with our industrial system . Whether this be true or not , it would seem clear that the assistance of the museums is peculiarly needed in this connection . Systematic exhibits of craftsman work on a selected basis that would insure high quality in the examples displayed are one means by which a certain amount of encouragement can be rendered . An extension of the practice of awarding prizes or medals might be stimulating . There is one type of craft work exhibit or at least exhibit of small quantity products that would be of peculiar value to America . I refer to the yearly organization of exhibits of the work of artist craftsmen on an international basis , and on each occasion in a particular field . In such an exhibition the work of American craftsmen would be seen side by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and our own position // could thus be clearly estimated . Such specialized exhibitions could deal at different times with ceramics , decorative glass , silver , jewelry , fine leather work , metal work , textiles , rugs , furniture , printing and bookbinding , and perhaps other branches of applied art . It is difficult to imagine any undertaking that would be more stimulating and educative both to our public and to our craftsmen and designers . Such exhibitions would fulfill the very important function that the Musee Galliera discharges in Paris . They could be undertaken by any institution that has requisite gallery floor space available . But , after all , they would seem to fall well within the developed field of the art museum . No other institution in America occupies such an authoritative position in the art world and none is so well organized to undertake an enterprise of this kind . If cooperation among the art museums in the country were secured , the expense to each museum of an annual undertaking would be moderate . Our museums at the present time frequently finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last twenty years an important development of so-called educational activities has occurred in the larger art museums . These practices aim to extend the influence of the collections mainly through exposition by the spoken and printed word . They have not only added an active element to museum methods , but they have introduced a new type of individual to museum organizations . To acquire and conserve museum material to the best advantage requires a special type of mind , a mind marked by sound scholarship , exceptional taste , rare power of discrimination , and the collector 's instinct . Such a mind has little interest in exposition , and it is to provide for this important function that a new type of individual // has been called into service . These individuals , who are necessarily persons cultured in the fine and applied arts , are first of all teachers . The term " educational " used in connection with these late developments is one that perhaps needs definition . The function of the museum is obviously not that of formal instruction . That is the business of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , however , a very important instrument of education if we consider education to be a life process , of which formal instruction is but a part . For the art museums the first and largest educational influence must radiate from their displays . Beyond this the effort to develop more intelligent appreciation of the collections constitutes the field of legitimate secondary educational activities . Interpretation of the collections , or rather of special sections of them , by thoroughly qualified officials to interested groups , whether of the lay public or of persons engaged in industry or merchandising , is a function of particular value in this connection . Public lectures upon various aspects of the applied arts , both ancient and modern , aiming at aesthetic education rather than historical information , constitute an important element in the program . Printed articles in bulletin or monograph form which have the assistance of illustrations can carry this service to a wider public and to designers , craftsmen , and industrialists as well . Conducted tours of school children through special departments of the museum and classes for school teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 1 ending to schools specially organized material such as post cards , photographs , lantern slides , maps and charts , casts , and even films , as now is done by several museums , is calculated to aid greatly in developing a better appreciation of industrial art . Cases where original material // is loaned are rare . The idea of such loans has been endorsed in museum discussions for many years , but realization in practical forms comes very slowly . The case of our museums in this connection is obviously very different from that of the Victoria and Albert Museum . There a government institution exercises cooperative relations with a national system of art and secondary schools . In some instances our museums receive no public funds and but few of our art schools are public institutions . Our art museums that do enjoy the aid of public moneys , receive their funds from municipalities , and in consequence the natural channels of cooperation are first of all the general public schools . While the difficulties and limitations in this situation are very real , it remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school instruction in the arts than opportunities of using actual art objects as study material , and it is to be hoped that museums may gradually find ways to venture more boldly into this field of service . These educational activities in the main concern the adult public or the pupils of the public schools . When we turn to methods specially calculated to serve the manufacturer , the designer , the craftsman , and the distributor , it is evident that no uniform program will apply . To render the best service in this connection each museum will develop maximum usefulness by studying local conditions and adapting its methods accordingly . One major principle , however , must be recognized if these studies are to reap any practical consequences ? namely , that the methods adopted must be active , and not passive . No real influence can be built on the old museum attitude , " Here are the collections ; the doors are open . " If museums are to be of real service in this direction , the psychological barrier between the worker and the museum must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways to develop these contacts , all of them simple enough if museum authorities possess both the inclination and the will . Courses aiming to serve salesmen , designers , and decorators that center in the exposition of museum material , whether such material be in the galleries or in a class room , lie evidently in the legitimate sphere of museum activities . On the other hand , courses of instruction which deal with various aspects of the applied arts where the aim is that of vocational service , and which are independent of museum collections , are open to question ? open to question , that is , from the standpoint of permanent museum policy . With growing interest in such instruction and scarcity of well equipped teachers or lecturers , valuable service can be and has been rendered by the museum in this direction . Such courses have been of great benefit to many individuals , and they have aroused general recognition of the value of such instruction . In the long run , however , it would seem desirable that the burden of these courses should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the museum to stimulate and enlarge popular appreciation by means of its collections . Cooperation with teaching institutions whereby the wealth of illustrative material at the museum 's command can be made available for organized courses of instruction , either popular or vocational , remains one of the most effective means of educational service on the part of the museums . In all the above-mentioned lines , both of educational activities as related to the general public and special activities aimed to serve industrial and commercial workers , the Metropolitan Museum of Art has pioneered and experimented , and in so doing has performed a great service both to the fine and applied arts . Its example in // this matter has done and will do much to stimulate other American museums in the same direction . Above all these many considerations it is clear that the full influence of industrial art collections will be attained only when the directors and curators who preside over them are something more than scholars or experts . Experts they should be indeed , but it is even more essential that they be individuals inspired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They should be persons alive to the trend of national movements in applied art and of sufficient imagination to play a part in guiding such movements . Finally , it is evident that they should be possessed of such social sympathy as to be able effectively to serve the individual worker as guide , counsellor , and friend . The role that the applied arts play in our civilization demands the serious consideration by our museums of these problems as to scope and character of collections , methods of display , temporary exhibitions , educational activities for the public and special methods for the workers . The large museums can do much , the smaller in proportion to their resources ; but for all a clear cut recognition of their responsibilities is essential if they are to help , not harm , our development . Without active , sympathetic , and intelligent encouragement of industrial art on the part of American museums we shall have the spectacle of these educational institutions in the largest democratic country in the world devoting themselves mainly to what , in its domestic relations at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PART II INDUSTRIAL ART MUSEUMS IN OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES AUSTRIA THROUGH a large part of the nineteenth century , following the downfall of Napoleon , the city of Vienna was prominent as a center of wealth and luxury . Situated almost at the edge of western civilization at a point where north and south connect by natural lines of travel , its art has been exposed to many and varied influences ? influences which the genius of the Viennese has in large measure been strong enough to assimilate and to express in an individual Viennese fashion . The Industrial Arts Museum ( Osterreichisches Museum fur Kunst and Industrie ) at Vienna was organized in 1863 . It was the first distinctive museum of industrial art to be founded on the continent and was patterned on the plan of the museum at South Kensington . The museum was one feature of a movement vigorously furthered by the government to develop the art industries of Austria . In 1868 a School of Industrial Art was added . These two institutions , presided over by an extremely able director , Rudolph von Eitelberger , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercised a strong influence in the revivification of industrial art , not only in Austria but throughout Germany . The period of the sixties and the early seventies was one of great prosperity in Vienna and the arts of decoration enjoyed large opportunities by virtue of the many buildings erected in the city at that time . It was because of the interest awakened by the museum and school activities , assisted by the flourishing condition of the city , that the International Expo-1711 // sition of 1873 was organized in Vienna . This exposition marks an important stage in the progress of industrial art in Europe , inasmuch as here , for the first time , the art of both the Far East and the Near East were brought together in a large way for public exhibition . The building occupied by the museum , erected in 1868-71 on the plans of von Ferstel , is of symmetrical rectangular form with a central covered court surrounded by galleries from which open the rather large exhibition rooms . This plan , although by no means ideal from the standpoint of today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ museum buildings of central Europe during the next quarter of a century . In the case of the Vienna museum , a wing added to the rear at a later period has almost doubled the size of the original building . A library of industrial art is contained in the same building and the industrial art school is located at the side . The library contains 100,000 volumes and a celebrated print collection . The reading room is free and books may be taken from the building . The museum covers the usual field of industrial art : textiles , furniture , metal work of various kinds , bookbinding , leather work , bronzes , glass , and ceramics . A large room on the ground floor two stories in height contains a composite display of furniture , tapestries , woodcarving , and sculpture . The other rooms are arranged very largely on the basis of a technical classification . Since the war the museum has taken over the fine old furniture of the former imperial palaces and the celebrated court carpets . The collection of oriental rugs has become in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The jewelry and silver rooms in the former imperial Burg are now administered as a section of the museum . The museum is supported and administered by the Austrian government . There formerly existed a Curatorium , to whom the director was largely responsible , but at present the director reports directly to the Ministry of Commerce and Trade . // No museum in Europe makes greater effort to maintain close contact with present-day industrial art than the Vienna Museum . The policy of the museum in general is to assist in bringing together artists , designers , and hand-workers , on the one hand , and artists and the public on the other . It is the official opinion in Austria that the museum should establish active connections with workers and assist them in every way to gain contacts with industry . Persons wishing to decorate their homes often seek advice from the museum officers who recommend artists or hand-workers suitable to the problem . In making such suggestions the museum gives several addresses of artists , from whom selection can be made . Every facility is given for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the objects in place , second of examples removed to a study room , and third , in exceptional cases allowing pieces to be taken to the home or studio . Frequent temporary exhibitions of old and new artistic hand-work are held . At the exhibitions of modern work which are developed on a considerable scale , the officers of the museum assist in forwarding the sale of products . A Bureau of Sales is mainained at such times and service is rendered without expense to the artists . These exhibitions contain only material approved by the museum officers . The museum pursues the policy of purchasing and exhibiting modern examples of applied art . It maintains public lecture courses and also special courses given to small groups of about twenty-five persons . Parties are taken about the museum on Sundays by guides who explain the exhibits . Up to recent years the museum published regularly the important magazine " Kunst and Kunsthandwerk . " The publication of this magazine was unfortunately brought to an end during the difficult years of the war . Although it is not exactly an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vienna would be complete without mention of the newly opened Barockmuseum . This institution is contained in the lower building of the Belvedere Palace and owes its existence to the new administration of the Viennese museums under Dr. Hans Tietze. // Arranged in this charming early eighteenth century palace are delightful examples of the baroque art of Vienna , comprising a number of paintings and a few examples of sculpture , among which are the remarkable groups in lead by Raphael Donner from the fountain formerly in the Mehlmarkt . The few pieces in each room harmonize perfectly with the sumptuous decorations and serve only to complete the impression of spacious luxury and ornate quality prevailing throughout . The arrangement contrasts decidedly with that of many of the palace collections of Europe and is an inspiring suggestion of what specialized palace museums may become under favorable conditions of taste and resources . HUNGARY The museums in Hungary are concentrated almost entirely in the city of Budapest where a number of important institutions in the fields of art , science , and technology are to be found . Several museums contain industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Museum of Industrial Art which was founded in 1874 following the International Exposition in Vienna . The present building was erected in 1896 and in plan generally follows the arrangement of the Museum of Industrial Art at Vienna . The contents are notable for the interesting collections of peasant pottery and the examples of Hungarian furniture , gold and silver ware , enamels , metal work , and embroideries . The display is arranged in general according to technique and material , although in a few cases , notably that of the Hungarian Hall with baroque painted ceiling and doors , an ensemble arrangement has been developed . The museum also contains an extensive and valuable textile collection , which , though including much material from other countries , is extremely rich in examples of Hungarian art , particularly in the field of embroideries . Traditions of the old shepherd life seem to have left their mark upon the art of the Hungarian peoples even to the present // day . These influences are evident in the small attention that has been paid to furniture and household decoration , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crafts . The embroideries in the museum represent a particularly racial art that has , despite foreign intrusions , retained its own qualities for several centuries . The collection is contained in two large rooms . Some examples are displayed in vitrines , but the major portion of the material is stored in tall cases at the sides and ends of the rooms and in four cupboard tables in the center . The specimens are arranged in two sizes of wooden frames , one about 24 in. by 30 in. , and the other about 30 in. by 48 in . This room is not open to the general public but is accessible to students and designers who obtain permission at the office . At the present time two rooms are devoted to the family collection of Prince Paul Esterhazy . In this collection are some remarkably fine examples of Hungarian gold and silversmith work of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , together with splendid examples of Hungarian court costumes of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries . The museum contains a special library of applied art used in common with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern and ancient art are held frequently , the central hall on the ground floor being used for this purpose . The museum is supported by the government of Hungary and was formerly administered by the Kultus Ministerium . Since 1923 the administration has been vested in a council of museum directors , university professors , and officials who have control of the museums of the city . The director has a large degree of autonomy in the administration of the museum . Under the same administration is another museum of the city ? the Musee Georges Rath . This museum , presented to the nation in 1905 by the widow of Georges Rath , is housed in a villa of the family and contains , in addition to an important collection of paintings and sculpture , a considerable number of fine examples of French and Italian furniture and // many fine specimens of European porcelain , lace , and silversmith work as well as Hungarian jewelry of the sixteenth century . The National Museum in Budapest is a large institution occupying a building erected 1834-44 ; its collections include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the department of antiquities there are several rooms containing objects of industrial art from the time of the Romans . These rooms , recently rearranged with much taste , now contain displays thoroughly in harmony with present policies in the German museums of industrial art . There is also in the city of Budapest a small Oriental Museum which , though not of artistic importance , contains some interesting material of comparatively modern date . CZECHO-SLOVAKIA Prague is a city of many museums , a number of which contain industrial art material . First in importance is the Museum of Industrial Art ( Kunstgewerbeliches Museum der Handels-und Gewerbe Kammer ) founded in 1885 by the Chamber of Commerce , the present building having been erected in 1900 . The administration of the museum still remains under the Chamber of Commerce , a corporation to which is awarded a certain percentage of the state tax to maintain institutions of this character . The collections , arranged on a strictly technical basis , include Bohemian furniture , ceramics , glass , books and manuscripts , enamels , ivories , goldsmith work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some important early Italian chests . The most noteworthy feature is the important Count Lanna collection of glass in which examples from all countries are found , but which is particularly comprehensive on the side of Bohemian glass of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries . In three rooms is shown work of the special industrial schools of Bohemia , and two rooms contain the Bohemian exhibit made at the International Exhibition in Paris in // 1900 . The museum possesses a considerable library and formerly gave public lectures . In connection with the Czech Werkbund there are frequent exhibitions of industrial art and of designs submitted in connection with government and private competitions . These exhibitions are regarded as important agencies in forwarding the development of modern Czechish art , prizes often being awarded for the best work displayed . The collections of the museum are much used by the scholars of the School of Industrial Art located in the neighborhood . The Ethnographical Museum is a small museum charmingly located in an old villa in the Kinsky Garden , now a public park . It is mainly devoted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of peasant rooms well arranged , though in many cases badly lighted . On the second floor , however , are six rooms devoted to an admirable display of costumes in well lighted cases . The City Museum , founded in 1883 , occupies a large building erected in 1896 . It contains extensive collections of Bohemian industrial art as well as historic material and documents relating to the history of Prague . Among the industrial art collections those of ceramics , glass , and furniture are important , but the outstanding exhibit is that of iron and locksmith work which includes extremely fine examples of grilles and gates , together with forged door knockers and elaborate iron locks of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries . The National Museum at Prague occupies a very large building , prominently located , that was opened to the public in 1891 . It is devoted largely to science collections , but contains a number of Bohemian peasant rooms arranged with household furnishings and examples of faience , figurines , embroideries and costumes from the provinces of Moravia and Slovakia . There is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the history of Bohemia . The Museum of Industrial Art ( Maehrisches Kunstgewerbe Museum ) at Brunn was founded in 1873 at the time // of the Vienna International Exposition through the efforts of the Association of Art Industries of Moravia . It was at first a private institution administered by a lay board of trustees . Soon after its foundation , the Archduke Rainer became the protector or patron and it was called the Archduke Rainer Museum of Industrial Art until the establishment of the State of Czecho-Slovakia . In 1921 the administration of the museum was placed in the hands of the Chamber of Commerce , as at Prague . Support comes mainly from the Chamber of Commerce , although the state and province make yearly subventions . The museum at Brunn was developed to a high point of efficiency and display under one of its former directors , but now has a somewhat neglected appearance . The collections consist mainly of furniture , ceramics , textiles and costumes of Moravian origin together with some notable examples of Italian furniture . The building , which was erected in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Industry at Vienna , is not very attractive , although its rooms are well lighted and the lines of travel simple and direct . The museum contains a library and lecture hall and it is proposed to open a school of industrial art in the building during the present year to be supported and administered by the state . SWITZERLAND Switzerland possesses several interesting museums of industrial art . Chief among these are the museums at Zurich , Berne , Basel , Geneva , and St. Gall . Inasmuch as the social and artistic culture of the republic is quite distinctly differentiated according to regional location , being largely influenced by Germany on the north , Italy on the south , and France on the west , each of these museums naturally reflects its particular environment . The Landesmuseum at Zurich is the only national or federal museum in Switzerland . The others are supported either by the cantons or by cities . In the case of the Zurich // museum , the building , which was opened to the public in 1898 , belongs to the city , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . The director , who is also a professor in the University of Zurich , is responsible to the Federal Minister of the Interior . The museum aims to present in historical form the artistic culture of Switzerland . The display begins with prehistoric and Roman material , followed by a series of rooms devoted to the Middle Ages which are architecturally treated and decorated in the spirit of this period . After these comes a fine series of rooms from the fifteenth , sixteenth , and seventeenth centuries , with the ceilings and panelled walls consisting largely of original material . Alongside these rooms are corridors or galleries in which are arranged collections of furniture and other objects of corresponding periods . As a series , these rooms , particularly those of the sixteenth century , are undoubtedly the most attractive and successful from a museum standpoint of any similar rooms in Europe . They are based on the culture-history theory of display , but the weaknesses generally evident under these conditions have been skilfully avoided . The walls and ceilings of the rooms are for the most part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extensive and closely related series representative of the Swiss home . Restraint and taste have been observed in furnishing the rooms ; and finally the relation of the rooms to the corridors containing a large amount of related industrial art material is so simple and evident that their place in the total scheme of museum display is readily apparent . The earlier rooms have ceilings and friezes , painted or carved , and windows simulating the original appearance . In many of the sixteenth century rooms the walls are hung with tapestries and embroideries and often with paintings . In each of . the rooms only a few pieces of furniture are displayed , leaving a liberal amount of open floor space . No vitrines are placed in the rooms and , on the other hand , no attempt is made to display accessories other than furniture , // or to give the appearance of a room in use . The result is a series of rooms with a rich and intimate quality , but with no suggestion of anything other than a museum arrangement . In spite of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds the building quite limited in that there is little room for special collections , and in consequence it is necessary to keep almost all the ceramics , iron work , and textiles in the storerooms . He refers to the museum as a buii ling of corridors and thoroughfares . At the side of the Landesmuseum is the Industrial Arts Museum , in the same building with the School for Industrial Art , both of which are owned and maintained by the city . This institution has no permanent collections but holds frequent temporary exhibitions of modern industrial art . These displays , for which the material is carefully selected , are held every few months and have now been maintained for a period of twelve years . Because of their close relations to the School for Industrial Art and the interest with which they are regarded by the public , they undoubtedly exercise considerable influence on the quality of modern industrial art in Zurich . The two museums just described , existing side by side , are complementary in character and together give a comprehensive view of both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Historical Museum at Berne ( Bernisches Historisches Museum ) occupies a large building , opened in 1894 , finely situated across the great bridge over the Aar . The museum contains a considerable amount of industrial art material , although its collections are classified as archaeological , Bernesehistorical , numismatic , and ethnological . On the ground floor is a series of rooms from what might be called burghers ' houses , largely constructed of original panelled walls and ceilings of the seventeenth century . The rooms are of moderate size , simple in character , and contain windows , portraits , furniture , stoves , and household gear . On the floors above are several rooms containing material of finer quality which illustrates Bernese culture front the fifteenth to the seventeenth century . The display in these // rooms is generally composite in character and the arrangement chronological . Here may be seen one of the few examples of effective costume display to be found in European museums . The cases , in each of which are placed three costume figures , are entirely of glass and about 7% ft. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other cases and paintings , illustrating costumes , together with dress embroideries , are hung on the wall . A very remarkable collection from Persia and the Near East , a region represented only to a small extent in European museums , was bequeathed by H. Moser Charlottenfels . It consists of armor and arms , ceramics , embroideries , printed cotton , books , jewelry , and metal work . The museum derives its main support from the Canton of Berne , but in addition receives substantial sums from the Museum Association of Bern and from entrance fees . In contrast to these museums the Musee d'Art et d'Histoire at Geneva represents a culture distinctly French . It is a city institution and occupies a large and handsome building , inaugurated in 1910 . The chief support comes from the municipality , although a considerable contribution is received each year from a society of friends of the museum . There are sections devoted to archaeology , fine arts , decorative arts , and numismatics . The department of decorative art consists of a series of fine rooms in which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , metal and wood work . The material exhibited includes contemporary work as well as the art of former centuries . There are also several rooms with original wall coverings of the fifteenth , sixteenth , seventeenth , and eighteenth centuries , which serve as backgrounds for composite collections illustrating the art of these periods . The library , occupying a large room , comprises some 4,000 volumes and 110,000 reproductions relating especially to decorative art . It is open to the public every day and three evenings a week . Frequent lectures upon art topics are given at the museum and regular courses in archaeology and history of art , involv82 INDUSTRIAL ART AND THE MUSEUM ing various subjects , are conducted in its halls , the lecturer making direct use of museum material . Temporary exhibitions of old art are also held ; but the museum possesses a very important additional opportunity for these exhibitions in the Musee Rath , situated in the center of the business part of the city , where exhibitions of presentday painting , sculpture , drawing , engraving , architecture and decorative arts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Artists , or by individual artists . The privilege of exhibiting is accorded to Swiss artists without charge . The exhibitions at the Musee Rath are under the general supervision of the director of the Musee d'Art et d'Histoire , who in this case is sometimes supplemented by a jury of admission . BELGIUM In Belgium the outstanding institution in applied art is called the Musees Royaux du Cinquantenaire at Brussels . This museum is housed in a large temporary building erected for the Exposition of 1880 , now being gradually made over into permanent form . It is supported by the state and comprises five departments : Antiquities , Art Industries , Arms and Armor , Ethnology , and Reproductions . The section containing the industrial art collections has been recently reconstructed and the collections have been re-arranged . This re-arrangement has been effected on a plan similar to that represented by the German museums of industrial art , namely period style displays involving composite exhibits . The department begins with a Gothic chapel in which are displayed many fine examples of ecclesiastical art , such as reliquaries , carved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Following are three pre-Renaissance rooms containing furniture , sculpture , tapestries , paintings , enamels , goldsmith and other metal work . Next is a room of the Flemish Renaissance , then a room containing Dutch art of the seventeenth century , and finally a room devoted to 1'Ebenisterie liegeoise ( cabinet-making of Liege ) in the style of Louis XIV , Regence , and Louis XV . The rooms are of good size , // well lighted from the side , with the general effects excellently composed . The floor above contains fine collections of Flemish porcelain , Dutch faience , stoneware , and textiles . The woven textiles and embroideries are arranged in a well proportioned room about 65 yds. long , lighted from above , in which are placed twenty free-standing vitrines arranged in a double row . In these are displayed a remarkable collection of Italian copes . On the walls are glazed frames and underneath , counter cases . Swing frames are also used , each accommodating about fifty-two frames . There is also a room containing an admirably arranged collection of laces displayed in wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting and recent development at the museum is the Educational Service , an undertaking not aided by the government nor directly connected with the museum administration , but supported by fees from subscribing members . It aims to contribute to the historic and artistic education of the public and to realize more fully the instructional value of the collections . The methods employed are popular lectures , elementary courses of instruction , and conducted visits to the museum collections . In the spring of 1923 there were 412 members each contributing ten francs yearly . Lectures , given at 10:30 on Sunday mornings , are attended on the average by about one hundred persons . Courses of instruction on the history of art and other subjects are given in the evenings and afternoons . The courses are , for the most part , arranged in series of ten lectures and have an attendance of about sixty-five persons . A charge of ten francs is made for the course or two francs a lecture , reduced to half price for members . Conducted visits with groups not exceeding twenty-five are made in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visits one franc , reduced to fifty centimes for subscribing members , is the charge . Pupils in the city schools are admitted free . The Educational Service was developed independently of the museum administration because of the conviction that the work of instruction and the duties of a museum curator often require distinct types of mind . // The museum also maintains a course in archaeology and the history of art with the object of training museum personnel . The course , four years in length , comprises some fifteen courses of lectures of very comprehensive scope , with practical and individual work in the later years . The licentiate or bachelor degree may be reached in three years and the degree of Doctor in Art and Archaeology /in four years . The courses are notable as being the only instance in Europe where systematic and intensive training of college grade aiming at the preparation of personnel is offered by a museum . Practical courses in archaeology are also offered by the museum . Though of an advanced nature , these courses have only a cultural aim . In Antwerp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plantin in 1576 , and now maintained by the city as a museum . The well-preserved building and tastefully arranged interiors with their wealth of furniture , tapestries and paintings on the one hand , and printing equipment on the other , give a most attractive and informing picture of the home of a wealthy Flemish burgher of the sixteenth century , and of his business establishment . The Museum of Antiquities formerly contained in the Steen and now housed largely in an adjoining building , holds a rich collection of Flemish furniture and household apparatus of the earlier centuries . At Ghent is a small museum of Industrial and Decorative Art , while at Liege are the Musee d'Ansembourg , and the Museum of Antiquities , both containing interesting collections of local furniture , pottery , and glass from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . HOLLAND The great Rijks Museum at Amsterdam , famous mainly for its collection of Dutch paintings , contains a department of prints , connected with which is a reference library and a department called History and Art , largely composed of industrial art collections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consists of a closed H with covered courts and roadway through the center . The museum is supported by the state . Friends of the Netherlands Museum contribute to a fund which is used for the purchase of new material . The museum director is responsible to the Ministry of Education , Art and Science . No lectures are provided by the museum and no temporary exhibitions are held . The rooms devoted to the department of History and Art begin with a series of halls showing the development of ecclesiastical architecture and decoration from the earliest times up to the fifteenth century , followed by rooms representing the domestic life of later centuries . One of the latter contains tapestries , embroideries , carpets and woven textiles displayed on the walls and in vitrines or frames ; in another room are metal work , brass , pewter , iron , locksmith work and woodwork ; a third contains a remarkably rich collection of gold and silversmith work . The rooms are of good size and well lighted , with attractive wall and floor displays . Following are twelve rooms devoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court side from which they receive very poor light , and inasmuch as the rooms are quite deep and the exhibits crowded , scrutiny of the objects is very difficult . The exhibit of Dutch and Oriental ceramics , on the other hand , is very well displayed in large , well lighted rooms , as are also the collections of glass and stoneware , which are particularly well arranged . At the time of the author 's visit a costume exhibit was being developed in two rooms . The main display was in free-standing white painted cases , each containing one costume . Long , standing wall cases held one costume to each three or five feet of length . The models or forms for the costumes were being made with extreme care , sculptors being engaged to model the feet , arms , and hands . Much care was also being taken with every detail of arrangement , particularly as regards effect of light and color . The results obtained were notably fine and the rooms promise to be , when corn86 INDUSTRIAL ART AND THE MUSEUM pleted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in European museums . Other rooms contain collections of cast and wrought iron , locksmith work , laces , and English furniture of the eighteenth century . The Stedelijk or Municipal Museum at Amsterdam is hardly noteworthy on the side of the industrial or decorative arts with the exception of the beautiful rooms in the left wing of the building containing the Sophia Augusta collection . This collection was donated to the city by Baroness Sophia Augusta Lopez-Suasso in 1890 with a large sum for maintenance . A second important bequest from another Amsterdam family , together with aid from the city , financed the construction of a building which was completed in 1895 . The municipality provides the remaining funds needed for the maintenance of the museum . The Sophia Augusta collection consists of six remarkably fine rooms decorated in the style of Louis XV , XVI , and Empire , together with other rooms containing furniture , Oriental and Dutch porcelains , ivories and jewelry , watches and goldsmith work . In a central hall on the ground floor the museum supplies the needs of the city for temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year , a number of them devoted to contemporary industrial art . In several other Dutch cities , as The Hague , Delft , and Harlem , there exist small and as yet undeveloped museums of industrial art . DENMARK The Danish Industrial Art Museum ( Danske Kunstindustrimuseum ) at Copenhagen was inaugurated in 1894 for the advancement of Danish industrial art and the education of public taste . Its scope includes furniture , ceramics , European and Oriental glass , metal , and textiles . Though not large in extent , it possesses excellent materials both of Danish- and Oriental art arranged mainly upon a technical basis . The // collections are composed of originals , copies being used only when the original is in another museum of Copenhagen . The museum is administered by a board of trustees of twenty-four members who represent two of the government ministries , the municipality , the Manufacturers ' Association , the Carlsberg Legacy , private contributors , and the Friends of the Industrial Art Museum . It receives a subvention from the state of about 50,000 Kr. ; the Manufacturers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kr. ; various legacies bring in 5,900 Kr. ; Friends of the Museum give 10,000 Kr. , and the East Asiatic Art Society 10,000 Kr . There is a library of two rooms , one of which contains books and the other a collection of photographs and reproductions , stored in linen covered cases measuring 60 by 46 by 4 cm. , arranged in double tiered wall cases . The library is used as a study room to which specimens are freely taken from the exhibition cases . There are frequent exhibitions of current Danish art , foreign applied art , and historical art . Influence upon workers in the industries is sought for chiefly through these exhibitions and the industrial art school . The museum has just moved into very interesting new quarters formerly occupied by an old hospital . The building is long and low and encloses an open court . The side wings are one story only in height and the ends two stories . The exhibition rooms are all of uniform depth , with abundant lighting on the side , and constitute a simple line of travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steam piping underneath solid cement floors in which there are no openings . It is planned to maintain the floors at a temperature of 61 degrees Fahrenheit and the air at 54 degrees . Several other museums in Copenhagen and the vicinity contain extensive collections of Danish furniture , household gear and decorative objects . First among these is the National Museum , founded in 1807 and occupying the PrindsensPalais built in the eighteenth century . The Danish Collection contains both pre-historic and historic material . The rooms devoted to the Middle Ages and modern times are rich in // examples of Danish furniture , metal work , armor , domestic utensils , and church vestments . The material is in large part arranged in small rooms with original wall coverings , making an interesting and often pleasing effect despite crowded conditions . Another collection is to be found in the Rosenborg Palace . This building , erected in 1610-25 , was used by the Danish monarchs as a residence up to the middle of the eighteenth century . The rooms have been preserved as they were furnished by various monarchs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ivories , glass , and other personal possessions of the royal family . A short distance outside the city is the fine Renaissance castle of Frederiksborg , erected in 1602-20 , and also used as a royal residence . In 1859 a fire destroyed the greater part of the main building , which was later rebuilt and fitted up as a national historical museum , the expense being defrayed from the Carlsberg Fund founded by Dr. J. C. Jacobsen . The many different rooms are constructed and decorated in the style of various periods , from early Gothic times to the middle of the nineteenth century , and contain appropriate furniture , metal work , carvings , tapestries , portraits and other decorative material . These three collections in their entirety furnish a very comprehensive and intimate picture of Danish artistic culture from the earliest times almost to the present day . The method of display in each case reflects the culture-history theory prevalent in the last decade of the nineteenth century . SWEDEN Stockholm possesses no distinctive museum of industrial art , but it has , besides the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decorative art , the remarkable Nordiska Museet , or Northern Museum . This museum , which was originally called the Scandinavian Ethnographical Collection , was opened October 24 , 1873 , after two years of preparatory work . Its origin and developMUSEUMS // ment is due to the energetic initiative of Doctor Arthur Hazelius . In 1880 a Society was founded to further the interests of the museum , now an independent institution with its own board of directors . Money for the splendid new building , designed in the so-called Vasa style which prevailed in Sweden during the sixteenth century , was raised by means of a lottery . The first section of the museum was opened in 1907 and the entire building was finished in 1909 . The aim of the Nordiska Museet is to depict the culture of the Swedish , or rather the Scandinavian , peoples during the last four centuries . The collections illustrating the life of the Swedish peasantry are probably the most comprehensive and at the same time most effectively displayed of the kind in Europe . All of the various provinces of Sweden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ingeniously lighted , and through other rooms containing costumes , furniture , textiles , and all manner of household utensils . The arrangement is beyond praise . The individual objects are not labeled , but the character of each room as a whole is clearly indicated and the admirably printed guides serve to convey all needed information . Twenty-eight rooms on the ground floor are given to the Swedish provinces and twelve rooms on the second floor to the culture of other Scandinavian countries , Norway , Iceland , Denmark , Schleswig-Holstein , Esthonia , and Finland . The third floor is devoted to the so-called " culture of the higher classes " and comprises collections of industrial and decorative art illustrating the transitions from the Vasa period of 1520 consecutively to the year 1900 . The textile collection is displayed in a peculiarly interesting fashion . In addition to the implements and apparatus used for spinning and weaving , and examples of different techniques displayed in several rooms , a large collection of textile specimens is contained in special frame cases arranged along the wall . The frames , about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1% in. thick , stand side by side.Each one can be pulled out and swung in either direction , nuking at once a // very compact storage scheme and an arrangement offering great facility for inspection of the individual specimens . The museum publishes a report , " Fataburen , " appearing every fourth year . Beginning in 1891 the Open Air Museum of Skansen was created as a section of the Northern Museum . This remarkable open air museum occupies a large area of ground not far from the building of the Northern Museum . Here have been erected various buildings illustrating the peasant or agricultural life of Sweden . The buildings have been brought from the various districts of the country or , in a few cases , are copies of such buildings . Skansen contains not only the dwellings and barns , but all the outdoor accessories of peasant and farming life , as well as a number of monuments and examples of picturesque early wooden steeples or bell towers . One of the objects of study has been the different methods of construction employed in the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has attracted great attention and has been a pattern for similar displays in the smaller museums of Sweden and in other countries . In Gothenburg is to be found an extremely interesting though not large industrial museum , the Rohsska Konstslojdmuseet . The museum is administered by a board of seven members appointed by the municipal council and by the directors of the following institutions of Gothenburg : The University , the Museum , the Arts and Crafts School , and the Technical High School . The town of Gothenburg pays the administrative costs of the Museum , amounting to about 80,000 crowns a year . Means for augmenting the collections are supplied by private funds representing a capital of about 300,000 crowns . The museum building was erected in 1916 and is very modern in its character . The rooms are of good size , conveniently arranged , with excellent lighting and ventilation . In the front , on the second floor , is a long hall provided with tables for the study of textiles . Chests on the side walls hold portfolios of specimens , and adjoining is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on racks . The collections in the museum include textiles , iron work , ceramics , glass , and furniture , arranged according to materials , together with several displays showing Swedish interiors of the eighteenth century . The museum also contains a small but well selected collection of Chinese and Japanese art that is excellently displayed . Material is selected primarily for its bearing upon modern Swedish industrial art and every facility is given designers for study and sketching . Classes from different schools frequently use the collections for purposes of study . Temporary exhibitions of present-day handicraft are held in the museum during the autumn , winter , and spring . Of late a number of workshops have been set up where several highly skilled master craftsmen carry on their work and give instruction to younger and less experienced men in the crafts . In the city is also the Gothenburg Museum containing divisions of ethnology , culture history , and painting . The culture history section is almost entirely devoted to collections of industrial art among which are many examples of Chinese porcelain brought to the country in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and considerable Swedish furniture chiefly of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . While the collections are arranged mainly on the basis of material , there are several room ensembles of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries very attractively displayed . PART III SPECIAL MUSEUMS HISTORIC TEXTILE MUSEUM , LYONS , FRANCE THE beginnings of the Historic Textile Museum at Lyons , France , date from the foundation of a Museum of Art and Industry by the Chamber of Commerce at Lyons in 1864 , designed to receive designs and other objects useful to the industries of Lyons . At the end of some years it appeared that this museum did not satisfactorily fulfill the needs of a city in which the manufacture of silk predominated and it was decided to develop an institution specially devoted to textiles . This idea was realized in 1890 in the establishment of the present museum by the Chamber of Commerce . The purchases of the Chamber of Commerce form the basis of the collections , but these have been enriched by a number of legacies and gifts . The exhibits represent an unrivalled and continuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the present time . The main divisions constituting a chronological series are Byzantine , including many Coptic examples , Mohammedan largely Persian , Italian and French . Chinese and Japanese textiles are also well represented and there are important collections of embroideries and laces . In a great room called the Salle d'Honneur the specimens considered most precious are installed in large cases . In one of the corridors is a remarkable collection of loom models . There are eighteen of these installed in cases about 2 ft. by 4 ft. by 4 ft. high , each model representing a distinct forward step in the technical evolution of the loom . An exhibit of silk worms and silk culture is also contained in the museum . The library contains , besides books upon the textile industry , the study material at the disposition of designers . 9:31 // Here are over one hundred and forty-four portfolios about 4 ft. by 2 ft. in size and forty boxes of loose pieces devoted to ancient material . There are also over two hundred portfolios about 20 in. by 15 in. in size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 250,000 represent the years since 1840 . The reserves in storage which are also at the disposition of workers are not less than double the number held in the library . All this material is at present being reorganized . The director states that were the necessary funds and space available , he would be inclined to dispose the specimens on frames similar to those in the Nordiska Museet , which he considers an admirable arrangement for workers . The library is said to be used by ten to fifteen designers a day who for the most part consult the historic material . The museum is entirely supported by the Chamber of Commerce . The funds that form the income of the Chamber and from which is drawn the budget of the Museum come largely from the Institution for Conditioning Silk . The museum is administered by a committee of the Chamber and a few other members who are artists and amateurs . This committee authorizes all purchases . From 30,000 to 50,000 francs a year are spent on accessions which consist mainly of antique specimens . Outside of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase of specially important pieces . Specimens of all modern silks are acquired by the museum . THE MUSEUM OF THE TEXTILE SCHOOL AT CREFELD , GERMANY The purpose of the textile museum connected with the spinning and weaving school at Crefeld is to serve the needs of the textile industry in the matter of reference documents . It is organized entirely for this end and not for public display . Effort is. made by the museum to collect examples of every important kind of historic art textile , weaves , printed cloth , tapestries , embroideries , laces , etc. , in order that the // evolution of the textile ornament and technique of all times and peoples may be united in a clear survey . About ten thousand specimens are comprised under the following divisions : 1 . Coptic fabrics and silks up to the tenth century . Byzantine silks . Peruvian collection of woven stuffs. 2 . Persian , Sicilian , Italian , Spanish , German , Polish , French , Chinese textiles from the early Middle Ages to the Gothic . 3 . Renaissance weaves ? Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Late Renaissance fabrics of the same countries . 5 . Baroque , German and French . 6 . Rococo and Empire of the same countries . 7 . Oriental woven stuffs : Persian , Indian , Chinese , Japanese . 8 . Embroideries , hand work , and laces of all times and peoples . 9 . Printed stuffs of all times and peoples . 10 . Large pieces , tapestries , Gobelins , etc . For the most part the specimens are mounted on cardboards about 24 in. by 34 in. , and stored in cupboards in double-counter cases . On the sloping tops and on vertical screens rising from these cases a number of examples are displayed in frames . There are a few labels on the cases , but none on the specimens . Each mount is identified by a number referring to a hand-written catalogue . In addition to the exhibits named above , the museum also contains a collection of modern specimens made by the Association for the Advancement of the Textile Industry . This collection , which augments daily , comprises perhaps one and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , for the most part , bound in " swatches " and kept in drawers . Prints and photographs are also stored in this manner . Large examples of important textiles cover the walls of a lecture room used for instruction in the history of textiles . The museum contains a technical exhibit illustrating the pro96 INDUSTRIAL ART AND THE MUSEUM duction of silk from the cocoon , as well as one showing the spinning of wool and other fibers . The school and museum is supported to the extent of onethird of its budget by the city of Crefeld and the remaining two-thirds by the state of Prussia . TIDE MUSEUM OF EAST ASIATIC ART , COLOGNE , GERMANY The Museum of East Asiatic Art in Cologne was the first in Europe to be dedicated exclusively to the field of Oriental art . The project was realized through the zeal and devotion of Professor Adolf Fischer , of Cologne , who devoted many years of study and travel in China , Korea , and Japan to the collection of examples of the art of these countries and to urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year 1909 Professor Fischer donated his collections to the city of Cologne on condition that the city build and support a museum to house them in accordance with his plans . The city accepted the gift and erected a very attractive and well planned building adjoining , and with an entrance through , the Industrial Art Museum . On October 25 , 1913 , the museum was opened . It contains well selected examples of Oriental art of the highest order displayed in an extremely effective manner . The collections include Chinese paintings , stone sculpture , bronzes , lacquer , glass , cloisonne , ivories , and ceramics ; and paintings , lacquers , bronzes , potteries , porcelains , arms , prints , and examples of the lesser arts of Japan . Another room is devoted to Korean art . The exhibition rooms are of moderate size , admirably lighted , and are so disposed as to allow very simple and well defined lines of travel . Each room contains comparatively few well selected examples , arranged so as to present the most agreeable effect and allow full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three original rooms of charming quality , each one containing excellent examples of Japanese household art . Details of display , furniture such as cases for small paintSPECIAL // ings on silk or paper , wing frames for Japanese prints , and wall cases for textiles have been worked out in practical and pleasing fashion . The East Asiatic Museum is notable not only as a finely developed example of museum technique , but as a collection that provides in itself for the study of every phase of Oriental art . The museum is supported by the city of Cologne . Professor Fischer died on April 13 , 1914 , since which time the position of director has been filled by his widow . * THE WALL PAPER MUSEUM AT CASSEL , GERMANY The Wall Paper Museum at Cassel is an interesting development of recent years . It was established by wall paper manufacturers and dealers and is maintained by them . The museum is housed in a small palace , apparently of the eighteenth century , which fronts on an interior city court and contains a series of rooms well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leather hangings of the seventeenth century and painted and printed linens of the eighteenth century . Wall papers begin with hand-printed examples of the decade between 1800 and 1810 followed by early English machine-printed papers of 1820 and Zuber papers of about 1840 . From this point the development of wall papers during the nineteenth century and to the present day is shown by exhibits illustrating every variation of technique and artistic treatment . One room about 20 ft. by 60 ft. is arranged with alcoves some 3 ft. in depth . Blocks and lithographic plates used for hand printing and rolls for machine printing are shown . In one of the passages is an old hand printing stube with 9 8 INDUSTRIAL ART AND THE MUSEUM olginal wood blocks , color tanks , printing press , and other appurtenances . In a separate wing are displayed examples of foreign papers . Among these are many from Japan , two rooms containing French papers , a Zuber room , and a large display of English papers illustrating old techniques and including a few examples produced by William Morris . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GERMAN MUSEUM FOR ART IN COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY , HAGEN Although the Museum for Art in Commerce and Industry no longer plays the prominent part it filled in Germany before the World War , a survey of industrial art museums would hardly be complete without some reference to its scope and activities . The museum was founded in 1909 at the combined initiative of the Deutsche Werkbund and the Folkwang Museum at Hagen . The latter institution , established some ten years earlier by Karl Ernst Osthaus in the factory town of Hagen in Westphalia , was essentially a modern conception and noteworthy in itself . It aimed at setting before the people objects at once fine and simple , fitted for production at moderate cost , and suited for the homes of middle class people . It contained excellently composed examples of living rooms designed by Henry Van de Velde and a gallery of paintings , among which were notable examples of important modernists . The museum included an information office to give advice to the public on questions of home furnishing . Herr Osthaus had been prominently identified from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and out of his relation to the two institutions grew the idea of a traveling museum which should circulate selected examples of contemporary quality products among the museums and schools of Germany . This traveling museum was to be the exponent of the modern German movement in applied art and to bring the influence of this movement to bear more // seriously on the life of the German people and more effectively upon German industry . Its collections , which included both hand and machine work , were selected for excellence of workmanship , fitness to purpose , and good design . They included the following sections : These collections were sent throughout Germany to stimulate an appreciation of fine work and good design and to develop an interest in national arts and crafts work of all kinds . They were offered to city authorities , museums , commercial and art schools , societies , and private persons as loans for a period of three or four weeks in return for a moderate fee which covered the cost of packing and transportation only . When these specimens were on view in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with specimens from their own collections , thus linking the modern work to the old . Lectures and leaflets were also provided to supplement and describe the collections . The collections were sent even to countries outside of Germany . In 1912-13 an extensive exhibit was sent to America and shown in the art museums of Newark , Chicago , St. Louis , Indianapolis , Cincinnati , Pittsburgh , and in the Arts Club in New York City . This undertaking was due to the initiative of John Cotton Dana , director of the Newark Museum , who arranged with the German authorities for the // exhibit and obtained the cooperation of the other American museums . The collection contained over a thousand objects representative of the graphic arts , advertising art , book making and leather work , wall paper and linoleum , textiles , ceramics , glass , metal work , wood and ivory , and photographs . Besides the industrial art collections of the traveling museum , important sections comprising photographs and lantern slides of modern architecture and industrial products , both of Germany and foreign countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was organized to give advice on questions of artistic advertising and the improvement of industrial products . This department also conducted competitions for show windows and competitions for designs in several fields . After the World War the activities of the museum at Hagen and the Deutsche Werkbund were greatly curtailed , and in 1923 , following the death of Herr Osthaus , the Folkwang Museum was moved to Essen , in the Ruhr , and the Museum for Art in Commerce and Industry passed into the possession of the city of Crefeld.                     