@@774060

txt ALADDIN , U. S. A. continue to eliminate drudgery and hazards of work . We have seen how electric power tends to stimu late the expansion of industry in rural territory . When every section of the country is supplied with this electric power ? and that time is rapidly ap proaching ? industry can be carried on in almost any location . Manufacturing plants are already show ing a tendency to move into localities where they can be closer to supplies of raw material , where there is plenty of room and where rents are comparatively cheap . The tide which has been flowing cityward is changing , and people who have been crowding more closely together are spreading out into the suburbs and the country where electricity brings them the same recreational and educational advantages and the same ease of housekeeping as in the cities . About the only effect this has on our cities as they are at present is to wipe out the slums , take the children from the tenement and the street , and give them grass , trees , flowers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , mental and physical health . It is power traveling along the copper highway , which makes this possible . While we take it for granted that all these im provements in living conditions for the mass of the people are being made , few people realize how ex-tensive they are or just exactly how they have been brought about . The factors seem to be labor-sav ing devices , increased productivity , increased effi ciency and the decentralization of industry . But what has the formula made up of these factors actually produced ? Turning to the statistics of the J. S. Department 6o POWER AND THE W O R K E R of Labor , we find that the average increase in productivity for eleven great industries is 68 per cent . The cost of living is 64 per cent higher than before the war , but wages are 134 per cent higher . In other words , while the worker has to pay $1.64 for that which cost $1.0o in 1914 , he is receiving 2.34 times as much as he received before the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole story , however . As pointed out by a writer for the Alexander Hamilton Institute , " in the past fifteen years , working hours have shown a decline ranging in some cases up to 35 per cent . In a number of branches of the iron and steel industry , working time for employees has been cut from a 12-hour to an 8-hour day , a reduction of 33 1/3 per cent . This decline in the number of hours per week which the wage earner has to work represents a direct increase in the standard of living , since the worker has more time to enjoy the additional things which his wages permit him to buy , more time is available for rest , and more time is given the worker for education and to better his condition by making and doing things for himself . In fact , it has been freely predicted that electric power will eventually bring about a four-hour working day . " The contribution of the electric industry to the well-being of the workers of America has been summed up by John Spargo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjects , in a striking manner . He says : " Today there is probably mechanical energy amounting to not less than 4/ horsepower be-61 ALADDIN , U. S. A. hind every industrial worker in America . Behind these facts , there is the most inspiring chapter in the whole history of man 's increasing mastery over his environment . They explain that greatest of all phenomena , increasing productivity with lighter toil and better living . Taken as a whole , no workers anywhere in the world work under conditions equal to those prevailing in this country , or enjoy anything like such a high standard of living . And there is no country in which inventive genius has brought into the homes of the masses so many agencies alleviating the toil of the housekeepers . It is no longer true to say , as John Stuart Mill did in his clay , that it is doubtful whether all the mechanical inventions have lightened the day 's toil of a single human being . ' One has only to watch operations on any construction job for half an hour to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most extraordinary degree . And every time electric horsepower takes the place of human muscle , the cause of progress is served . " Such are the results which have been obtained under a system based upon private enterprises subject to social regulation . ' Where Government ownership has been tried , it has achieved no results comparable to those which have been attained under the system that has prevailed in this country . " Some of the figures showing the increase , in production per man per day since i 800 ? the real reason 62.1 POWER AND THE WORKER why the American workers ' pay envelope has increased with greater rapidity than the cost of living ? are interesting . In iron it has grown from 500 to 5,000 pounds . In lumber , from too feet to 750 feet ; in nails from 5 to 50o pounds ; in shoes , from / of a pair to to pairs ; in coal from / a ton to to tons ; in paper , from 20 square feet to 200 square feet . Much of this increase is due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electric brick-laying machine which lays 1200 bricks an hour as compared with the 50o a day for the average bricklayer . Three men can operate this bricklayer and with it do the work of perhaps 20 masons . If this is true , then certainly the construction industry can afford to pay these three men laying 1200 bricks an hour a better wage than it could afford to pay 20 men doing the same work by hand . But the facts that the worker is earning real wages far in excess of his real wages of fifteen or twenty years ago and that his home life and the home life of his family have been improved immeasurably by the development of cheap power , are not quite the whole story . There are the many improvements in the conditions surrounding his actual work . The development of the individual electric motor , making it possible for every machine in industry to have its own individual power plant , under the control of the worker operating it , has added greatly to the safety and comfort of his daily tasks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shafts , pulleys , cog wheels , belts and the like , all of which provided a fertile source of pain63 1 ALADDIN , U. S. A. ful , and many times fatal , accidents . One of the lessons which electricity has taught modern American industry is that the conservation of the worker by surrounding him with as much comfort and safety as possible , adds to productivity and lessens the overhead cost . It has taught this lesson by a practical demonstration ? the simple process of doing away with the source of accidents by the installation of a type of machinery which is practically foolproof . The attitude of the American worker toward the electric industry itself is interesting and indicative of his appreciation of what it has done for the mass of the people . We find Mr. Green , speaking of the pioneers in the industry , saying that " the initiative of those who ventured in the field of industry has been rewarded by the success of their endeavors . They have been fortunate in that they have been permitted to carry on their business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own and possess property and to enjoy all the benefits which come from private undertaking and private enterprise . " Speaking of the cooperation which exists between the power industry and labor he said : " It is my opinion that cooperation , understanding and a spirit of mutual interest can be exemplified in the electric power industry to as great or a greater degree than in any other industry . In the transportation lines , where electric power is being used more and more , and in public utilities companies , men and management come in close contact with each , and 64 POWER AND T H E W O R K E R together with the general public and the public interest . Many problems of public character arise which seriously affect the economic inter-ests of all concerned and the social interests of the great mass of working people . " In spite of these statements , however , and in spite of such declarations as " let us hope that our nation will always remain free from governmental , auto-cratic and dictatorial control of its industries and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for " government ownership and operation of public utilities in principle . " To many , this is thought to be little more than a " paper declaration " : something of a sop to the more radical groups within their ranks . Evidence of the existence of some truth in this theory may be found in the fact that such out-standing Ieaders as John P. Frey , who has helped as much as any living man to shape and interpret the policies of the labor movement , can openly op-pose government ownership and operation both in principle and in practice without losing caste . After all , the fact remains that combinations of business enterprises , whether the combination be corporate , physical or simply by trade agreements , have been largely responsible for so-called mass pro-duction resulting in higher wages for the workers and lower costs to the consumers . The British dele-gation to study industrial conditions in the United States found that " the conditions in the United States permit of mass production for a wide domestic market . Where these big units are well-organized , they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , U. S. A. and number of products , to develop wide domestic and foreign markets , and so to reach a higher standard of efficiency in production and distribution than is possible in small businesses . They also permit of great reductions in costs by the adoption of standardized materials , up-to-date machinery , and labor-saving devices . " The large establishments are the most outstanding examples of the intensive use of machinery and the subdivision of processes . During the last few years , mechanical processes have been introduced to such an extent as to make possible a marked increase in production with no increase in the number of wage earners , while on the other hand there has been a considerable reduction in the average length of the working day . " To this should be added ? for the sake of emphasis ? wages have increased much more rapidly than the cost of living . The members of this British delegation are not the only Englishmen to reach definite conclusions from comparison of conditions in Great Britain with conditions in the United States . Two others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England against industrial eclipse " ( I ) if she did n't use more power ; ( 2 ) if she did n't do more research ; ( 3 ) if she did n't hire more chemists ; ( 4 ) if their business men did n't believe what their engineers told them , and , ( S ) if British labor did n't produce to its utmost capacity . " To prove their point number t , these authors made an intensive study of some 24 American industries and compared them with similar industries in England . They found that the amount of horsepower per i , 000 workers in an English boot 66 POWER AND THE WORKER and shoe factory was 172 while in the United States it is 486 . The output of the English worker per year they valued at 171 pounds sterling while the value of the yearly output of the American worker they placed at 516 pounds sterling . In the manufacture of cardboard boxes they found the amount of power in use in English factories to be 114 horsepower per thousand workers , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output of the American worker almost double that of the English worker . Averaging the whole 24 industries , they found the horsepower per American worker to be three times that of the average British worker in corresponding industries , and that the value of a year 's output in America is three times the value of a year 's output in Great Britain , saying : " Everybody knows that America 's wages are almost three times British wages . " This has suggested a new but extremely simple law in political economy . High wages depend on big horsepower . Large combinations in the United States have been , made possible because of two reasons : First , the . policy of the American people of leaving to individual and corporate initiative and enterprise any and all things which can be done by private enterprise ; and second , due to this policy , the rapid development of the power industry . It is power plus our national principle which has caused the industrial United States to forge ahead of its European sisters so rapidly that nations are sending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is all about . We are more prosperous than any other country in the world , and these other countries have 67 ALADDIN , U. S. A. found out why even more quickly than we have found out for ourselves . But most important of all ? electricity is turning the muscle worker into a brain worker ; a director of power . 68 CHAPTER VII Interconnection and the " Super-Power " Bogey IT IS a common American trait ? sometimes an extremely useful one ? to seize upon words or phrases and bring them into common use with special meanings remote from the intent of those who coined them . Such phrases are " super-power , " and " giantpower " as distinct from super-power . These two hyphenated words have only recently joined the American vocabulary , but they have been subject to more misuse and more general misunderstanding than almost any one of the newer phrases of modern times . To the average person they mean generating plants of a Gargantuan size , flashing high voltage current which spreads death and disaster to all who come within its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrist , " for incredible distances . Nothing could be further from the truth . Sometimes it is easier to define a word or phrase by describing what it does not mean . " Super-power " does not mean that the amount of power generated within a given territory has been increased above a normal amount to meet the power demands . It does not mean that somewhere within the territory served a giant power plant has been built , taking over all of the duties and services of a score or more of small local plants . It does not necessarily mean high tension transmission lines carrying high voltage current over long distances . As used by the electrical engineer it does not mean any of the things 69 ALADDIN , U. S. A. usually associated with the term " super . " Nor does it mean a " super-trust " controlled by men having some sort of super-power over those who buy their wares . What , then , is " super-power ? " The best definition to be found is in the answer given by the late Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company , to the question , " Mow can rivers he utilized ? " to which he replied : " By connecting several water powers together into a single system , and by feeding into this system power from one or more supplementary steam plants . " By way of explanation he added . " The variations in the flow of the water powers tend to counteract each other , especially if the water powers belong to different drainage systems ; while the steam plants , which are operated only when needed to make good deficiencies in the water power , assure a definite maximum amount of power at all times with the minimum consumption of fuel . Such a composite system , which must necessarily be of large dimensions , is known as a superpower system . It not only forms the most efficient method of utilizing water power , but also possesses certain additional advantages . " By " large dimensions " he meant covering a large amount of territory . And that is the answer : It is a system of hydroelectric and steam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interconnection " into a power pool , as described in the first chapter , so as to make the utmost use of the water power resources within that territory and conserve our fuel 70 " SUPER-POWER " and oil as far as possible . More than 65,000,000 horsepower is available from water in North America , of which only about 10,000,000 horsepower is being utilized at present . The development of this water power not only will conserve our national resources of coal and oil , but will also conserve human labor . To produce a given amount of power by steam requires many times as many men as are required to produce it by water ; at least a half a million men would be released for other occupations if it were possible entirely to replace steam power with water power . Of course this will never be accomplished , as we will presently see . But rivers , unlike steam plants , are by no means under human control . One of their characteristics is that the flow varies according to the season . A river may be capable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during a period of drought . The so-called primary or " allyear-round " power at Muscle Shoals is only about 85,000 horsepower ; a trivial amount as power plants and power demands go these days . If the Southeastern power area , or even a portion of the state of Alabama , should be solely dependent upon Muscle Shoals for its electric current , many of its industries would be idle a large portion of the time . It is only when it is " interconnected " with other water powers and auxiliary steam plants that the Muscle Shoals project becomes a sound economic power unit . In other words , it is but one of the sources of supply for the intake of the Southeastern power pool or power reservoir . If we stick to the analogy of a pool or reservoir , 71 ALADDIN , U. S. A. we can recognize at once the fallacy of considering a super-power system as a device for transmitting the same power or electric current over long distances . For example , it was often said , during the controversy over the Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson Dam would be felt as far south as New Orleans and as far east as northeastern North Carolina . This is literally true , but not in the sense that most people understand it . In fact , power generated in Alabama had had its effect on neighboring states through interconnection for a number of years ; but this does not mean that the power produced in Alabama is actually transported to North Carolina or Mississippi . It is better described by saying that it is " bucketbrigaded . " In other words , if there is a shortage of power in North Carolina , as there was in 1921 , North Carolina borrows a little power from South Carolina . But South Carolina may not have enough power for its own needs and the needs of North Carolina as well , so it , in turn , borrows a little power from Georgia . Georgia , being in a somewhat similar position to that of South Carolina , turns to Alabama , which may have a surplus of power . And so shortages and surpluses are balanced one against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained by interconnection with each locality and territory always assured of an abundance of power , regardless of the season or the vagaries of rivers . As a matter of fact , the maximum distance which power can be transmitted economically at the present time is about 250 miles . At this distance there is so much loss due to leakage in transmission and distri-72 " SUPER-POWER " bution that not more than 7o per cent of the power generated at the central plant registers on the domestic customers ' meters at the other end of the line . The power plant must , therefore , be equipped with facilities for the generation of considerably more power than it can market . This , of course , increases the overhead and eventually the price to the consumer . If , however , a considerable number of generating plants within a given territory are interconnected so that they all contribute to a general fund , so to speak , the power generated by each one of them will be " felt " throughout the territory even though it be hundreds or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is actually no such thing as the transmission of power across two or more states , and little actual interstate transmission of power except what is called fringe distribution ; that is , the furnishing of power to communities along the border of one state by a plant just across the state line and in a neighboring state . As a matter of fact , probably not more than 8 per cent of all of the electric current generated in the United States ever crosses state lines , and when it does the crossing is often " temporary . " If two plants on opposite sides of a state border are interconnected , the bulk of the power may flow in one direction during certain seasons of the year or even during certain periods of the day , and in the opposite direction at other seasons of the year or other periods of the day . It is simply a process of borrowing and returning . If interconnection does not necessarily mean the interstate transmission of power , even though the 73 ALADDIN , U. S. A. interconnected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is obvious that these systems can not be considered as being engaged in interstate business in the same sense that a transcontinental railroad is engaged in interstate business . The local or single plant does not lose its purely local characteristics simply because it is " hooked up " in a system and is pouring its power into a pool rather than directly into the establishments of its customers . It has simply joined forces with other plants serving other territories , thus obtaining for its own territory the same benefits of co-operative action as it contributes to the territories of its brother plants . When a number of farmers join together in a co-operative market association , this does not mean that each farm loses its individuality or that each individual farmer has lost any of his control over his farm and its products . It simply means that he has joined in a wholesale distributing enterprise by means of which the cost of marketing is reduced , thereby benefiting both himself and the consumer . Nor does it necessarily mean corporate consolidation into some great super-financial structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies that are absolutely independent of one another as the interconnection of the rails of two railroad companies in order to furnish facilities for the continuous journey of the trains of both companies . A contract for interchange of electric power and connection of transmission lines is all that is necessary . Many advantages and economies accrue by this 74 ' ' SUPER-POWER ' ' development of interconnection . The first , perhaps , is the marked reduction of reserve equipment which is necessary to take care of power demands every hour of the day and night and every day of the year . This reserve , so necessary to the isolated plant , is responsible for a big item in the cost of producing and distributing power . Naturally , a certain amount is necessary even for the largest of interconnected systems . Steam plants used to supplement hydro-electric supply at seasons when the water is low , may be idle other portions of the year . But the amount of reserve equipment per kilowatt of power generated is very much less with large scale production and interconnected distribution than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the transmission lines of an interconnected system must form a network covering a considerable amount of territory . Thus electric service is made available to many people , especially in the rural districts , who otherwise could not get it . This also makes possible the " decentralization " of industry , bringing new markets to the farmer and turning small communities into thriving miniature industrial centers . The rapid industrial development of the South during recent years and the general improvement of the condition of the Southern farmer has been due , in a very large measure , to the increase in interconnection of Southern power plants . Third , when an interconnected system covers a considerable area and comprises both hydro-electric and steam plants , the use of the various plants can be staggered , and " seasonal " or " secondary " water power changed into " primary " or " firm " power . 75 1 ALADDIN , U. S. A. Take , again , the illustration of Muscle Shoals . The Muscle Shoals plant as an isolated enterprise can not be considered as anything more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power require ments of its possible territory are concerned . As part of an interconnected system which contains other supply for use during the dry season , however , it becomes a source of 21o,000 horsepower which is the installed capacity . Fourth , an interconnected system provides abso lute security to every consumer against interruption of service by storms , water shortage , failure of transportation , or failure of equipment . This alone is worth all of the time and the money and the ingenuity which has been spent in its development . We have seen what it would mean if all power plants throughout the United States should suddenly be-come idle . The same result , in a lesser degree , ac-companies the shutting down of an isolated plant on which even a single community is dependent . With interconnection , the failure of a local power means no more interruption to the service than that caused by the blowing of a fuse which is repaired in a few minutes . Fifth , an interconnected system can use power from any economical source generated within its area . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off from coke ovens and blast furnaces make excel-lent fuel . If the transmission lines of the inter-connected system pass near the plant , power can be produced by these gases and fed into the system , thereby reducing the amount of power which must be supplied by the system 's supplementary steam 76 ' ' SUPER-POWER ' ' plant , and the heart of Secretary of Commerce Hoover cheered by the addition of another item to his " elimination of waste " program . Sixth , the single or isolated plant is built to take care of the peak load , and a considerable portion of it is necessarily idle a part of the time . This is not so in an interconnected system , which means the release of a considerable amount of capital to be used for other purposes , as , for example , the extension of distribution into rural districts and small communities . There are already many conspicuous examples of interconnection throughout the United States . One of the most striking in extent , character , and effect on the territory involved , is what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the states of North and South Carolina , Georgia , Alabama , Tennessee and Mississippi . To quote Mr. Paul S. Clapp , managing director of the National Electric Light Association : " The Southeast , as represented by the states in this geographic division , has made unparalleled advances in the application of electricity . No section of the country has made greater progress in development of interconnected electrical systems and in the provision of adequate and reliable power supplies which will further the growth of the whole South . In no section has there been such stimulation of industrial activity . In none is there a keener appreciation of the benefits of electric power in attracting industry and in effecting the gains in produc 77 l ALADDIN , U. S. A. tivity which characterize our national progress since the war . " The generation of electricity in the South-east in the last four years has increased by 78 per cent , as compared with an increase of 32 per cent in the nation as a whole . The utili ties of this division have been engaged in stu pendous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distrib uting systems to supply this service . In five years , the electric power generating capacity available to the people has been doubled . Over Soo , 000 homes in these states are now reached . In ten years , Southeastern industries have added 683,000 horsepower in electric motors supplied from the interconnected system . The power utilized in these industries has steadily increased until now each worker in the South-east has 4.08 horsepower as against an aver-age of 3.77 horsepower for the workers of the country . " ( These were the figures for the year 1923 . In 1925 the average for the work ers of the United States was 4.2 horsepower . ) Another important interconnected system is in the Central Northwest , comprising the states of Minne sota , Wisconsin , North Dakota , South Dakota , Iowa and Illinois , a conspicuous example of the success of interconnection in supplying the electrical require ments of a large territory . It serves a population of 1,400,000 people in 505 communities in six states and is operated by the Northern States Power Com-pany . It consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric plants , with a total capacity of 447,562 horsepower , distributed by a vast network of 3,178 miles of high voltage transmission lines interconnecting these power sources . In 1921 , the public utilities in this territory were serving 299,247 customers . In 1927 , this great interconnected system was serving 313,343 customers . In 1921 , the kilowatt-hour output was 510,331,587 , which was increased during the past six years to 805,380,692 kilowatt-hours . The gross earnings had increased to $23,155,955 . This , of course , means that interconnection has brought about a great industrial expansion and has also extended the use of electricity to large territories where it has never before been available . Perhaps the most conspicuous and most recent example of interconnection in the East is the agreement entered into by the Philadelphia Electric Company , the Pennsylvania Light and Power Company , and the Public Service Gas and Electric Company of New Jersey . At the present time this forms the world 's largest power pool and the total cost of the transmission lines and transforming stations will exceed 26 million dollars . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power at peak hours which differ in the three companies , and eventually lower rates to all classes of consumers . A striking example of a giant power pool constructed to guard against any interruption of service is illustrated by the completion of a 132,000 volt transmission line between Kingsport , Tennessee , and Saltville , Virginia . When this line was put into operation , it connected the great hydro-electric re 791 ALADDIN , U. S. A. sources of the South and the steam generating plants of the North . Mr. George N. Tidd , President of the American Gas and Electric Company and the Appalachian Electric Power Company has given a graphic description of the big double circuit hook-up by-the completion of the Kingsport line . He says : " The completion of the line gives loop , or double circuit , facilities for the transmission of electric power as needed between systems covering the Southeastern states from Tennessee and the Carolinas to the Gulf and the extensive interconnected transmission lines reaching through the Virginias , Ohio and Indiana into Illinois and Michigan and to the Northeast through and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a line , service can now be looped around the trouble by way of the other line , and even the line in trouble can be fed from both ends to the vicinity of the interruption . The importance of this new in. terconnection in the need of industries for reliable electric power is very evident . " Interconnection is rapidly progressing in the Northeast . This power area will eventually include the states of Maine , New Hampshire , Vermont , Massachusetts , Connecticut , Rhode Island , New York , Pennsylvania , New Jersey , Delaware , Maryland and the District of Columbia . It will include such great sources of water power as the Niagara River , the St. Lawrence River , the Delaware River , the Susquehanna River , the tributaries of the upper 8o S U P E R - P O W E R Ohio , the Adirondack powers , the Potomac River and the state of Maine rivers . The report of the Northeast Super-power Committee , of which Secretary of Commerce Hoover was chairman , and which made an exhaustive study of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The economical and adequate power supplies for this area require " ( a ) Extension of interconnection between different systems . " ( b ) The building of large , centralized , steam-electric plants located at strategic points . " ( c ) The development of the large hydroelectric projects . " It also stated that the economic values of such development would be : " I. An estimated reduction of our coal consumption by over So , 000,000 tons annually . " 2 . More economical production of power . " 3 . Security in power supplies against interruption with its losses through disturbed production and unemployment . " 4 . Larger reserves of power through which other industrial development need not lag , awaiting power construction . " 5 . Electrification of transportation with increase in its efficiency . " 6 . Extension of power uses to the farm . " 7 . Decrease in human labor . " 81 ' ALADDIN , U. S. A. New York State is itself already one vast interconnected system . Ninety-five per cent of the state has been connected up , benefiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and better service . Much of this work has been done within the past two years . There is no apparent reason why these present existing and projected interconnected systems should not eventually be themselves interconnected , until the entire United States and Canada is served by only such a number of systems as economic conditions dictate . When this is accomplished , there will not be a single village so small , and few cottages or farms which will not have electric service . There is nothing visionary about this scheme , for its construction is entirely feasible with modern electrical apparatus . But such colossal projects directly concern the public ; and already there are murmurings over the suggestion that enterprises of this size should be placed entirely in the hands of private interests , no matter how drastic the regulatory laws . On the other hand , there is little difference between even a single interconnected system serving the entire nation and the telephone which has been accepted as a natural monopoly . Certainly no one would wish to return to the old days of thousands of independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , meager financial resources , and cumbersome and crude equipment . Yet the difference between those telephone days and the present-day system of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company is no greater than the difference between $2 ' ' SUPER-POWER ' ' pre-war electric-power days and the modern interconnected power system . The improvement in the telephone service has been no greater than the improvement in electric light and power service , and in both cases improvement in services and reductions of costs to the ultimate consumer have been brought about by interconnection . When a public service is a natural monopoly , it is a natural monopoly which can not be escaped any more than humanity can escape the inevitable workings of natural laws . To resist this fact and attempt to change it means only one thing : retrogression. 83 CHAPTER VIII Organizing the Streams THE closing paragraphs of the last chapter raise at once the whole question of governmental policy with regard to power development throughout the United States ? a question which is making an effort to become an outstanding national issue . It is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time ? that is reserved for a chapter all its own . It seems advisable at this point , however , to outline the facts of the so-called public versus private ownership controversy , and the various creeds of government ownership and operation ; or , rather , the various levels of the groups advocating some form of government ownership and operation . There is a great variety of shades of public ownership opinion , ranging all the way from those groups advocating a paternalistic form of government which abandons its traditional duties of governing to assume the operation and management of vast business enterprises , to groups which go no further than to advocate the retention of title to certain important power sites , leaving it to individual initiative to develop and operate those resources under some form of government regulation . It is needless to say that with one or two brilliant and outstanding exceptions , there are no men prominent in public life who belong to the extremely radical group which advocates the nationalization of everything from mines to shipping , from the manu-84 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy , from life insurance to religion , from transportation and communications to the manufacture of clothes for the newborn infant and coffins for the citizen who has succumbed to the unbearable burden of too much government and too little freedom . This of course is the basic principle of the present government of Soviet Russia . It may be admirably suited to a country where the great mass of the people are almost totally lacking in modern education and where transportation and communications are , at best , in a most elementary stage of development . But for an enlightened nation such as ours it just wo n't work . The radical European socialist finds cold comfort in America , regardless of what circle may engage his attention . The American worker , with his superior education and high standards of living , is no more receptive to his arguments than the bank president or managing director of a large industrial establishment . The next group , only a little less radical than the one just described , argues that only those things which have a definite public interest should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroads , telephone and telegraph , electric light , power , gas and water utilities , and insurance . It would leave the manufacturing of automobiles , clothing , and the like to individual initiative , as well as all retail business . In this group we find many men prominent in public life who sincerely believe that government operation of these public services would result in greater benefits to the people as a whole . Narrowing the discussion down to the electric 8 ALADDIN , U. S. A. light and power service , we find a third group which believes in what is called government ownership and private operation of hydro-electric plants . The members of this group advocate the retention of ownership of all facilities for the utilization of water power , but the leasing of them to private companies which would operate the plants and distribute the light and power under the provisions of the lease . Between the second and this third group is a small group advocating government ownership and opera tion of hydro-electric generating plants , but selling the power to private distributing companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the contract under which they purchase the power wholesale for purposes of selling it at retail . To this group belong those who advocate govern ment ownership and operation of certain so-called " key " power sites such as Muscle Shoals , the St. Lawrence River Power project , Potomac Falls near Washington , Boulder Canyon Dam and the Colum bia River Basin project . They argue that by hold ing these key positions the federal government can always control the power situation . Finally , there is the group to which a majority of the people of the United States seem to belong , and which believes in the development , ownership and operation of all public utility projects by pri vate initiative under the present scheme of state com mission regulation . It is under this system that the electric service has reached its present high state of efficiency ; and the questions naturally arise : Is this the time and are conditions such that a drastic 86 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS change in our national policy is wise ? Is there a necessity or a definite public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a policy of leaving business to private enterprise and individual initiative to a policy of government ownership and operation , or , to use a popular phrase , " government in business , " mean progress or retrogression ? The author does not propose to attempt to answer these questions ? his self-imposed duty is only to present a few of the facts as he sees them . The most popular scheme of the many which have been proposed for the purpose of accomplishing some sort of a change in policy is the one which provides for government ownership and operation of certain " key " power projects , such as Muscle Shoals , Boulder Canyon Dam , the St. Lawrence River and the Potomac River hydro-electric developments . A majority of the advocates of this idea do not propose that the government shall necessarily distribute the power generated at these plants ? they simply propose that the government shall own and operate the plants selling the electricity generated to private distributing companies which may be either already in existence or which may come into existence because of the opportunity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturer and the citizen consumer . In considering this proposal two things must be kept constantly in mind : First , the tremendous development of electric light and power service and its extension into the highways and byways as well as in the larger cities have been due to interconnection of the power resources scattered throughout a 87a ALADDIN , U. S. A. considerable area . Second , the isolated plant operated independently of the interconnected system is antiquated , costly , unreliable and inefficient . If the government is to own and operate these individual plants , it must be prepared to do one of two things : it must make a deal with the present interconnected systems so that the power generated may be poured into the power pool or reservoir , or it must parallel the present existing transmission lines belonging to private companies and enter into competition with its own citizens within a radius of some hundreds of miles . Even a most casual examination of the past history and experience of the industry will clearly demonstrate that even the federal gov , eminent can not manufacture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great interconnected system by reason of its large scale operations . In order to compete , it must therefore sell power at a loss , which can only be covered up by charging such items as interest on the money invested , amortization and depreciation to the taxpayers as a whole instead of to the consumers of the power and light . On the other hand , if the government proposes to keep out of the field of competition , it must either lease the plant itself or operate it , selling the power to private distributors . But the present distributors in interconnected areas already have ample power facilities , as well as potential resources which they can develop rapidly and easily as the consumption in their territories may demand . They can hardly be expected to purchase power at a greater cost than they can generate it themselves ? if they do , this additional cost will ultimately be passed on 88 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS to the consumer . It has been argued that if the government builds the power plants , it will release an equal amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government in a position of lending a helping hand to the electric industry . But money is money and demands its interest , regardless of whether it is the government 's money or money obtained from private bankers . It may be that the federal government can borrow money more cheaply than the private individual . But here again we find the ultimate consumer paying the bill as a taxpayer , for what the government saves in interest it loses in taxes ; government-owned utilities pay none . What will be the effect of such a scheme on the orderly development of hydro-electric power re-sources on a national scale , such as has been sug gested in the preceding chapter ? It is doubtful if anyone knows the answer . None of these " key " locations are of great importance to existing and proposed interconnected systems , in spite of the na tion-wide publicity which has been given them . True , as individual units in the system , they will contribute to the general pool and thereby increase the scale of the operation and contribute to the movement to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate and distinct from the ownership of the distributing lines , they lose in importance and represent a step backward instead of forward . Even the advocates of government ownership and operation admit that interconnection is not only important but absolutely necessary to continued progress . 89 ALADDIN , U. S. A. Muscle Shoals , as an independent power project , is only an 85,000 horsepower plant . It is doubtful if the Wilson Dam would ever have been built had it not been for the war . The site was owned by the Alabama Power Company which , although it paid approximately half a million for it , gave it to the government for $i.00 cash money . At that time , Muscle Shoals was not considered as a power plant ; it was a project to manufacture nitrogen compounds for national defense in time of war and fertilizer in time of peace . But during the past three years , processes for the fixation of nitrogen have been developed which have caused Muscle Shoals to become entirely out of fashion in both the munitions and the fertilizer industry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and navies of the United States or to the American farmer . The government already has invested a very much larger sum in the dam and generating plants than would have been needed had it been developed as a part of the Southeastern interconnected system . As a power project , Muscle Shoals is almost as much of an orphan as it is when essaying the role of first aid to the farmer or a unit in national defense . The only part that seems to be left for it is in the character of a national issue , and as such it has been a most satisfactory football for various groups and Congressional committees for ten years . The proposed hydro-electric power development on the Colorado River at Boulder Canyon , which has been the subject of so much controversy in Congress and in the various states which presumably will be affected by it , is a similar case . The osten-907 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS sible purpose of spending $125,000,000 in Boulder Canyon is for flood control in the Imperial Valley and for irrigation . The proposed hydro-electric plant is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereby the government theoretically can make a sufficient profit eventually to pay back into the Treasury the entire cost of construction . Incidentally , this is the first time it has been proposed that the government go into business for profit in order to pay for government enterprises designed for the welfare of the people as a whole . Boulder Canyon Dam as a project for flood control or to provide water for irrigation purposes , thereby creating more farms , is one thing ; but Boulder Canyon Dam as a hydro-electric power project is quite another . Will it fit in with the interconnected systems of either the Pacific Coast or the Middle West ? If it is to become a part of either system , it must transport current over two to three hundred miles of line ; and it has been said that the cost of the power delivered at the end of those lines would be prohibitive , far in excess of the cost of electricity generated by steam plants local in character . It has no immediate local market to help reduce these costs , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states development is extending its lines westward , and both have indicated that they can get along very well without a giant hydro-electric power plant in the desert wastes surrounding the Colorado River at Boulder Canyon . Here again we have the question : What would the government do with Boulder Canyon Dam should it 917 ALADDIN , U. S. A. get it ? Will it go into competition with existing distributing systems or will it attempt to sell the power generated to these systems ? What will it do if the companies prefer to market their own product which they can manufacture more cheaply than they can buy it from Boulder Canyon Dam ? What will be the effect of this power plant on the orderly development of interconnection in the West as part of a great national scheme ? Again the people of the United States should consider these matters thoughtfully . The author does not pretend to give the answers : he simply raises the questions for discussion . The great hydro-electric plant proposed in connection with the development of the St. Lawrence waterway from the Great Lakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of power and light facilities throughout the Northeast , but will it ? Interconnection is progressing rapidly in the New England states , and in New York and Pennsylvania as well . Within this area there still remains many potential water powers which can be brought into the system as fast as the demand for electric current justifies the investment . They are already a part of a carefully coordinated scheme of extension and development ; if it does nothing else the injection of a large unit of power from the St. Lawrence will necessitate the readjustment of many local ideas . It can be seen that the St. Lawrence power project as part of a continental scheme embracing not only all of the United States but Canada as well , might take on great importance ; but its 92 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS value to the New England states , New York and Pennsylvania is at least open to discussion . Considered as a scheme to earn money for the government , the St. Lawrence power project is quite different from the Boulder Canyon project . At Boulder Canyon at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power ? otherwise it is unnecessary . On the St. Lawrence , however , the very structure necessary for navigation purposes would also provide the power . No additional construction is necessary and therefore its utilization for power purposes becomes purely incidental . If we can agree that the electric light and power systems of the nation are natural regulated monopolies and that their future development in the interests of the most people depends on an extension of the principle of interconnection , it seems logical that there is only one scheme of government ownership and operation which might succeed from a practical operating standpoint . This is the scheme of our second group , which would have the government take over all generating plants and transmission lines throughout the country and operate them as a government business . Divided ownership and responsibilities between private companies and the federal government might easily open the door to endless confusion , expensive controversies , interrupted service and a species of political blackmail which can be contemplated by American business only with a feeling akin to terror . What is implied in government ownership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question which is answered more easily than the ques 931 ALADDIN , U. S. A. tion : How will the American people benefit by such a radical change ? If government ownership is sound for electrical and other utilities , it is sound for the railroads . In fact , it is almost necessary to include at least the railroads , for we can today look forward to the time when many of the larger railroads will have abandoned much of their motive machinery and will be buying the power to move their trains from the great power systems . If we consider therefore that the railroads , street railways , power and light companies should all be taken over by the government , we find that it would be faced with an initial investment of about 4o billions of dollars ; for this is the value placed on these properties by official commissions . This is so staggering a sum that it can not be visualized , except perhaps by an international banker . But this is only the beginning of the story . It would also mean the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once a political hierarchy undreamed of even by the most dictatorial of bureaucratic governments . True , a lot of folks would get jobs in the utility industry who are unable to get them now , but the benefits to the public of this result is problematical . The interest on the investment alone would amount to at least two billion dollars each year ; the operating budget would exceed ten billion dollars , while the government would have to dig up somewhere at least two billion dollars annually to take care of extensions and improvement . As Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover said in 1924 : " Surely before we embark on such a voyage , we should look into the 94 7 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS possibility of profit , examine the chart of the place where we are going , and consider the capacity of our vessel to carry the cargo . " The question seems to resolve itself somewhat in the following fashion : " Shall the development of the power resources of the United States be permitted to continue its progression of the last few years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues , or shall we dodge off into an unknown path and consider light and power as something which belongs to all of the people and which should be developed , owned and operated by the people 's government ? " We know exactly by past experience what private initiative will do with the business , but do we know what the government will do with it ? Can executive departments , bureaus , commissions , division heads , and members of Congress take the place of the veterans who started out in 1882 on an unknown sea and brought their ship , with its strange unheardof cargo , into the port of present day electric service ? Again , the author would like to turn to Mr. Herbert Hoover , because he appears to have a broader vision of this whole subject than any other man in the United States , and because , by no stretch of the imagination , can he be identified with the electric industry . He says : " Neither our National nor our state governments are planned or equipped for the task of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stupendous scale of a continent . Nevertheless , there are governments 95 ALADDIN , U. S. A. which , in their smaller scope , do operate in some fashion some of their utilities . Since it is always in worse fashion than ours , their example is no temptation to imitate , but it does illustrate that some governments , on some scale , in some fashion , can operate some of them . But none of them has ever attempted to operate all the utilities , nor does any one of them possess 15 per cent of our railway mileage , or 6 per cent of our power , or 15 per cent of our telephones . " I would also have you observe that these governments all have much more concentrated power and responsibility than we have ever been willing to grant to our government . The fathers purposely made our government to a different model , for a different task . They divided power and responsibility , where business must concentrate them . They thought liberty and individual rights worth safeguarding even at some cost in efficiency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things which other nations can , if they prefer , do through government ? after a fashion . On the governmental side , the result has been one of which we are as proud as other peoples are envious . On the business side , the accomplishment far surpassses anything they know . Through the one , we have liberty ; through the other , enterprise and decisiveness . " Our form of government , which we have developed over ' so years , has assured us a measure of freedom and progress hitherto un-96 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS paralleled in political history . The more we cherish it the less ready we should be to load it with a burden for which it was not built . To bear this load , the Constitution would need to be rewritten in a score of places , until it was no longer our democracy . Above all , it would change the major thought and purpose of our government into the making of money instead of devotion to the preservation of basic human liberties ? a big enough job in these times . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our form of government presents is the relation of the states to the federal government . For in our plan , we conceive that liberty requires a great measure of decentralization in authority . If these public utilities are to be operated by the federal government , we at once deprive the states of their measure of authority and control over railway , power , light and communication companies ? we make the service in these states dependent upon the will of Washington , thousands of miles away . Are we to give the states the power to regulate the business of the federal government as they now regulate these services ? Or are we going to divide the railways and power and communications into 48 systems , each ending at the boundary of its own state ? Whichever we do will crack the timbers of our government . " If we pile these forty billions of business and two million , seven hundred thousand employees upon the government , one of two things 977 ALADDIN , U. S. A. happens . Either the 530 members of Congress or the hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directors , or , as it has been claimed , these great businesses could be placed in the hands of nonpartisan commissions or government corporations , somehow free from politics and the dead hand of bureaucracy . Neither alternative will work . If we were to set up such agencies , so free from restraint of the Congress and legislatures as to accomplish these objects , we would have created gigantic despotisms controlling the well-being of our whole people ? and incidentally controlling the very election of our officials . " As a matter of fact , we can do nothing of the kind if we are to maintain a democracy . We can not have a democracy and deprive our elected representatives of their control of government investment , their power to fix salaries and wages , their independence in the investigation of the conduct of public officials . The reservation of any or all of these powers renders any kind of a commission subservient to the members of the legislative bodies , no matter what the theory is . When they are subservient to elected officials , politics will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our legislative bodies represent districts , states , parties and groups of opinion . Each member is expected by his constituents to look out for their local or group interests first . They have to be elected upon the results they obtain . Un-98 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS der government ownership , partisanship , logrolling , ' and politics would be the inseparable accompaniments of administration . No great business can be efficiently administered by such a board or such a basis of choice . We shall convert business into politics , and surrender efficiency for spoils . If we distribute railway extensions as we distribute public buildings ; if we locate electric power plants as we locate reclamation projects ; if we divide up public industries generally as we share river and harbor improvements and army and navy stations ? then , as surely as night follows the day , facilities will be wastefully provided for those districts or groups which are politically strong , and they will not be adequately provided for the districts or groups which are politically weak . " Also , under a regime of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group pressures striving for favors in rates . The relative rates will affect the prosperity of every city and every section , every group and every industry . States , counties , farmers , town dwellers , every group of manufacturers , will press their representatives to secure an advantage , and legislators will inevitably honestly favor their constituents . Every experience to date indicates that the taxpayer will pay for the resulting concessions . Because the government had not the courage to increase railway rates during the war , the taxpayer made up a $r , 600,000,000 operation 99 1 ALADDIN , U. S. A. deficit . A neighboring government yielded last year to the demand for lower rates on the government railways ; it is paying the deficit from taxes today . " If we embark on this vast venture , we shall at once increase the total of national and local office holders up to about six millions . The rightful interest of this group is in higher pay , constantly better conditions of service , and better standards of living . The rightful public interest will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clash , and their clash must fight itself out , not on grounds of economic bargaining between labor and employer , but in the political arena . The voting strength of this mass of office holders , their wives and dependents , will be over 25 per cent of the whole . It is the balance of political power between parties in every district . Either every member of the legislative bodies will be elected to do the bidding of this bureaucracy or will be elected by a public in rebellion against it . " No commission or any body of administrators can carry on these vast operations efficiently in this political maelstrom . We shall lose most of our democracy in the storm . " Unless the federal or local governments can give the public lower rates , there is no use undertaking the gamble . " If the government is to reduce rates , it must do so either by the saving of private profits or by reducing operating expenses or roo ORGANIZING THE STREAMS lumping them on the taxpayer . During the past four years , the railways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Interstate Commerce Commission valuation . Even if this value were reduced by 25 per cent , they would have earned only 5 per cent . Our electrical utilities are regulated at earnings between 6 and 8 per cent upon their invested capital . The government could not borrow the huge sums necessary at less than 5 per cent . " In a sale to the government , the constitutional requirements would , for various legal reasons , probably result in a much larger sum than the forty billion dollars of present valuations by commissions and others . " Moreover , the wasteful distribution of the hundred and fifty million of capital invested annually in the Post Office , Reclamation Service , Shipping Board , rivers and harbors and roads , would not be a patch on the waste in appropriations when our legislative bodies get a chance to handle two billions per annum of new capital outlay . For all these reasons , I am convinced that interest charges alone to the government would be larger than the present utility profits , and no economy lies there . Rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government operate as economically as private enterprise . If we take over nearly three million new employees into public service , we must put them under an air-io1 ALADDIN , U. S. A. tight civil service , to be hired by a separate commission and promoted by seniority . At once we have created a bureaucracy . Otherwise , we would have nearly three million jobs to be given out and a political debauchery unparalleled in all history . There are certain inherent qualities of bureaucracy in its deliberative action , the necessity to maintain joint responsibility , its enlargement of red tape ' designed to prevent error in judgment and conduct , all of which are perhaps an advantage in purely governing functions , but they become disaster when applied to the rapidity of movement vital to business and service . Numbers increase for every task . The alternative is political favoritism . And at the top where exceptional talent and genius must be had , neither seniority , nor competitive examination , nor politics will secure or find it . It is one thing to choose a postmaster but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the actual and daily experiences of our public life ; and if a hundred years of this experience is not proof that the efficiency of government operation must always be below the efficiency of private enterprise , then the public is incapable of conviction . " We can get some direct experience from government operated railways in foreign countries during the last ten years as the results of these forces in this loading of employees . For instance , the number of employees of Ital 102 ORGANIZING THE STREAMS ian railways had increased 5o per cent against an increase in traffic of 18 per cent . German employees increased 20 per cent against 5 per cent increase in traffic . Danish employees increased 48 per cent with 20 per cent increase in traffic . Swedish employees increased ro per cent with a 25 per cent decrease in traffic . Norwegian employees increased 62 per cent with an increase in traffic of 37 per cent . Compare these figures with American railways , where the number of employees is about the same today as ten years ago , against a io per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railways on earth showing increased efficiency in the last ten years . Incidentally , ours are the most efficient railway men , employees and managers on earth . If we had increased our employees by such percentages , it would cost $600,000,000 per annum or an increase of to per cent in rates . For the rates today are , in the long view , based upon costs . " With all these forces in action , our cost of operation would increase . If we make rates to equal costs , our rates will rise ? not fall . Unless , of course , the taxpayer pays the deficit . " There we have this whole question of the coordinated development of our power resources in a nutshell . Shall we continue as we have during the past few years , or are there some unknown , undiscovered benefits in government ownership and 103 ALADDIN , U. S. A. operation which can persuade us to face the picture drawn so graphically by Mr. Hoover ? The answer , of course , lies in the social , political , and industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric switch . // White Coal vs . Black Coal THERE is a popular fancy that since water costs nothing and runs down hill , its metamorphosis into power is a simple and inexpensive matter which anyone can undertake regardless of previous experience or financial standing . One has only to turn to the records of the Federal Water Power Commission and examine the applications filed with it to understand the prevalence of this point of view . During the past seven years , the Commission has received hundreds of these applications from individuals , corporations and municipalities , many of whom have no apparent ability to finance the proposed undertaking , no training or experience in hydro-electric development , and no adequate conception of the problems involved . If one should suggest to a manufacturer that the total cost of his product is raw materials plus the labor involved in fabricating it , and that therefore the difference between these costs and the retail price of the article is his profit , he would either laugh or else become indignant over such abysmal ignorance . In most instances , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them must be added interest on investment , reserve for depreciation , advertising , distribution , sales , accounting , collections , losses from bad accounts , and an infinite variety of other charges . The amount of raw material in a pair of woolen blankets may cost the manu-IosI ALADDIN , U. S. A. facturer not more than a dollar ; yet the price of those same blankets to the ultimate consumer may be $25.00 . At the same time , the manufacturer may be lucky if his net profit is fifty cents . In many instances , the mere cost of selling an article is many times the cost of the raw material plus the cost of making it . The fact that water , which is the raw material for the manufacture of electricity in a hydro-electric plant , costs nothing , and coal , which is the raw material for the manufacturer of electricity in a steam generating plant , costs something , does not necessarily mean that the hydro-electric plant is cheaper either to build or operate than the steam plant . In fact , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable but it is so . If it were only necessary to stick a water wheel down into a stream , hook it up with a generator , turn on the switch and have electricity for all the world , it might be so . But there are many other things to be done before power and light service from water power becomes a fact , and all of these things cost money ; sometimes a lot more money than to give the same service from a steam generating plant , burning up dollars and cents in the form of coal or oil . Let us look over some of the items involved in the installation of a hydro-electric power . In the first place , a dam must be erected , and dams cost real money . One can not measure this cost in sacks of cement and pounds of steel . Camps must be established , roads or railways built , construction equipment installed , foundations excavated or Io6 WHITE COAL VS . BLACK C O A L drained , reservoirs cleared , debris removed , and a general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a water power project is in operation , but they are there and require a permanent investment of capital on which interest must be earned for ever and ever . In addition to the cost of the dam there is the cost of the generating plant . In the case of a steam plant , it is necessary to install only enough generating equipment to take care of the existing demand . Steam plants are built in units and as the demand for power and light increases , more units can be added . In other words , there is a minimum initial investment . With the hydro-electric plant , the situation is quite different ; maximum investment in the dam is required at the outset . Conditions may be such that the storage dam will be two , or three , or even four times as large as the market requires . This means vast sums of capital tied up , demanding its wages each day , but on which no return can be expected for many years . Hydro-electric power can not be stored or provided for in units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixed charges on the dam have been assumed which , in many cases , more than offset the difference in the cost of coal and the cost of water . Having installed the generating plant , both hydro-electric and steam generating projects must have a system of transmission and distribution . These are far in excess of the cost of generating . In fact , the capital expenditure for transmission and distribution is greater than all other costs combined . In the case of one large and typical utility 107 ALADDIN , U. S. A. using water power , the average cost of power at the switchboard is 4.25 mills per kilowatt hour . But in order to guarantee continuous service and furnish part of the power requirements of the territory during periods of low water , this company has to have a reserve steam plant , carrying with it operation , depreciation and interest charges , which bring the cost up to 6.28 mills . Transmission losses and costs , taxes and general expenses bring the cost of this power to one cent at the point of delivery to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial consumer practically double this cost , bringing it up to two cents . With the domestic consumer , there is the cost of local distribution , interest , depreciation and maintenance on the distributing system and meters , handling the accounts , and other general expense items . The cost of delivery to the average residence may run as high as seven or even eight cents , of which only about 15 per cent is chargeable to generation . A good example of the lack of popular understanding of the relation between the cost of generating electricity and the cost of distributing it , is in the case of the proposed water power development at Great Falls in the Potomac River . Citizens of the District of Columbia think this will cut their electric light bills in two . As a matter of fact , it would make no appreciable difference in the cost of furnishing light and power on the monthly bill of the average Washington residence . It would , however , conserve coal at certain seasons of the year which is an economic benefit to the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical io8J IV Ii ITE COAL VS . BLACK COAL modern hydro-electric plant can be found in a certain California project . This plant , which has a 45,000 horsepower capacity , consists of a diverting dam , a tunnel 372 miles in length , a concrete power house with generating equipment , 18o miles of transmission lines and four substations . The power house with all of its hydraulic and electrical equipment costs only $29 per horsepower ; less than onefifth of the total . The dam , conduits , and tail-race together cost $89 , and the transmission lines and substations , $34 . Transportation facilities alone cost nearly $5 per horsepower . If this plant had not been an addition to an existing interconnected system , it would have been necessary to add from $40 to $6o a horsepower for steam reserve and probably as much more for distribution lines and equipment . Returning to a consideration of the relative costs and merits of hydro vs. steam generation , there are many other factors which must be taken into account . Not the least of these is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hydro-electric plant from its principal market makes it impossible for it to compete with a steam plant located in the heart of the territory to be served . Take the case of the proposed power development at Boulder Canyon . According to a study made by engineers , the estimated cost of the dam , power house , generating equipment and step-up transformers would be about $83,000,000 without interest to develop 550,000 horsepower of firm power , or $151.00 per horsepower . But the market for this power is from 200 to 300 miles from the power 109 ALADDIN , U. S. A. plant . The cost of transmission , including six substations , has been estimated to be $6o,000,000 , or $109 per horsepower , making a total of $26o per horsepower . Furthermore , these estimates assume that the power will be delivered to distributing systems already in existence and that nothing need be included for distributing lines and equipment or for steam auxiliaries . It is significant to note that in this case the capital costs of transmission are greater than all other costs combined . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic soundness in a great hydroelectric plant as an isolated project . This enterprise has already cost the government at least something more than $ioo , 000,000 . No one seems to know at this time just exactly how much money the Treasury has been called upon to pay out . We have seen that during periods of low water , it will only generate 85,000 horsepower . This , therefore , is the capacity of the plant which gives us a cost of at least $117.50 per horsepower . Muscle Shoals , however , has an installed capacity of 215,000 horsepower for several months of the year . As part of an interconnected system , with plenty of steam reserve to fill in during the dry season , it becomes a 215,000-horsepower plant and economically sound . Again we are faced with the fact that many of our water-power resources are almost , if not entirely , useless unless they are supplemented with steam reserve plants . They can not supply the demand . Other important factors must not be overlooked if we are to avoid the error of laying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1io W H I T E COAL VS . BLACK C O A L neglect the part which must always be played by steam . If all the potential water resources in the United States should be fully developed by 1935 , they would only meet about 35 per cent of the demand for power . This fact alone demonstrates that we can not depend upon water as our raw material for the production of our light and power needs . Furthermore , over 70 per cent of all water power in the United States is west of the Mississippi , while the big industrial demand for power is in the East . We can not move the bulk of our industrial enterprises west , away from important coal and oil supplies , merely to utilize another source of power which will only supply a small portion of the demand , and which is not only no cheaper but in many instances more expensive . Again , the art or industry of generating electricity by water power has apparently reached its maximum efficiency ? we can not expect any great reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the improvements in the generation of electricity by steam during the past ten years has been spectacular . In 1919 the average use of fuel in all the power and light plants of the United States was 3.1 pounds of coal per kilowatt-hour . Last year it had dropped to 1.9 pounds , with the newest individual plants operating on as little as 0.9 pounds . The result has been that water power is now seriously menaced by the competition of steam . In Southern California today , with fuel costing what it now costs , steam power generated at the cities is cheaper than water power delivered over a transmission line from distant sources . Colorado River III ALADDIN , U. S. A. power from Boulder Canyon is more expensive than power delivered from a new steam plant at Los Angeles . Another popular fallacy is that all steam generating plants should be located at the mine mouth ? that it is much cheaper to transport the power in the form of current on electric wires than in the form of coal by rail . This may be fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the mines . The steam generating plant requires a vast quantity of water for condensing purposes , as well as coal to turn water into steam and finally into electric energy ; and if the water is not available , all the coal in the world is of no more use than so much granite . The New York Edison Company , which generates six times as much current as Muscle Shoals , pumps no less than 58,000,000 gallons of water a day for condensing purposes alone . The seven million people living in New York City only require 50,000,000 gallons of water a day for all other purposes . Summing up , the steam generating plant will never be supplanted by the hydro-electric plant . In any interconnected system , the steam plant is an imperative necessity . In many areas , the steam plant is , and always will be , more economical than water power . In many instances water power should be considered as an auxiliary to the steam plant , rather than as the primary source of power with the steam plant as the auxiliary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be used as a substitute for fuel , with the coal pile always in reserve to guarantee stability and continuous service under // any and all conditions . We must avoid the error of attaching too much importance to it in our national consideration of the whole power question . This does not mean that we should in any way minimize the importance of water power and water power development . Its contributions to light and power , to the downward trend of rates , to the extension of distributing lines into small communities and rural districts , and its additions to the amount of horsepower available to the workers of the United States , are largely responsible for many of the things which have been brought to us by electricity . But in any broad view of the question water power must not be considered as a cheap substitute for coal . Each has its individual part to play , and the two together as part of a coordinated system serving as comrades rather than rivals mean continued improvement and extension of service and a steady lowering of costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WHILE applied electricity was busy speeding up industrial production and making it possible for the American people to absorb additional products by bringing about high wages and great prosperity , it was unwittingly creating a new and complex problem for which , however , it has , itself , provided the solution . This is the problem of transportation . If this great industrial development is to be of any use , the facilities for the transportation of masses of people and for products must keep pace with the times . The burden of mass transportation of people has fallen largely on the street railways , the high speed interurban lines , and the suburban services of the railroads ; because of electricity they have been able to carry the burden . But the moving of the enormous quantities of raw materials , manufactured goods , and foodstuffs demanded by the people in these stirring times of the twentieth century has fallen on the railroads , and largely because of physical obstacles they have often met the demand only with the greatest difficulty . Were it not for the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the key to solve it , the railroads today would be in a state of almost hopeless congestion . The history of the railroads is bound up with the industrial , economic and social development of the United States . It may be fairly said that our commercial prosperity depends upon their ability to 1141 POWER AND STEAM RAILROADS render efficient and adequate service . It is therefore apparent that the expansion of railroad facilities must keep pace with the expansion of industrial facilities . What have the railroads been doing these past few years ? The improvement of railroad transportation since the World War has been phenomenal and is equaled only by the improvement of public utility service generally . There is a better understanding between the railroads and the public ; cooperation between shippers and managements ; better cooperation on the part of employees ; and , finally , the many improvements to the physical properties . Since 1920 when federal control of railroads ended , the railroad companies have spent approximately $5,000 , - 000,000 for new facilities giving them a total property investment of twenty-four billion dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have during the war . As a result , the roads handled in 1926 over 40 per cent more traffic than they handled in 1921 . Yet the road mileage has only been increased by 2,300 miles , the number of freight cars by 27,800 , the number of passenger cars by 1,300 , while the number of locomotives has been actually decreased by 2,000 . How , then , have the railroads been able to handle this enormous increase in their business ? Largely by the improvement of terminal facilities . The expansion of , transportation ability depends very largely upon the expansion of terminals , particularly in the larger cities . The terminals are the bottlenecks . It is here that congestion is first felt ; and the addition of all the tracks , locomotives and cars 115 ALADDIN , U. S. A. in the world is of no avail if the terminals can not accommodate the trains , the people and the goods which the railroads are moving . And it was not until electricity as applied to steam railroads be-came a fact that it was considered possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The relief of congestion was one of the principal reasons for the electrification of the terminals of the Pennsylvania Railroad in New York and Philadel phia , the Grand Central Terminal of the New York Central and the New York , New llaven and Hart-ford roads in New York ; the Victorian Railways in Melbourne , Australia ; the several English roads in London and the French lines in Paris . Although traffic was steadily increasing , all of these terminals had reached their maximum capacity , and there seemed to be insurmountable obstacles to any fur ther increase of railroad transportation facilities . Located in the busy sections of the cities , expansion in the form of additional tracks was impracticable , if not impossible , and hence the only solution was to operate more trains over existing tracks . Electricity made this possible , for it increased speeds , elimi nated turning movements , reduced switching , and made possible the operation of trains on different levels . The greatest demand which is made on city termi nals is the suburban passenger traffic during the morning and evening rush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and freight train serv ice . The rate of the suburban growth is usually larger than that of the city itself and this means a parallel increase in the volume of traffic and subur-ii6 POWER AND STEAM RAILROADS ban train movement . By the use of multiple unit electric trains ? that is , trains that have their own electric motive plants and do not require locomotives ? there is accomplished at once a flexibility in terminal operation which is impossible with the steam train and its cumbersome steam locomotive . These electric trains can be operated more rapidly in and out of the terminal and the number of cars in a train is limited only by the length of the station platforms . The application of electricity to the movement of trains in and out of terminals has also accelerated the movement of through trains by substituting the electric locomotive for the steam locomotive . Electric locomotives , although their weight is much less than that of their steam brothers , have almost unlimited power . They are not power plants like the steam locomotive , but are converters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred or more miles away . There is a story told of a tug of war between a great steam locomotive and one of the smaller electric locomotives . The little electric pulled the steam locomotive backward with the greatest ease and after the test the motorman was laughing at the steam engineer . " You know perfectly well , " said the latter , " that I could pull a whole train of contraptions like yours , but I can not pull that d ? cl power house down the line . " Railroads operating through long tunnels have adopted electrification , adding to the comfort of passengers by eliminating smoke and gases . The New York Central and the New York , New Haven and Hartford , in order to get into New York City , 117 ALADDIN , U. S. A. have to use the Park Avenue tunnel . Operation in this tunnel with steam locomotives continued for many years until the growth of the traffic caused the state legislature to force a change to electricity . The Pennsylvania also enters New York underground . The elimination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Baltimore and Ohio tunnel under the city of Baltimore , which is 7,350 feet long ; and also of the Great Northern in the Cascade Mountains , the Grand Trunk Railway through its St. Clair tunnel , 13,873 feet long , and the Hoosac tunnel of the Boston and Maine , 25,031 feet long . Previous to the construction of the tunnel under the Detroit river , the trains of the Michigan Central were ferried across , involving expense , hazard and loss of time . This tunnel has been operated by electricity since 1910 . The abatement of the smoke and gas nuisance , particularly in tunnels under the hearts of great cities , has greatly enhanced property values . Anyone walking along Park Avenue , New York , from 42nd Street north , who can remember the Park Avenue of the old days , will appreciate what this has meant . The same thing is true around the Pennsylvania Station , New York ; the Illinois Central , Chicago ; Riverside Drive , and in a score of other places . All subways and elevated lines in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many of them would be impracticable , if not impossible , were it not for this gasless , smokeless , silent power . Many can remember when the elevated trains in New York were drawn by puffing steam locomotives pouring black smoke into the windows along their 118 POWER AND STEAM RAILROADS routes , destroying property values and adding immeasurably to the discomforts of city life . But it is not only increased capacity , improved service , additional comfort and economy that the Spirit of Electricity has brought to the traveling public and the shippers . Where heavy grades are encountered , the necessity of additional horsepower per locomotive has demanded electrification . This is true on several of the lines in Austria , Switzerland , Italy , France , Japan and South America , and largely of the Norfolk and Western , the St. Paul and the Virginian Railroads of the United States . There is a practical limit to the horsepower which can be developed in a single steam unit , while the capacity of the electric locomotive is the capacity of the power house and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per horsepower and can handle trains up grades which required two steam locomotives , at almost twice their speed . On the long down-grades , power saving and economic braking are accomplished by the use of what is known as " regenerative " equipment . When going down hill the electric locomotive ceases to be a motor and becomes , instead , a moving power house pumping back electricity into the line . The effect involved in this return of energy into the electric system not only produces a braking effect which does away with the wear and tear of mechanical brakes , but also delivers to the power lines a large quantity of electricity which can be used to move trains going up other hills somewhere else . Most of the progress in the electrification of steam %19 ) ALADDIN , U. S. A. railroads has been made during the last 20 years . The first electrified railroad in the United States was that of the Nantasket Beach line of the New Haven Railroad , which began operation in 1895 . During that same year , electrification of the Baltimore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following five years , three short sections of the New Haven Railroad were electrified . From 1900 to 1910 , several notable projects were completed in the United States , among them some of the suburban routes of the Long Island Railroad , the New York terminals of the Pennsylvania , New York Central , and New York , New Haven and I lart ford ; the St. Clair tunnel of the Grand " Trunk ; the Cascade tunnel of the Great Northern and the Detroit River tunnel . At the same time electrification was adopted to a considerable extent in Italy , England , Austria , Switzerland , Holland , France and Japan . Between 1911 and 1920 , more than thirty separate installations in the United States and foreign countries were completed and during the past seven years many others have been added . At the present time , 5,376% miles of steam railroad lines throughout the world are being operated electrically . Many new projects are under construction , among them the Great Northern 's electrification from Appleyard to Skykomish , the section of the Pennsylvania from Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Long Island between Port Morris and Bay Ridge , the trunk line railways of Switzerland , Sweden and Italy , and a 120 POWER AND STEAM RAILROADS number in England , France , Australia , Russia , Japan and the South American countries . The advantages and beneficial results of electrification are many . Summed up , they are : reduction in the number of engine crews ; release of locomotives for use elsewhere ; release of some types of coal-bearing cars for other traffic ; greater horsepower per pound of coal consumed ; increased revenue through greater traffic ; reduction in maintenance costs ; reduction in locomotive terminal facilities ; reduction in switching costs ; elimination of smoke ; lengthening of engine divisions ; reduction of standby losses and of consumption of coal ; benefits of regenerative braking ; greater availability of electric locomotives , and many others . To these must be added the many public benefits , such as greater comfort to the traveling public , improved and speedier service , and the great increase in property values around terminals . In the early history of our large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for industrial purposes . With the advent of electrification , it is now available for hotels , office buildings and apartment houses . What of the future ? The time may come when most of the big railroads will have dispensed with their motive machinery , and their trains will be moved by central generating plants selling them power on meter , just as to the housewife for her vacuum cleaner . Of course , where the traffic density is light , the expense of electrification will not be justified for some time to come . But where traffic is heavy , where there are a large number of 121 ALADDIN , U. S. A. trains per day , and where there may be tunnels , underground entrances to large cities , and heavy grades , then the electric locomotive will sooner or later displace its steam rival . Owing to the development of the modern large central generating station and the pooling or interconnection of electric supply over large areas , the power companies can usually sell electric energy cheaper than the railroads can generate current in their own stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroad operation , for any interruptions to service must be obviated . In the case of the Illinois Central Railroad in Chicago which purchases power from the Commonwealth Edison Company , even the substations and the conversion equipment are owned by the electric company . The railroad has at its disposal not only the facilities of the Edison Company , but also those of several other central stations with which the Edison Company is interconnected , aggregating more than 1,200,000 kilowatts capacity , while the railroad 's maximum demand is slightly under 23,000 . On the other hand there are a number of large railroad systems generating their own power . Here again the great value of interconnection or the pooling of power resources is brought forcibly to our attention . It has made possible railroad electrification . Without it , the railroads in many cases would be compelled to build their own power plants and would have to construct not only for their actual demands but for a great supply of reserve power to insure uninterrupted service , requiring an initial investment which , added to the cost of electrifica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves , would produce an almost prohibitive total . It is the power and light companies which have solved many of the transportation problems of the country quite as much as the railroads themselves . 1237 CHAPTER XI Power and National Defense ACCORDING to pacifist propaganda which from time to time is distributed so plentifully about the United States by those who , before the war , insisted that there never could be a world war , any form of preparedness indicates an aggressive state of mind and is provocative of war . To these people the word " preparedness " means nothing more than the maintenance of a large professional standing army , thereby forcing other nations to arm for their own security . The World War , the situation throughout the world today which is anything but peaceful , the attitude of suspicion with which almost every nation is regarding this or that other nation , the failure of disarmament conferences , teaches them nothing . " Create a condition of absolute unpreparedness , " they say , and we can never be dragged into a war again . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so unprepared , in fact , that it can not defend its own self-respect ? can not even take a licking gracefully ; it just takes a licking , or avoids it by apologizing and paying everyone in sight . It is at best an unpleasant part to play in world affairs , and little to the liking of any American citizen even though he may not be a professional patrioteer . " On the other hand , " says Secretary of War Davis , " the defensive preparation of a peaceful nation looks only to the safeguarding of its own soil 124 ) P O W E R A N D N A T I O N A L D E F E N S E by a small permanent force , backed by a citizen soldiery which prepares for active military service only when danger is imminent . Defensive preparedness is unsuited to aggression and hence is not , in any sense , a threat against any other nation , while it is at the same time a warning that the nation is prepared to defend itself against invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defensive preparedness is preparation against war and is an assurance of peace . American preparedness under the National Defense Act is entirely defensive in character and our best insurance against war . If we had had a reasonable defense preparedness in the past , it would unquestionably have saved us thousands of valuable lives and billions of dollars . We must not make this unnecessary sacrifice again . " The National Defense Act , in addition to dealing with purely military problems , provides first of all for the mobilization of the industries of the country . A war such as the World War involves the supplying of 35,000 articles made up of some 700,000 different items , of every conceivable kind , and in quantities running into millions . These in the future will be handled by seven supply branches , each with its own problems . Never again will government departments bid against each other as they have in the past . Never again will orders be placed with certain manufacturers by four or five different government agents , each demanding priority for his work . In a future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled and allocated to the proper agencies , thus avoiding much of the confusion of the last war . 125 ALADDIN , U. S. A. The power question caused the government considerable worry during the war ; and measures taken then are largely responsible for the rapid development of interconnection since the war . Troubles were due almost entirely to power shortages ; with interconnection there can be no such thing as a power shortage . Almost as soon as the government began to place orders for supplies in 1917 , a threatened shortage of power occurred in the Niagara district , to be followed by shortages in other districts . A power committee , which eventually became the Power Section of the War Industries Board , was formed by the Council of National Defense to investigate the situation . Power capacity had to be increased , the distribution made more equable , and certain nonessential uses had to be curtailed in order to meet the requirements of essential war industries . Such a situation can never arise again . The Power Dispatcher , whose work was described in the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing into his power reservoir the full force of all of the current capacity of every hydro-electric and steam plant in his territory and redistribute it to all industry as it may be demanded . He will see to it that the reservoir is always full , so that all of his outlets are carrying power to their fullest capacity . There were other power lessons learned because of the war . We find Secretary Davis says : " In time of war , the national energies must not be taken out of the hands of the private agencies , experienced in their use , and put into the hands of a gigantic official machine . Such a machine could not manage 126 1 POWER AND NATIONAL D E F E N S E them as effectively . Private initiative , energy , and resourcefulness must not be thrown aside and the vital and complicated processes of production and transportation lowered . Yet the energies of all must be directed to their effective use for the good of the government . Certain controls are essential to accomplish that purpose . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of power must be left in the hands of skilled and experienced management and not subjected to governmental red tape and political addling . The lessons taught by the war were severe and , fortunately , lasting . Since the passage of the National Defense Act , the Chief of Engineers of the army , with the hearty cooperation of the electrical industry itself , has made and is keeping an up-todate survey of the power facilities and resources of the United States , until now the War Department is in possession of invaluable information which would enable a war-time director to act promptly and efficiently . Every kilowatt of available power has been charted , and the exact location of surpluses , as well as the locations where there may be danger of shortages , are known ; and it will always be possible to distribute any emergency load in such a way that it will never exceed the productive capacity . This survey , together with interconnection , is a matter of supreme importance to national defense . The organization and training of vast armies is an almost useless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry today is dependent for continuous operation on power , it can not be mobilized unless it can be assured of an 127 1 ALADDIN , U. S. A. ample and continuous power supply . It has been argued that this is a source of danger ; that with the destruction of a few transmission lines and an important generating unit here and there , the interconnected system will be interrupted and rendered useless ? at least temporarily . There is of course a certain amount of truth in this , but on the other hand , one might as well say that the destruction of a fleet renders the navy useless or the destruction of large munitions plants will put the army on the rocks . We have the experience of a great national catastrophe which serves to illustrate how the power industry meets an emergency ; namely , the Mississippi flood . Had the Mississippi flood of 1927 occurred in say , 1907 , or even in 1917 , almost the first thing which would have happened would have been a total failure of the power and light supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant to the flooded area . If we take the chaos created by a complete failure of power and light and add to it conditions created by a great flood , we can form some vague idea of the terror , loss of life , and misery which might have occurred . What actually happened ? According to the Edenton ( N.C. ) News : " The recent Mississippi Valley flood furnished a striking illustration of the value of interconnected electrical service . Many communities were flooded so that local plants were helpless ; but the big power plants , located in safe districts near or far away , were able to run without interruption , giving light and power to the communities so sorely stricken . Hundreds , if not thousands , of people owe their lives 128 POWER AND NATIONAL D E F E N S E to the light service furnished by far-away plants that were able to make night rescues possible because they themselves were not flooded out . " The little town with its own little , inefficient public plant faces every possible menace ? overcharge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fear to invest where paternalism is rampant , political jobbery that disgusts and alarms . The big interconnected plants that are so rapidly developing the South , were life-savers during the flood ; they will be life-builders forever after . " Had it not been for the interconnected network of transmission lines , a majority of the towns in the flooded areas would have been without electric service of any kind , as the high water made the operation of many small local plants impossible . To quote Mr. R. Linsley Shepherd , writing in the Electrical World : " As always in emergencies , officers and employees of the power companies in the affected areas worked heroically to maintain service . Rowboats were used to reach spots where it was necessary to raise transformers or to repair broken wires . In some instances the boats were overturned , subjecting the occupants to the risk of drowning in the muddy waters . Automobiles were frequently marooned , and men went on horseback with water up to their knees . These men put all they had into the task , keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or night . " In Oklahoma the Gas and Electric Company was able to maintain service throughout the state , although its generating plant in the coal mining re 129 ALADDIN , U. S. A. gions was struck by lightning and burned down . In Arkansas , where the Arkansas Light and Power serves the territory through which the St. Francis , White and Arkansas Rivers flow to join the Mississippi , the company maintained continuous service except in two small towns . The splendid work of this company was given public recognition by the mayor of Little Rock . In the Greenville , Mississippi , territory where the worst flood conditions in the whole southern district were experienced , had it not been for the tie line between the Arkansas Power and Light Company and the Mississippi Power and Light Company the city would have had no service ; in fact , although it was virtually evacuated , electric service continued without a break . Both of these companies , together with the New Orleans Public Service and the Louisiana Ice and Utilities , were able to give constant service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for the power service of the country ready to meet an emergency totally unexpected and covering an immense territory ; an almost unparalleled example of just what the industry can do by marshaling resources through interconnection . It is safe to say that at no time in the future can any mere man-made catastrophe occur which will seriously hamper or interrupt the continuous generation and distribution of electric power and light for any and all needs , whether emergency or otherwise . This , in itself , is a contribution to our national defense program which makes the successful defense of the country assured . 1307 POWER AND NATIONAL D E F E N S E The plans of the War Department for the mobilization of power in time of war are based on five general principles , set forth by the Secretary of War as follows : " ( I ) The government should not take over any plant or power system unless necessary to insure the efficient prosecution of the war . " ( 2 ) No additional control should be exercised in regions where power is adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military . " ( 3 ) When shortage of power for essential needs exists or is threatened , the government should take over the entire output of the plant or plants in the locality and apportion the power output to users in the best interests of the United States . This action should set aside all existing contracts for the supply of power with which such action conflicts . " ( 4 ) If the preceding methods fail to obtain sufficient amounts of power , the government should undertake actual operation of such plant or plants . " ( 5 ) The existing organizations of any companies taken over should be utilized in their operation , in order to make full use of the experience , training and skill of their personnel . " With these principles in mind , the plan calls for the selection by the President of an Executive Assistant , to be known as The Emergency Power Director , ' who would be responsible for the effective utilization of the power facili-131h ALADDIN , U. S. A. ties of the country . The Emergency Power Director would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the members of which would be nominated by the National Electric Light Association , and approved by the Emergency Power Director . These men would serve in a civilian or military capacity . The Committee would serve under the direction of the Emergency Power Director and would be the medium through which the mobilization and coordination of the power systems would he carried out and effective cooperation secured . " The functions of the Emergency Power Director would be carried out through the Executive Committee and a small field force in the several power zones into which the country would be divided . At present the country , for the purposes of carrying on the power survey which I mentioned above , has been divided into eleven power zones . These zones might be used as the basis for the power control zones in case of an emergency . Each zone director , under the direction of the Emergency Power Director , would be responsible within his zone for the better utilization of existing sources of electrical and mechanical power , the interconnection of existing systems , and the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants and industrial facilities engaged in the manufacture of commodities necessary and essential in the prosecution of the war , and for the ascertaining 132 POWER AND NATIONAL D E F E N S E by inspections that priority policies formulated by proper authority were obeyed . " The plan further provides that the Emergency Power Director , or his duly authorized representative , would normally leave the management of the plants in the hands of he Executive Staff or organizations of the companies , even in case the output has been taken over . In this case , the compensation to the companies will be at rates established for similar services by the Utility Commission of the state or district in which the plant is located , or in the absence of such fixed rates , at the same rate as paid by private consumers for similar services . " The plan further states that no physical property of the power companies will be taken over unless absolutely necessary . In these rare cases where this action is taken , the property will be all property used in the generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies on hand at the time possession is assumed , all balances in the account or accounts representing the total or accounts receivable as of that time , and a working fund , if in the treasury of the company , not in excess of an amount necessary ordinarily to cover one month 's operating expenses . All these would be credited to the company . The United States would pay out of the funds coming into its hands from the operation of the plants , or otherwise , the expenses of operation of the company unpaid at the time the possession was ' 331 ALADDIN , U. S. A. assumed , and charge same to the company . It would likewise pay just compensation for the use of the property during Federal control , as provided later , and would also pay all taxes accruing during Federal control , except such additional war taxes as might be levied in connection with the then existing war . All revenues from operation during Federal control would belong to the United States , and all expenses of operation ( luring Federal control would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he paid the company would be a sum equivalent to the average net operating income of that particular company during the preceding three fiscal years , except that if exceptional or abnormal conditions were found by the President to exist during all or a substantial portion of such period of three years , which would justify a larger or smaller compensation , provision would be made for such larger or smaller compensation as might be found to be just and equitable . Due allowance in the compensation would be made for the use of additions , improvements , or equipment , the use of which was not fully reflected in the operating income of the said three years , or a substantial portion thereof . Compensation would be paid to each company in quarterannual payments . In taking over the company , a contract would be entered into , stating and defining the rights and obligations of the parties . " 134 7 POWER AND NATIONAL DEFENSE There is much confusion of thought with regard to power and national defense . So much has been said during the last few years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of war and fertilizer in times of peace , " that the average citizen thinks of " power and national defense " as meaning the utilization of hydro-electric power for the fixation of nitrogen drawn from the air to produce nitrogen compounds for use in the manufacture of munitions . Now , when the Muscle Shoals plant was first projected at the beginning of the war , it undoubtedly was a sound war-emergency measure . We were at that time largely dependent on Chilean nitrates for our supply of fixed nitrogen , as was every other nation . Had the war continued , Muscle Shoals would have become one of our great bulwarks of national safety , supplying a large portion of the ingredients so necessary to the manufacture of munitions for our armies and navies . Since the war , however , the art of fixation of nitrogen has undergone a tremendous development and methods have been devised which have made the Muscle Shoals process antiquated and expensive . Muscle Shoals today is simply one small unit in the southeastern interconnected system and can not be considered as anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ na , tional defense . As a power generating station , it would of course contribute to the power supplies of those industries furnishing materials of a great variety ; but as a manufacturer of the actual ingredients for explosives , it has permanently passed from the picture . 13S1 ALADDIN , U. S. A. Only recently the Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation announced that it proposed to erect at Hopewell , Virginia , a $5,000,000 plant for the purpose of manufacturing commercial fertilizer by this new process . This is the first of a chain of similar factories throughout the United States . It is stated that this will yield much cheaper fertilizer than the old-fashioned methods depending on electricity for the fixation of the necessary nitrogen . Electricity as the motivating power of all industry is the role of the industry in the national defense . And the Secretary of War has said that the mobilization of all industry in time of war " is the greatest and most complex business problem that can ever confront a country . " 136 CHAPTER XII Who Owns the Light and Power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilities , their real owners seem to be entirely overlooked . There is a general impression that a few electrical manufacturers , investment bankers and individual leaders in the industry control it , holding in their hands the power of giving as much or as little service as they please at any price which suits their individual notions . If this were true , it would be cause for serious concern . It is difficult to contemplate with equanimity such a tremendous force in our daily lives in the hands of a few men , regardless of their integrity or sincerity of purpose . But the facts are that the diffusion of ownership of public utilities is nine times that of the railroads , that one person out of every 59 in the United States is a stockholder in some utility , and that one customer out of every fifteen of the light and power companies owns a share of the plant which serves him . In short , over three millions of security holders in the United States own stocks or bonds , or both , in companies occupied in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the companies themselves , we find that in 1926 some 228 companies serving an aggregate population of about 85,000 , - 000 people raised more than $236,000,000 of new capital from 248,800 new stockholders . Somewhere in a previous chapter , the author said that in his opinion a majority of the people of the United 1377 ALADDIN , U. S. A. States believe in the development , ownership and operation of public utilities by private enterprise and individual initiative . It would seem that here we have some concrete evidence of the truth of this statement . In one year , more than a quarter of a million people joined the two and one-half millions who already had invested their savings in public service companies , owned and operated by private management . By so doing , they have expressed their confidence and belief in what has always been an outstanding American business principle . Other-wise this money most certainly would not have poured into their treasuries from the savings ac-counts of the rank and file of men and women . The public has been too well educated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has not demonstrated some degree of trustworthi ness . Years ago farseeing managers of railroads , tele phones , light and power and other public service companies , recognized the benefits to be derived from what is now called customer ownership ? that is , ownership of the public service enterprise by those who are its customers . Thereupon they began a deliberate campaign to spread their se curities among their customers and the users of their services , until now ownership of a majority of the shares is actually lodged in this great multi tude of individuals . There are even organizations of security holders of this kind , and it is interesting to note that in no single instance do we find any suggestion on their part that a change to govern ment ownership and operation should be made . By 138 7 WHO OWNS THE COMPANIES ? following the fortunes of the companies which they own and of which they are a part , they are on the inside , so to speak , where they can see the wheels go round , and there seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this sort . If we turn to the report of the Federal Trade Commission we will find that in the case of one of the greatest electrical equipment manufacturing companies , only one single entity owns more than one per cent of its stock , and that is its own employees ' organization . In approaching the question of popular or customer ownership , the light and power industry has laid down ten cardinal principles . They are interesting as indicative of a trend of thought of its leaders . These principles , which distinguish this form of financing from all others , are : 1 . The sale of the securities must be direct from company to customer , or through an agency expressly created for the purpose and controlled by the company . 2 . The safety of the securities offered must be amply protected by property and earnings . 3 . A minimum rate of dividends must be provided for , in so far as honest judgment based on experience can foresee . 4 . A reliable resale market must be maintained in some manner so that shareholders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promptly at nominal expense . 5 . A partial-purchase plan must be operative in order to give every customer who can save a small amount monthly full opportunity to become a shareholder and to encourage thrift . 139                     