@@774289

txt  | The theoretical voltage ratios for the most common types of synchronous-converter connections can therefore be obtained from the above figures . These ratios are shown in Table VII . Table The conditions that affect the theoretical ratios obtained above are : 1 . The wave form of the converter e.m.f. , which depends upon the shape of the poles , particularly on the percentage of the armature circumference covered by the pole face . 2 . The wave form of the impressed voltage . Variations due to this are small and can generally be neglected . 3 . The resistance of the windings of the converter , of its brushes , of its commutator , and the brush-contact resistance . The drop in these resistances varies with load and affects the voltage ratio . 4 . Operating conditions such as brush position , shunt-field and series-field excitation and whether the machine is cs ; nvert.in , g from alternating current to direct current , cr vice versa . As an approximation , the ratios at full load can be increased over the theoretical values by about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account the above conditions which affect the theoretical ratios . d . Current Ratios. ? The current ratios of a converter are not so definitely fixed as the voltage ratios , but are different for different power factors . The ratios are also modified on account of the losses in the converter . A rather close approximation , however , can be obtained by neglecting the internal losses . The alternating-current input must equal , therefore , the direct-current output , and if unity power factor be assumed , the follom ing ? relations may be deduced :  |  | The ratios at any other power factor than unity can be determined by dividing the above results by the power factor . e . Heating and Capacity. ? As has been indicated , the effective current in each part of a converter-armature winding is the difference between the instantaneous values of alternating-current input and direct-current output . Figure 75a shows the curves of the direct and of the alternating current that tend to flow in Figure certain armature conductors at unity power factor . Figure 76a shows the difference between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually flows in the particular conductor . The effective current in a converter armature is a minimum when the alternating-current input to the machine is at unity power factor . At this power factor the relative positions of the waves of alternating and direct current are such that their difference ( Figs. 75 and 76 ) is a minimum . At power factors different from unity , with a given energy output the effective current is greater than at 100 per cent power factor . For a given output from a converter , the alternating current flowing into the armature at each collector ring decreases as the Figure number of collector rings is increased . It follows , therefore , that the actual current flowing in the armature conductors of a converter for a given output becomes less and less as the number of collector rings is increased ; hence for a given armature copper loss the converter capacity increases as the number of collector rings is increased . The relative ratings of a given armature are given in Table VIII , t he rating as a direct-current generator being taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high capacity obtainable from a six-phase converter and the fact that six phases can be easily obtained from a bank of three-phase transformers having double secondaries , practically all converters are of the six-collector-ring type . The complications in wiring and the expense involved do not warrant the application of a 12-phase machine . The capacity of a given converter can not , however , be determined on the basis of the average heating , but will depend on the temperature at the hottest part of the machine . In a synchronous converter the coils that lie in the most direct path between the alternating-current and the direct-current sides of the armature ( namely , the tap coils or the coils adjacent to the alternating-current taps ) have the greatest PI ? loss . Furthermore , this PR loss increases as the power factor of the alternating - current input is decreased . The approximate values of the loss in the tap coils as compared with the average are given in Table IX for the same armature operated as different machines . Table In a converter the alternating-current and the direct-current armature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is not the same tendency for distortion and shifting of the magnetic field NvitIf changes of load as obtained in direct-current  | generators . Hence considerably larger currents can usually be commutated by a given size of machine designed as a converter than when designed as a direct-current generator. f . Voltage Variation ? It is evident that the ratio between the alternating- and direct-current voltages of an elementary converter is a nearly fixed quantity and remains constant within a very few per cent from no load to full load . Some additions to the ordinary converter or some auxiliary apparatus is necessary to obtain a variable direct-current voltage . The important com-Figure mercial methods of obtaining a variable direct-current voltage are : 1 . With an alternating-current synchronous booster . 2 . With an alternating ; current potential regulator or regulating transformer. 3 . With a direct-current booster . 4 . By automatic compounding . ( l ) Synchronous-booster Converter. ? A synchronous-booster converter is a rotary converter with a mechanically connected alternating-current generator , the armature winding of which is connected in series relation with the nrntature baling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , vvhcuevver  | its field is excited , either adds to or subtracts from the voltage supplied to the converter and affects the direct-current voltage accordingly . A six-phase synchronous converter is shown in Fig. 77 . The complete rotating element of this converter , composing the converter armature , alternating-current booster armature , commutator , and collector rings , is shown in Fig. 78 . The booster , necessarily , has the same number of poles as the converter . It may obviously be excited in either direction , so that , for a given variation of direct-current voltage required , the Figure age of the booster necessary is only one-half the corresponding alternating-current voltage . ( 2 ) Regulating Transformer or Potential Regulator. ? A regulating transformer consists of a transformer secondary with a large number of taps and some switching device to change the converter connections from one tap to the other . The transformers and switching devices are large , heavy , and expensive , and the method has the objection that the voltage can not be varied so as to follow a smooth curve unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The regulating-transtwiner met hod is , therefore , not used very often , the induction or potential regulator having superseded it .  | A potential or induction regulatorz is essentially a transformer , the primary of which can rotate inside of the stationary secondary . The secondary induced voltage will depend on the relative position of the primary with respect to the secondary and , hence , can be varied from a maximum positive value to a maximum negative value . By connecting the secondary windings of such transformers in series with the alternating-current supply lines , it is possible to vary the supplied voltage of the converter and , hence , also vary the direct-current voltage output . ( 3 ) Direct-current Booster.2 ? A direct-current generator can be connected in series with the direct-current side of the converter , and by varying the field of this generator the directcurrent voltage can be varied . The speed of the booster , if direct-connected , is determined by the speed of the converter , which may prevent economical design . The weight , space , and cost for this combination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious objection to the directcurrent booster arrangement is that there are two commutators to operate and maintain . ( 4 ) Automatic Compounding. ? With this method of voltage variation it is necessary that there be a certain amount of reactance in the supply lines to the converter , which may be in reactance coils or embodied in the supplying transformers . Since the voltage applied to the primaries of the supplying transformers is constant , it follows that the voltage available at the collector rings will depend on the resistance and reactance introduced in the transformer or reactance coils and the power factor of the converter . The power factor of the converter may be varied between rather wide limits by properly varying the field current ; hence the current taken from the alternating - current supply may be made either to lead or to lag the voltage at the collector rings . In Fig. 79 is shown how the voltage Bo applied to the collector rings will vary for different power factors from lagging to leading current for a constant primary transformer voltage B , . This principle is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as a shunt winding , so that as the directcurrent load increases the field excitation is increased , thereby causing the converter to take a leading current , the effect of Footnote  | which is to raise the voltage applied to the collector rings and , hence , counterbalance the drop in direct-current terminal veliag due to the increase of load . In other words , by introduci az reactance in the alternating-current supply lines , the directcurrent voltage may be maintained practically constant at all loads by the increased excitation produced by the series-field winding . The objection to this scheme lies in the fact that the converter does not operate at 100 per cent power factor . g . Three-wire Synchronous Converters . ' ? In Art . 28 it was shown that , by connecting a high-reactance and low-resistance coil between diametrically opposite points of a direct-current Figure generator armature , a neutral line could be obtained by bringing out a tap from the middle point of the reactance coil , thereby obtaining a three-wire generator . The secondary windings of the transformers supplying a converter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the neutral of such transformer secondaries is available , a line can be brought out which , in conjunction with the two direct-current lines , will form a three-wire direct-current system . The necessary arrangements for operating three-wire converters in parallel are essentially the same as required for the operation of three-wire direct-current generators ( see Arts . 29 and 30 ) . h . Parallel Operation. ? As in the case of direct-current generators ( see Arts . 27 and 30 ) , converters can be operated in parallel , t he division of load being determined by the induced voltage of t he individual machines . With converters having no reactance in the supply lines , it is impossible to vary the direct-current Footnote  | voltage ; hence two converters of different voltage ratios can not be satisfactorily operated in parallel . Small differences in the ratios of converters can , however , be corrected , in the case of converters having a certain amount of reactance in the supply lines , by properly adjusting the field current . It is not good practice to supply more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection would introduce a closed circuit of low impedance through the several armatures , allowing heavy currents to circulate in case of rather small differences in the characteristics of the several machines thus operating . i. hunting. ? Ilunting of synchronous converters may be caused by the periodic variation of the supply frequency , by sudden changes of load , or by excessive line drop . A variation of frequency is generally caused by the hunting of the prime movers driving the alternators supplying the system . In modern power plants there is very little variation in frequency , since steamturbine units are not subject to variations in speed , and enginetype as well as water-wheel-type alternators are designed with sufficient flywheel effects practically to overcome this tendency . The main cause of converter hunting is due to variations in the alternating-current supply voltage with changes of load , as caused by the drops in the line duo to relatively high resistance and reactance . A variation in applied voltage will be followed by a change in armature reaction and power factor , which in turn will cause a variation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternately ahead and behind its true synchronous position . In forging ahead energy is expended in the converter , while when dropping back energy is given up by the converter . The machine operates alternately as a motor and generator . Probably the most serious result caused by hunting is the shifting of the magnetic flux across the pole faces , resulting in a shifting in the magnetic neutral of the machine . In the case of noncommutating pole converters , this naturally causes sparking at the brushes . I hinting can be practically eliminated by placing damper windings in the pole faces . This winding is essentially a squirrel-cage winding as used for starting synchronous motors ( see Fig. 68 ) . The shifting of the flux across the pole faces will set up currents itt these windings which will oppose any such change , thus damping ottt , the oscillations in speed as soon as they begin .  | j . Starting of Synchronous Converters. ? There are three methods by which synchronous converters may be started , namely , alternating-current self-starting , alternating-current motor-starting , and direct-current self-starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of a squirrel-cage winding embedded in the slots in the pole faces , the converter can be started by the direct application of alternating currents ( at reduced voltage ) to the collector rings . The starting voltage is usually about one-third of the running voltage . For small- and medium-capacity machines only one starting transformer tap is used , while for larger units it is customary to employ two taps . In the case of commutating-pole converters , it is necessary to raise the direct-current brushes from the commutator , when the converter is started from the alternating current side , in order to prevent sparking at the brushes . It is necessary , however , to have a source of excitation , as well as a means of indicating the polarity of the direct-current side of the converter as synchronism is approached . Consequently , two brushes , one of each polarity , are left on the commutator at all times . The width of these brushes should he such that not more than one armature coil is short-circuited , in order that they will not spark to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induced in the field indings , owing to transformer action , the magnitude of which will depend on the ratio of armature and field turns . To prevent a , dangerously high induced voltage in the shunt-field winding , the field circuit may be opened in several places ( luring the starting period by means of a multipoint field " break-up " switch . Another method of preventing this high induced voltage in the shunt field is to short-circuit the winding . The current set up in the short-circuited winding will prevent the magnetic flux produced by the armature current , and therefore the induced voltage in the field circuit , from reaching a dangerous value . The series-field circuit should also be closed on itself during the starting period , but on account of its low resistance it is generally necessary to short-circuit this winding through an external resistance . After the converter has been brought up to speed and connected to the alternating-current lines , the direct-current polarity may he wrong ; hence it is necessary that the converter be made  | to slip a pole . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening and closing the main switch in the alternating current lines . A more general method is to reverse the current through the shunt-field circuit , while the converter is connected to the starting transformer taps . To do this , the field break-up switch must be of the double-throw type . After the directcurrent voltmeter indicates the correct polarity , the shunt-field switch must be again reversed to its original position . ( 2 ) Alternating-current Motor-starting Method . This method utilizes an induction motor direct-connected to the converter . The motor has a fewer number of poles than the converter in order that the unit may be brought up to synchronous speed . Synchronizing is accomplished by the same methods as are used for two alternators when being paralleled . ( 3 ) Direct-current Self-starting Method. ? In some cases , where another source of direct current is available , converters may be started from the direct-current side , by operating the unit as a shunt motor . The armature current at starting is limited by an adjustable resistance that is controlled by a starting switch . If there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the transformer windings are in parallel with the converter-armature winding ; hence the starting current will also depend on the resistance of the transformer secondaries , the collector rings and the alternating - current brushes , the booster winding , if there is one , and the leads between the transformers and collector rings . 56 . Converters versus Motor-generator Sets. ? The choice of a motor-generator set or a converter for a given service is determined by the nature of the service and the characteristics of the system supplying the energy to the transforming equipment . Some of the factors that should be considered when making such a choice are as follows . 1 . Reliability . 2 . Voltage regulation . 3 . Power-factor corrective effect . 4 . Efficiency . 5 . Cost . 6 . Parallel operation . 7 . Starting . The design of synchronous converters has been improve ) to  | such an extent that their disadvantages are few as compared with their advantages ; hence they are being used more and more for the transformation of alternating current to direct current . There are , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be more desirable or necessary . In general these cases may be as follows : 1 . At the end of a long transmission line with excessive ohmic resistance . 2 . On a system with very poor regulation where the directcurrent service may require close independent regulation . 3 . Where a large low power-factor corrective effect is desired . liy using a synchronous motor of sufficient capacity operating with leading current , the effect of lagging current on the system can be neutralized . In many eases , however , it is preferable and more economical to use converters and synchronous condensers. 4 . Where frequency and regulation are so poor as to prohibit the use of synchronous apparatus , in which case an induction motor generator is applicable . 57 . Mercury-arc Rectifiers. ' a . Glass-bulb Rectifiers. ? A single-phase glass-bulb rectifier is illustrated in Fig. 80 . It consists of a highly exhausted bulb B where the mercury vapor condenses , a mercury cathode K , an auxiliary anode a , and two projecting anode tubes it . The operation of a mercury-arc rectifier depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high vacuums has the peculiar property of permitting the passage of current in one direction only . The best explanation for this valve action is based upon the electron theory . Briefly , this theory is as follows : electrons that are emitted from the cathode spot strike neutral vapor molecules . The collision of an electron and a neutral molecule ionizes the molecule by the removal of an electron . The new electron joins the old one in conducting the current . The remainder of the molecule has a net positive charge and is a positive ion . It is , therefore , attracted to the cathode . As the positive ions approach the cathode , they produce a high space-charge potential gradient , which causes a further emission of electrons from the mercury surface . At the same time the positive ions striking the mercury surface heat it up to a temperature of about 600 ? C. , thereby causing a violent evolution of Footnote  | mercury vapor . This causes a considerable rise in the vapor pressure immediately surrounding the cathode spot , which enables the electrons to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vapor pressure has been estimated to be of the order of 2.58 atm. , under which conditions the average gradient over one " mean free path " is about 2,500,000 volts per cm . Once free of the cathode , the vapor expands to a low pressure , in which space the current-carrying electrons travel in the general direction of the anodes . The rectifying action of the rectifier is therefore due to the ability of the cathode spot to give Figure off electrons that are attracted to any positively charged anodes . As long as the anodes are unable to give off electrons , conductivity in the other direction is normally nil . This rectifying action is not a peculiar property of mercury ; mercury is used because its vapor can be easily condensed and led back to the cathode without loss . The elementary electrical connections of a two-anode single phase rectifier are shown in Fig. 80 , in which both alternations of the alternating-current supply may be utilized . The direct-current system is obtained from the mid-point of the supply-transformer secondary and from the cathode K , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During one alternation of the impressed voltage , the anode .1 , is at , a higher potential than the cathode ti , while the other anode . 1 is  | at a lower potential than the cathode K. During the next alternation , A2 will be at a higher potential and A at a lower potential than the cathode K ; hence the mercury arc will flow between Al and A2 to K , one end of the arc changing between the anodes as the polarity of the impressed voltage is varied . The resultant voltage available between the cathode and the mid-point of the transformer secondary is shown in Fig. 81a . As it requires only a cessation of the current for a small fraction of a second to cool the cathode spot sufficiently to extinguish the arc , a reactance L should be inserted in the rectified circuit , thus prolonging the current wave and preventing it from dropping to zero . The reactance also damps out , to a great extent , the undulations in the resultant current wave , thereby producing a unidirectional current which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arc the arrangement is tilted so that the mercury runs from the cathode to the ignition anode a . With switches 1 and 2 closed ( Fig. 80 ) , current will immediately flow between these two points , and on the vessel being tilted back an arc is started at the point of rupture . This starts the main arc between the anode tubes and the cathode . Glass-tube rectifiers are built for outputs up to about 50 kw . They are used extensively for charging storage batteries and operating direct-current street arc lights . For the successful operation of the rectifier high vacuums are essential , the normal working range being 0.01 to 0.001 mm . Hg. b . Polyphase Rectifiers. ? It has been shown that in order to maintain a single-phase arc it is necessary to introduce a reactance in the circuit of the rectified current . In the case of polyphase rectifiers a reactance is not necessary owing to overlapping of the voltage waves , as shown in Figs. 81b , c , and d for a three- , six- , and twelve-phase rectifier , respectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the cathode and transformer neutral becomes more uniform as the number of phases is increased . Glass-bulb rectifiers are generally of the single-phase or three-phase type , while power rectifiers are generally of the six-phase type . c . Power Rectifiers. ? A power rectifier is shown in Fig. 82 . The major portion is the large welded-steel cylinder K in which the arc operates and above it the narrower condensing cylinder C. These two cylinders are connected by the heavy anode plate D , While the lower portion of the arc chamber is closed in by the  | plate M , in the center of which the cathode is located . The condensing cylinder is closed at its top by a plate carrying the ignition coil B. The rectifier , as a whole , is mounted on the Figure insulators P , these in their turn being carried on the foundation ring Q. There are six main anodes E and two auxiliary anode G placed in a circle around the anode plate . The auxiliary anodes serve to maintain the arc when the load drops to a very low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anodes constitute a single-  | Figure  | phase rectifier , providing about 0.5 kva. which keeps up the temperature of the cathode spot . The mid-point of the exciting transformer is brought out as in the case of the main transformer and connected through a resistance and small reactance to the cathode ; the former limits the current consumed , while the latter Figure ensures that the auxiliary arc will not drop to zero at each half period . The main anodes are screwed to the anode bolts that convey the current to them ; the transformer connections are brought to lugs fitted to the upper part of these bolts . Specially designed insulators separate the anodes from the anode plate . The : ire guides P are fixed to the main insulators and at their open ends terminate in the large collecting funnel I. Immediately above  | the cathode there is a smaller funnel L. The arc works between the main anodes E and the cathode ; it has a well-defined path , which diminishes the risk of flashing over . At the point of contact of the arc with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off . The un-ionized portion of this vapor rises between the anodes and finds its way into the condensing cylinder where a reduction in temperature takes place owing to the water jacketing , and it is recondensed and in the form of drops falls back into the collector H. From here it runs down the sloping troughs to the sides of the arc chamber and thence back to the cathode , so that there is no loss and the mercury need never be replenished . For cooling purposes a small quantity of fairly good water is necessary , that usually obtainable from the town mains being suitable . It first passes through the cathode base N , from there to the jacketing round the large cylinder and the anode plate by the connections 0 , after which it passes to the jackets surrounding the condensing cylinder and then out to waste or a separate retooling system . The diagram of Fig. 84 shows the ignition and excitation circuit . When the main transformer is energized , the primary switch of the excitation transformer Tex closes , thereby completing the circuit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anode until it touches the mercury bath of the rectifier. ( ' oil IC is now short-circuited , owing to the current passing down the rod to the ignition anode , which causes the right-hand contacts of relay R to open . The ignition anode is now drawn up by the spring acting in opposition to coil IC , and at the point of rupture with the mercury an arc is started . As the two excitation anodes Ex are already under pressure , an arc now starts between them and the cathode . The excitation-current strength being greater than that of the ignition current , the second part of relay R operates and its contacts are opened , thereby extinguishing the ignition arc and leaving the rectifier ready to be loaded as required . The direct-current load current can be controlled by the use of properly constructed grids . These grids are placed directly bcloww ' or surrounding each anode and biased with either directcurrent or alternating-current voltage . The biasing potential is connected between the grids and the cathode . In the case of alternating-current grid control , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of the same number of phases as used in the main power circuit . The action of the grids is to control the instant at which firing of each anode will start . A sufficiently negative potential on the grids will prevent the arc from starting .  | High-power rectifiers are made in various sizes with ratings from about 150 to 2,000 kw at pressures up to about 1,800 volts . For higher pressures up to 6,000 volts in one unit , the current ratings are somewhat reduced . A typical high-tension rectifier is shown in Fig. 83 . For larger amounts of power , rectifiers may be connected in parallel ; and for higher voltages , rectifiers may be connected in series . With a rectifier equipment in its simplest form , there is only one important auxiliary provided , namely , the vacuum-pump set . From what has been said , it will be appreciated that a high vacuum is absolutely essential to the satisfactory operation of the plant . Stated briefly , the following are the main advantages obtained by the use of this class of plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 2 . Simple operation and attention a minimum . 3 . No synchronizing. 4 . High momentary overload capacity and insensibility to short circuits . 5 . Negligible maintenance . 6 . Low weight . No special foundations . 7 . Noiseless and vibrationless operation ; consequently rectifier substations can be erected in densely populated localities . 8 . New substations need only be of light construction . It has been found that occasionally a cathode spot will spontaneously appear on an anode when it is bearing negative voltage . When this happens , a reverse current will flow . This phenomenom is known as " arc-back . " Once formed , a cathode spot on the anode will maintain itself as long as current is conducted to it and the rupturing of this current requires the opening of protective circuit breakers . In the multianode tank rectifier in which the arc is maintained in the chamber continuously , it is necessary to use grids , shields , and baffles to guard against arc-back . Considerable separation of the anode and cathode is required for this , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electrode separation increase arc drop , ranging from about 20 to 30 volts for cathode currents of 1,000 to 4,000 amp . The latest development in power rectifiers involves the use of single anode tanks , known as ignitrons or excitrons . A typical unit , of this type is shown in Fig. 84a . In such a tank the arc is alloNN ed to extinguish itself at the end of each conducting period .  | To ignite the arc , the ignitor is subjected to synchronously timed impulses , which will create the cathode spot and put the tank into operation . The direct-current output can be controlled by changing the time of the ignitor impulses . Figure The ignitor impulses are obtained from a polyphase power source , each phase containing a circuit so designed as to give one pulse of current in each cycle through the ignitor rod to the cathode . The impulsing transformer is phased out with respect , to the rectifier transformer so that the excitation impulses have the correct phase relationship with respect to the voltage applied to the main anodes . The impulse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special iron-cored reactors to give the  | impulse current a sharp rise , which ensures accurate and reliable ignition . With the compact construction of the single-tank typt , of rectifier , arc-voltage drops as low as 15 to 20 volts are obtainable with cathode currents of 1,000 to 4,000 amp . The general circuit arrangement of such units in multiphase groups is fundamentally the same as used in the multianode tank type . 58 . Phase Converters. ? In Art . 54 was given a discussion of equipment for the transformation of alternating current of one frequency to another frequency . - ft is often also desirable to transform alternating - current energy of a single-phase system Figure to a polyphase system . This can not be done by stationary equipment , since the power supply of a single-phase circuit is pulsating . Rotating equipment must therefore be used which will store up this pulsating energy and deliver it as constant polyphase energy . Such a machine is known as a phase converter , the connections of which are illustrated in Fig. 85 . Such a machine is well adapted to railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trolley wires or Bird-rail circuits and the complications involved in switching : Ire so great that practically all alternating-current railway elect rifleations have been confined to single-phase systems . By means of a phase converter mounted in the electric locomotive , single-phase energy may be supplied to the trolley wire or third  | rail while three-phase energy may be delivered to the driving motors . In Fig. 85 single-phase energy is delivered at 11,000 volts to the primary of a single-phase transformer . The secondary to this transformer supplies what amounts to a two-phase squirrelcage induction motor . Phase A of this induction motor is connected across 86.8 per cent of the secondary voltage . After the rotor has been brought up to speed , phase A will produce a revolving magnetic field which will cut the conductors of phase B and therefore induce a voltage in quadrature to the single-phase e.rn.f. , having a value approximately equal to 86.6 per cent of the secondary-transform &; voltage . The actual voltages obtained are better shown in Fig. 86 . It is apparent from Fig. 86 that the Figure actual three-phase voltages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same manner as a three-phase system is obtained from a two-phase transformer bank . In other words , the phase converter may be considered as obtaining a two-phase system from a single-phase supply , the transformation to three-phase being obtained by properly connecting the individual circuits of the two-phase system thus obtained . In Fig. 85 is shown a three-phase motor connected at BGH . The function of the phase converter is reversible , and when the motors are running above synchronous speed , as will be the case when a train is running downgrade , they become induction generators supplying three-phase power to the converter , which in turn supplies single-phase power back to the system , thereby giving a large and uniform braking effect . Questions for Class Discussion DIRECT-CURRENT MACHINES 1 . Name a few types of loads that either require or operate more satisfactorily with direct current . ( live reason . a N ky co h4o N acA ' PhaseBof- ' ; ? Phase Converfer1l1 FIG 86. - Voltage diagram of single- to three-phase converter .  | 2 . State briefly the applications for the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( b ) fiat compounded , ( c ) overcompounded , ( d ) differentially compounded , and ( e ) separately excited . 3 . Explain briefly the general arrangements of armature windings for direct-current machines . 4 . State the purpose of interpoles and of compensating windings on direct-current machines . 5 . Sketch typical load-characteristic curves for ( a ) overcompounded , ( b ) flat-compounded , ( c ) separately excited , ( d ) shunt , and ( e ) differentially compounded direct-current generators . Explain these curves . 6 . Define voltage regulation of a generator. 7 . Tabulate and explain the losses in direct-current machines . 8 . Explain how shunt and compound direct-current generators operate when connected in parallel . 9 . Explain briefly the general details of a three-wire direct-current generator. 10 . What are the advantages of the Edison three-wire system as compared with the ordinary two-wire system ? 11 . Make a diagrammatic sketch of connections for two compound-wound three-wire direct-current generators operating in parallel . Show the necessary switches and circuit breakers for proper operation and protection . 12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and motors are built at the present time ? 13 . What standard direct-current voltages are used for lighting ? For lighting and power ? For railway service ? 14 . Explain the fundamental principle of the diverter-pole generator . Give its voltage characteristic , and state its field of application . SYNCHRONOUS ALTERNATING-CURRENT GENERATORS 15 . Why is alternating current in general preferable to direct current for t ransmission and distribution ? Why is alternating current not universally mcd ? 16 . What two frequencies have become standard in this country ? Tabulate the advantages and disadvantages of each , and explain why most large rents stations generate at the higher frequency . 17 . Do most alternating-current stations generate single-phase or polyphase , and why ? For what purpose might a large single-phase load he used . 18 . Why are most alternating-current stations three-phase rather than t wo-phase ? 19 . Name the two standard methods of connecting a synchronous threephase generator . Why is a resistance sometimes connected in the grounding ' , intuits ? 20 . I ) istnss briefly the general mechanical details of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type , ( b ) water-wheel type , and ( c ) steam-turbine type . 21 . Ilow is the required strength of rotor obtained in the case of a highspeed salient-pole alternator ?  | 22 . Describe how the field of a nonsalient-pole steam-turbine type of generator is wound . 23 . Explain what happens in the magnetic and electric circuits of an alternator between the instant of short circuit and the time when conditions have become stable . 24 . What is the general shape of the wave of magnetic-flux distribution in the air gap of a salient- and nonsalient-pole machine : ( a ) At no-load ? ( b ) At full load ? 25 . Explain clearly what is meant by the terms " leakage reactance , " " synchronous reactance , " and " synchronous impedance. " 26 . Does power factor have any effect upon the regulation of an alternator ? Explain . 27 . Is it desirable to build alternating-current generators with inherently good regulation ? Give reasons . How does good regulation affect the short-circuit current of an alternating-current generator ? 28 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inherently poor regulation , is it as necessary to provide automatic oil switches in the generator circuits for protection against short circuits as is the case with direct-current generators ? 29 . Are synchronous generators suitable to parallel operations ? Explain . What effect will the following have upon the operation of alternators in parallel : ( a ) Unequal induced voltages ? ( b ) Sudden decrease or increase in speed of one unit ? ( c ) Different wave shapes of induced voltage ? 30 . What methods of ventilation are used for turhoalternators ? Why is the problem of proper centilation of these units extremely important ? 31 . A customer has a load of 70 per cent lagging power factor . Does the reactive power represent " so much coal " ? Why , then , charge the customer for this reactive power ? 32 . The A.I.E.E. standardization rules specify given temperature limits for certain insulating materials . Why is it undesirable to operate machinery above these limits ? Is it permissible to do so in cases of emergency , and what is the consequence ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manufacture of electrical machinery ? Discuss its advantages . 34 . Discuss the general features of design of the umbrella type of waterwheel generator. 35 . State the advantages of hydrogen cooling for large units , and discuss the limitations involved . INDUCTION GENERATORS 36 . An induction generator is obtained when an induction motor is driven above synchronous speed . Could an induction motor be used for regenerative braking in electric-train control ? In this type of application would some scheme have to be devised to obtain low synchronous speeds while braking ? Would induction-motor drive , therefore , be suitable for passenger service ? 37 . The more an induction generator is speeded up , the more power it delivers to the line . What happens to the frequency of the system to which  | power is being supplied ? Do these features make it a desirable type of generator for a system consisting of isolated hydroelectric plants ? Is synchronous apparatus necessary on the line to furnish excitation ? ' 38 . What are the advantages and disadvantages of the induction generator as compared with the synchronous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merits of induction-motor generator sets and synchronous-motor generator sets ? 40 . What are the general methods used for starting a synchronous-motor generator set ? FREQUENCY CHANGERS 41 . Determine the highest r.p.m. at which a 60 to 25 cycle per sec. frequency changer can operate ? What must be the number of poles for each machine ? 42 . From the results of Question 41 , what do you consider some of the difficulties in the design of frequency changers ? 43 . Explain the difficulties encountered in synchronizing two 60 to 25 cycle per sec. 300-r.p.m. frequency changers. 44 . What two methods are used to cause one motor-generator frequency changer to slip a pole ? Explain . ROTARY CONVERTERS 45 . Describe the general construction of a rotary converter . 46 . Determine the theoretical voltage ratios of a two- , three- , four- , and six-collector-ring rotary converter . 47 . Name a few factors that affect the theoretical voltage ratios as obtained in Question 46. 48 . How does the efficiency of a converter compare with direct-current generators of the same capacity ? Why ? 49 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flows in the armature conductors of a rotary converter when delivering full load ? 50 . Is the capacity of a converter determined by the average heating in lie armature conductors or by the maximum heating in the tap coils ? Explain . 51 . Ilow can voltage adjustment be obtained on a rotary converter ? Explain each method . 52 . Explain the principle of a booster converter . 53 . Is it best to run a converter off of six-phase , three-phase , or singleIdrnse. alternating-current supply ? Why ? 54 . What result is obtained by changing the field excitation of a converter ? I ' . xlilor.in. 55 . What is the objection to operating a converter at low power factor ? 56 . What are some of the methods that are employed in starting con-erlers ? her descriptions of a number of hydroelectric induction-generator Iffinits , see lien . Elec . Rep. , November , 1919 ) .  | 57 . Contrast the advantages and disadvantages between motor-generator sets and synchronous coverters . MERCURY-ARC RECTIFIERS 58 . Describe the operation of a single-phase glass-bulb rectifier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulsating ? What is the object of the inductance coil in the load circuit ? 59 . Give a brief description of a power-arc rectifier. 60 . Is there any advantage gained by increasing the number of phases of a rectifier ? Explain . 61 . State briefly some of the advantages of a power-arc-rectifier substation as compared with a synchronous-converter substation . PHASE CONVERTER 62 . How can single-phase energy be converted into polyphase energy ? To what application is such a process desirable ? Explain .  | SYNCHRONOUS GENERATOR EXCITATION 59 . Exciter Capacity and Voltage . a . Capacity. ? There is no definite method that can be given by which the exciter capacity can be determined for a given alternator . This can be explained in the following manner : The induced voltage of an alternator is proportional to the product of the number of conductors in series upon the armature , the speed of rotation of the field , the number of field poles , and the magnetic flux per field pole . If all the above factors except the field flux be assumed , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that the induced voltage will be directly proportional to the magnitude of the field magnetic flux . The magnitude of the magnetic flux per pole varies with the ampere turns upon each field pole , but not directly , the law of variation being determined by the magnetic characteristics of the particular grade of iron used in the field construction . For a particular grade of iron and constant value of field ampere turns , it can be further stated that the magnetic flux will he dependent upon the physical dimensions of the magnetic circuit . From the above discussion it is clear that two alternators requiring the same total field flux may nevertheless have very different values of total field ampere turns , the difference of ampere turns being entirely dependent on the particular number of field poles of each alternator , and also on the physical dimension ; of the field circuits of each of the two machines . It is also important to note that a given number of field ampere turns may be produced by an infinite number of combinations of field current and number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t hat two alternators requiring the same total field magnetic flux niay have very different values of field current , even though both exciters are for the same voltage . From the above discussion the following general conclusions : ue evident : The excitation required varies considerably for different machines , depending upon the size , the number of poles , t.Iu+ speed , and the regulation desired . For alternators of  | different capacities but otherwise similar , the relative excitation naturally decreases as the size of alternator increases . Highspeed machines generally require less excitation than slow-speed ones , owing to the smaller number of poles . In general , it may be said that small-capacity machines with many poles require a proportionally large excitation , and large-capacity machines with a few poles a proportionally small excitation . A small alternator of many poles may require as much as 3 to 5 per cent exciter capacity , while a large machine of a few poles may require only as much as 0.3 per cent exciter capacity . b . Voltage. ? Exciters are built for either 125 or 250 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the exciter demands . In the case of very large alternators it is desirable to use 250-volt exciters in order to decrease the current , and thereby use small copper sections in the entire field windings , in both the exciter armature and alternator field , as well as in the connecting circuits . For exciters of the same capacity and speed , the 250-volt machine would require a commutator of only one-half the length , which is of exceeding importance in the case of high peripheral velocities . 60 . Systems of Excitation. ? The most common and simplest system of excitation used in general practice involves a selfexcited direct-current shunt generator . The alternator field current is controlled by varying the exciter voltage by means of a regulating rheostat in the shunt field of the exciter . In some cases the field excitation may be obtained from a separate constant-potential direct-current source . In this case the regulating rheostat must be placed in the alternator field circuit , . For the larger machines it is desirable to use a separately excited direct-current generator as the source of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the main exciter being supplied by a pilot exciter . As before , the alternator field current is varied by rheostatic control of the main exciter field current . Some excitation systems employ rectifiers such as ignitions with some sort of battery supply for starting conditions . 61 . Exciter Characteristics . a . Pilot Exciters. ? Pilot exciters are normally designed to operate at constant voltage independent of load , therefore they are compound-wound direct-cni ? rer.t machines with practically flat load-voltage chat:teterist ics .  | b . Separately Excited Main Exciters. ? The main advantage of a separately excited direct-current generator , over the standard self-excited type , is the better voltage stability of the former . Any voltage may be obtained over any range , depending on the degree of excitation . It is this feature which makes the separately excited exciter particularly desirable for large alternators . The field circuit should be designed with low inductance in. order that the changes in excitation may take place quickly . c . Self-excited Main Exciters. ? Consider the case of a shunt generator designed for power purposes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , known as the air-gap line ; then as the iron part of the magnetic circuit becomes saturated , it bends over rapidly . The normal point of operation of such a direct-current generator would be on the knee of the curve . A straight line drawn through the operating point of the generator and the origin of the curve would represent the shunt-field characteristic of the machine . Changing the resistance in the shuntfield circuit will correspond to changing the slope of the held-characteristic line , the intersection of the field line and the no-load saturation curve being the operating point of the generator with the new setting of resistance . Suppose the resistance were changed just the right amount so that the air-gap line and the field line became coincident ; then their intersection would be anywhere along the extent of the air-gap line ( assuming no residual magnetism of the field ) and the generator would be unstable . In the actual machine there is some residual flux present in the magnetic circuit , and this gives to the generator , when operating with the field circuit open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes the slope of the air-gap line , and the field line no longer coincides with the air-gap line but intersects it with a small angle . This angle is so small that the intersection of these two lines is not at a definite point , but occurs over a considerable range of the lines , thus causing the generator to be unstable when worked on 1 his part of the saturation curve . The above trouble is not present in power generators because they are not called upon to operate at a large range of voltage change . 11 , is possible to increase the degree of stability of an exciter by increasing the reluctance of the magnetic circuit , thereby necesiii ; rting a large field m.m.f. , but such a method has the disad-  | vantage that it introduces a strong field which accumulates a large amount of stored energy , thereby decreasing the sensitiveness of the exciter to the changes of alternator voltage . From the above discussion it follows that the exact characteristic of an exciter should lie between a characteristic that has a long straight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a characteristic that starts bending over at a very low voltage . 62 . Methods of Driving Exciters. ? The general trend is to have the main exciter and pilot exciter , if used , direct-connected to the alternator . This type of installation gives a self-contained power unit . It has some advantages and disadvantages . It is cheaper and more economical of space . It does not require special prime movers for the exciters alone . On the other hand , the design of high-speed and also low-speed direct-current generators is somewhat complicated , the high-speed unit being subjected to large centrifugal forces which are difficult to handle , particularly on the commutator . The physical dimensions of a direct-current generator are inversely proportional to its speed , making the exciters for low-speed units very large . For high speeds and also low speeds it may , therefore , become economical to use separate prime-mover drives for exciters . Another advantage of the separatively driven exciter may be that in case of exciter trouble the main alternator can remain in operation , receiving its excitation from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prime mover may be a steam turbine . As a general rule , however , a steam turbine has too high a speed in the small sizes that are required for exciter drive ; hence it is not used very widely except as a spare which may operate as an emergency . In a hydraulic plant , the hydraulic design is generally too complicated and the cost too high to consider water-wheel-driven exciters ; hence in such plants motor drive is generally used except for those plants using the directconnected system . The induction motor is the best type of exciter drive obtainable if there is absolute assurance of a continuous alternating-current supply to operate the motors . The low-slip induction motor has practically constant speed and vVitt not drop out of step very easily . It can be started at a moment 's notice , a feature that is of great importance . In a number of plants , both hydraulic and steam , the alternnt ing-current supply for driving the exciters and all of her stilt ion  | auxiliaries is supplied by a set of station alternators that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely independent from the main power system , hence avoiding the danger of interruption of the exciter supply in case of any interruption of the main power system . In most cases of motor-driven exciters the alternating-current supply is obtained from the main busbars , in which case extreme care should be taken to obtain a system of plant layout in which there is very little chance of the alternating-current supply to the exciter motors failing . 63 . Automatic Voltage Regulation. ? Good voltage regulation of power networks is probably the most important element in the normal process of delivering good service to the customer . With the trend toward larger and larger interconnected systems it has been necessary to improve methods of voltage regulation . During system faults or normal switching operations , it is absolutely necessary that all voltage fluctuations be kept down to a minimum in order that the system retain its stability . Modern automatic voltage regulation of alternators is based upon one fundamental objective , namely , to maintain constant voltage as nearly as possible . To do this the excitation systems are designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which were used to limit the action of regulators in case of short-circuit conditions , are now considered unwise . Suitable protective relaying of faulty circuits has improved to the extent that only one demand is placed on the voltage regulator , namely , to regulate for constant voltage regardless of what may occur outside the power plant . Voltage regulators may be classified as follows : 1 . Vibrating type . 2 . Rheostatic type . The vibrating-type regulator is one of the older types and is still found in use , but it no longer holds first place . There seems to be a definite trend away from it toward the rheostatic type . The rheostatic type may be further classified as " direct acting " or " indirect acting . " 64 . Vibrating-type Regulator. ? The alternating voltage is regulated indirectly by rapidly opening and closing a shunt circuit , across the exciter rheostat , thus varying the exciter voltage in order to maintain the desired alternating voltage .  | The regulator ( Fig. 87 ) consists mainly of two parts , a directcurrent control system and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct-current regulator having a main control magnet and relay magnet connected across the exciter mains , the contacts of the relay being arranged to shunt the exciter-field rheostat . This operation maintains not a constant but a varying exciter voltage , the value varying in accordance with the demands of the alternating-current control magnet which is connected to the alternating-current bus , the latter Figure magnet being considered as the alternating-current portion of the regulator . This magnet is of the ordinary solenoid type , having a laminated iron core which is attracted upward by the magnetizing force . The core is attached to a pivoted lever , at the opposite end of which a counterweight is supported to assist in bringing the lever and core to a point of equilibrium . On the same end of this lever is shown the lower main contact which , in combination with the upper main contact , constitutes what are known as the floating main contacts . It will be seen from the foregoing that the exciter voltage is controlled by the rapid opening and closing of the relay cons act s . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alternating current magnet core and lever arm , which is in n dependent upon the value of the alternating voltage being held .  | 65 . Rheostatic Direct-acting Regulators. a . Westinghouse Silverstat. ? A general schematic diagram of this regulator together with the connections to an alternator and exciter are shown in Fig. 88 . Fluctuations in alternating-current voltage are detected by the potential transformer . This voltage is rectified through a rectox rectifier unit . The rectified current operates the main Figure control unit , which is merely a direct-current coil with an internal moving iron armature . The motion of this armature controls he amount of regulating resistance that is inserted in the field circuit of the exciter . The regulating resistance is entirely stationary . This resist- is tapped at suitable intervals , each tap being connected to one end of a leaf spring . All leaf springs are assembled in a group and clamped together at one end , with proper insulation between springs . The opposite ends of these springs are equipped with  | small silver buttons , which under the normal rest position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A drop in voltage decreases the magnetizing effect of the regulator coil and reduces the flux in the air gap of its magnetic circuit . This , in turn , decreases the magnetic pull on the iron armature attached to the moving arm and allows the coil spring to move it in a direction to begin closing in sequence more of the silver buttons . This action shorts out in small steps additional portions of the regulating resistance , which being connected in the field circuit , causes the field current to be increased and the voltage raised back to its normal value . When the voltage is restored to its normal value , the moving arm of the regulator is again in a balanced state . For a rise in voltage the sequence of operation is reversed until a new balanced state is obtained . The maximum travel of the moving arm being only a fraction of an inch permits the regulator resistance to be quickly varied from maximum to practically zero when operating conditions require such control . For larger exciters requiring higher field currents , two or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main control unit is of the same general design as described aboee . The operating iron armature now controls one or more driving bars , which in turn control the several silver-button spring assemblies . To stabilize the regulated voltage and prevent excessive swinging under various conditions of excitation change , a damping effect is introduced into the regulator coil circuit by means of the damping transformer . The regulating resistor unit in the smallest regulator is composed of carbon disks , while in the larger regulators conventional embedded resistance wire is used . b . General Electric Diactor. ? A perspective drawing and diagram of connections for this type of regular is shown in Fig. 89a . The circuit is similar to that used in the Westinghouse Silverstat regulator , the main difference being in the regulating resistor unit . The regulating unit is composed of two or more stacks of special nonmetallic resistance material shown at , the upper left-hand corner of Fig. 89a . The stacks are formed as shown in Fig. 89b from three main  | parts : ( 1 ) resistance plates , ( 2 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Each resistance plate has a silver-button insert passing through the plate near the front end . The button is Figure slightly thicker than the resistance plate itself . Insulating spacers separate the individual resistance plates at the rear of the stack . The metal contact plates located at the center are thicker than either the protruding portion of the silver buttons or the insulating spacers , and thereby act as fulcrums on which the resistance plates may be tilted . Small fins , protruding from the top and bottom of the metal contact plates , fit into slots cut in the edges of the resistance plates , locking them in position . The metal contact plates also form the electric contacts between the resistance plates , making a resistance path for the current to flow through at the center of the stacks when the rheostat is in the  | maximum resistance position . It should be noted that there is no electric contact between these metal contact plates themselves , since they are separated by the resistance plates . The top plate of each stack is made of metal to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom resistance plate of each stack rests on a copper bracket , which serves as a contact plate and forms a circuit to the adjacent stack . All stacks are connected in series . Figure Changes in machine voltage will cause a change in position of the operating rod ( 10 ) ( See Fig. 89a ) . Since the resistor elements are pivoted at their mid-point , an upward motion of the operating rod ( 10 ) will cause the back of the stack to be compressed while the front ends of the resistor plates are separated . When the stacks are tilted back so that the front ends of the plates are separated , the rheostat is in the maximum-resistance position . If the stack is gradually tilted forward , its resistance is gradually reduced . This change is caused by a decrease in contact resistance between the resistance and metal plates at t he center of the stacks as they lilt forward , combined ith the eiadual  | short-circuiting of the plates by the silver inserts ( at the front end of the plates ) as they come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance is gradually decreased until in the extreme low-resistance position the silver inserts form a continuous silver path , or column , through the stacks , reducing the resistance to a negligible value . c . Allis-Chalmers Rocking Contact. ? An assembled view of such a regulator is shown in Fig. 9Oa . The design of the different Figure parts and their general arrangement can best be explained by referring to Fig. 9Ob . The control device is built on the principle of the induction motor . The stator laminations e are circular and carry a split-phase winding . Concentric with the stator pole faces is a cylindrical soft-iron core , which completes the path of the field lines leaving only a small air gap . In the field in this air gap is placed a thin hollow drum of aluminum , c , carried by a steel spindle , the latter being supported at both ends by jewel bearings . The electric torque produced by the current in the split-phase winding is counterbalanced by a combination of two springs , Nvliicli produce a constant torque whatever the position of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an integral part of the regulator . The stationary contacts 1 to which the resistance coils g are connected are arranged concentrically with the rotor spindle in two or four rows , depending upon the size of the regulator . The inner side of these contacts , facing the spindle , is provided with a V-shaped groove that serves as a guide for the moving contacts . The latter have the shape of a sector , with a curved strip of silver or carbon as contact surface and a steel needle as pivot . The latter rests in a jewel cup , which is carried by a leaf spring supported from the rotor spindle . The rotor can be turned through an angle of 60 deg. and in doing so carries Figure the two needle points over the corresponding are of a circle . This causes the sectors to roll in the grooves of the stationary contacts , putting in or cutting out resistance . The latter in the case of a generator voltage regulator is connected in series with the shunt field of the exciter , as shown in Fig. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damping mechanism which consists of an aluminum disk o rotating between two permanent magnets m . The disk is geared to the rack of an aluminum sector p , which can turn concentrically with the rotor spindle and is fastened to the aluminum drum c by means of a flexible spiral spring q , acting as a recall spring . If a change in voltage occurs , the eddy currents induced in the disk o tend to resist quick response of the moving system . Owing to the flexible coupling , however , the drum , which directly controls the contact sectors s , will immediately take up a position iii which the torque of the various springs and the electrical torque are again balanced .  | An elementary diagram of connections for the voltage regulation of alternators is shown in Fig. 90c . The split-phase winding is connected across the terminals of the alternator , and the rheostat g is in series with the field winding of the exciter . The cycle of operation is as follows : Assuming the generator fully loaded , the contact segments will then take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90c , in which a great part of the resistance is short-circuited . A drop in load tends to raise the voltage , but the smallest increase is immediately followed by an increase of the electrical torque so that the system becomes unbalanced . As a result the sectors are displaced to the left till the mechanical torque , now increased by the torque of the recall spring q , again equals the electrical torque . 66 . Indirect Rheostatic-type Regulators. ? Several manufacturers have designs along this line , the basic principle being common to all , with special differences as to details . The heart of this regulator is in the main control unit . This control unit is composed of a three-phase torque motor with the movable contact arm rigidly coupled to its shaft . The torque of this motor is proportional to the average of the threephase voltages . Its torque is counterbalanced by a suitable spring . The Westinghouse Company uses a single direct-current solenoid in its main control unit in place of the torque motor . This solenoid is energized from the three-phase alternating current generator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rectox rectifiers . Two pairs of moving contacts are mounted on the main contact arm located between two pairs of stationary contacts mounted on and insulated from the base . The two voltagelowering contacts are on the right ; the raising contacts are on the left . The stationary top contacts make contact a short interval before the lower contacts close . Thus on a slight voltage change , a top contact will close and on a severe voltage change both contacts on one side will close . An air dashpot or magnetic damping device is provided to prevent the regulator from acting during a momentary change in voltage not requiring a change in excitation . Notice that the main control element ( Fig. 91a ) operates four sets of contacts , 1 swo for " voltage lowering and two for voltage  | raising , " see contacts L1 , L2 , R1 , and R2 ( Fig. 91b ) . One of the " raising " and one of the " lowering " contacts control some form of motor-operated exciter field regulating rheostat . These contacts are known as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their operation will change the field regulating rheostat in typical small steps similar to any ordinary faceplate rheostat . Figure The other pair of contacts ( one " raising " and one " lowering " ) control high-speed contactor relays , which either short-circuit or introduce a fixed amount of resistance in the exciter field circuit . This is illustrated by contacts A and B in Fig. 91b . These last two main control unit contacts are known as the " accelerating " or " field-forcing " contacts . They operate only on a sudden large change in alternating-current machine voltage and cause a correspondingly fast adjustment of exciter-field current .  | Several types of motor-operated exciter field rheostats may be used with the above main control unit . The simplest is a carbonpile rheostat in which the amount of resistance is controlled by the pressure exerted on the column of carbon disks . Some units have a typical wire-wound series type of motor-operated faceplate rheostat , shown schematically in Fig. 91b . The AllisChalmers Manufacturing Company adapts the rocking sector of Figure its self-contained " direct-acting " regulator to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance of the rheostat is varied by sectors rocking over and changing the point of contact on a stationary commutator to which the resistance steps are connected . The sectors are connected to short out the resistors as they move from one end of the commutator to the other . Rocking of the sectors is performed by a reversing motor through a precision gear reducer.  | The resistance steps are mounted in a substantial weldedsteel framework on the rear of the rheostat and are of nonbreakable construction . One , two , three , or four commutators , each providing 100 steps , are used , depending on the current rating , amount of resistance required , and the fineness of voltage control desired . The Figure range provides for control of the exciter voltage from maximum to minimum required by the machine . A Wheatstone-bridge circuit ( see Fig. 93 ) forms another type of field rheostat . It is particularly applicable with pilot-exciter installations or separately excited main exciters . The bridge rheostat has two opposite legs of fixed resistance ( Al ) and BC ) and two opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , as indicated schematically by diagrams a , b , and c in Fig. 93 . In diagram a ( Fig. 93 ) it will be seen that the entire variable section of each leg is completely shunted by the movable arms  | of the bridge rheostat and the main-exciter field is connected directly across the terminals of the pilot exciter . This position of the rheostat gives full excitation in the positive direction to the main-exciter field . In diagram b ( Fig. 93 ) it will be noted that the two movable arms of the rheostat are shunting 10 ohms of each variable leg . In this position there are 50 ohms in each of the four sides of the bridge rheostat . It is readily seen that for this condition there will be no potential drop between points B and D of the rheostat Figure and , therefore , no current will flow in the main-exciter field . This position of the rheostat , therefore , applies zero excitation t 0 the main exciter . In diagram c ( Fig. 93 ) the movable arms of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the total resistance of 60 ohms is inserted in each variable leg . The polarity of the mainexciter field is now in the opposite direction to that shown in diagram a . The resistance values of 60 ohms for each variable section and 50 ohms for each permanent section allow a slight reversal of excitation to the main exciter , to offset the mainexciter residual voltage . This , in turn , will give approximately zero voltage at , the main-exciter terminals . One manufacturer provides the main exciter with two field  | circuits , both being connected to the pilot exciter . The main field supplies most of the exciting m.m.f. , while the second field supplies only a small percentage of the main field m.m.f . Furthermore , this second field is connected in magnetic opposition to the main field . As the main field m.m.f. is lowered , the effect of this differential field becomes more pronounced , in fact reducing the residual magnetic flux to zero in some cases , or even giving the main exciter a slight reversed polarity voltage . in case the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " contacts of the main control unit can be made to open the differential field circuit as well as short-circuit a fixed amount of main field circuit resistance , thus giving an unusually fast action toward recovering of the system voltage . The effect of the differential field winding is fundamentally to increase the speed of voltage adjustment . 67 . General Range of Application. ? The several manufacturers of large alternators have developed complete lines of rheostatictype regulators to cover any generator application . The capacity and particular type of regulator to be used depend upon the amount of exciter field current to be controlled and the rate at which it must be controlled . Five to six sizes of the directacting type are available , and four to six sizes of the indirect , type are in use , covering individual generator ratings from 1 to 200,000 kva. at speeds ranging from 80 to 3,600 r.p.m . The dividing line between direct-acting and indirect-acting regulators is not very clearly defined , being a function of both machine capacity and speed . In general , all alternators above 20,00 ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the speed . As the alternator speed becomes lower than 3,600 r.p.m. , it becomes necessary to apply the indirect-type regulator to alternators of lower than 20,000 kva . At 100 r.p.m. , the indirectacting type regulator would generally be applied to machines of capacities in excess of 500 kva. 68 . Pilot-exciter Voltage-limiting Equipment. ? For installations where the pilot exciter is direct-connected to the main shaft of a water-wheel-driven generator , dangerously high pilot-exciter voltages might be encountered unless some provision were made to protect this exciter during runaway conditions of the Nvaterwheel . Figure 94 shows the connections of a protective system for installations of this kind .  | The master relay whose contacts are normally open is set , by means of the adjusting spring , to close its contacts when the pilot-exciter voltage reaches some predetermined value above normal . This opens the contacts of the normally closed highspeed auxiliary relay , which inserts a block of resistance in series with the pilot-exciter field , thus reducing the voltage to a safe value during the abnormally high-speed conditions . When steady-state conditions are again encountered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This method of protection does not interfere with the regulator , which serves as an overvoltage-protective device for the generator and main exciter as explained in the description of the Wheatstone-bridge exciter-field rheostat. 69 . Parallel Operation and Line-drop Compensation . a . Parallel Operation. ? The division of load among alternating-current generators operating in parallel is dependent on the power supply to each generator as controlled by the governor of its prime mover and is practically independent of excitation . The division of reactive current among generators is a function of the excitation . In order to obtain successful parallel operation of two or more generators with individual voltage-regulator control , the regulators must perform two main functions : ( 1 ) they must hold the  | voltage constant , and ( 2 ) they must provide proper division of reactive kilovolt-ampere load among the generators . In considering the application of a system of regulation to a number of alternating-current generators operating in parallel , it should be remembered that the change in excitation of any one of the generators does not appreciably affect the bus voltage . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that particular machine , as the other machines will tend to maintain the voltage level constant . Increasing the excitation will tend to make a machine supply more reactive current , and decreasing the excitation will make it supply less reactive current . To raise the station bus voltage , it is necessary to increase the excitation of all the machines . In the past , stations having several paralleled alternating current machines have frequently been controlled by a single voltage regulator . With this arrangement , the division of reactive current between alternating-current machines and the division of load between exciters was controlled by manual adjustment of the exciter or the generator-field rheostats . The best engineering practice demands that alternating-current generators operating in parallel have individual exciters that do not themselves operate in parallel . This is known as the " unit-exciter system . " The exciters operate independently , that is , nonparallel . Such an arrangement permits the most flexible operation . Each combination of generator , exciter , and regulator is separate from the other . Any number of alternating current machines may be successfully operated in parallel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in parallel , it is necessary that the reactive kilovolt-ampere outputs of the individual machines be equalized to prevent one machine carrying all the reactive kilovolt-amperes , with consequent overloading . It is therefore necessary to provide some means of correcting the excitation of the individual machines should they tend to take more or less than their proper share of reactive kilovoltamperes . It is therefore necessary to bias the voltage element of each regulator with reactive current or some equivalent , effect , so as to obtain for all load conditions proper division of reactive current among machines in parallel . Such biasing action is known as " cross-current compensation . "  | With solenoid types of regulators , this compensation is ordinarily obtained by means of a current transformer and compensating rheostat for each regulator , as shown in Figs. 88 and 89a for three-phase generators . The current transformer is connected in one lead , with the potential transformer across the other two leads . The phase relations are then such that the voltage drop across the compensating rheostat tends to add to the alternating-current potential on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and subtract for leading reactive kilovolt-ampere output . This influences 1 he regulator to reduce excitation for lagging current ( overexcited generator ) and increase excitation for leading current ( underexcited generator ) . This action tends to divide the total reactive kilovolt-ampere load among any number of machines in proportion to their ratings and enables the regulators properly and automatically to control generators operating in parallel . For torque-motor type of regulators , the method of cross-curwilt compensation is obtained by injecting a proper biasing voltage into one line of the three-phase torque motor ( see Fig. 95 ) . By means of the regulating reactor a proper amount of biasing can he obtained .  | b . Line-drop Compensator. ? The present-day practice of interconnected power systems has practically eliminated the need of line-drop compensation with generator voltage regulators . It is still used , however , in some special cases where constant voltage is desired at some distant point from the generator , rather than at the generator terminals . The line-drop compensator is used to reproduce in miniature , at the regulator , the resistance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The function of the compensator is to lower the impressed voltage on the torque motor or solenoid unit as load comes on , thereby causing the regulator to maintain normal voltage at some predetermined point on the system regardless of the power factor of the load . As far as physical appearance and general circuit connections are concerned , this device is very similar to the equalizing reactor described for cross-current compensation between machines operating in parallel . In addition to having a variable reactor and insulating current transformer , it has a variable resistor connected in series with the reactor . The resistance and reactance of the compensator are each divided into a suitable number of sections . Taps are brought out from these sections and connected consecutively to independently adjustable dial switches . By suitable adjustment of these two dials it is possible to obtain a voltage drop that is a miniature of the actual line drop to the predetermined point of the system . This compensator voltage is then injected into the regulator control unit in the same manner as was done for cross-current compensation , thereby biasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the generator terminals but at a distant point from the station . Questions for Class Discussion 1 . In a direct-current generating plant , are exciters required ? Are exciters always required in alternating-current plants ? For example , in one of the hydroelectric plants of a system using induction generators ? 2 . Discuss briefly the factors that determine the necessary exciter capacity in kilowatts for synchronous generators. 3 . What are the standard voltages for which exciters are built ? 4 . Give the approximate limiting values of exciter capacity in percentages of the generator rating . 5 . What is the general characteristic of a self-excited shunt-wound exciter ? How does this characteristic differ from that of a standard direr ; - current generator designed for power service ?  | 6 . What is a pilot exciter ? What are its characteristics ? 7 . What are the relative merits of shunt- and compound-wound exciters ? 8 . Name , in the order of their importance , some of the requirements that must be considered in laying out an excitation system . 9 . What systems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tabulate advantages and disadvantages . - 10 . How may reserve exciter capacity he provided in a station using individual exciters ? Give several schemes for doing this . 11 . Name three common methods of driving exciters . What are the advantages and disadvantages of each ? 12 . Would you consider a separate prime mover or a motor preferable for driving a spare exciter unit ? 13 . In a station having an exciter bus , would you consider it desirable to have all exciter units driven by motors ? Consider cases of emergency . 14 . Why is induction-motor drive for exciters preferable to synchronous motors ? 15 . What is the present tendency in exciter practice as regards system of excitation and method of drive ? 16 . Name two distinct types of voltage regulators , and state the field of application for each one . 17 . What is the fundamental principle of operation of vibrating-type regulator ? What is meant by the " time of contact engagement " ? 18 . What are the relative merits of the vibrating and rheostatic methods of voltage regulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and state how it may be obtained . 20 . Explain the principle of operation of direct-acting regulators. 21 . Explain the principle of operation of the Silverstat regulator. 22 . Explain the principle of operation of the Diactor regular . 23 . Explain the principle of the rocking-contact regulator. 24 . How may the Silverstat , Diactor , and rocking contact regulators compensate for line drop ? 26 . Describe the general principle of operation of the main control unit of the indirect rheostatic-type regulator. 26 . What are the " field-forcing " contacts of the main control unit of an indirect rheostatic regulator ? 27 . Describe the operation of the Wheatstone-bridge type of regulating resistance . 28 . What is the general range of application of the rheostatic type of regulators. 29 . I ) escribe the details of the pilot-exciter voltage-limiting equipment . 30 . Older regulating circuits included a short-circuit protective device to limit the rise in alternator excitation under alternator short circuits . Why has t his device been dropped from modern systems ? 31 . Why is it not advisable to use an automatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the purpose of the field-discharge switch ? Of the fielddischarge resistance ?  | ELECTRICAL POWER-PLANT CIRCUIT LAYOUTS 70 . General Considerations. ? The particular layout adopted for a plant will be dictated by a number of factors , the most important being the following : 1 . Flexibility . 2 . Adequacy . 3 . Reliability . 4 . Simplicity . 5 . Safety . 6 . Space . 7 . Cost . In general the best engineering is represented in the simplest layout that can be used to accomplish the purpose desired in a safe and reliable manner . The plant layout must be reliable even if the particular demands will necessitate a complex and costly installation . In many plants , particularly in congested districts , the available space has a great deal to do with the final choice of the plant layout . It is impossible to give an example of all the different types of plant layouts , but a few general outlines are given which include the small plants as well as the very large plants . 71 . Classification. ? In general , power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the distribution of power : 1 . Power may be distributed at the same voltage as that at which it is generated . 2 . Power may be distributed at a higher voltage than that generated . 3 . Power may be distributed at several voltages , one of which , may be the same as generated . Several typical layouts are given in the following pages of this chapter which will give a general idea of the great diversity ul ' possible systems that are now used . All the layouts are given in the standard single-line method , in which each line or symbol represents a three-phase circuit or device . 150  | 72 . Typical Power-plant Circuit Layout . ' ? Single-bus System ( Fig. 96 ) . ? Used for small stations where simplicity and economy are the primary requisites . Double-bus Single-circuit-breaker System ( Fig. 97 ) . ? This arrangement greatly increases the chances for continuity of Figure service over that shown in Fig. 96 . One busbar may be used as an auxiliary only , or one may feed a lighting load while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ System ( Fig. 98 ) . - This arrangement gives the same advantage as Fig. 95 , with the double assurance against shutdown due to circuit-breaker trouble . Ring-bus System , Bus-sectionalized ( Fig. 99 ) . - Suitable for stations of medium size where great flexibility and maximum Figure economy in cost are desired . This arrangement requires a relatively small amount of copper in the busbars . H System ( Fig. 100 ) . - Large generating stations in cities , such as Philadelphia and New York , use this scheme Two-feeder Figure circuits are served by a pair of selector switches from either of two busses . Single Low- and High-tension Bus ( Fig. 101 ) . - 'Phis system is the simplest scheme that is adaptable to plants supplying power 9ver high-tension lines and also requiring a h ) w-tension IIus . II  | does not offer much protection against the possible spreading of trouble to the entire system . Single Sectionalized Bus System ( Fig. 102 ) . - This system gives great flexibility of operation with minimum cost and is suitable for medium-sized plants . Dependence is placed on single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in separate independent halves , local feeders being fed from either half . Trouble arising in one part of the system can be better localized with this scheme . Figure  | Single High-tension Bus Scheme , and Station Auxiliary Bus ( Fig. 103 ) . - In this system the generator and transformer are treated as a unit , and all low-tension switching is thereby omitted . The station auxiliaries are fed from any generator or transformer circuit by means of the auxiliary bus . Double-bus Double-circuit-breaker System Throughout ( Fig. 104 ) . This arrangement permits the use of any or all of the Figure generators , without regard to which of the transformers may be in operation . System Whereby Transformers Are Treated as Part of the Transmission Lines ( Fig. 105 ) . - The particular application of such a switching arrangement seems to lie with a station where power is to be transmitted over a number of lines to a single substation . Single L ow-tension Double High-tension Bus Single-circuitbreaker Scheme ( Fig. 106 ) . - In this system low-tension disconnecting switches permit the connection of a generator direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , connection of generator to busbar with transformer dead , or connection of transformer to busbar with generator dead . A generator , transformer , or feeder may be taken out of service for the examination or repair of its circuit breaker . All the apparatus may be  | in service while the load is removed from either section of either busbar for repairs or additions . No Low-tension Bus , Double High-tension Bus ( Fig. 107 ) . - This plan is suited to such stations as take the base load of the system . Each combination of generator and transformer is considered as a unit , having no switching devices between them . The high-tension bus is a straight double-bus double-circuitbreaker arrangement , which gives the maximum amount of flexibility . Station power must be supplied from the high-tension busses through step-down transformers . Figure Single Sectionalized Low-tension Bus with Two High-tension Busses , One of Which Is Sectionalized ( Fig. 108 ) . - This station may be operated as four complete units ( generator , transformer , and line separate ) , or any generator may feed any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformer for local or station service permits the low-tension busbar and circuit breakers to be taken out of service entirely without interfering with the load . Single-bus Feeder-group System ( Fig. 109 ) . - This arrangement is suitable for stations employing large units , each supplying a number of feeders . Each unit and its group of feeders may be operated independently , or all may be operated from one main bus . Single Low-tension Transfer Bus , Double High-tension Bus ( Fig. 110 ) . - With this scheme , the station may be operated in four separate parts , if desired , any or all of which may be connected together at will . The double-throw high-tension dis-  | connecting switches prevent interconnecting the high-tension busbars except by means of the tie circuit breakers . The lowtension connections make it possible to connect a generator direct to its transformer or to any other transformer through the transfer bus . Sectionalized Generator and Main feeder Bus System with Group feeder Bus ( Fig. 111 ) . - By this system great flexibility may be obtained for large stations feeding a thickly settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in halves , or any feeder or group of feeders may be served from either half . Questions for Class Discussion 1 . Name a few of the important factors that should be considered when planning the plant-circuit layout . 2 . Draw single-line diagrams showing generators , oil circuit breakers , transformers , and feeders on the following plant-circuit layouts : ( a ) single bus , ( b ) single sectionalized bus , ( e ) double-bus single oil circuit-breaker system , ( d ) double-bus double oil circuit-breaker system , ( e ) ring bus ; ( f ) feeder group system , ( g ) transfer ' bus system , ( h ) no low-tension bus system . 3 . Tabulate advantages and disadvantages of the plant-circuit layouts called for in Question 2. 4 . Locate the disconnecting switches in each of the systems called for in Question 2. 5 . What is the unit arrangement of generators , transformers , and transmission lines ? 6 . In a 13,200-volt installation , is it preferable to use a relatively lowvoltage generator and transforming equipment , or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | TRANSFORMERS 73 . Elementary Theory. ? A transformer consists of an iron magnetic circuit upon which two or more coils are wound . If one winding is connected to an alternating-current supply , there will be set up in the iron core an alternating magnetic flux , which will induce a voltage in all the coils that enclose the magnetic flux . The schematic circuit of a transformer is shown in Fig. 112a . Figure The mutual flux Ox links with the primary and secondary windings , inducing in these windings voltages El and E2 , which are related as follows : In an ideal transformer without losses the voltage El world be equal to the primary applied voltage and the voltage E2 would be equal to the secondary terminal voltage . In the actual commercial transformer this is not quite true because the coil resistances and leakage reactances introduce corresponding volt age drops . For an ideal transformer , however , the primary mutual magnetomotive force must equal the secondary mutual magnetomotive force , or  | Equations ( 32 ) and ( 33 ) give the two basic laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within engineering accuracy . A more accurate picture of a transformer is that of Fig. 112b . In this figure the two coil resistances , and leakage reactances due to fluxes OL1 and 0L2 , are shown connected externally of the transformer itself . Figure Most power-transformer calculations are carried out on the basis of an equivalent one-to-one turns ratio transformer . This can be accomplished by multiplying all secondary voltages by the turns ratio and dividing the secondary current by the turns Figure ratio . Therefore , if n = ( N1/N2 ) , the equivalent secondary quantities are Figure This last result forms a basic proof of the general fact that transformer or circuit impedances as observed from the highand low-voltage windings are in the ratio of turns squared . 11 , is now possible to represent a transformer by the equivalent one-to-one ratio circuit of Fig. 112c.  | Since El = E2e and I1 differs only from Ile by the amount of current necessary to excite the iron core , it is now convenient to replace the coupled circuit of Fig. 112c by the shunt impedance Zo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ X12 = primary leakage impedance Z2e = V R2e2 + X22 = secondary leakage impedance and Zo = . /R02 + X02 = shunt exciting impedance where Ro will account for the iron losses of the magnetic circuit and Xo stands for the mutual flux reactance . The current lo which flows through the impedance Zo is the exciting current of the transformer , obtainable by measurement without secondary load on the transformer . The average power transformer is designed to draw an exceedingly small value of exciting current Io . This corresponds to a particularly large value of Zo as compared with Z1 and Z2e , so much so that for many engineering applications a transformer may be considered as a simple series-equivalent circuit with the additional feature of voltage transformation , as shown in Fig. 112d . In this figure the voltage-transformation feature is indicated by the ratio device N1iN2. 74 . General Classification. ? Transformers may be classified according to : Table  | 75 . Types of Magnetic Circuit. ? Magnetic circuits may be classified into two general types : the " laminated , " or " punched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first type involves stacking individually punched sheet-steel laminations ( see Fig . I 13a to e ) , while the wound-core type is made up of continuous strips of steel wound into a tight coil ( Figs. 113 f to g ) . The wound-core type of magnetic circuit is one of latest developments in core manufacture . Some of its advantages are as follows : 1 . Magnetic flux flows only in the direction of the grain of the steel , resulting in lower iron losses . 2 . Core is assembled by machine methods and not by hand . 3 . Greatly reduced air-gap reluctance , due to machine winding of core as well as the nature of the design . 4 . Core is sturdy , symmetrical , and compact , well adapted to resist the mechanical strains caused by short circuits . 5 . The better design reduces considerably the weight of the t ransformer . As is generally the case , this design was first introduced in the smaller sizes of distribution transformers , and as manufacturing nu Lhods were improved , the design has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large power trans-  | former is still built with a stacked laminated core . The size of the magnetic circuit is so large as to involve a very definite obstacle to wound-core design . Several manufacturer 's produce Figure wound-core distribution transformers in one form or other , examples of which are shown in Fig. 120 . The laminated-core type of magnetic circuit may take on Figure  | several general forms , a few of which are illustrated in the sketches of Fig. 114 . In the core type the copper windings surround the iron core , while in the shell type the iron circuit surrounds the copper windings ( see Fig. 114 ) . There are a few modifications of these two types of circuits , the most striking one being the so-called distributed-shell type . The core-type magnetic circuit can be made so that rectangular or circular coils can be used , these two being distinguished as rectangular-core and cruciform-core types . There is no definite field of application for each of these types , but in general it may be said that the distributed-shell type is used for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ core , for distribution transformers up to about 23,000 volts ; the cruciform core , for distribution and power transformers of higher than 23,000 volts ; and the simple shell for distribution and power transformers of rather large current capacities . The cruciform core allows the use of circular coils , which are more adaptable to transformers that are subjected to heavy short circuits . 76 . Number of Phases. ? Three-phase transformers are built as either core or shell types , depending on the particular requirements ( see Fig. 115 ) . Since the three magnetic fluxes are out of phase with each other by 120 electrical degrees , it follows that the sum of the fluxes of any two phases will equal the flux of he third phase ; hence those parts of the magnetic circuit which are common to two fluxes are of the same dimensions as the parts through which flows only one flux . This fact enables a most economical utilization of iron in the building of transformers . It follows , therefore , that a three-phase transformer is generally loss expensive than a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron , a single tank instead of three , and fewer high-voltage bushings , since all connections between phases can he made inside the tank . The fact that all connections between phases can be made inside the tank simplifies the external connections a great deal , which for high-voltage installations is of considerable importance . The floor space occupied by a threephase unit is less than the space occupied by an equivalent bank Of threo single-phase transformers . The cooling-water system is loss complicated for the three-phase unit .  | Notwithstanding , the apparent advantages of the three-phase over the single-phase transformer , there are certain requirements that can best be fulfilled by single-phase units . For large capacities single-phase transformers can be handled more easily , either during erection or during transportation . In case of damage to a phase of a delta-connected bank of single-phase transformers , the damaged transformer may be removed and service resumed on the remaining two transformers operating in open delta . A spare single-phase unit can be more easily handled and replaced for a damaged unit than in the case of three-phase transformers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is practically necessary to use single-phase transformers connected in three-phase banks . 77 . Arrangement of Windings. a . Shell-type Transformers. ? The windings for shell-type transformers are made up of groups of high- and low-voltage coils . These are wound with an insulated conductor consisting of one or more rectangular wires of suitable proportions to keep the eddy currents to a minimum . The coils are wound with one turn per layer , thus obtaining the minimum voltage stress between layers . The thickness of the coils is then the width of the conductor , and each conductor is exposed ho the oil . Strips of insulating material are wound into the coil between adjacent turns . This insulation is gradually reinl'oreed toward the line end of the winding until the last few turns ad , j:I cent to the line terminals are insulated to withstand the voltage incident to high-frequency disturbances on the line ( see Figs 116a and 116b ) .  | Each coil is pressed to exact dimension in a former and is then dipped in insulating varnish and baked . This dipping and baking is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hard glossy surface . The varnish penetrates the insulation of the coil , binding the turns into solid and substantial coils , which can be readily handled and assembled without the possibility of displacing the turns or insulation . As no tape is used on the complete coil , each conductor is exposed directly to the cooling Figure medium , permitting transfer of heat from the conductors to the oil with a minimum temperature difference . This effectively prevents hot spots . Groups of high- and low-voltage coils are assembled with barriers of high-grade insulating sheets and with angles and channels of the same material . The assembled groups of high- and low-voltage coils are insulated from ground by an enclosing housing made up of sheets of the same material . These insulating sheets are of high-grade tough paper board and , when impregnated with insulating oil , have uniform high dielectric strength combined with high mechanical strength . Ample ducts , formed by inserting strips of insulating material  | between coils , are provided to allow the flow of oil along the face of each coil , leaving each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coils has the following advantages : 1 . Continuous ducts , offering very little resistance to the flow of oil . 2 . A greater part of each conductor is exposed directly to the cooling oil stream , ensuring freedom from hot spots . 3 . Positive support is afforded all conductors in each coil against short-circuit stresses . b . Core Type of Transformers ? There are three general methods of arranging the coils of a core-type transformer , as illustrated by Fig. 117 , which are known as : a . Disk-coil windings. b . Concentric cylinder-coil windings. c . Concentric disk-cylinder windings . The first of these arrangements is composed of alternate layers of secondary- and primary-coil g r o ups placed around the legs of the core . Insulating cylinders prevent the windings from coming in direct contact with the iron core . Spacing blocks are used between disks , thereby providing an easy path for circulating oil . In the second type of winding the primary and secondary coils on each leg are wound as complete units in the form of concentric cylinders , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is generally placed next to the iron core . The last arrangement is a combination of the first two . I is ( ( - type coils are used on the outside for the high-tension winding , while the low-tension coils are of cylindrical sluLlo.  | In all these cases the coils are wound with rectangular copper conductors , the width of the coils being that of one conductor . All coils are pressed to size , then dipped in insulating varnish or compound and baked in a similar way as used for shelltype windings . In general , the disk-coil arrangement is suitable for comparatively low voltages , while the concentric disk-cylinder arrangement of coils is probably best suited for high voltages , the other arrangement being used for medium voltages . There are two outstanding features of the core type of windings : 1 . Cylindrical coils are the best to resist the stresses due to short-circuit currents . Figure 2 . The coils are completely exposed to the oil , thereby providing effective heat dissipation . 78 . Mechanical Construction . a . Shell-type Transformer. ? The laminations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top and bottom end frames . This clamping action is obtained by heavy tie bolts . The upper end frame is provided with eye bolts so that the core and coils can be lifted and handled as a unit . The lower end frame is provided with feet so that the core and coils can be set down without the use of external supports . The assembly of a large shell-type transformer is shown in Fig. 1.18a . Heavy steel plates are placed against t he flat face of the coils where they extend beyond the iron core to prevent movement due to the mechanical stresses that tend to separate the coils under short-circuit conditions . Tie bolts  | passing through the ends of the plates hold them firmly against the coils and clamp the entire set of coils together . The shortcircuit stresses , which may be accurately calculated , are in this way transmitted to the tie bolts designed to withstand the maximum stress that can be developed . The area of contact between the plates and coils is large , resulting in a low pressure per unit Figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will stand . To brace the coils against stresses acting in a plane parallel to the face of the coils and tending to separate the primary and secondary coils in that direction . T beams are inserted tlrronglr the opening of the coils at the top and bottom . l Leavy slrre , r , der bolts at the end of these T beams serve to force them alr.crt , cml  | to brace the coils effectively in this direction . The assembled coils , insulation , core , end frames , and coil bracing are dried out by the application of heat while in a vacuum and are then thoroughly impregnated with oil . b . Core-type Transformer. ? In the case of the shell-type transformer , the coils are first mounted in place on the supporting frame , and the iron laminations are then built up around the coils ( see Fig. .118b ) . As a contrast to this , in the core type the Figure iron core must be first built up . In order to do this it is necessary to hold together the laminations by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the core must also be left off in order that the circular-form-wound coils may be put into place . The coils are finally held firmly in place by retaining bolts and steel plates . The upper and lower members of the magnetic core are securely clamped between heavy iron beams in order to make the entire structure perfectly rigid . The final assembly must be given as thorough a drying out as given to shell-type transformers . A typical assembly of core and windings for a core-type transformer is shown in lug . 119.  | c . Wound-core Transformers. ? Several ingenious methods have been devised for assembling wound-core transformers . In one method , used by the General Electric Company , the complete copper coils including primary and secondary sections Figure are first assembled into a single unit . Two or more coils of steel ribbon are then spun into place around the copper coils . In a second method , used by the Line Material Company , the iron core is first wound into the proper shaped magnetic circuit . On each side of the iron core are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have sufficient clearance with the steel core so that they can turn freely . By a suitable driving mechanism these spools are rotated and thereby wound in a typical bobbin fashion with the copper windings forming the primary and secondary coils . Figure A third method , used by Westinghouse Electric Corporation , involves winding the iron ribbon on rectangular mandrels . The xv ound coils are then annealed and bonded in an impregnating lank at high temperature . Pressure in the tank forces the I ) on ( ling material between individual turns of the core . Core units are then cut into two U-shaped pieces , and the cut  | surfaces are machined flat so that they leave no air gap when the ends are fitted together in the copper coils . These different types are shown in Fig. 120. 79 . Methods of Cooling. ? In general it may be said that the voltage capacity of a particular transformer is dependent on the section of iron , and the current capacity is dependent on the copper section ; hence , the kilowatt capacity of transformers will vary approximately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , can be said to vary approximately as the cube power of a dimension , and the radiating surface as the square power of a dimension . It follows , therefore , that as the size of transformers increases , the amount of heat to be radiated per unit of surface increases , with a consequent complication of the problem of proper heat dissipation . There are essentially five general methods that are used in cooling transformers. a . Natural Convection of Air and Radiation. ? Small transformers , generally used for metering purposes , rely in the natural convection of air and radiation for their cooling . The application of this method of cooling is , however , very limited and can not be used for transformers of any considerable capacity . b . Air-blast Transformers. ? In the air-blast transformer , air is forced through vent ducts , which are properly located among the windirgs and core , in the same manner as in the case of large alternating-current generators . Figures 121a and b illustrate such a transformer . The air is generally brought to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the transformer and being expelled from the sides and top . It is extremely important that the air be clean and free from dust ; otherwise the vent ducts will be clogged up and the transformer will run hot . By means of dampers placed at the top of the case it is possible to distribute the air through the core and coils to the best advantage . Air-blast transformers are particularly adaptable to congested locations where there is a. possible danger of fire and explosion of oil-insulated units Nvi1Ii a consequent burning of oil . The disadvantage of such transformers is found in the fact that forced-air fans and the accompanying ventilating ducts must be provided . c . Oil-immersed Self-cooled Transformer. ? By far the greater majority of transformers have their core and windings completely immersed in a tank containing a good grade of insulating coil  | The cooling takes place by the convection currents set up by the upward motion of the heated oil . In order that the oil be effective in properly cooling the windings , it is necessary that the oil flow directly against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided . These ducts should be in a vertical plane in order to be fully effective . The heated oil must in Figure turn give up its heat to the case or tank , which in turn - must radiate its heat to the air . Small transformers of this type are enclosed in a perfectly plain tank ; as the capacities become larger , however , it is necessary to provide greater radiating surface . A common method of increasing the radiating surface that is exposed to the air is to 1 ) 161 ( 1 the tank walls of corrugated sheet iron as shown in Fig. 122 . Another method that has been employed is to surround the tank with one or more jackets , all connected to the tank at the top and bottom by tubular openings that permit a constant  | Figure circulation of oil between the tank jackets . The annular spaces between the tank and jackets serve as flues , providing a large , rapid circulation of air , which quickly diffuses 1 , bc Iicat , h sss . The tubular and radiator types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the class of self-cooled units . The great advantage offered by the radiator type is in the fact that the radiators may be removed from the tank during transportation , while the tubes are generally welded to the case forming a complete unit . The radiator type also affords somewhat larger radiating surface . A radiator type of transformer is shown in Fig. 123 , the Figure radiators being about 12 ft. high . In Fig. 124 is shown a transformer in a tubular type of tank . d . Oil-immersed Water-cooled Transformers. ? For the larger sizes of transformers it becomes necessary to resort to other means of cooling . Some of the transformers that are being built today are so large that artificial cooling must be used . The standard method of accomplishing this is to place water-cooling tubes in the upper part of the tank , as shown in Fig. 118b . The  | cooling coil should preferably be completely immersed in the oil ; otherwise , owing to the low temperature of the water passing through , moisture will deposit on the coil and get into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be completely submerged , it is essential that all exposed parts of the coil be heavily lagged with heat-insulating material to prevent condensation of moisture . The cooling coils are generally made of seamless copper tubing , ( see Fig. 118b ) , and all connections inside the tank should be Figure absolutely tight ; preferably , these connections should be welded or brazed in order to prevent water leakage . Special care must be taken during the winter that water does not freeze in the coils and thereby damage them . e . Forced-oil Cooling. ? A final method which can be used is that of circulating the oil through the windings and out through a cooling tank of some sort . A system of this kind might consist . of a tank in which is placed a large copper coil , the coil being connected through a suitable pump to the top and bottom of the transformer tank . By maintaining a constant , flow of Nvater  | around the cooling tube , the circulating oil can be very effectively cooled . The disadvantage of such a method is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ auxiliary equipment necessary ; hence it is not used to a great extent . 80 . Power and Distribution Transformers. ? There is essentially no difference in the fundamental design of transformers for these two types of service . Power transformers are , of course , larger in capacity since they must handle large amounts of power and must therefore be carefully designed . Power transformers are built either single- or three-phase and cooled by  | any of the methods outlined in Art . 79 except by natural convection . They may be of either the shell or core type . The common voltages used for three-phase power systems are as follows : Table In most cases power transformers are designed for outdoor service on account of the high cost of the necessary building and wiring if such units are placed indoors . Transformers for outdoor service must be watertight , and generally the bushings are larger and spaced farther apart than in the case of indoor transformers . Distribution transformers should be designed with very small no-load losses , since such losses are always present even though no load is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shell , or in small sizes of the distributed-shell type . Standard lighting and power-distributing transformers are designed for a primary voltage of 2,300 volts and secondary voltages of 230 and 115 volts , or 460 and 230 volts . They may be for pole , platform , or manhole mounting . Manhole transformers are built in the same way as transformers for other types of service but must have very strong tanks with ample radiating surface . The cover must be air- and watertight . To protect the transformer from damage due to the high pressure that might be developed inside , it is customary to provide a vent that is covered by a thin airtight metal diaphragm , which will be ruptured in case of excessive internal pressure . The outlet bushings should all be moistureproof but simple , in order that the transformer may be easily disconnected. 81 . Instrument Transformers. ? Instrument transformers may be classified as metering and relay transformers , and may be either current or potential transformers . Instrument transformers are used for two reasons : ( 1 ) to protect station operators from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit , the use of instruments with a reasonable amount of insulation and a reasonable current-carrying capacity . The function of instrument transformers is to deliver to the instruments a current and voltage that shall always be proportional to the primary current and voltage and that does not exceed a safe potential above  | ground . Generally , the secondary of a voltage transformer is designed for about 115 volts , and the secondary of a current transformer for 5 amp . Figure Figure There are two general classes of instrument transformers , dry and oil insulated . Dry-type voltage transformers can be obtained up to about 6,600 volts across the primary . A few typical instrument transformers are shown in Figs. 125 to 130 . All instrument transformers should be grounded on the secondary side as an extra precaution against danger from the high voltage  | in case the insulation should be punctured by lightning or other abnormal stresses . In polyphase groups , any point of the secondary may be grounded , but it is preferable to use a neutral point . a . Voltage Transformers. ? Voltage transformers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power-factor meters , frequency meters , synchroscopes and synchronizing apparatus , protective and regulating relays , and the novoltage and over-voltage trip coils of automatic circuit breakers . One transformer can be used for a number of instruments at the same time if the total current taken by the instruments does not exceed that for which the transformer is designed and compensated . Voltage transformers are generally designed for a capacity of about 200 volt-amp. , but are seldom compensated for more than 40 or 50 voltamp. , since these values represent the average load demanded of a voltage transformer . There are two causes of errors in voltage transformers , namely , ratio error and phase-angle error . The part of these errors due to the exciting current , is constant for any particular voltage . It can be reduced to a minimum I , v choosing the best quality of iron and working it at a low magnetic density . The part of the errors due to the load current varies directly with the load and can be minimized by making the resistance and reactance of the windings very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be neutralized for one particular condition of load by " compensating " the transformer.  | This means that the actual ratio of turns differs from the marked ratio of the transformer by an amount just sufficient to make up for the voltage drop at the specified load . The effect of the phase displacement of the secondary voltage need not be considered when using voltmeters , frequency meters , synchroscopes , or Figure Figure protective and regulating relays which depend on voltage only . With wattmeters , watt-hour meters , and similar apparatus , whose indications depend not only on the voltage but also on its phase relation to the line current , the phase error has some effect . The effect of the phase displacement can not , therefore , he compensated for in the transformer , as it depends not only on the constants of the transformer , but on the power factor of  | the load to be measured as well . By making the phase displacement as small as possible by proper design , its effect on readings for commercial purposes is negligible . In general , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voltage transformers and may be neglected in most commercial measurements . If extreme accuracy is required , ratio and phaseangle curves must be obtained for the particular transformer in use at the particular load condition that exists , and correction must be made as has been indicated . Voltage transformers are compensated for their iron losses at their rated voltage . When used on some other voltage , either higher or lower , an error is introduced . In general this error will not be more than 0.15 per cent when the applied voltage is 50 to 110 per cent of rated voltage . A voltage transformer should never be used on a circuit whose voltage is more than 10 per cent above the rated voltage of the transformer . The secondary terminals of a voltage transformer should never be short-circuited . II ' they should become short. - circuited , a heavy current will flow which , if continued , will burn out the windings . In order to protect the system against sustained short circuits in the transformer circuit , it is generally recognized as good practice to introduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being connected in series . The resistors are designed to limit the current to about 20 to - 10 amp. , while the fuses are designed to open  | such a current . In normal operation the resistors carry only the very small primary current of the voltage transformer , and the drop in voltage that they cause is inappreciable. b . Current Transformers. ? Current transformers are used with ammeters , wattmeters , power-factor meters , watt-hour meters , compensators , protective and regulating relays , and the trip coils of circuit breakers . One current transformer can be used to operate several instruments , provided that the combined burden does not exceed that for which the transformer is designed and compensated . The ordinary voltage transformer or distribution transformer is connected across the line , and the magnetic flux in the core depends upon the primary voltage . For a given voltage the flux is , therefore , fixed , while the current in the winding rises and falls as the load of the secondary winding changes . The current transformer , however , is connected directly in series with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the secondary ( which is the usual condition ) , a rise or fall in the line current requires a corresponding rise or fall in the secondary voltage to force the secondary current through the impedance of the meter load . The magnetic flux in the iron , which supplies this voltage , thus follows the rise and fall of the primary or line current . In any transformer , the primary ampere turns may be considered as made up of two parts , one small element that supplies the magnetizing and core-loss current , and another element that supplies the " working current . " The working-current ampere turns are always exactly equal to the secondary ampere turns . As generally used , the current transformer steps down from a large current to a small one , so that the primary winding consists usually of few turns and the secondary of many turns . The current transformer is also subjected to two causes of errors , namely , ratio and phase angle . Current transformers are compensated to give , as closely as possible , the correct ratio at 65 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformers should be selected with a rating 50 per cent greater than the normal current of the circuit in order to allow for peaks and overloads , the full-load current of the circuit represents about 65 per cent of the current rating of the transformer and meter . Therefore , the greatest accuracy of meter readings is altallied with full-load current in the circuit .  | The instruments connected in the secondary circuit of the transformer are placed in series , so that the secondary current will pass through each instrument . As instruments are added , higher voltage is required to force the current through the instruments . This requires a high magnetic density in the iron . A higher magnetic density increases both the iron loss and the magnetizing current ; hence both the ratio and the phase-angle errors are magnified . For the sake of accuracy , therefore , there is a limit to the number of instruments that should be placed on a single-current transformer . The secondary circuit of a current transformer should never be opened while the primary is carrying current . If it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortcircuited . If the secondary circuit is opened , a difference of potential is developed between terminals which is dangerous to anyone coming in contact with the meters or leads . The cause of this high voltage is that with open secondary circuit all the primary ampere turns are effective in producing flux in the core , whereas normally but a small portion of the total performs this function . The danger is magnified by the fact that the wave form of this secondary voltage is peaked , producing a high maximum value . A high flux produced in this way may also permanently change the magnetic condition of the core , so that the accuracy of the transformer will be impaired . c . Through-type Transformers. ? Transformers of this type have no primary winding but use the current carried by the cable or bulbar to energize the core ( see Fig. 128 ) . Through-type transformers are usually regarded as suitable for instrument use if the ratio is 500:5 amp. , or larger . Special designs have been made , however , to give good instrument accuracy at ratios @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a limited range only , as for relays or trip coils , the use of this type of transformer is entirely satisfactory for ratios as low as 100:5 amp . It is satisfactory to use a through-type transformer of this ratio with an ammeter if they have been calibrated together . The momentary current due to a heavy short circuit on a large system is extremely great , and the mechanical stresses set cep between the primary and secondary windings of a current transformer by this current are very large . In the through-type transformer , these stresses are balanced within the transformer itself .  | This is a good type , therefore , to apply where there is a liability of short circuits . d . Bushing-type Transformer. ? A special form of through-type transformer is the bushing type , or ring type . This is made in the form of a hollow cylinder , built up of ring-shaped iron punchings on which the secondary winding is wound . The transformer is mounted over the terminal bushing of a circuit breaker to supply current for the tripping coil or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitations of ring-type transformers are similar to those mentioned above for other through-type transformers . But , since ring-type transformers are used for tripping circuit breakers , accuracy at small currents is not important if the transformer will respond to large currents . Circuit breakers are satisfactorily tripped with bushing-type transformers with ratios as low as 50:5 amp . The application of this type of transformer is illustrated in Fig. 214. e . Metering Outfits. ? It is possible to combine the necessary current- and voltage-transformer elements , which are needed to measure the power flowing over a three-phase line , all in one tank , thereby simplifying the outside connections and installation very much . Such an outfit is shown in Fig. 130. 82 . Autotransformer. ? An autotransformer is built in the same general manner as any other transformer , but it has only one winding . The primary includes all the turns , while the secondary includes only a portion of the total turns . Since the current flowing in the common part of the winding is equal to the difference of the instantaneous values of primary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the windings is less than in an equivalent two-circuit transformer . Autotransformers are used as motor starters , as balance coils on three-wire systems , and also to tie together two different systems at different voltage . They are not adaptable to general distribution work , because for this type of service it is generally desired to keep the secondary and primary coils electrically insulated from each other . The application of such transformers to large systems will be given more in detail in Chap . VIII . 83 . Constant-current Transformer. ? Constant-current transformers are used to supply constant current to series circuits , the most important application being for series street lighting . The main difference between a constant-current transformer and  | a constant-voltage transformer is that the secondary of constant current transformers is free to move in a vertical plane ( see Fig. 131 ) . Figure 132 shows the distribution of magnetic flux in the core of such a transformer , together with the relative directions of the primary and secondary currents . The voltage induced in the secondary coil will depend on the amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be determined by its position . When the secondary coil is located near tbie primary coil , the leakage flux is very small ; while , when the secondary coil is at the top of the core , the leakage flux is a maximum . The repulsion force between the two coils is proportion:ib to the product of the primary and secondary currents , but since the secondary coil is free to move , it Neill always lake lip a posit iou  | where the repulsion force plus the force due the weight W is just equal to its own weight . It follows , therefore , that the repulsion force between coils must be constant for a given weight W , or in other words the transformer will always deliver a constant current , the magnitude of which is determined by the size of the weight . Consider such a transformer in operation and the load suddenly decreased , as would happen if one lamp were short-circuited . The current through the remaining lamps will tend to increase owing to the excess voltage supplied to the circuit , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force between the two transformer coils , thereby causing the secondary coil to rise until its voltage drops to a value just sufficient to maintain the normal current through the lamps . Figure 84 . Induction-voltage Regulators. ? Induction regulators are nothing more than constant-voltage transformers , one winding of which can be moved with respect to the other , thereby obtaining a variable secondary voltage . They are used at the end of distribution lines to maintain constant voltage . The primary , or movable , coil is connected across the line , while the secondary , or stationary , coil is connected in series with the line . There are two types of induction regulators , namely , single-phase and polyphase. a . Single-phase Regulators. ? A single-phase regulator is illustrated in Fig. 133 . The primary exciting current produces an alternating flux that induces an alternating voltage in the secondary coil S. The secondary voltage can , however , be varied from a positive maximum to a negative maximum by rotating the primary coil through 180 electrical degrees from the position  | shown in Fig. 133a . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondary coil ( Fig. 133c ) , there can be no voltage induced in the secondary winding since no flux threads through Figure Figure Figure this winding . At other positions of the primary , for example as shown in Fig. 133b , only a portion of tile flux ( Inc to the primary coil threads through the secondary , and hence the secondary voltage is only a fraction of its maximum vahw . The second-  | ary voltage , however , is always in phase or in opposition to the impressed voltage , since the voltage induced in the secondary always reaches a maximum at the same time when the impressed voltage is a maximum . When the two coils are at right angles , the two m.m.fs. can not oppose each other ; hence another coil called the " tertiary " is placed on the rotor at right angles to the primary . This coil is short-circuited ; hence the current flowing through it will produce the required opposing m.m.f. and thereby reduce the reactance of the windings to the value corresponding to the leakage flux . At intermediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the m.m.f. set up by the tertiary and partly by the m.m.f. of the primary windings . A typical single-phase induc-Figure tion regulator is shown in Figs. 134 to 136 . The assembly shown in Fig. 136 is finally enclosed in a tank filled with oil . b . Polyphase Induction Regulators. ? Polyphase regulators are wound with polyphase windings on both the rotor and stator in the same general manner as a wound-rotor induction motor . The primary windings can be connected in either star or mesh , while all terminals of the secondary windings must be brought out , since these windings are connected in series with the line . When polyphase currents flow in the primary windings , a revolving field cuts the secondary windings , thereby inducing e.m.fs. in them which are of the same frequency as the impressed voltage . As the primary is turned , the magnitude of the revolving field is not changed ; hence the value of the secondary e.m.fs. must remain constant , but their phase relation to the primary voltages will change , as shown in Fig. 137. in Fig. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while PS ' , PSG , PS2 , and PS3 represent different phase voltages supplied to the load for different positions of the rotor . Induction regulators are used to regulate the voltage of  | feeders , to regulate the voltage supplied to converters , and in connection with high-voltage oil-testing transformers . For most applications the rotor of induction regulators is controlled by a motor . By the use of a contact voltmeter it is possible to make the operation of the regulator entirely automatic , maintaining a predetermined value of voltage at all loads . When used in connection with high-voltage oil-testing transformers , the regulator is generally hand operated . When used to regulate the voltage of a feeder , it is possible to compensate for line drop by means of a line-drop compensator as described in Art . 69b . Induction regulators are enclosed in tanks , which may be of plain , corrugated , tubular , or radiator type . They are cooled in any one of the ways used for transformers . The operatingmotor and control relays are placed on top of the case ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cover the entire equipment can be made waterproof , suitable for outdoor installation . Smalland medium-capacity regulators are suitable for pole mounting in a manner similar to pole-type transformers . Polyphase regulators are mostly three-phase , but for synchronous-converter operation it may be desirable to use six-phase regulators. 85 . Conservator-type Transformer. ? In small-capacity and low-voltage transformers it is general practice to leave a small air space above the oil level . In such transformers the oil is exposed to oxidation through its contact with the air . Practically all transformers of this type " breathe " new air into this space when there is a contraction in the volume of the oil owing to a load reduction and lower oil temperature . Oxidation of transformer oil shows itself in its simplest form in a darkening of color and in its more aggravated form under abnormal temperature conditions by developing sludge , which settles on the coils or tank walls and acts as a heat insulator . The continued breathing action also introduces moisture into the tank which condenses in the air space and finally settles into the oil . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is introduced , so that in the case of power transformers for the higher transmission voltages , it is essential that the oil he kept free from moisture and also sludging . In some of the higher voltage transformers the oil is actually broken up into its coast ituents by the formation of corona or arcing , such its might occur through a failure in the windings or at the submerged terminals .  | Hydrogen forms the greater portion of the liberated gases . The combination of these gases with air , if in the right proportions , will form a mixture that is explosive . One method that is used to limit sludging and prevent moisture from entering the transformer tank is to provide an auxiliary tank that is connected to and located above the transformer case , the main transformer tank being completely filled with oil ( see Fig. 138 ) . Such a transformer is known as a " conservator " type . Variations in volume of the oil due to temperature changes cause Figure air to be drawn into and expelled from this expansion or conservator tank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this breathed air , and consequently there is much less sludging and very little moisture collected . The air that enters the conservator tank can be dried by the addition of a calcium chloride breather . Practice has shown that where such a chloride breather has beer eared for , very satisfactory results have been attained , but in most cases the chloride is left to deteriorate and is of no value . Most of such transformers are provided with a diaphragm at the and of a pipe which is connected to the transformer case , which in case of excess internal pressures will be ruptured , thereby preventing damage to the main transformer case .  | 86 . Gas-sealed Transformers. ? It has been pointed out that transformer sludging with its accompanying ills is due to the breathing action of transformers , thereby exposing the surface of the oil to moisture and air . This bad feature of operation can be overcome by having the upper part of the transformer tank filled with dry nitrogen gas . This gas seal is supplied from a standard cylinder of dry nitrogen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tank and cover are always Figure subjected to a slight outward pressure . This will prevent , oxygen , moisture , dust , or any other fumes from entering the transformer tank . Suitable mercury-sealed valves and automatic pressure control is provided between the supply cylinder of nitrogen and the transformer tank , in order to take care of the fluctuations in internal tank pressure which will take place during cycles of load changes ( see Fig. 139 ) . Nitrogen is a harmless inert gas that will not combine with any other substance within the transformer case and will not , injure any material used in its construction . It will not I ( I ru , to will it support combustion . For these reasons it , is an ide ; ii  | element for the elimination of the danger of explosions or fire and for the prevention of oxidation of the oil . 87 . Transformer Oil. ? Since the oil in which transformers are immersed is intended largely to furnish the necessary insulation and to dissipate the heat due to the core and copper losses , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformer should not be put into operation if there is any doubt as to the quality of the oil or its condition as regards moisture , etc . Transformer oil should be free from acid , alkali , and sulphur ; should be Figure nonvolatile ; should not carbonize or sludge when heated ; must be of high dielectric strength ; and should be of low viscosity , good thermal conductivity , and high specific heat so that rapid circulation and good cooling may be obtained . 88 . Purification of Transformer Oil. ? As has been indicated , the main causes of the deterioration of insulating oil in service are water and oxidation of the oil caused by air . The standard dielectric test for insulating oils is 22,000 volts between submerged terminals , 1 in. in diameter and 0.1 in. apart . A water content of 8 in I , 000,000 of oil , by volume , will lower the dielectric strength below 22,000 volts . Fine dust , especially if metallic , is  | almost as effective as water in reducing the dielectric strength . Sediment , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed in order to preserve the normal viscosity of the oil and to prevent accumulations on interior parts of the transformer and consequent clogging of the oil channels . Two types of equipment are in general use for purifying oil , the blotter filter press and the centrifugal purifier. a . Blotter Filter Press. ? The complete outfit shown in Figs. 140 and 141 consists of filter press , motor pump , oil strainer , pressure gauge , and piping . The oil is forced through several thicknesses of filter paper which take up the water and screen out Figure the sediment . In order to obtain the best results it is necessary that the filter paper , when first placed on the filter press , be absolutely free from water ; so it is dried in an oven before being placed in the outfit . An electric drying oven is commonly used for this purpose . If the oil contains only a small amount of water , all sediment and water should be removed by passing the oil once through the outfit . If any water remains , it indicates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be renewed . No rule can be given as to how often the filter paper should be changed , as this depends entirely upon the amount of water and carbon in the oil . Transformers are generally provided with two or three outlets , one at the top and two at the bottom of the tank , in order that a filter press may be connected to the tank . In some oI t , be larger central stations it has been found best- completely to pipe  | up all transformers into an oil system , so that the oil of any transformer tank may be readily filtered . b . Centrifugal Purifier. ? Figures 142 and 143 show the details of a centrifugal oil purifier . The oil containing moisture and sediment is forced by a gear pump into a receptacle at the top Figure of the machine . It then flows down into the bowl which rotates at approximately 6,000 r.p.m . The impurities being heavier are thrown to the periphery by centrifugal force , while the oil is forced inward and up to the outlet provided . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the blotter filter press , except that the capacity of the centrifugal purifier is generally higher .  | 89 . Transformer Bushings. ? The most serious difficulties encountered in the design of transformers and other apparatus for high potential is in the insulation of the leads where they pass Figure through the case . Failure is likely to occur either by puncturing the insulation separating the live-metal conductor from the grounded case or by flashing over the surface of the terminal from the conductor to the grounded flange . There are two general types of bushings that are used for high-tension equipment ;  | the condenser bushing and the oil-filled bushing . Solid bushings are generally used for voltages up to about 70,000 volts . a . Condenser Bushing. ? The condenser bushing consists of concentric cylinders of insulating material with layers of metal foil between them . The surfaces of the consecutive layers are so proportioned that the potential gradient is uniform over the outer surface from step to step and decreases gradually and uniformly through the insulating wall from the inside outward . Such a bushing is composed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high-potential conductor and ground , the voltage drop across these condensers being practically uniform . b . Oil filled Bushing. ? This type of bushing consists of a porcelain shell , generally in the form of petticoat insulators through which extends a copper tube ( see Fig. 144 ) . The space between the porcelain shell and this copper tube is filled with oil , an oil glass gauge being provided at the upper end for inspection purposes . The conductor consists of a flexible conductor that is located inside of the copper tube . The porcelain shell is generally made in two sections held together by means of a metal sleeve which forms the section of the bushing that comes in contact with the transformer tank . Questions for Class Discussion 1 . Name four general types of magnetic circuits used for transformers. 2 . Discuss how single-phase and three-phase transformers differ in construction , and compare their advantages and disadvantages . 3 . Describe the general details of a three-phase core and a three-phase shell-type transformer. 4 . Would you install three-phase transformers or banks of three singlephase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by cornparing the two schemes . 5 . How are the coils of shell-type transformers wound and insulated ?  | Why is the insulation thickness generally increased toward the line terminal of the winding ? 6 . Name three types of windings used in core-type transformers . Illustrate each by a suitable sketch . 7 . Why is the problem of cooling large transformers more difficult than for smaller ones ? 8 . What methods of cooling transformers are in common use ? 9 . Why should distribution transformers be designed for a minimum value of no-load losses ? 10 . State the purpose of each of the following types of transformers and give examples of their application to power work : ( a ) power , ( b ) distribution , ( c ) metering , ( d ) constant current , ( e ) induction regulator. 11 . Why is it objectionable to open the secondary of a current transformer that is in service ? Is the transformer liable to be injured ? Is it harmful to short-circuit a current transformer ? 12 . Is there any danger similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential transformers open ? Would it be safe to shortcircuit the secondary terminals ? 13 . Explain the fundamental principle of operation of a constant-current transformer. 14 . Explain the fundamental principle of operation of : ( a ) a single-phase induction regulator , ( b ) a three-phase induction regulator. 15 . Discuss " breathing action " of tranformers . What is an " oil conservator " ? Explain its advantages . 16 . What is a " gas-seated transformer " ? Explain . 17 . The exciting current of a transformer consists largely of a magnetizing component that is reactive . What then is the disadvantage of a large exciting current ? Is there any further disadvantage if the transformer is at the end of a transmission line ? 18 . State some of the necessary qualities that oil must have in order to be suitable for transformer insulation ? 19 . Name and explain two methods that are used to purify transformer oil . 20 . Name three general types of transformer bushings . Explain the construction of each . 21 . Is the voltage gradient along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is uniform potential gradient obtained along the outer surface of a condenser-type bushing ?  | TRANSFORMER CONNECTIONS 90 . General. ? There is practically no limit to the possible ways in which transformers may be connected . In this chapter only a few of the standard methods will be discussed . Transformer connections may be divided into two general classes , depending on the function performed , namely , voltage transformation and phase transformation . As indicated in Art . 58 a polyphase system can not be obtained from a single-phase system without the use of revolving machinery , but one polyphase system can be obtained from another polyphase system by proper trans-Figure former connections . Invariably a phase transformation also involves a voltage transformation . 91 . Single-phase Connections. ? Standard single-phase transformers for distribution service are wound with one or two secondary coils . The simplest application of such transformers is to general distribution for lighting , in which case there are only one primary coil and one secondary coil . Such an installation is illustrated by Fig. 145 . It is , however , of advantage to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a given transformer . The two secondary coils can be connected either in parallel or series as the particular requirements demand . Such connections are shown in Figs. 146 and 147 . It is often desirable to have two voltages available on the secondary , in order that small power and lighting loads may be served from the same transformer ; hence the connections of Fig. 148 are often used . Lighting loads are supplied from the middle and  | either outside lines , while power loads are supplied from the two outside wires . In order to protect the secondary circuit from high potentials , which might be caused due to the breakdown of the insulation between the primary and secondary coils , it is general practice to ground some point of the secondary circuit . In the case of a two-wire single-phase system either one of the lines may be grounded , while in the case of the three-wire system it is best to ground the middle or neutral line . 92 . Two-phase Connections. ? Two-phase connections commonly found in practice may be of three , four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 1 52 . Above each diagram of connections are indicated the secondary-voltage relations . The primary Figure circuit has been shown as a four-wire system , but any of the connections shown for the transformer secondaries are also applicable to the primary . A common primary connection , which is also used besides the one shown , is the three-wire system as illustrated for the transformer secondaries in Fig. 149 . Two-phase circuits are obtained from two independent single. - phase circuits that are displaced from each other by 90 electrical degrees . In practice , two-phase distribution systems are obtained by the use of two single transformers , the terminals of which are interconnected in any one of the methods of Figs. 1.19 to 152 . The three-wire method of Fig. 149 has the distinct advantage that only three wires are needed . It will be noticed that the voltage across ab is 1.41 times the phase voltage . 11 ' a balanced two-phase load is being supplied it also follows that the current flowing in the common line is 1.41 times the current in either of the outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate , hence  | amounting to two separate single-phase systems . The main disadvantage of such a system is the necessity of four wires . By interconnecting the mid-points of the two secondaries , a four-wire interlinked system is obtained ( see Fig. 151 ) . Such a system is in reality a four- or quarter-phase circuit . The advantage of this method of connection is the fact that several values of voltage are obtainable . It may be desirable to bring out the neutral point , thus obtaining a five-wire two-phase circuit . As will be explained later , a neutral line is desirable in connection with the operation of synchronous converters . Another method of obtaining a five-wire circuit is shown in Fig. 152 . This system is similar to that of Fig. 149 with the addi tion of the two extra lines brought out from the mid-points of the Figure two transformers . The advantage offered by a five-wires item is that several voltages are available ; hence several types of loads can be supplied from the same transformers , thereby increasing the transformer load factor . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same reasons as given for single-phase circuits . 93 . Three-phase Connections. ? The most important combinations of transformer connections for this service are deltadelta , IT-delta or delta-Y , Y-Y , open-delta , T-connection , and autotransformer. 94 . Delta-delta Connection. ? This type of connection is illustrated in Fig. 153 . Assuming a balance load the current and voltage relations of a delta-connected transformer are as follows :  | It is , therefore , apparent that each phase of delta-connected transformers must be wound for full line voltage . On the other hand the current-carrying capacity of each phase is only 58 per cent of the line current . Assuming that three delta-connected transformers have the same ratios and impedances , it follows that the resultant voltage acting around the closed delta must be zero , since the three-phase MMI Figure voltages are 120 electrical degrees apart . It is also apparent that the vector sum of any two voltag s is equal to the third voltage ; hence it follows that a delta-connected transformer will continue to deliver power in case one phase is omitted . If , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not alike , there will be a circulating current in the closed delta , and the load will therefore not be equally divided among the three phases . 95 . Y-delta or Delta-Y Connection. ? The delta-delta connections are not used much because both the primary and secondary windings must be wound for full voltage . The Y-delta or delta-Y connection as shown in Fig. 154 is very common , the Y-connection being generally used on the high-voltage side . The simple current and voltage relations for the delta side of Fig. 15 1 are the same as given for the delta-delta-connected bank , but , the Y-relations are as follows :  | where the nomenclature is the same as used for the delta-delta case . For high-tension transmission lines it is general practice to ground the neutral of the Y solidly ; hence the voltage between any one phase and ground is highest at the line terminal . A great saving in insulation and hence cost can therefore be made when high-voltage transformers are designed to operate with the Y neutral grounded . For comparatively low-voltage distribution it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ing a four-wire three-phase system , thereby obtaining two voltages. 96 . Y-Y Connection. ? Transformers connected in Y-Y are sometimes desirable when connecting two systems of rather high voltage , or when it is desirable to maintain the same relative phase positions on both primary and secondary sides . It is , however , necessary to add another winding , known as a tertiary winding , to each transformer of such a bank in order that the operation be satisfactory . In order to explain the function of the tertiary winding , a brief discussion of the properties of iron will be given .  | 97 . Transformer-exciting Current. ? Figure 155 shows a typical hysteresis loop for magnetic steel . Assuming a sine wave of induced voltage , hence a sine wave of flux density , it will be noticed that a peaked wave of exciting current is required . An analysis of this current wave will reveal the presence of a pronounced third harmonic with other higher odd harmonics ( fifth , seventh , ninth , etc. ) of much smaller amplitudes . If the magnetizing current does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wave of voltage , then the voltage wave will contain those harmonics which the magnetizing current lacks . Third-harmonic currents can not flow in an ungrounded Y transformer , but they will flow if the neutral of the Y transformer is connected to the generator neutral through a solid ground of small impedance . A flow of third-harmonic currents through the ground causes serious interference with telephone lines and hence should be avoided . Third-harmonic voltages of all three windings are in phase . This is the reason why delta-delta or Y-delta voltage transformations can be accomplished without any distortion of the voltage wave . The best method by which Y-Y voltage transformation can be accomplished , therefore , is to place a tertiary winding on each transformer core , the three tertiary windings being connected in delta so that the thirdharmonic exciting current can be furnished and thus sinewave voltages obtained in the secondaries . By properly designing the delta-connected tertiary windings , it , is possible to supply a load from them , as , for example , a synchronous condenser at the end of a transmission line . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply a closed circuit , for the harmonic magnetizing currents , they can be designed for any voltage , and hence can be easily designed to carry an additional fundamental load current . The connections are as shown in Fig. 156. 98 . Y-connected Autotransformers. ? In single-phase distribution it is generally desired to keep the primary and secondary circuits electrically insulated from each other for reasons of safety . In primary power feeders or transmission lines , a transformation between rather high voltages is often needed as , for example , between 150,000 and 220,000 volts . I n such a case a great saving in cost can be obtained by using autotransformers connected in Y as shown in Fig. 157 rather than Y-Y-connected  | transformers . Such a method of tying two high-voltage systems has been used to a considerable extent in late years . As in the case of Y-Y transformers , a delta-connected tertiary is needed to supply the necessary harmonic exciting currents . By solidly grounding the neutral of these transformers , the insulation can be decreased at that point . Figure 99 . Three-phase Open-delta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a delta-delta-connected bank , power could still be delivered in case one phase were damaged . It follows , therefore , that a three-phase voltage transformation can be made with only two transformers connected in open delta or V on both primary and secondary sides ( see Fig. 158 ) . Such a scheme is sometimes used as a temporary connection with the intention of completing the delta when conditions of load warrant the addition of a third transformer . Potential instrument transformers are Figure often connected in this manner when it is desired to read all three voltages of a three-phase system . A serious disadvantage of the open delta is the fact that under load the line voltages become unbalanced . 100 . Three-phase T-connection. ? This scheme of connections is similar to the V or open-delta method in that only two transformers are needed . One transformer must be supplied with a mid-point tap , as shown by A in Fig. 159 . The transformer having the mid-point tap is connected across two lines , while the second or " teaser " transformer is connected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line . Similar transformers are generally used for the T connection , and if both are equipped with a mid-point tap they can be interchanged . Where T-connected transformers are installed , they may later be changed to delta with the addition of another transformer . The T connection , however , is seldom used , as it does not offer any decided advantages over some of the other three-phase connections . 101 . Polyphase to Single-phase Connections. ? Single-phase loads can be supplied from any polyphase system merely by using any two terminals , but when a large number of singlephase loads are thus supplied , they should be properly distributed among the different phases in order not to unbalance the polyphase system too much . Figure 102 . Two-phase to Three-phase Connections. ? There are a number of schemes that have been developed for the transformation between two- and three-phase systems , but the scheme most generally used is the so-called " Scott " or " balanced " T connection . This scheme of connections is shown in Fig. 160 with the corresponding voltage relations in Fig. 161 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' I'te ? secondary of transformer B is connected to the mid-point of transformer A. Transformer B must be supplied with an 86.6 per cent tap as shown in order that equal delta voltage may be obtained . In some cases it may be desirable to obtain three-phase from a two-phase system where a transformer having an 86.6 per cent tap is not available . In such a case two alike transformer can be used , the resultant delta-voltages being slightly unlu:l anted , as shown in Fig. 162 . Such a scheme will be suitable as an emergency connection to supply an isolated three-phase lord from a two-phase system , but can not be connected in parallel with any balanced three-phase circuit .  | 103 . Two- and Three-phase Transformer Connections Supplying Synchronous Converters. ? Synchronous converters are frequently installed in connection with Edison systems , where three-wire direct current is required . The three-wire feature is readily obtained by connecting the neutral wire of the directcurrent system directly to the neutral point of the secondary windings of the step-down transformers , if such are furnished . Figure In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converter , the neutral wire of the direct-current system being obtained from the Y-transformer neutral . In case the direct-current load is unbalanced , a resultant direct current will flow in the neutral wire . It is evident that in this case each transformer secondary will receive one-third of the Figure neutral current , and if this current is not small , as compared with the exciting current of the transformers , it will cause an increase in the magnetic-flux density in the iron core . A system with a distributed Y secondary as shown in Fig. 164 has , however , been devised , and will eliminate the effects of the unbalanced direct currant in the neutral . Figure 165 shows in detail the connections necessary . The winding consists of two coils on  | each leg , cross-connected as shown . The direct-current m.m.f. due to one coil on each leg will neutralize that due to the other coil on the same leg , and the only flux in the iron core will be that due to the alternating magnetizing current . Owing to the general appearance of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of connections . The T connection as shown in Fig. 166 can also be used for three-phase converters . The neutral is then brought out from Figure a point at one-third the height of the teaser transformer . The advantage of the T connection is that two transformers can be used instead of three , but it has the disadvantage that the triple-harmonic exciting current is not short-circuited . For two-phase or quarter-phase converters the connections are made as shown in Fig. 167 . In this case the direct current divides into four equal branches which tend to magnetize the Figure transformers in opposite directions , thereby neutralizing their magnetic effects . Delta-connected secondaries may also be used to supply converters if no neutral direct-current line is desired . 104 . Two-phase to Six-phase Connection. ? Six-phase systems are of advantage for the operation of synchronous converters ( see Art . 55 ) and power rectifiers ( see Art . 57 ) ; hence it may often be more economical and desirable to convert a two- or three-phase supply into six-phase , thus using six-phase converters . The standard connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The scheme amounts to a double  | T-connected secondary . The primary and secondary voltage relations are shown in Figs. 169 and 170 . Both transformer secondaries must be wound with two separate windings , and in addition the secondaries of one transformer ( see A , Fig. 168 ) must be equipped with mid-point taps . The secondaries of Figure transformer B must be wound to give only 86.6 per cent as much voltage as the secondaries of transformer .1 . 105 . Three-phase to Six-phase Cennection. ? Three-phase to six-phase transformation may be accomplished in four ways : ( a ) double T , ( b ) double delta , ( c ) double Y , and ( d ) diametrical connections . The first three methods given require double secondary windings , while the diametrical connection requires only one second-Figure ary coil on each transformer ; hence the diametrical connection is the one that is most often used . a . Double T Connections. ? This scheme is shown in Fig. 171 .1 1 , consists of two secondary circuits , each one connected as indicated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of her .  | b . Double Delta Connections. ? This scheme of connections is shown in Fig. 172 . It consists of two delta-connected secondary circuits that are displaced from each other by 180 electrical degrees . The main disadvantage of such a scheme is that no neutral wire can be obtained from the secondaries . Figure c . Double Y Connections . The secondary circuit of this scheme is composed of two sets of Y-connected coils , displaced from each other by 180 electrical degrees ( see Fig. 173 ) . d . Diametrical Connections. ? In this case only one secondary coil per transformer is needed ( see Fig. 171 ) . This fact simplifies the necessary connections for starting cony enters , such as switches and transformer taps . If the secondary coils are provided IV illi  | a mid-point tap , these may be connected together and a neutral wire brought out for a three-wire direct-current system . The six-phase double-Y or diametrical connection is adaptable to six-phase power rectifiers , since the two neutrals or midpoints of the secondaries can be connected to become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 57 ) . 106 . Operation of Three-phase Transformer Banks. ? In Art . 94 it was shown that a delta-delta-connected bank of transformers will continue to deliver power when either a primary or secondary coil becomes damaged . under these conditions each phase will carry line current ; hence the capacity of the open-delta bank is reduced to 58 per cent of the closed-delta bank . Delta-Yor Y-delta-connected transformer banks are , however , used more Figure extensively than delta-delta banks ; hence it is important to understand how such systems will operate under similar conditions . Consider a transmission line equipped with delta-Y step-up and V " - delta step-down transformers ( Fig. 175 ) . Consider the following windings disconnected : a . Winding Z Y. ? Three-phase operation will be maintained , the transformer secondaries operating in V or open delta . The capacity , however , is reduced to 58 per cent of the original value . b . Winding NO. ? If this winding were removed , the remaining Nv-indings YO and OZ will be operating in series across line voltage ; hence three-phase operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N and 0 are solidly grounded and the ground has zero resistance , the phase relation of windings YO and OZ will be maintained . The system will therefore continue to deliver three-phase power . The same thing would be true in case winding aN were disconnected . C. Winding AC. ? If the neutrals N and 0 are grounded , threephase operation will still be maintained . It is essential , however , that the neutrals be well grounded and the ground be of low resistance , in order that such operation be satisfactory .  | 107 . Parallel Operation of Transformers. ? Transformers may be operated in parallel provided the polarity , phase rotation , and angular displacement of the two units are alike and also if the ratios and impedances of the two units are of proper magnitude . In Table X are given the possible parallel combinations of threephase transformers or single-phase transformers in three-phase banks . The ratios of turns must be such that the required line voltages be obtained . For example , consider a delta-Y bank and a Y-delta bank . In order that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is necessary that the ratio of primary to secondary turns in the Y-delta bank be one-third of the ratio of primary to secondary turns in the delta-Y bank . The other possible schemes given in Table X require transformers of equal ratios for all parallel banks . In case the impedances are not of the proper magnitude , the terminal voltages of the two banks will not be alike and , therefore , when connected in parallel , a circulating current will flow between the separate banks in the same manner as in the case of two generators which are operating in parallel with unequal induced voltages . It is possible to estimate the proportional division of load between two single-phase transformers of the same turns ratio by using the simple equivalent series circuits of the two transformers . From basic circuit analysis we know that the currents of two parallel impedances divide in the following ratio : where T , , h , Zit , and Z2 represent , respectively , the complex  | algebra value of currents and series impedances of the two transformers operating in parallel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current , then by proper substi-tution From these equations it will be seen that if two transformers of the same turns ratio are operated in parallel the load division will take place in the inverse ratio of impedances. 108 . Tap Changing of Transformers under Load. ? Undoubtedly , voltage regulation of system transmission or distribution lines is the most important feature of good operation unless it Figure should be cost of service . Any line can be designed to give constant voltage , but initial cost and operating expense may be too excessive . Induction-type regulators as discussed in Art . 84 are ideal for circuits operating at a rather high load factor . The exciting current of induction regulators is quite high and would therefore cause considerable line-voltage drops under light loads . Furthermore , the induction regulator is quite expensive ; hence for some applications , voltage control must be obtained by other means . Many schemes of tap changing of transformers have been devised . For the lower capacity units it is accomplished by providing taps to the transformer winding with some type of movable or rotating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fig. 176a . In this case the secondary is connected in series with the line in an additive or subtractive manner as determined by the position of the reversing switch . The secondary ircuit is completed through the contacts A and B and the small  | autotransformer . The contacts A and B are movable and make contact with any one or any two adjacent taps of the series winding . The autotransformer is used to prevent excessive circulating current from flowing when the movable contacts A and B are in contact with adjacent taps of the series winding . Figure In the case of high currents it is preferable to use a scheme similar to Fig. 176b , in which the movable contacts are placed on the primary or exciting winding , reducing the current handled by the tap-changing mechanisms . The operation of this type of tap changer is basically the same as that of Fig. 176a . Contacts A and B may be made to move in a circular path or in a straight line path , depending on the particular arrangement of the tap contacts . Movable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large power units it is necessary to use a series of independent switches operating in a predetermined sequence . In Fig. 176c is shown the schematic diagram of connections of a transformer secondary with all necessary switches . To obtain the full winding voltage , switch 1 is closed to connect one-half of the autotransformer to tap 1 . To change taps one step , it is only necessary to close switch 2 , which places the autotransformer across two taps , giving a voltage on the mid-tap of the preventive autotransformer halt  - -  way between the two actual tap voltages . To change taps another step , the wily operation required is to open switch 1 , which leaves switch 2 closed , thus obtaining voltage corresponding to tap 2.  | The standard voltage range for tap changing under load is from 110 to 90 per cent of normal voltage in eight 2 ? z per cent steps . 109 . Separate Tap-changing Units. ? For high-voltage installations it becomes advisable and also convenient to use a standard transformer with the tap-changing transformer as a separate unit . A single-phase application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fig. 177b . Figure 110 . Phase Shifting under Load . In three-phase systems it is possible by proper connections to obtain regulated voltages that are in phase quadrature with the main transformer phase voltages . By this method it is possible to obtain a phase shifting of the voltages as well as a change in magnitude . This feature is of value when two lines of dissimilar capacities and constants are operated in parallel , the division of load between the two lines being controllable in such cases . Questions for Class Discussion 1 . Illustrate by means of sketches the application of single-phase transformers to distribution service .  | 2 . Illustrate by sketches the various possible connections of two-phase transformer banks . 3 . Draw wiring diagrams for transformers connected Y-Y , delta-delta , Y-delta , V-V , and T-T . What are the relative merits of each of these schemes of connection ? 4 . Why does a Y-Y bank of transformers with neutrals not grounded require a set of delta-connected tertiary windings ? Explain clearly . Are delta-connected tertiary windings required in case one neutral is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delta-connected tertiary ? 5 . Illustrate by diagram the connections involved in a bank of autotransformers connected in Y. Are delta-connected tertiary windings required in this case ? 6 . Would you install an autotransformer to supply a 110-volt lighting circuit from a 2,200-volt line ? Why ? 7 . Would the above transformer be suitable to boost the voltage of a 2,000-volt line to 2,100 volts ? Draw a diagram of connections . Could a standard 2,200-volt 110-volt lighting transformer be used for this purpose ? 8 . With transformers connected in Y and the neutral not grounded , is it possible to get the full line voltage impressed on the transformer insulation ? Explain . Can this happen with a grounded neutral ? 9 . Tabulate advantages and disadvantages of ( a ) Y and delta connections , ( b ) grounded and ungrounded neutral . Draw vector diagrams for two banks of transformers in parallel : delta-delta with Y-Y , etc. 10 . Draw a diagram of the Scott connection for two- to three-phase transformation . How many single-phase transformers are needed , and what voltage taps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of obtaining a three-wire Edison system from a converter ? 12 . What are the disadvantages of unbalancing the loads of a three-wire Edison system when supplied with a neutral wire from the neutral of a Y-connected transformer secondary ? 13 . How can the above difficulty be overcome ? Are there any disadvantages in this scheme ? 14 . Name four possible schemes of connection by which six phases may be obtained from a three-phase supply . What power application requires six-phase supply ? 15 . Three-phase power is delivered through a bank of transformers . One of the windings burns out . Will the system continue to operate for the following cases : Primary , ( a ) delta , ( b ) delta , ( c ) Y , ( d ) Y ? Secondary , ( a ) delta , ( b ) Y , ( c ) delta , ( d ) Y ? One primary winding burns out ? One secondary burns out ? Will the results be different with neutral gounded or undergrounded ? 16 . State what combination of Y-Y , delta-delta , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 17 . Discuss the methods of changing taps on transformers under load . 18 . How are the tap-changer contacts embodied in the transformer design ? 19 . Discuss phase shifting under load . Explain how this may be accomplished on a three-phase syst ern.  | SWITCHBOARDS AND SWITCHBOARD LAYOUTS 111 . Classification. ? Switchboards may be classified according to service , control , framework , panel material , and arrangement . 112 . Service . It is practically impossible to cover every type of switchboard application , but a few of the most important ones are given below . Figure a . Direct Current . Direct-current panels may be for generator , converter , or general lighting and power service . In Figs. 178 and 179 are illustrated a few typical examples of direct-current switchboards for two-wire generator and compound-wound converter service . For two-wire systems it is general practice to use only one circuit , breaker , thereby simplifying the necessary connec-  | tions . In all direct-current switchboard installations it is important that the carbon circuit breakers be mounted at the top of the panel in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not damage any other equipment on the board . The circuit breakers may be equipped with tripping coils so that the circuits may be opened under short circuits , under voltage , or under other abnormal conditions . Figures 180 and 181 illustrate Figure typical arrangements for three-wire direct-current generator panels . For such installations it is necessary to use two circuit breakers and also two ammeters , which are placed in the two outside lines . The equalizer switch may be mounted on the control panel or on a pedestal which is generally placed near the machine . A combination switch having two sets of contacts is sometimes used in the main line and equalizer circuits as slum n at B in Fig. 180 . For large-capacity installations it may be  | advisable to mount the circuit breakers on a separate panel which may be placed near the generator or at some other convenient place in the power plant . Such an installation is represented in Fig. 180 by C and D , and in Fig. 181 . The circuit breakers are solenoid operated and controlled from the main switchboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not as a general rule mounted on the switchboard panels , but on swinging brackets on the end panel , the voltage of any particular machine or circuit being read by means of a plugging arrangement . The field rheostats may be controlled by a small hand wheel on the panel itself . In some cases motor-operated rheostats controlled by proper switches located on the main panels are used . A large direct-current power switchboard is shown in Fig. 182 and a medium-size lighting switchboard in Fig. 183.  | b . Alternating Current . There is no definite classification which can be given that will cover all types of alternating-current switchboards . Every application must be studied by itself and the proper type , construction , and arrangement of panels and equipment made accordingly . In the remainder of this chapter , however , a few of the outstanding types of alternating-correnl switchboards that are commonly found in power plants are de ? cussed , no mention being made of the large number of special applications . 113 . Methods of Control . The control of switchbotl , rcls nl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " manual remote , " or " elect ric:1.I ' emote " // The advantages and disadvantages and field of application of these three types of switchboard will be discussed in Chap . X. Electrical remote panels are shown in Figs. 185 to 187 . A manual remote panel is shown in Fig. 184 , while the rear view of a direct manual board is seen in Fig. 191. 114 . Switchboard Framework . The two standard types or frames used for switchboards are made of angle iron and tubular iron . The angle frames are made of standard 3- by 2- by Y4-in. angle iron , and the tubular frames are made up of 1 %-in. wroughtiron pipe . For small boards the tubular frame is undoubtedly the best selection . The lower part of these frames , which Figure appears between the panel section and the floor , does not require any special covering to give a finished appearance . For large multisection panels the angle-iron frame offers some advantages . Where angle frames are used , the panel sections and the two panel uprights form a unit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hence each unit can be completely wired by the manufacturer before delivery . For the tubular frame , however , one upright is common to two adjacent panels ; hence , as a general rule , such panels are shipped unassembled. 115 . Panel Material . The materials generally used for switchboard panels are slate and asbestos ebony . In recent years allsteel switchboards have been built for boards that are subjected to very low potentials only .  | Figure  | a . Slate. ? Natural black slate or black marine-finished slate are the two most common materials used for switchboard panels . Natural black slate is more expensive than the black marinefinished slate but has better electrical properties . Cheaper grades of slates are rubbed with oil to give a dull velvety black Figure finish , known as black marine finish . Such a panel does not show oil stains and hence is well adaptable to boards that have oil circuit breakers mounted directly on the rear of the panels . Slate boards are not desirable for voltages over 600 to 1,200 volts . Marble may also be given a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sections of slate switchboards may be nlnile of black marine-finished marble .  | b . Asbestos Ebony. ? This material , which is manufactured by Johns-Manville Inc. , is available in the form of sheets or simple molded forms made up of asbestos fiber thoroughly impregnated with binding cements under heat and pressure into a compound of very high dielectric strength . In appearance it resembles highly surfaced ebony or hard rubber . A few of its outstanding merits , according to the manufacturers ' claims , are as follows : high dielectric strength , good insulation , ability to stand shocks and vibration , uniform density , light weight . It is unaffected by rapid temperature changes ; does not shrink , crack , or buckle , is readily cut and drilled ; and is not generally affected by chemicals . Other similar switchboard materials are also offered by other companies . c . Steel. ? With the absence of live parts , such as knife switches , on the front of modern electrically operated switchboards , steel panels are especially adaptable to this class of work . Comparing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of the steel panels are as follows : 1 . Lower cost in manufacture , shipment , erection , and maintenance . 2 . About five times as light in weight . 3 . Simplicity in erection , as the steel panel forms its own framework . 4 . Easily maintained . 5 . Unbreakable . Where an occasional knife switch or other live part must be taken care of , the switch parts are mounted on an insulated base located behind the steel panel and actuated from the front I means of an insulated operating handle . Meters , relays , and other instruments must have their terminals properly insulated from the board by means of insulating bushings , or else suit ald e clearances are given the holes through which protrude I he electrical conducting studs . An all-steel board is show n in Fig. 185. 116 . Arrangement .  --  There are a large number of possible ways in which a switchboard may be arranged , but arrangements are generally made up of one or more of the following elements : 1 . Vertical panels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few typical arrangements . The simplest form shown by a is a vertical panel board , examples of  | which are shown in Figs. 182 to 185 . The general arrangement of equipment on such a board is to place all essential meters at the top , all relays and nonessential meters at the bottom , and the control equipment halfway between the top and bottom of the board ( see Figs. 184 and 185 ) . A control desk may be used alone as shown at b , when there are only a few instruments which can be of the flush type . A slight improvement over arrangement b is obtained in c by placing the instruments on a small vertical panel at the back of the desk . For medium-sized plants the arrangement shown at d is common . In such a case all control equipment is located on the top of the desk and all essential meters on the vertical panel ( see Fig. 186 ) . In order to accommodate a large number of relays and nonessential meters , another vertical panel may be used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sometimes switchboards are located in a gallery above the main generator-room floor in order that the operator may see the units that he is controlling . For such conditions , arrangements f , q , and h are well suited . Switchboards f and g are made up of control desk and a meter panel mounted above the desk by means of columns . Arrangement h is a combination off and a . For large plants , where the number of circuits is large , an arrangement similar to i must be used , which is an expansion of c . Any of the above arrangements may be mounted in a straight line , known as a linear switchboard , as illustrated by Figs. 185 and 186 ; or in the are of a circle , known as a semicircular switchboard , as shown in Fig. 187 . The semicircular switchboard has the advantage that all parts of the board can be seen by the operator with the least trouble . Its use , however , requires a large space and hence is sometimes rejected on that account . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linear type of board . A special arrangement used for industrial substations and for central-station auxiliary circuits commonly known as the trucktype panel is shown in Fig. 188 . The busbars are mounted in a steel housing , and the panel , circuit breaker , and instrument transformers are on a removable truck . Truck-type panels are equipped with either manually operated or electrically operated eircnit breakers . The panels are usually made of steel . The principal advantages of the truck-type panels are as follows :  | 1 . All live parts are totally enclosed , and mechanical interlocks prevent mistakes in operation . 2 . All parts requiring inspection are on a removable truck which is " dead " on all sides when removed from the housing . 3 . A truck may be replaced by a spare one in a few moments ' time and the circuit breaker inspected without a prolonged interruption of service . 117 . Wiring of Electrically Operated Switchboards . The wiring of electrically operated switchboard panels should be done in a neat and orderly manner in order that extensions or repairs may easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Fig. 190. 118 . Instruments and Control Equipment .  --  Below are listed the general instruments and other equipment that may be found on different types of switchboards. a . Alternating-current Generator Circuits . One alternating current ammeter for balanced loads . For unbalanced loads one ammeter with a switching arrangement for reading the current in all lines should be used ( see Art . 150 ) , or a better scheme is to use one ammeter in each line . Table  | Table 119 . Miniature Bus . For the proper and efficient operation of elect ric ; tlly operated switchboards , a miniature bus is desirable .  | The miniature bus is a skeleton or single-line diagram of all main circuits of the station , with devices for indicating the relative location of all circuit breakers , disconnecting switches , generators , power transformers , and feeder circuits . The miniature bus is generally made of polished copper strap run along the top of the control desk or , in the case of a vertical board , on the face of the panel ( see Fig. 185 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirable to indicate the different voltages by means of different finishes given to the miniature bus . Red and green lamps are generally placed in the miniature bus to indicate the position of switches , circuit breakers , or other equipment . The red light generally indicates that the switch or oil circuit breaker is closed , and the green light the open position . Questions for Class Discussion 1 . Describe the general arrangement and type of equipment usually found on switchboards for direct-current service ; for two- and three-wire generators , for general lighting , and for general power panels . Why should carbon circuit breakers be placed at the top of the panel ? 2 . When several direct-current generators are operated in parallel , why is the equalizer switch often mounted on a separate pedestal located near the machines ? 3 . How can alternating-current switchboards be classified with respect to their mode of control ? 4 . Is the tubular or the angle-frame construction the better for large switchboards ? Why ? 5 . Tabulate the advantages and disadvantages of slate , and steel as panel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it unsuitable for highvoltage switchboards ? 7 . What general considerations must be kept in mind in grouping various switchboard panels ? 8 . Name four distinct types of switchboard arrangements , and give some of the more common combinations that are found in practice . What factors go to determine the particular arrangement for a given installation ? 9 . What is the maximum voltage that is generally allowed on the switchboard of a remote electrically controlled installation ? 10 . Describe the general methods of wiring remote electrically controlled switchboards. 11 . What are the relative merits of linear-type and semicircular switch-boards ? 12 . In the case of a vertical-panel and control-desk type of installation , what is the general arrangement of meters , relays , and control equipment ? How would this equipment he placed on a single vertical-panel installation ? // 13 . Name the principal measuring instruments used in central stations . Which are used for direct-current installations ? Which for alternating-current installations ? Which for both ? 14 . What additional features must be taken into account in the equipment of alternating-current switchboards over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not necessary on a direct-current generator panel . Why is it necessary on an alternating-current board ? 16 . If a wattmeter is used on an alternating-current board , why is an ammeter also required ? 17 . Name the meters and other equipment that are generally found on the following switchboard panels : ( a ) alternating-current generator , ( b ) feeder circuits , ( c ) transmission lines , or tie lines , ( d ) synchronous motor , ( e ) synchronous condenser. 18 . Explain the purpose of a miniature bus . How are circuits of different voltages distinguished from each other ? How are the relative position and operation of circuit breakers and switches designated ?  | SWITCHING EQUIPMENT 120 . General Considerations . Switching equipment of a plant or a system includes all the busbar structures , switch houses or cells , operating circuits or mechanisms of circuit breakers or switches , switchboards , or in other words the entire system that has to do with the control and distribution of power in a plant . The selection of suitable switching equipment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or alternating current , will be governed by many conditions , their relative importance being different for different installations . The most important are named below : 1 . Maximum safety to life and property . 2 . Continuity of service . 3 . First cost . 4 . Available space . 5 . Desired operating features . 6 . Voltage of plant and system . 7 . Capacity of plant and system . 121 . Types of Switching Equipment . The heart of the control system of a plant is its switchboard ; hence it is to be expected that the type of switching equipment is to a great extent determined by the class of switchboard used . The classification given below is therefore the same as the one given for switchboards ( see Art . 113 ) . a . Direct Manual . In this system all switches , circuit breakers , busbars , and other apparatus of control are mounted either upon the back of the switchboard panels or upon frame work directly back of the panels . b . Manual Remote. ? In this system the oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the sviteh board , the circuit breakers being operated by hand through connecting rods , chains , bell cranks , etc. ( see Fig. 19 ) 2 ) . C. Electrical remote control , which uses electrically operated equipment located apart from the switchboard and operated by means of control switches mounted on t he panels 2:i ( u  | 122 . Applications and Limitations of the Different Types of Switching Equipment . a Direct Manual Control. ? Practically all the direct-current switching will fall under this class . The capacities of direct-current stations are rather low , the maximum voltage seldom exceeding 1,500 volts . Direct-current installations can be divided into two general classes : those for relatively large capacities , such as direct-current railways systems , lighting and power for large industrial plants , hotels , central stations , etc. ; and those for small capacities which include a very large field , such as for lighting and power in small industrial plants , small Figure hotels , and small central stations , together with a large number of special applications of direct current , such as for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternating-current installations , experience has shown that for the usual conditions of service this class of switchboard should not be applied to stations whose capacity exceeds 3,000 kva. in the case of three-phase , 2,000 kva. in the case of single-phase , and 4,000 kva. in the case of two-phase stations . moreover it is considered good practice to confine its application to 2,500 volts or less and only in rare cases go to higher voltages with 6,600 volts as the limit . The reason for this limitation lies in the danger to attendants from high-voltage apparatus when in close proximity to low-voltage control and instrument wiring , rheostats , etc. , which require inspection and occasional repairs ; and also in the necessity , with the higher voltages , of  | longer and higher switchboards to gain sufficient spacing distances . It is recommended that the size of individual circuit breakers and switches for this type of switchboard be limited to 800 amp . or less per pole at 2,500 volts because of the following reasons : 1 . The advisability of limiting the amount of power handled by one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The difficulty in obtaining adequate installation distances between the heavy busbars and connections required for larger capacities . 3 . The mechanical strains imposed upon the panels by the large capacity circuit breakers with their heavy connections due both to their dead weight and to the shock of operation . b . Remote Manual Control . The advantages gained by the use of remote manual control over that of the self-contained direct-control boards may be summarized briefly as follows : 1 . As a " safety-first " feature all high voltages are removed from the panels , thus allowing ready inspection of the instrument and control wiring and preventing the chance of injury to attendants . 2 . The panel board can be located to much better advantage when considering the remainder of the installation , because less space and protection are required . 3 . Panels are not subject to the mechanical strains due to automatic operation or to dead weight of heavy switchgear. 4 . Violent explosions may sometimes occur , on opening severe short circuits , by circuit breakers , but they will not injure the panels nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breakers are sufficiently spaced or enclosed in fireproof cells . 5 . Panel widths may be reduced 15 to 50 per cent , this saving quite frequently offsetting the additional expense of the remotecontrol mechanisms . 6 . The more compact arrangement of meters , instruments , and switches , resulting from the use of narrow panels , greatly assists the operators , approaching more nearly the compact and efficient arrangements obtained by the use of control desks. 7 . Decrease in length of main cables from machines and feeder outlets by locating the circuit breakers in close proximity tot he bus structures . 8 . Isolation of exposed high-voltage wiring and bus st riict ores in separate switch rooms .  | In comparison with the electrically operated board , the remote mechanically operated board usually occupies 5 to 50 per cent more space , although the circuit breakers and busbars for a given capacity will be practically identical . Many of the plants of smaller capacity which could readily have used panel-mounted apparatus have felt justified in incurring the small extra expense necessary to provide the remote mechanical control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while using electrically operated equipment in their main generating and transforming stations , have adopted remote control for the same class of apparatus in their substations . Remote manual-control switchboards are restricted in their application by mechanical , rather than electrical , characteristics . They are applicable where the simplicity of connections or accessibility desired can not be obtained with panel-mounted apparatus , where station capacity or voltage is so high as to make it desirable to mount oil circuit breakers apart from the panels , and where station arrangement permits the use of manually operated remote-control oil circuit breakers . The mechanical limitations in applying these switchboards are ( 1 ) the distance from the switchboard panels to the corresponding oil switching device , and ( 2 ) the power required to operate the switching devices through the system of bell cranks and connecting rods . It has been found from experience that this type of switchboard should be confined to the use of circuit breakers of 2,000-amp. capacity or less and of 50,000 volts or less , indoor service , and to stations whose capacity does not exceed 25,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not recommended for outdoor stations . This is on account of the long operating rods usually required and , for stations in northern climates , the difficulty in properly protecting bell cranks , shafts , etc. , against ice and sleet . If outdoor stations are of any appreciable importance and size , electrically operated breakers are justified even though they cost 25 per cent more . c . Electrically Remote Control. ? As in the application of t he self-contained or remote manually controlled switch-board , there is no well-defined field to which any of the different combinations of electrical control is confined . More than in any other type of switchboard does the electrically oper-  | ated panel approach the ideal of the designing engineer , as it is almost entirely uninfluenced by the form of apparatus that it controls . This fact accounts for the great variety of combinations of panels . The actual detail of some of the panels in use , together with the meters and controlling devices , are covered in Chap . IX . There are certain general conditions that influence a choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangement of switching layout is obtained . The most important of these are the following : 1 . The capacity of the station . 2 . The number of generators , feeders , bus ties , and exciter units to be controlled . 3 . The relative proportion of feeder to generator circuits . 4 . The scheme of busbars and interconnections. 5 . The location and arrangements of the switchboard gallery or room as regards the location and arrangements of the station apparatus . 6 . The first cost and maintenance cost . 7 . The number and kind of instruments and control devices to be used . There is practically no limitation to the application of the remote electrically controlled switchboard , if the necessary control source is available . It finds its greatest use , however , in plants of heavy capacities requiring electrically operated apparatus , or where the distance between the board and switching devices makes the application of hand-controlled apparatus undesirable or even impossible . 123 . Methods of Mounting Switching Equipment . The choice of the proper form of structure for the apparatus that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the apparatus thereon present a more difficult problem than do the design and arrangement of the panels themselves . The reason lies in the many practical forms of structure and the large number of arrangements of the apparatus which may be made upon each of the various forms . As a general rule , the methods of mounting the equipment may be classed under one of the following five heads : 1 . Wall mounting , in which all apparatus and bnsharsarecither mounted directly on or supported from a wall of the building .  | 2 . Framework mounting , in which all apparatus and busbars are mounted on a framework of iron-pipe or structural-steel shapes or a combination of the two . 3 . Combination wall and framework mounting . 4 . Concrete or masonry structure mounting , in which all apparatus and busbars are mounted in cells or compartments . 5 . Combination concrete and structural mounting , in which circuit breakers are mounted in concrete cells ; remaining apparatus and busbars on iron framework , which may be either pipe or structural-steel shapes . Many modifications of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cells of asbestos , lumber , slate , soapstone , molded concrete , or other suitable materials are frequently used to enclose circuit breakers and busbars. 124 . Remote Manual-control Mechanism . The remote mechanism that is used in most cases for switches and circuit breakers consist of a series of levers and rods . The direction of the operating force is always linear , changes in direction being made by means of short levers on a fixed fulcrum commonly known as " bell cranks . " The connecting rods are commonly made of 34 ' - in. iron pipe , as it is cheap , usually easy to obtain , and naturally well suited for the purpose . Wooden rods are sometimes used because of their light weight , and in some cases such as for field switches or disconnecting switches , on account of their insulating properties . 125 . Bus and Switch Structures. ? In discussing bus and switch structures of power plants , distinction should be made between the low-tension and high-tension structures . There are a number of installations in which the high-tension bus structures are placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency in modern power-plant design to place all the step-up transformers and high-tension switching equipment outdoors , leaving only the low-tension equipment indoors . All outdoor switching structures take the general form of outdoor substations , which are covered in Chap . XIX. 126 . Low-tension Bus Structures : In Art . 123 , five different methods of mounting switching equipment were given . The first three methods comprise very low voltage and capacity systems which are , therefore , relatively unimportant . The last  | two , however , are applicable to large central stations and will therefore he discussed more in detail . As higher generator voltages and capacities are used , it becomes practically necessary to enclose completely the busses and switching equipment , in order to guard against personal injury , and also maintain all circuits of different polarities apart from each other , thereby minimizing the possibility of short circuit between phases . In addition to promoting safety of operation . enclosing the bus structure also gives to the plant a finished and Figure orderly appearance , which is conductive to better operation and maintenance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is small in comparison with the cost of the entire plant . The particular type of construction chosen will depend to a great extent on the particular type of plant-circuit layout ( see Chap . VI ) , but operating and local conditions will also have a great influence in determining the actual structures . A few typical arrangements are shown in Figs. 193 to 196 . Some of the important features of the system , which must not be overlooked , are as follows : 1 . All dimensions of the cells or compartments must be adequate . The dimensions are determined by the minimum : dieww  | able distance between conductor and ground which is dictated by the voltage of the system . 2 . All openings , such as at the circuit-breaker compartments , should be provided with doors of strong but light and fireproof material and should be removable to allow free access when repairs are necessary . 3 . Circuit breakers should be placed in such positions that the least amount of damage is done in the case of an explosion of the breaker tank . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accessible places , so that they may be opened or closed without difficulty . 5 . Ample provision must be made for the location of current and potential transformers , which are essential for metering and protective purposes . 6 . All busbar supports must be accessible in order that damaged supports may be easily replaced . For this purpose openings in the busbar cells are generally left at the points where the supports are located . 7 . Allowance must be made for busbar expansion and contraction .  | 8 . Sufficient radiating surface must be provided . For heavy currents it is common practice to laminate the busbars . Figure 9 . Busbar supports must be securely clamped or bolted to the framework or cell walls and placed at enough points properly to resist the stresses set up during heavy short circuits . In the case of medium-capacity systems a much cheaper arrangement can be used , such as a combination nl ' cell : i , nd framework as shown in Fig . I ! ) 7 . Such an arrangement is more open  | than the previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper care it can be made perfectly satisfactory . A unique arrangement of bus structures will be occasionally found in large central stations . In this arrangement , Figure generally known as the " isolated-phase arrangement , " each phase of the three-phase circuit is entirely isolated from the other two , hus niininiizing as far as possible the chances for short circuits .  | Figure One standard arrangement is shown in Fig. 198 . Each individual unit of the circuit breakers is mounted in a separate concrete chamber , while the common operating mechanism is mounted on the top of the upper cells . A pipe mechanism passing through the concrete walls connects the units in such a way as to cause simultaneous operation . The disconnecting switches are similarly controlled .  | Of late years there seems to be a tendency toward completely enclosed and insulated switchgear . With this in mind , manufacturers have developed the so-called metal-clad switchgear . Figure Figure A typical example of this equipment is the Reyrolle switchgear as made by the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company , see Figures 7.99 and 200 . For convenience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fixed portion and the movable portion . The fixed portion  | includes the supporting framework , busbars , disconnect sockets , current transformer chamber , dividing box , and those parts which are fixed in position . The movable portion constitutes a complete assembly supported by the fixed portion and housing the oil circuit breaker with its operating mechanism and disconnect plugs . The sectional view ( Fig. 199 ) is typical of the design for the horizontal drawout switchgear units . In these types all live parts are either embedded in insulating compound or immersed in oil , and the whole is enclosed within grounded metal casings , which form the exterior covering . 127 . High-tension Bus Structures . For high-tension voltages the necessary distance between lines becomes so great that it is not economical or practicable to enclose the bus structure in cells or compartments as is the case with low-tension circuits . In Table XI are given the approximate spacings necessary between rigid conductors and between conductors and ground for practically all voltages now in use . The bus structure for hightension circuits , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of operation , must be so arranged that all live parts are well out of reach . A common method used for indoor installations of this nature is to fasten the high-tension busses and disconnecting switches to the ceiling of the high-tension bus room and mount the oil circuit breakers on the floor or on proper framework so that the top of all bushings is well out of reach . The disconnecting switches are generally arranged so that they can be operated from the floor by means of rods and bell cranks . It is evident that the building space necessary to house hightension equipment is rather large ; hence in a good many modern installations all such equipment is placed outdoors . Since the current is relatively small , the busbars are generally made of copper tubing , but in some cases iron pipe has been used . The bus supports often are composed of standard suspensionunit insulators as used on transmission lines . For cases requiring absolute rigidity high-tension column insulators are used , but as far as possible these should not be subjected to great bending stresses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bushings of circuit breakers or switches . When used for the entire bus structure , a greater number of supporting insulators must be used in order that the entire installation have the proper degree of rigidity.  | Table The problem of bringing a high-tension wire out of a building must be carefully worked out . Two typical methods of doing this are shown in Figs. 201 and 202 . The problem is essentially the same as that found in high-tension transformers and circuit breakers requiring expensive bushings . Questions for Class Discussion 1 . Name some of the factors that must be considered when deciding upon a particular type of switching equipment . 2 . Name the distinct types of switching equipment and specify the particular field of application for each type . 3 . What are some of the limitations of " direct-control switchboards " ? 4 . Name a few of the advantages gained by the use of the " remote manual control " over that of the self-contained direct-control boards .  | 5 . What are the general limitations of the " remote type of control " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice in high- and low-voltage plants ? What values would be considered as high voltage , and what as low ? 7 . Compare , for example , ( a ) small isolated plants , ( b ) large hydroelectric developments . 8 . Why do large modern stations use the more expensive remote electrical control of circuit breakers ? 9 . In some systems the circuit breaker at the powerhouse end of a feeder has remote electrical control while a breaker of the same rating in the substation is manually operated . Justify this practice . What other difference would you expect ? 10 . Give a brief description of the remote manual-control mechanism . 11 . Give a brief description of the method generally employed in large plants for mounting and enclosing the low-tension busses and switching equipment . Illustrate by a few sketches . 12 . Enumerate some of the factors that must be carefully considered when designing a system of low-tension bus structures . 13 . What is meant by the so-called " isolated-phase " arrangement of busses and switch structures ? Illustrate by sketches . 14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enclosed in cells or compartments in a similar manner used for the lowtension bus structures ? 15 . Describe a typical method for supporting the high-tension busses and ; twitching equipment in an indoor installation . 16 . Discuss the details of the construction and operation of the completely enclosed types of switchgear . What are the advantages of this equipment over the standard forms of open switchgear.  | SWITCHING AND CONTROL DEVICES ' 128 . Purpose . Under the general head of switching and control devices are included all types of switches , fuses , circuit breakers , and a large number of other devices , the purposes of which are to make , break , or change the connections in an electric circuit , under either normal or abnormal conditions . 129 . Switches. ? The most important types of switches fall in one of the following classes ( a ) knife switches , ( b ) disconnecting switches , ( c ) air-break switches , ( d ) control switches , ( e ) auxiliary switches , ( f ) oil switches . a . Knife Switches. ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low voltage and current capacity . They are extensively used in lighting and small power circuits as shown in Fig. 183 . In order to protect such low-capacity circuits against overloads and short circuits , it is necessary that proper fuses be connected in series with the switch blades . b . Disconnecting Switches. ? For power circuits it is necessary to use some type of circuit breaker to open or close the circuit . In order to isolate the circuit breakers , it is generally considered good practice to connect knife switches in series with the circuit breakers . Such knife switches are known as disconnecting switches . They should never be opened until the circuit breaker in the same circuit has been opened , and should always be closed before the circuit breaker is closed . They are not designed to break currents and should , therefore , never be opened while current is flowing in the line . In Fig. 203 is shown a typical indoor heavy-current low-tension disconnecting switch . There is no definitely fixed rule as to where and how such switches must be used , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sides of circuit breakers or in such a manner that it may be possible to deaden both sides of the circuit breakers in order that repairs or replacements may be made without any danger . 1 Ten Years of Progress in Circuit Interrupters , Elec . Eng. , Vol. 60 , No. 11 , p. 523 , November , 1941.  | It is also advisable to connect the switches in such a manner that when opened the blade will be dead . A number of diagrams illustrating the application of disconnecting switches are shown Figure Figure in Figs. 96 to 111 . Disconnecting switches may be operated by hand , either directly or by means of ' a wooden pole , or through a set of levers and bell cranks ; or in the case of high-voltage  | switches the control may be done electrically . Disconnecting switches for high-voltage circuits will be discussed more in detail in Chap . XXI. c . Air-break Switches . By " air-break " switches are meant switches designed to open circuits under load . They are generally used outdoors for circuits of medium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a main transmission line or feeder . In order to take care of the arc that occurs on opening such a switch , special arcing horns are provided , so that the arc may rise and be ruptured . Air-break switches are built for about 135,000 volts maximum , but their use is in general confined to lower voltages . These switches are not designed to open under abnormal conditions , such as short circuits . Figure 204 shows a typical air-break switch . d . Control Switches . This class includes all switches that are used to control the operation of other equipment . As a general rule , they are designed for operating voltages less than 250 volts and very small current capacities . The types generally used in power plants are illustrated on the switchboards of Figs. 185 to 187 . In addition to these types there are a large number of special types , such as " rotating " - and " plug " - type instrument switches as illustrated in Chap . XII . e . Auxiliary Switches . In this class are included all switches or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device . In the control of power equipment , such as circuit breakers , it is impracticable to handle the operating current through the control switches on the switchboard ; hence an auxiliary operating switch is placed near the circuit breaker , this switch being electrically operated by a control switch that may be located at any desired distance from the circuit breaker . Thus the control circuits may be designed for very small currents , while the operating circuits as a general rule must handle much larger currents and very often at higher voltages. f . Oil Switches . For certain applications at high voltages and large current capacities it is desirable to immerse the switch contacts under oil . The effect of the oil is to cool and quench the are that tends to form when the circuit is broken . q. .11 agnetie-impulse Switches. ? In this type of switch the arc is extinguished by blowing it magnetically into are chutes where it is lengthened cooled , and interrupted . The magnetic effect  | is produced by the circuit current which is passed though suitable coils , setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ switch contacts as they are opened . The basic principle involved in lengthening the arc is that of the simple motor , in which force is directly proportional to the product of magnetic flux and current . 130 . Fuses. ? Fuses are used to protect circuits of small capacity against abnormal currents such as overloads or short circuits . There is a large variety of fuses on the market , but the most important types that are used for power purpose are ( a ) cartridge fuses , ( b ) transformer fuse blocks , and ( c ) expulsion fuses . a . Cartridge Fuses . Cartridge fuses are composed of a strong fiber casing inside of which is enclosed a fuse wire , generally an alloy of lead . The fuse wire is fastened to copper caps which are fastened to each end of the casing . Figure 183 shows a lighting switchboard on which are shown a large number of cartridge fuses used in conjunction with knife switches . Fuses of this general type are available for circuits up to about 25,000 volts . There are on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type , the particular details of construction being very varied . They are used as a protective device in low-capacity circuits , such as small lighting and power lines , and on the secondary of instrument-potential transformers , when used for metering or relay protection . b . Transformer Fuse Block and Cutout. ? The proper protection of distribution circuits has for years been recognized as best fulfilled by means of fuses . Distribution transformers are as a general rule placed on poles , towers , or in manholes and any automatic protection would be entirely too complicated and expensive . Fuses offer a simple and cheap method of protection . It is common practice to place these fuses in the secondary of such transformers , thereby protecting the transformer against short circuits or overloads . There are two types of fuses that are generally used for this purpose . Both types include a porcelain housing , enclosing the fuse and contact points . In one type the fuse is carried on a plug that is provided with an insulating porcelain knob in order that it may be removed for re-fusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a removable front door that carries the fuse .  | c . Expulsion Fuse. ? For higher voltages such as are found in power circuits or main feeders , there is often a demand for a fuse , on account of its simplicity . The expulsion-type fuse has been developed for such service ( see Fig. 205 ) . This device consists of a hollow tube , made of some heat-resisting substance such as fiber with a lining of asbestos or some other material , through which is passed a fuse wire . One end of the tube is closed and connected to the line ; the other end is opened and allows the fuse wire to project out and connect to the other terminal . When a short circuit or overload occurs , the fuse is blown and a certain Figure amount of gases form inside the tube . These gases in escaping to the air cause the arc , which is generally produced , to be blown out . Since there is always a tendency for an arc to occur , these fuses are adaptable only to outdoor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transmission line voltage . 131 . Classification of Circuit Breakers . There is probably no other part of a power system that is more important than the equipment that controls the system . All the control devices discussed above are suitable for only relatively small capacities , but for large capacities it is necessary to employ more dependable means of control , such as is obtained by the use of circuit breakers . Circuit breakers must be designed not only to carry t he normal current of the circuit , but also to interrupt success-  | fully the maximum current that might flow under abnormal conditions . They may be classified according to : Figure 132 . Air Circuit Breakers . In Fig. 206 is shown a typical carbon or air circuit breaker . As shown in Fig. 207 carbon circuit breakers have two or three contacts . To protect the main contacts against arcing or pitting , secondary copper contacts and also carbon contacts are provided . In low-capacity circuit breakers , the secondary copper contacts are omitted . When the circuit breaker opens , the sequence of operation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondary contacts , and lastly the carbon contacts . In this manner the carbon contacts take most of the arcing , and since carbon is very refractory , the contacts are not damaged very much . In case of damage to either the secondary or carbon contacts , it is possible to replace there easily . Carbon circuit breakers are mostly used for direct  | current service and in a few cases on low-voltage alternating current service . 133 . Circuit Breakers . Standard oil circuit breakers may be classified according to their method of operation , as ( a ) gravity opened , ( b ) gravity closed , and ( 0 ) horizontal break . Several variations of these types are nevertheless found . FIG. 206. -A 3,000- to 4,000-amp. carbon circuit breaker . ( Westinghouse Electric Corporation. ) a . Gravity-opened Type. ? This type , which is by far the most common , is illustrated in Figs. 208 , 210 , 213 , and 214 . The contacts are operated by an insulated rod which projects outside the tank ( see Fig. 214 ) . It will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contacts to fall open due to gravity , and therefore they must be raised when it is desired to close the circuit breaker . b . Gravity-closed Type. ? Figures 211 and 212 show a typical circuit breaker of this type . An examination of Fig. 212 will  | indicate that this circuit breaker will close under the action of gravity . The terminals are at the bottom of the tanks , the circuit being completed through the contact rods . It will be noticed that this circuit breaker is equipped v ith a set of main contacts located at the top of the tank . These contacts open before the arcing-rod contacts are opened and , hence , are not sub-Figure jected to arcing and can , therefore , be located outside the tanks . This circuit breaker has two breaking points in series , but this particular type ( Figs. 211 and 212 ) has each arcing contact in a separate oil tank , while the other types have only one tank per pole . In order that the gases formed due to the arcing at the contacts may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the top of the tank . This outlet takes the form of a tube which is generally filled with quartz pebbles which help to separate out any oil that might otherwise be carried up by the gases .  | c . Horizontal-break Type. ? In both of the types described above , the circuit is broken by contacts moving in a vertical plane ; a third type has its contacts arranged for horizontal motion . This type is illustrated in Figs. 215 and 216 . From Fig. 216 it is seen that the moving terminals can turn through an Figure angle of 90 deg. , thereby obtaining at least two breaking points in series . For high voltages it is possible to use a number of contacts in series , the particular one shown in Fig. 216 having six . d . Air-blast Circuit Breakers . Air-blast circuit breakers WNrrc introduced into United States practice in 1939 . Several designs are available , but all are based upon the same general pl ; cn , namely , to blow out the are with a jet of air that is supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current , the arc is blown into a set of arc chutes , where it is subdivided into several parts , making the task of extinguishing somewhat easier . The details of such a circuit breaker are shown in Figs. 217a and b . Figure e . Magnetic-blast Circuit Brealcers. ? In the field of breakers for 5,000 volts and less , several manufacturers have brought out air circuit breakers that extinguish their arcs by blowing them magnetically into are chutes where they are lengthened , cooled , and interrupted ( see Fig. 217c ) .  | f . Impulse Oil Circuit Breakers. ? In this breaker ( Fig. 217d ) the arc is extinguished by an oil blast produced by a springdriven piston . The particular breaker shown is designed to interrupt a 25-cycle 11-kv. railway-trolley circuit in one cycle . Figure A rather unusual impulse type of breaker is used at the two desert switching stations of the 287-kv . Boulder Dam ? Los Angeles transmission line . Each of these breakers has eight breaks per pole supplied with oil by a spring-driven piston . The interrupters and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | 200 gal. ) are contained in horizontal Herkolite and porcelain tubes which are supported on vertical columns ( Fig. 217e ) . Figure 134 . Contact Details . The simplest type of contact is obtained by the use of either flat or curved metal surfaces as the terminals of the circuit breakers . The moving contactors wlien closed are held firmly against the stationary terminals by ine:ms of heavy springs . This type is known as the butt , contact . I i Terminal  | is satisfactory for low voltages and capacities ; however , for higher voltages and large capacities it is generally necessary to go to more complicated designs or to a number of contacts in series or parallel . The wedge design , as the name implies , involves a wedgeshaped terminal on the moving element , which when in the closed position is forced between spring jaws . In a good many designs this type of contact is used as the current-carrying Figure terminals , and secondary butt-type contacts are made t : ) open later , thereby interrupting the arc . This is done to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower voltage breakers are equipped with laminated contacts . Examples of this contact are seen in Figs. 207 and 208 . The bayonet or rod type of contact is shown in Figs. 212 and 214 . In some of the high-tension breakers it is essential that the contacts be opened at high speed . This is accomplished by having the arcing tips connected to the contact arms through heavy springs . As the breaker starts to open it carries the  | arcing tips with the moving elements , thereby compressing the springs . I3y a latch mechanism the arcing tips are opened , allowing the contacts to move at a very high rate of speed . With the increase of system capacities , engineers have had to resort to a good many improvements in the design of contacts in order to open satisfactorily the heavy currents of these large systems . The explosion chamber as developed by the General Figure Electric Company is one of the designs that are offered for this field of work ( see Fig. 218 ) . The contacts of the oil-blast explosion chamber consist of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the closed position , these three elements are pressed together . When the breaker is tripped , the intermediate and lower elements move downward . An arc is drawn between the upper and the intermediate . This arc forms gas and places the in the explosion chamber tinder high pressure . There is lit I Ie  | relief for this pressure until the intermediate element reaches its stop . At that point the lower element leaves the intermediate , thus drawing a second arc and venting the established pressure through the hollow lower element . Thus , solid oil is blasted across the second arc . This action forces gas and oil down through the lower element . At a current zero , the arc products are swept away and a solid wall of oil is placed in the arc path . Figure The deion circuit-breaker contacts , as developed by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation , are a radical departure from previous methods of design . The details are shown in Figs. 219 to 221 . The current-carrying contacts are of the plain-butt type . The arc is drawn in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stack of grids as shown in detail iii Figs. 220 and 221 . These grids are made up of four  | Figure elements , namely , one iron plate of good magnetic qualities and three insulating elements . When an arc is drawn , a strong magnetic field is produced in the iron element . This magnetic field forces the arc toward the closed end of the slots . The  | gas produced in the back of the slots can escape only by passing outwardly through the arc . This action causes a stream of gas to be created across the arc , thus cooling and extinguishing it . 135 . Circuit-breaker Construction. ? Mechanical details of circuit breakers vary a great deal , depending on the particular Figure requirements that must be met . A few of the factors of importance are discussed below . Indoor- and outdoor-service circuit breakers , though based on the same principles , are nevertheless quite different in some respects . Typical indoor circuit breakers are shown in Figs. 208 to 212 and typical outdoor units in Figs. 213 and 216 . Outdoor circuit breakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be designed for all weather conditions and , as a general rule , must be given greater clearance . I ndoortype units are in most cases of lower voltage ratings and therefore  | present a different appearance . These units are generally mounted in cells as described in Chap . X ( see Figs. 210 and 211 ) . Outdoor oil circuit breakers are either frame mounted ( Fig. 215 ) or floor mounted ( Fig. 213 ) . For low-voltage indoor installations the circuit breakers may be mounted on suitable framework in the vicinity of the switchboard or directly upon the switchboard panels . For very low capacity and voltages all poles of a polyphase circuit breaker are sometimes placed in the same tank , but for medium- and high-capacity units it is necessary to enclose the separate poles in individual tanks . Where all poles are in one tank , there always is the possibility of an arc 's being established between phases . Tanks may be of the " box " shape ( see Fig. 208 ) or cylindrical . For small circuit breakers the box shape is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which are created when rupturing a heavy current , it is essential that circuit-breaker tanks be cylindrical or at least semicylindrical , with no sharp bends . It has been found that a pressure as high as 150 lb. per sq . in. may occur near the arcing point of oil circuit-breaker contacts , and since all containers , when subjected to internal pressure , tend to assume a spherical shape , it is essential that circuit-breaker tanks be made , as far as possible , without sharp corners . 136 . Circuit-breaker Control . The general types of switching have been covered in detail in Chap . X and , therefore , will not be repeated here . A few additional details are , however , important . Remote electrical control may be obtained by means of an operating motor or solenoid . In practically all cases direct current is used , but sometimes alternating-current motors may be preferable . Figures 21.0 and 21.1 show examples of solenoid and motor-operated circuit breakers . The operating voltages used are either 125 or 250 volts . The direct current is generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maximum possible reliability . The pneumatic method of circuit-breaker control is gaining favor , owing to its positive and unusually fast action . In this type of control , compressed air is used to operate the circuit breakers . In addition to control whereby an operator may close or open a particular circuit breaker , it is also essential that proper relays                     