@@8301

Sigourney , L. H. ( Lydia Howard ) , 1791-1865 : THE FIRST STEAMBOAT. from The first steamboat ( 1832 ) Who thus o'er the foaming main doth glide ? No sail propels her course , She heeds not the winds with their sway of pride , And asks no boon of the angry tide As she treads the breakers hoarse . No oar she plies with its measured sweep ; But curling dark and high , Her volumed smoke to the clouds doth creep , While a snowy line marks the cleaving deep , A banner of flame on the sky . The sea , as in terror , uplifted her voice , From billow to billow it roll 'd , The mermaidens lock 'd up their bowers in a trice , And the monarch whale sought his palace of ice , While the tocsin of ocean toll 'd . More close to its grotto the faint pearl grew , While the dolphins were waxing pale , Their warning shells the Tritons blew , And with urns overturn 'd the river nymphs flew To tell father Neptune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of night , But she furrow 'd his heaving breast With a hissing sound like a serpent sprite , And the Highlands kindled their beacon light At the torch of the wonderful guest . A peaceful bark o'er the waters sped As this monster form drew near , From his perilous post the helmsman fled , And the hailing captain bade with dread From her demon-wake to steer . Some heard piratical fetters clank As their vessels pass 'd her side , And they drifted apace towards the rocky bank , As the poppy-fed Turks from Kanaris shrank , When his sparkling deck they spied . From the fishermen 's cabins the inmates burst , And were moved in their panic to say , That the ghosts of the Dutchmen had risen from dust To smoke their great pipes with a terrible gust And hasten from Gotham away . She seem 'd like the prophet bird of death To the gazing Indian 's thought : The swift weird sisters , whose pestilent breath And reeking caldron affrighted Macbeth , To this ' water-witch ' were nought . Yet strangely her brood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the frigid north to the tropics red Their furrowing feet of fire do tread The thousand floods of earth . But where is the mighty hand that taught This wingless bird to fly ? Say , where is the breast whose inventive thought This mine of wealth for the world hath wrought ? Land of his birth , reply . He hath fallen . The lofty tree is dead : But it hath a living stem ; O'er its roots young saplings their verdure spread , And the golden fruits which on us it shed , We may render back to them .                     