@@486791

The ' League ' had a limited issue , and for many years remained unattainable . By republishing it , in a form and dreis making of the reprint very nearly a facsimile of the original , Mr. Herbert M. Lloyd has conferred a lasting benefit on earnest students of American ethnology . He has placed within their reach a book of far wider scope than its modest compass seems to indicate , and offering points of comparison with Indian clusters too often artificially isolated from the remainder of the aborigines of America , being fancifully placed at a level so high as to warrant such a separation . The ' League of the Iroquois ' remains invaluable for its fund of material for contrast .. ing many features in Indian society , past and present , all over the two Americas , and for their explanation on the basis of practical fact . Mr. Lloyd 's expert labors were so much appreciated that the first edition was disposed of as soon as it left the press . The work now becomes procurable by the general bookbuyerzr . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . London : George Bell &; Sons ; New York : Macmillan . We have this year to addto the important , and in a sense exhaustive , books on English pottery and porcelain of William Burton and M. L. Solon a small handbook which bears a curiously general title for its very limited subject . Neither title nor preface suggests the fact that it is limited to English ware , nor , on the other hand , reveals the curiously liberal significance which the-author gives to the word " china . " What do we mean by china ? We mean . porcelain , assuredly , in every case , except where children and serving-maids speak in the most careless fashion of the dishes and plates which are in the cupboard . This book , however , deals with pottery as well as with porcelain , and includes Wedgwood and various Staffordshire wares which make no pretence at being translucent or delicate in their make , such as the salt-glaze ware of the Astbury pottery and the Elers pottery , which are indeed stoneware , and not very delicately modelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to say by way of calling attention to the somewhat ama- , teurish tone of the book under consideration ; but if the statements and qualifications of the text be compared with the wares in question , the general tone will be found just and appreciative , and the statements trustworthy . As for identification of old pieces , the prospect held out is no more to be taken seriously than similar ones in other titles of the day . The chapter " To Help the Amateur , " contains a few obvious hints , but leaves the reader in doubt as to the use of " the microscope " in this pursuit . The illustrations alone may suffice to help in this important matter of identification . There are forty half-tone plates , each one showing from two to seven pieces of the ware ; or , if the group of Nantgarw be taken as an example , there are thirteen pieces in the picture , even if we count a cup and saucer as one piece . Plate XIV. , indeed , gives the whole interior of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pieces , but that hardly counts , as the illustrations are too small to be useful to the student , and as the plate can only be taken as showing the great variety of forms discoverable in the porcelain of that one factory . It will be seen that the ' supply of illustrations is abundant for an inexpensive publication , and we are not conscious of making serious objection to the book in remarking that it will not help anybody very much to identify doubtful pieces , for where is the book that can really be of help in this particular ? Experience , the experience of one 's own mistakes , added to the keen eye and quick judgment of the born collector , are the qualifications to keep one from error in this pursuit .                     