@@486704

Having been away for a matter of three years , the present writer is unable to make the prescribed comparisons between this and recent Academies . As measured by those of a few years ago it is more varied . Figure painting and portraiture of a decorative sort have come to relieve the stereotyped alternation of portraiture and landscape painting . Barring the front room , it is better hung than was usual . In the Vanderbilt gallery the arrangement is admirable . Of course , this ease is won only through sacrifice . One hundred and seventy paintings were accepted only to be sent back for want of wall space . It seems to us that a consolation list of such disappointed artists should be printed in the catalogue . With those who blamelessly remain in outer darkness should be commiserated those forty-odd painters whose contributions , crowded frame to frame in two tiers , are seen in the academy room by electric light . Here no one may be certain of the quality of what he sees . For example , Ernest D. Roth 's The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sweep of plain , seems one of the most vigorous and self-contained landscapes of the show . But one can not venture to decide how much the electrician has made or marred Mr. Roth . If the present show differs from those of some years ago in variety and improved hanging , it is painfully true to type in the prevalence of absenteeism . A dozen of the more prominent among the older men , and perhaps as many among the growing talents , have not thought it worth while to exhibit . A dozen more of the men who count have sent rather mediocre contributions . Later in their personal shows , or in those of the smaller groups , we shall see what has really interested them this year . Now the Academy , through its reorganization and in its present policy , has put itself in a reasonable and liberal attitude . The old feuds are now outlawed . Why , then , is there not greater loyalty among its members ? Partly due to American individualism , much of this abstention hardly deserves so fair a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genre or mere illustration , figure painting is the surest index of the condition of a national art . What is our kind of figure painting ? Is it Kenyon Cox 's intelligent revival of the Venetian manner  --  without , however , the Venetian sweep or glow ? in the big oval composition , Passing Commerce Pays Tribute to the Port of Cleveland , or is it Mr. Sewall 's pre-Raphaelite medallion , Psyche Seeks Love Beyond the River of the Dead ? Both these decorations have engaging details . Mr. Cox 's Danae-like Cleveland is calculated to detain the hurrying god of trade ; Mr. Sewall 's shades of the dead are winsome folk and their attitudes charming and pathetic , yet neither composition invites the mind to step in and be at rest . A painter 's world should be inviting and habitable . That Elliot Daingerfield 's emphatically is in such- a picture as Pearls of the Morning , and this by no means through the obvious prettiness of nacreous flesh , soft virginal forms , water lilies in a mountain , shrubs and saplings screening a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What counts is a demure and yet passionate vision , a reflective but ardent consummation of an ideal . Mr. Daingerfield is frankly in the line of Giorgione and Fantin , and thereby more himself perhaps than the restless individualists that know no past and acknowledge no master . The few remaining nudes want rather little attention from the fastidious visitor . F. D. Marsh 's two figures in the Golden Cup suggest a tonal beauty which the electric light undoubtedly minimizes unfairly . There is vivacity and joy of life in Lillian Genth 's two bathers in a shaded pool , but the slipperiness of the touch is unduly prominent , while unexpressive , and the invention barely escapes banality . Childe Hassam 's big Aphrodite raises the whole question of the value of his accomplishment in this vein . To many it will seem less spontaneous and compelling than his prize picture of a few years ago , Laurel . To pose a model studio-fashion in the open air and there paint her atmospherically is in itself a conventional and inconsequential procedure . Convention for convention , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that open-air formulas are preferable to those of the studio . The surfaces of Mr. Hassam 's picture are charming , but Aphrodite has a casual , nay , a wandered , look in the world here provided for her . In spite of unassimilated spots of local color , Sergeant Kendall 's Psyche is charmingly placed in her oval , distinguished in line , and quite masterly in modelling . The president 's contribution , Sunlight , which holds the place of honor worthily in the centre of the big gallery , might be reckoned to portraiture , but the title and the intentionally slight characterization make it rather the finest example here of the painting of the draped figure . Mr. Alexander , always faithful to his love of the Hogarthian line of beauty , makes a great bow of the girlish figure which bends over to enjoy the rays of sunlight that fall athwart the skirt of a greenish yellow gown . It might be argued that the Tanagrine inventions in which Mr. Alexander is so fertile would be more effective on a smaller scale . What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tone , and massiveness of construction of this unpretending picture . To note how flimsy it makes nearly all the purposefully robust portraits look is to take a lesson in real draughtsmanship . With M. Jean McLane 's The Hill Top , a picture which received high exhibition honors at Paris , we have reached our modern sort of thing . The expression of the upturned faces watching soap bubbles float away toward the cloudS is vivacious and truthful , and the composition has a certain freshness and spaciousness . It is sturdily painted without doubt or fears . In the nature of the case , considering the conditions and limitations of the artist who must live by depicting his clients , portraiture will only rarely rise above what Hogarth called " portrait manufacture ? ' It would be hazardous to declare that any portrait in the present exhibition escapes this classification . If so , George de Forest Brush 's seated figure of Henry George , painted in 1893 and worked oven ten years later , Sergeant Kendall 's Dr. Alger , John W. Alexander 's Richard Watson Gilder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the face-painting shop . It is needless to dwell upon these sound traditional works . They have in common fine arrangement , attractive quality of paint , serenity of mood , and patient interpretation of character . It is emphatically livelier below the gangway among the manufacturers . Here Boldini lords it supreme . His Mrs. Clarence Mackay tossed by an unexplained tempest and fearfully enveloped in an electric blue gown down which shoot baleful zigzag reflections , may or may not be a caricature of a masterful great lady . It has the merit , whatever that may come to , of being unforgettable . It marks the acme of modern restlessness , and can not be recommended as a model , for that eminence is only big enough for one man , and is already triumphantly occupied . Possibly the future will regard it as a pathological exhibit . How tame and traditional in comparison seems not merely the Gitana of John Sargent , a relic of his earlier and better days , but also his portrait of Miss Carter . That reversion to early English modes which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter portrait . It has with the winsomeness something of the insubstantiality of a Romney . In the filmy scarf covering a strident harmony of green and crimson there are passages that only the magic hand of Sargent can paint ; but , in the main , like most of his productions for a matter of ten years , it suggests that he no longer pays extravagantly with his person Robert Henri , on the contrary , seems to be engaged in the difficult and superfluous task of underlining himself . His Girl with Parasol has more than the old emphasis but less than the old stability . The portrait of Mrs. Rockwell has style and fine painting in the blacks , but hardly structure enough to support the over-accented head . At bottom , all painters of natural scenery deal either directly with water or indirectly with its effects upon the earth ; hence , a truer distinction than that of landscape and marine would be the art of the river and of the sea . Here , admittedly , we find our art at its best . In landscape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barely holds its own . Bruce Crane , F. B. Williams , Redfield , Gardner Symons , and Ernest Lawson give a distinct fillip . From such variously accomplished men as Alden Weir , Ochtman , Ben Foster , Groll , Ranger , Walter Palmer : Cullen Yates , one gets the customary impression with perhaps a little less than the customary intensity . It is fair to say that at least two of these men have merits unadapted to exhibition ordeals A better Bruce Crane than Woods and Hills the present writer does not recall . - It has peace , a refined topographical sense ; the sweep of pasture and density of woodlands are delicately indicated ; everything is crisply in place ; its accord of tans and grays is tenuous but satisfying . It is a picture in which , through selection and sacrifice , naturalism attains to style Of similar temper , but more robust , as befits his theme , is Redfield 's The Rising River . Here the emphasis is on motion  --  in the saplings that have followed while resisting the flow of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . There is zest in the workmanship , and a kind of classic restraint , too , not common in work of this intensity . Unless surface indications fail , Gardner Symons , whose Opalescent River has handsomely won the Carnegie prize , has come under Mr. Red-field 's influence . If so , the disciple bids fair to outdo the master . Mr. Symons not merely gives the sense of cleavage , which is the attribute of a river bed , but also , out of the lines of floating ice cakes and intervening spaces of blue water , the verticals of bordering saplings , and the plunging lines of the river bank , has woven an agreeable Pattern . But , of course , there are many ways , and Frederick Ballard Williams , with Hills of Purple and Rose , is here to remind us that romantic coloring and beautiful textures , are not obsolete even in this day of uncompromising naturalism . In its depth and largeness , in its romantic alternation of light and shade , this glimpse down a mountain valley has in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of a man who , while valuing his eye and hand , does not share the prevailing distrust of the back of one 's head . Among the younger river men there is no more interesting figure than George Bellows , A N.A. , elect . Both his pictures in this show , The Palisades and Excavation at Night , are of extraordinary force . The city scene has fine pictorial quality as well . The very buffet and shiver of the arc-light on gashed rock are suggested , and the glow of old brick basements in the penumbra above gives the necessary element of repose in a composition of demonic energy . Mr. Bellows 's inspiriting work is so unfamiliar to the present writer that with diffidence he alludes to the dangers of a reputation for what gentlemen call " guts " and ladies " good red blood . " If one is grateful for the power of Mr. Bellows one welcomes also the tranquil ease with which Charles Warren Eaton brings off a decorative effect from the random data of nature . The handful of American subjects here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and how little in his better known foreign subjects he has really depended upon conventional picturesque ingredients . European painters of the sea have mainly dealt with its mottlings and iridescences in calm . Our painters have studied it rather in action as it gnaws at the coast or surges in midocean . Gedney Dunce is of the European mood , and his work has an exotic look . A - single and minor excellence , that of tone , is carried to the superlative in his pictures , which have just enough framework to explain the tonal display . This time one is a sunset and the other a sunrise , but the labels might be exchanged without greatly troubling the visitor . In both , thin lifting clouds with their reflections form a sort of chevron , in which like a shaft is inserted an indication of the skyline of Venice . What counts is the brocading . Winslow Homer , the most American and the greatest expresser of the might of the sea , is unhappily absent , but his spirit is represented in the masculine work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the most matter in him . His single contribution , The Black Squall , is a study of opposed forces  --  a shattered wave recoiling from the rocks , while behind the racing cud outruns its slower parent billows . There is motion and clamor in it , more , perhaps , of the anarch quality of such a scene than of the majestic order that overrules battling wind and wave . Less energetic and more pictorial is Emil Carlsen 's The Meeting of the Seas . Converging breakers spout in a miniature geyser down a shelving beach amid the ambers , browns , and olives of an overcast day . The composition is sparse but unified and grows in effectiveness the longer it is viewed . Mr. Waugh 's study of ocean rollers gives a sense of their weight , but not of their motion . The searching modelling of the surfaces results in a kind of paintiness . The man who has the knowledge such a study implies should be able to do something much more pleasurable . The most novel and perhaps most promising variety of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relegated to the tender mercies of electric light , exemplified , as in C. C. Cooper 's case , - by rather unrepresentative instances , or lurks sulkily in the studios . W. I. Glackens 's vivacious Italian Parade is about the only composition of this type that fulfils the requisites of being good , present , and visible . The scanty showing in this branch may be due to conditions over which the Academy has no control , but the absence and poor placing of the New Yorkers mean a distinct subtraction from the vitality of the show . This kind of work seems the most idiomatic part of our production  --  being merely the fine flower of our most solidly grounded art  --  that of illustration . Sculpture , as the limited accommodation of the galleries dictates , is present only incidentally and in a decorative capacity . Chester Beach 's Young Nymph catches the gracility of adolescent forms , though there is something amiss in the joining of the nymph and the tortoise on which she balances . Otherwise , on superficial inspection , the animals of Lila @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grafly , Hartley , Edmond T. Quinn , and Robert I Aitken seemed most attractive . M. Frederick S Kennel has assembled more than thirty reproductions from rare prints or pictures and has accompanied them by a running commentary , including a hit or two of original verse . The result is an attractive gift book under the descriptive title " Christmas in Art The Nativity as Depicted by Artists of the Fifteenth awl Sixteenth Centuries " ( Duffield &; Co ) There are rare examples of German and Spanish masters , and one or two charming cuts from =matured. manuscript But Durer really ought not to be held responBible for the crowded Adoration in the Naples Gallery ( p 66 ) . Henry B Wheatley was well inspired when he decided to gather together out of the older commentators of Hogarth and his own researches the volume now handsomely published as " Hogarth 's London : Pictures of the Manners of the Eighteenth Century " ( Dutton ) . Here is an elaborate explanation of all the chief compositions . One gets the gist of Ireland , Nichols , Steevens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commendably cautious in accepting this older testimony as to portraits in Hogarth 's character studies . Given his remarkable memory and inquisitive observation it seems impossible to us to fix the bounds of portraiture in his pictures . A kind of half-portraiture is probably the universal method . Through high life , low life , taverns , hospitals , prisons ; to the hustings and suburbs ; to church and to the theatre , Mr Wheatley follows Hogarth . We share in his feuds with Pope and Wilkes and " Bruiser " Churchill , and in his friendships with Fielding and Garrick . The book is quite frankly given over to the antiquarian side of the subject , but Hogarth himself undoubtedly thought his function as an historian of manners all important The marvellous technical accomplishment which we are only now coming to value at its true preciousness , he quietly took for granted . With its many fine plates , fortunately most of them after the pictures and not after those coarse engravings which have unduly obscured Hogarth 's artistry , this book will be a useful companion to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much all the relevant material , a considerable amount of which has been added by Mr. Wheatley 's industry . It naturally lay apart from his theme to treat the considerable Continental literature on Hogarth , but Julius bleier - Graele 's excellent monograph should have been noticed , if only because it is too recent to be included in Mr Dobson 's exhaustive bibliography . Hermann Kaulbacli , the German painter , has died in Munich . He was born in that city in 1846 , and was the son of a painter of reputation . He was a student at the University of Munich , and later a pupil of Piloty . He became a royal professor of the fine arts in 1889 Of his works a large proportion were historical paintings . His " Immortality " hangs in the Pinakothek , at Munich ; and he was the recipient of many prizes , including medals awarded at Chicago in 1893.                     