@@486679

, Cuban reciprocity , to consider which the President has now summoned Congress , stands to-day in a position different from that it occupied when first urged The appeal of a prostrate people and an imperilled industry does not now come with the old force By her remarkable recuperative power , and with admirable patience and fortitude , Cuba has , thanks partly to a rise in the world 's price of sugar , surmounted the fear of impoverishment . A cry of rescue can no longer be raised . Our solemn promise to the Cubans remains  --  though about two years overdue . Doubtless the uncompromising protectionists will be ready to break it for two years more . But the whole matter should now be approached in a reasonable and practical spirit . Cuba has as much to give as she asks us to grant . Her knocking at the tariff door is but one of many indications that the time has come for this country to fling it open , so that commerce may go out as well as come in . Facilitating trade with Cuba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be taken in removing the fetters that hamper our exporters in so many parts of the world Uncle Sam will soon have to look over his garden wall and see what the chances are for doing business outside . Cuban reciprocity should be promptly followed up by Argentine reciprocity and Canadian reciprocity . Upon the present unhappiness of our Northern neighbors a proposal to engage in mutually advantageous trade would fall most soothingly When we annexed Hawaii and later Porto Rico and the Philippines , our cocksure Imperialists everywhere welcomed their inclusion within our territory as being so many strong outposts in the national defence . Hawaii was to ward off the fleets of Japan from San Francisco , just as Porto Rico was in some mysterious way to defend us from attacks by way of the South . The Philippines , too , were to be a great source of military strength to us Everybody admitted this except a few warped anti-Imperialists and " Little Americans , " who took the ground that such territorial outposts would necessitate great fleets and vastly expensive fortifications for defence . Their point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Engineers , Gen. George L. Gillespie , in his newly published annual report . There are , he says , not only harbors in the Philippines , in Hawaii , in Porto Rico , and the new naval stations in Cuba to be fortified , but we must spend millions upon Guam , upon our Samoan island , and upon the many coaling stations , large and small , which we have been gradually establishing all over the world . As a small beginning , Gen. Gillespie asks only two and one-half millions of dollars for insular defences in addition to eight millions for our home defences For the apportionment of the millions to be squandered in this way upon our insular possessions he desires a general board similar to the Endicott Board , in following the recommendations of which we have already spent hundreds of millions at home . Among all foolish and wanton methods of wasting public money which have yet been devised , this fortifying of harbors we do not need seems to us predminent . ? A fixed par of exchange between gold and silver-using countries would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to secure it have been discussed time out of mind , but the task remains one of the future . How far the suggestions of the Commission appointed early this year by the President of the United States to consider this question are of practical importance , is a debatable point ; but the Commission has at least framed an interesting hypothesis . The violent fluctuations of silver in recent years have had a demoralizing effect on the finances of such countries as Mexico and China , and it was at the instigation of these two Powers that an American Commission spent the summer in Europe in consultation with the leading Governments over the possibility of establishing by joint action a fixed par of exchange between the East and the West Its report is now made public , and some misconception regarding the character of its mission has been cleared away . There has been a pretty general fear that the Commission was trying " to do something for silver , " but it appears conclusively that its Main purpose is to establish a gold standard for the remaining silver-using countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East must , that while such a standard is perhaps feasible , a gold currency is not at Present . Hence a silver coinage for Government account at a ratio of 32 to 1 is recommended , to be kept at par by gold credits in the leading financial centres of the world , against which exchange can be sold . The arguments by which the Commission backs up its project are sound in the main . Its reasons for selecting a ratio of 32 to 1 have some weight ; and its views regarding the effect upon the price of silver of greater regularity in the purchase of such amounts as are needed for coinage purposes , are entitled to consideration . But when everything has been urged as to the desirability of a fixed ' par of exchange , the practicability of the scheme outlined in behalf of a gold standard for China and other silver-using countries remains extremely doubtful . The most that can be said is that a highly important international problem has been discussed in an intelligent manner by three gentlemen of sound economic attainments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To say nothing of unforeseen economic factors , there are many political and other considerations to be kept in mind The attainment of the Commission 's end must depend largely on the attitude of the Viceroys , and this might suggest that " graft " is quite likely to play a part in settling the question The ultra-conservatism of the Chinese people is , of course , a matter of considerable importance . Furthermore , can it be assumed that , when it comes to the point , the Imperial Government of China will consent to the large measure of foreign control of its finances that-the present scheme contemplates ? Here the report is vagueness itself It is complacent over a general " approval of the principle " by those who will take no step to put it into execution ; and has comfortable hopes of what China may be induced to do ; but to actual progress the Commission is not able to point . The first attempt at enforcing the anti-anarchist act passed after the assassination of President McKinley is alarming to all who hold to American ideals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States marshals broke into a meeting and arrested John Turner as " an avowed anarchist . " Unquestionably the Government means to deport him  --  a logical act under an absurd law . Turner has made no incendiary utterance in this country ; he has not , in the words of the law , " advocated the overthrow by force or violence " of any organized governmenr . When he preaches the gospel of anarchy among us it would be time to deport him . To proscribe him because he may have written or talked elsewhere against constituted authority may be legal ; it certainly is repugnant to American ideals . In Portland , Oregon , United States District Judge Bellinger has rebuked a similar arbitrary action of Secretary Cortelyou 's . The case was that of two French women , imported , it is alleged , for immoral purposes , who were arrested and detained for a month without trial or hearing . Very properly Judge Bellinger ruled that Secretary Cortelyou is " guilty of exceeding his authority - and of introducing tyrannical methods of deportation . " Put beside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Department of Commerce , and it will be evident that that newly organized authority is exercising a mischievous activity . At least , these doubtful arrests of Secretary Cortelyou have served to show the absurdity of a hastily framed act which attempts to exclude immigrants for immorality and for political heresy without legal evidence of either disqualification . That enterprising army contractor , Congressman Lucius N Littauer , has now read the full text of Attorney-General Knox 's decision in his case . The kernel of the document is in the last sentence . After saying that an affirmative opinion could not be followed by a vindication of the law , on account of the statute of limitations , Mr. Knox adds . " A negative one might be regarded as an affirmance of the validity and propriety of methods of dealing with the Government in cases where ; after all , the form of the transaction is not to be so much considered as its substance . " In short , Mr. Knox feels that the real question is not whether , in furnishing gloves through E - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but whether he did not practically violate the statute forbidding Congressmen an interest in army contracts . On this point there can be no doubt . The published correspondence between Mr. Littauer and Mr. Lyon proves that the former was the real principal , the latter a go-between ? a mere name . Mr. ? Littauer , then , though he escapes legal penalties , can not escape the moral . Henceforth , he must be known as a man who tried to sneak round a salutary law against corruption and was caught  --  a few weeks too late . Care in the choice of a father is nowhere more advisable than in the Federal service . Young Mr. Quay , the circumstances of whose resignation from the army are remembered though not recorded , had the foresight to choose a Pennsylvania Senator for his father , with the result of slipping as easily into a lucrative civil office as he had before dropped out of the army . How painful in comparison with this wise choice is young Mr. Landvoigt 's selection of a mere postal officer , and how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been forced to resign  --  properly , we judge  --  because Landvoigt junior is engaged in the supply of registry books to the Post-Office . Now , since a man can not help his occupation , there is all the more reason why he should be careful about his parentage . If young Landvoigt had had the sense to be Senator Quay 's son , there is no reason- to suppose that the Administration would have troubled either of them . Nobody criticises Senator Quay because his promising boy slips into a soft berth , but everybody condemns that impossible parent , Mr. Landvoigt , for letting his son do business with the Registry Department . All of which goes to prove the adage : Be sure you have the right father , and then go ahead . Senator Lodge 's Scribner article on the Senate consists of a kind and patient explanation to the ignorant . The common notion that the Senate has grown great on usurped power , he shows to be an entire mistake ; the fact being that the Senate has rather laid aside power than eagerly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guise of " Constitutional adviser " of the President , have insisted upon being present at Cabinet meetings . So , too , it might have claimed the right to draft the great appropriation bills , instead of simply bedevilling them . And the Massachusetts Senator painstakingly points out that the enlargement of the Senate 's prestige has come about solely through the exalted wisdom and virtue of its members , who in this respect fully realize the brightest hopes of the framers of the Constitution . That the House can not do better than sit in rapt wonder at the feet of such a Senate , is the fair inference to be drawn from Mr. Lodge 's contention. - That Senators should have all the patronage , he takes as a matter of course . How can the President " know " the appointees ? Senators , of course , know , on the principle that the Lord knoweth them that are his . In Massachusetts , however , they do say that some of Lodge 's appointments cause the evil disposed to assert that Satan also knows his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rush County , Texas , are vouched for by R. T. Milner , an ex-Speaker of the Texas House of Representatives , by Gen. Webster Flanagan and by the Henderson Times . Mr. Milner declares that the crimes were " some of the most atrocious ever committed by white men in any country , in any age of which history gives any account . " The first offences were whippings . That example served as an excuse to " wreak vengeance " upon innocent negroes . Finally , the lawlessness became " a furious passion to inflict upon harmless and helpless negroes punishment and death in a manner so horrible as to reflect the savagery of the barbarous and - bloodthirsty ages of the long past . " Had a Northern editor insinuated that such things could occur in the South he would have been denounced as a slanderer and vilifier . Now that Southern men have cried out against this fresh example of Southern ill-treatment of the negro , we shall hope to see justice vindicated , if it takes all the power of-the State of Texas . Devery did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he did cast a certain light on the various lucrative relations of the Tammany leader , Murphy . He very distinctly charges Murphy with the proprietorship of the Empire  --  that unspeakable dive in which the Crafts murder took place . Murphy , he says , forced the removal of the police officers who were stationed outside of that notorious den . Finally , he said , " Charlie Murphy is the biggest grafter this town has ever seen He has managed everything from a ladies ' baseball nine to disorderly house . " We commend this characterization , by a recognized authority , to certain fledgling statesmen who have been impressed by the sincerity of Mr Murphy 's demeanor . Should Murphy object to his portrait as drawn by De-very , the courts are open . A suit Murphy vs Devery is a thing to imagine with a shudder , but it might be illuminated by the invincible gayety of the ex-Chief , and it certainly would interest the District Attorney . The affidavit of Bernard Lynch , the saloonkeeper who perjured himself in order to save Parks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons Samuel Parks , Henry Farley , and their lawyers were in my private room drinking champagne . " This picture of the simple and abstemious life of the walking delegate should appeal powerfully to the horny-handed house-smiths . The rank and file of the union were out of work and their families were in want ; but Parks and Farley were able to sit in the back room of a saloon sipping costly wines . The question which their unhappy followers will naturally put is the same which the voters of New York put to Croker : " Where did you get it ? " The answer is easy ; Parks got it by holding up building contractors and real-estate owners . In one case his price is said to have been $50,000 ; but , as an Assemblyman once remarked of a Tammany colleague now in Congress , " He is not particular ; he will take any-'thing he can lay his hands on , from $25 up . " Joseph Plenty , for instance , refused to be bled for more than $200 . The story of ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be " written up " and placed in every Sunday-school library . It will teach the rising generation that well-directed industry is the secret of success . By steady attention to business , by picking up unconsidered trifles of $25 here , $200 there , and $50 , - 000 elsewhere , a man may rise from the blackest slums until he can hold up his head and drink ' champagne with the proudest Trust promoter in Wall Street . To those who recall the beginnings of the Amalgamated Copper Company , the recent decision of the Montana court comes as a tremendous anti-climax . Early in 1899 there were rumors of an impending copper combine with a billion-dollar capital ; but if such an idea was actually entertained , it was speedily abandoned , and the present company was floated with a capital of $75 000,000 Every effort was made to prepare the minds of the public for magnificent developments , and the bait was swallowed . Numerous intimations were spread abroad that the stock would speedily go to a dizzy figure , as high even as 200 being predicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground floor . " After the allotment of stock , the price was forced above par for a brief Period , but eventually broke and went as low as 8934 in 1900 Subsequently , the capital was increased to $150,000,000 , and the market quotation was " jack -- screwed " up to 130 , affording the insiders an opportunity to unload prior to the reduction of the dividend in the fall of 1901 , which sent the stock headlong to 60% in December . The losses were widespread and severe . The modus operands of the Amalgamated could no longer be hid . Inflated prices had been paid for most of the constituent properties , but the great Boston and Montana Company had been secured at a price which seemed on its face to indicate ability to carry the rest of the " outfit " The acquisition of the Parrot mine was also expected to contribute to this result . Meanwhile , litigation sprang up on all sides and for several years past the Amalgamated has been a powerful factor in Montana politics , aiming it has been openly charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lower court dispossessed the company of the Minnie Healy mine , a valuable property ; More important still , it has rendered permanent the injunction forbidding the payment of Parrot and Boston and Montana dividends to the Amalgamated , and has intimated that it may later appoint receivers for these two constituent companies As a result , the Amalgamated has closed down all its Montana mines , smelters , and other properties , pending a decision by the Supreme Court . What is the real motive ? Does the company hope , by rendering industrial conditions in Montana chaotic , to coerce the Supreme Court ? Or is the copper situation in such shape as to make it welcome this pretext for a shut-down ? It is strangely perverted reasoning which leads the disappointed Canadians to complain that Lord Alverstone 's decision against them was not " judicial . " In fact , the Lord Chief Justice was the one member of the tribunal who was in a position to display the temper of a judge . The rest were violent partisans . Our own Senator Lodge , we know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dead . His colleagues would likewise have said that they were open to conviction , but that they would like to see the man who could convince them . Of a similar mind were the Canadian arbitrators . Lord Alverstone 's prepossessions , if he had any at all , must have leaned to the Canadian side , but he was not absolutely committed , and the very fact that the argument in the case impelled him to decide as he did  --  against the British contention  --  would seem to be the highest and final proof of judicial-mindedness . His impartiality and conscientiousness appear as clear as did Mr. Justice Harlan 's , when , in the Bering Sea arbitration , he voted against some of the American positions . If Judge Bradley had gone against his party in the Electoral Commission , many things might have been said of him , but it would scarcely have been alleged that he had not acted as becometh a judge . The indefatigable President Harper proposes that the University of Chicago shall endow athletics and abolish gate receipts . If Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical difficulties , he will make a n.otanie contribution to academic progress . College athletics would be far nearer their ideal condition if the games were free to undergraduates and alumni and their personal friends , and were closed to the rest of the world Our centre-rushes would then no longer be paraded through the newspapers ' as the most distinguished persons of their generation , the amount of money received by the teams might bear some fair proportion to the college receipts for tuition , and the expenditures for coaching , travelling , and dressing would be less extravagant . Of course , the money ' of the football team is not squandered on those " compotations , ingurgitations , surfeitings , drunkennesses , and enormous and excessive commessations " that so scandalized an ancient critic of university life ; but to-day young men are reckless with thousands when they should be careful with hundreds . No marvel that they forget the proper place for athletics in a scheme of physical and intellectual discipline . With the resignation of Signor Zanardelli , Italian politics will fall into uncertainty . Weighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most attractive Prime Minister of recent times seeks honorable retirement More than two years ago Zanardelli carried into a compromise Cabinet , framed out of apparently incompatible elements , something of the moral enthusiasm which survives apparently only in participators in the struggle for United Italy . He assumed control at a time when the bitter warfare between the SoOialists and the reactionary partieS 4ad , under a temporizing Premier , lapsed into hopeless sulkiness . Zanardelli went cheerfully about a task of reconciliation that might have appalled the most hopeful statesman . He held ' his uneasy Socialist allies to support of necessary legislation , he placated disgusted moderates . If his constructive work in legislation was small , he renewed a right spirit in a demoralizing political order . His- foreign ministers brought to an end the old and foolish misunderstanding with France , and , without offence , loosened the bonds of the Triple Alliance . His Government acted fearlessly against the Camorra in Naples and the Mafia in Sicily . All this was largely due to the in -- spiring influence of Zanardelh 's braVe and generous personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redistribution of taxation , relief of the chronic distress in the South . But all these things will be more possible be --  cause Zanardelli mastered the anarchy ruling at Mo  --  tecitorio , and called back Italian politics to something of the high seriousness of the Risorgimento . The reduction of the Bulgarian army to the peace status is probably the signal for a general armistice in the Balkans . Winter is approaching , and it was understood that the revolutionary bands would suspend operatons with the first snow unless help came from outside . But the present revolt remains far more serious than the sporadic outbreaks of twenty years past The bands will winter in the mountains , only send-ing home their weaker members . Meanwhile great stores of rifles and aramuni -- tion will be accumulated against the spring , when , failing radical reforms , guerrilla warfare will begin again in more formidable guise . During the winter the agents of the Bulgar propaganda will work among all civilized nations. - They should have little difficulty in arousing the sympathy of the Christian-world for the Macedonian sufferers . England and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homeless and famine-stricken population . Other nations , we believe , will not fall behind , while it is probable that many people will feel that the most effective measure of relief is to contribute directly to the revolutionary chest Such action would find justification in the hopeless nature of the Austro-Russian demands , even in their amended form . Hilmi Pasha , the organizer of the terribl6 drives in the vilayet of Monastir , is to remain Governor-General . Already the Porte is protesting against the single reform measure that promises substantial amelioration  --  the appointment of tax assessors friendly to the Christian subjects of the Sultan . Finally , Germany and Italy are cavilling at the very mild control which Austria and-Russia are proposing to exercise in Macedonia .                     