@@430087

AN interesting and notable feature of applied science of recent date is the influence which observed facts have ' had upon the question of the revision of theoretical views . Both theories and the hypotheses which precede them are more useful , and indeed are most necessary , as indicat ing the lines along which practical researches may be profitably conducted ; but they must not be allowed to deter investigators from follow ing out leads which apparently conflict with existing laws . At the present time there are facts which continue to present themselves before the most painstaking and reliable observers - facts which do not agree with existing theories , and which may lead to the revision , or even abandonment , of positions hitherto deemed impregnable . As Sir William Crookes so well said in his recent address before the Congress of Chem ists at Berlin : It must never be forgotten that theories are only useful as long as they admit of the harmonious correlations of facts into a reasonable system . Directly a fact refuses to be pigeon-holed , and will not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or it must be revised to admit the new fact . Examples of the newly-observed facts which are causing the theories to be reexamined have already been mentioned in these reviews . The idea of the indivisibility of the atom , or , rather , of the existence of the atom as the ultimate limiting element of matter , is being discarded in view of the requirements demanded by electrical phenomena ; while the observed facts in connection with radio-active bodies are causing the theories of the correlation of forces and the conservation of energy to be scrutinized more critically than ever before . Undoubtedly , our knowledge of the facts in connection with the be havior of radio-active substances has been limited by the small quantity of such substances available for experiment and research . Practically all of the radium which has been prepared has been the result of the labors of M. and Mme. Curie , at their private laboratory in Paris . There is , however , a prospect that the separation of radium and its compounds may be effected in the United States upon a much larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uranium and the allied metals , inhiding radium , are known to exist in Utah ; and radium-barium compounds have already been isolated , showing marked evidences of radiot ivity . I f plans which have already been made are carried out , it is possible that radium may be produced in the United States before long ; on a commercial scale , thus enabling its usefulness to be To widely extended than would otherwise be possible . During recent months the development of the art of telegraphing Ii rough space by means of magnetic waves has been continuous , although to very startling experiments have been made . The most immediate application of the system is undoubtedly that of providing means for communication between vessels at sea , either with shore stations or with each other ; and the progress in this respect has been very satisfactory , Host of the important transatlantic liners now being equipped with the necessary apparatus . The recent international congress for the discussion of rules and methods of operation has been held ; but for the present he results have been withheld from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which intentional interference was carried on Luring the recent international yacht races demonstrates the necessity or some sort of effective cooperation to enable such conduct to be summarily dealt with . Experiments have shown that while it is practicable to tune receivers and transmitters that a reasonable degree of privacy may be attained , it is still possible for those who are so disposed to produce interfering and confusing effects ; and certainly such disorderly conduct should be treated like any other breach of the peace . The recent trip of Mr. Marconi across the Atlantic , during which he maintained communication at all times with either one shore or the ether , is an excellent example of what may be accomplished with suitable apparatus ; and there is every reason to believe that , with improvements in the transmitting apparatus , any vessel may be so equipped as be in communication with the land throughout the entire voyage , without involving an unwarranted expenditure of energy or money . Although the international yacht races are generally regarded as more of a sporting matter than an engineering question , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineer has entered into he design of both challenger and defender . Until a few years ago , the matter of the design of a racing yacht was looked upon as an exhibition of personal talent , much in the same manner as the skill of an Amati  | or a Stradivarius swept , the outlines , and worked the materials , of a violin . At the present time , individual skill is , indeed , required ; but the methods employed and the principles involved are no longer those of the craftsman alone , hut include those of the engineer as well . There is little doubt that the greater speed of the " Reliance " was due to her greater powering , in practically the saute manner as is the case with a steam-propelled vessel . Within certain limits , the controlling elements in speed are these which depend upon the lines of the hull and the manner of its progress through the water . When these limits are ex ceeded , however , the question of powering predominates , and it has been shown that , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struction , the work of the engineer enters so largely into the problem of modern yacht design as to render it largely a matter of computation . The questions of power generation and fuel economy are always before the engineer , and the present measure of efficiency is the resultant of many improvements , each a step toward the ultimate end . In a recent address before the German Society of Engineers , Prof. Carl von Linde reviewed the present state of the art of power generation from fuel , showing the proportion of efficiency already attained , and the probable lines along which future progress may be expected . The mechanical theory of heat enables diagrams to be constructed from which the maximum amount of work possible for any given tem perature-range may be accurately determined . By comparing these with the actual diagrams produced by any particular form of engine or motor , the extent to which the theoretical performance has been ap proached may be seen . Thus , in the case of the steam engine using saturated steam , but 13.8 per cent of the possible energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a portion of the loss is due to internal condensation , it may be partially remedied by the employment of superheated steam , and in this way the efficiency has been brought up to 16.6 per cent . Nearly as high a performance has been given to older engines of a wasteful type by the employment of an auxiliary engine to utilize the waste heat rejected with the exhaust steam . In the type of waste-heat engine designed by Prof. Josse , of Berlin , the heat in the exhaust steam is used to vaporize sulphurous acid , this vapor being em ployed to drive a second engine . The combined economy of this arrange ment reaches over 15 per cent , and hence the device permits an im provement in the efficiency of old engines without involving their entire  | reconstruction . The steam turbine , especially of the multiple type , as developed by Parsons , ltateau , and others , using steam superheated as high as 300 " C. , has developed a thermal efficiency of more than 15 per cent ; while Rateau has also attained excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engine to drive a low-pressure turbine . At the same time , it can be demonstrated that with the steam engine it is useless to expect an efficiency of more than one-sixth of the total energy contained in the fuel ; and for further advancement some other form of heat motor must be sought . Professor Linde shows that the line along which improvement is to be found is in the so-called " internal-combustion " motor , of which the ordinary gas engine is the best-known example . With these a thermal efficiency of 25 to 30 per cent has been reached ; while by employing higher compressions and a heat cycle more closely approximating to the theoretical , Diesel has reached an efficiency of 42 per cent . Thus , in the course of forty years of continued effort the performance of the steam engine has been raised from an efficiency of one-tenth to one-sixth , while the internal-combustion motor has passed an efficiency of onethird . The vast importance of effecting every possible economy in fuel con sumption for power generation is seen in the constantly increasing demands for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realizatioi that coal is the controlling element in naval warfare is leading the great Powers to equip larger and more numerous coaling stations ; and the stores of coal at all such points are being made greater than ever before . An important element in the storage of coal is the extent to which it deteriorates upon exposure to atmospheric influences . It has been thought that a complete submergence of coal under water might materi ally reduce this deterioration , and experiments are to be conducted to determine the extent to which submergence may protect coal . In previous reviews in these pages reference has been made to the growing importance of electric traction , as an example of applied science , both from a social and from a commercial point of view . The recently issued reports of the Census Bureau of the United States upon the growth of electric tramways serve to emphasize in a very specific man ner the points thus made . At the present time there are 22,577 miles of electric railway in the United States , operated by 987 companies , with a par @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to about $2,300,000,000 . The industrial side of this great business  | appears from the fact that employment is given to 133,641 wage earners , while the social effect is seen in the statement that the number of pas sengers transported in a year is nearly 5,900,000,000 . Apart from the great electrical industries which find in the traction companies their chief customers , it is a matter of engineering interest to note that the operation of these tramways involved the development of 1,298,000 steam horse-power , and 49,000 hydraulic horse-power . When it is considered that this immense amount of power involves boilers , engines , pumps , and a host of auxiliary machinery and appliances , it will be realized to what an extent applied science has entered the daily lives of nearly every one . Practically all of this industry has been developed during the last decade , and it represents the creation of new values , new machinery , new buildings , and new wealth , entirely from the applica tion of scientific principles and methods to the problem of local transport ? one of the services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he forms a part . Another example of the manner in which the electric transmission of power has transformed a branch of industry is seen in the extent to which electrical machinery is replacing hydraulic power , especially in the equipment of docks , warehouses , and similar applications . Ever since the late Lord Armstrong perfected his hydraulic cranes and hoists , and demonstrated their remarkable applicability to port and harbor service , the installation of such machinery has extended , and numerous improve ments have followed , so that this , at any rate , seemed a department of power transmission and application least likely to be radically modified . At a recent conference of the Institution of Civil Engineers in London , however , it was made evident that the greater flexibility and conven ience of electric power-transmission is enabling it to invade even this stronghold , and that , in spite of the prestige and extent of the hydraulic : equipment of the docks and harbors of Europe , the newer system is ousting the older . The change has appeared first in the Continental ports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Genoa , and elsewhere , the transformation from hydraulic to electric power is seen . In England , the conservatism of owners and builders has operated to retard the change ; but there , too , it is only a matter of time . In this connec tion , the fact that electric plants must be introduced for the purpose of lighting the works , aids the application of electric power , since the one generating station can well provide for both services . With abun dant artificial light and an ample supply of readily transmitted power , it is altogether possible to undertake the continuous operation of harbor  | work , and thus increase the facilities of a port , while at the same time reducing the proportionate capital charges . An allied application of electric power to which attention has been especially given of late , is that for the hauling of canal boats . Animal tract ion has been almost altogether superseded by electricity on tramways ; lint for various reasons the horse and the mule still remain in active service in the towpath . There has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haulage systems , the investigation being in the hands of a government commission ; and a number of trials have been held in connection with the completion of the Teltow canal , connecting the Havel and the Spree , near Berlin . The most satisfactory results appear to have been attained by a sort of single-rail locomotive system , the motor taking its current from overhead wires , and hauling the canal-boats by a tow line in the ordinary fashion . While it is not yet settled that this plan , or any submitted , can compete with animal power from the point of economy , there is reason to believe that the question will be fully tested from every practical side . Another form of mono-rail road , and one which has been the subject of much discussion and dispute , is the so-called Behr railway , now about to be built between Liverpool and Manchester . It is expected that when this road is in operation trains will be regularly run at a speed of 110 miles an hour , the time between the two cities being reduced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this road will doubtless influence the erection of similar structures elsewhere , since it offers a solution of the problem of providing an extremely high-speed express service , without interfering with existing local trains . It would be altogether practicable for the present railways to construct special mono-rail lines alongside of the existing tracks , and thus permit the express trains to be run through quite independently of the ordinary service . This plan might also enable the use of electric power to be gradually introduced without the general dislocation of existing appliances , which is assumed to be impending in case the present numerous travelling steam-power houses are replaced by fewer and larger stationary ones . The progress which has been made in the distribution of power from central stations has revived interest in the development of hydraulic power , as the numerous great hydro-electric power stations demonstrate . A natural consequence of this fact is seen in the systematic manner in which the hydraulic resources of various districts are  | being investigated . In France , the power possibilities of the Alps have been officially examined , and similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States the question has been left more to private initiative , although the reports of the Geological Survey contain valuable information . A recent investigation of the hydraulic power resources of the Bavarian Alps , made by Herr von Miller , is an excellent instance of the scientific mariner in which such researches are now conducted . The whole northern watershed of the Bavarian Alps , draining into the Rhine and the Danube , has been studied in connection with the topography of the country ; and the total amount of power available has been determined by summing up the possibilities of the various districts . In this way it has been shown that there is available in Bavaria aline nearly two million horse-power , of which at least 700,000 horse-power is readily available . In view of the great commercial value of a continuous supply of power , such investigations of the natural resources of a country are to be encouraged , as forming a record of national wealth similar in many respects to records of mineral or agricultural riches . One of the consequences of the formation.of the International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of important British steamship lines into other hands , has been the subsidizing of the Cunard line by the British Government to the extent of furnishing funds for the construction and operation of two new high-speed liners . Primarily these boats are intended to enable the British-owned line to compete with its American and German rivals by reason of the superior speed and comfort of the new vessels . In addition to this patriotic purpose , however , they will provide the Government with two highspeed cruisers in time of war , and incidentally will enable the mails to be carried as swiftly and promptly under the British flag as they now are under the German . The agreement between the Government and the Cunard Steamship Company provides that the sum of ? 2,600,000 is to he furnished to the latter at 24 per cent interest , this money to be expended in the construction of the vessels . A subsidy of ? 150,000 is to be paid yearly for the purpose of assisting in the operation of the boats . This subsidy is conditional upon the maintenance by the ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather . I f this is not maintained , a portion only of the subsidy is to he paid , unless the speed falls below 23:1 knots , in which case the fate of the vessels may be determined by arbitration . When it is understood that the fastest vessels now sailing under the  | British flag - the " Campania " and the " Lucania " ? make only about 22 knots , while the fastest German vessels are operated at 23 to 23 knots , the magnitude of the undertaking will be seen . Roughly speaking , the Dower , and consequently the coal consumption , of two steamships of about equal size varies with the cube of the speed . That is , to drive a vessel at double a given speed would require eight times the power , and to treble the speed would demand twenty-seven times the power . As it is proposed , however , to make the vessels still larger than any which have yet been built , the question of powering offers a number of prob lems which can only be solved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles now employed . While the details of the vessels have already been partly worked out , the places where they are to be built have not yet been announced . Their con struction , however , will attract more than usual interest , not only because of the importance and magnitude of the work , but also because they mark the reentrance of England into the contest for the speed record of the Atlantic ; thus putting the German ship-builders and steamship lines upon their mettle to retain the prestige which they have been permitted to gain . The question of ship-building is tied closely to another important engineering problem , which has not been as fully appreciated as its im portance demands . There is no question as to the great value of large ships , as regards both the comfort and convenience of the passengers and economy in transporting cargo . At the same time , the limits of ' the ship-builders in constructing larger and more powerful vessels have been by no means reached . The present limitations are found in the harbors , in the depths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even at the present time the larger vessels are obliged to regulate their departures from such a port as New York by the state of the tide , and groundings upon the mud banks are by no means infrequent . The demands of commerce must be met not only by the building of larger vessels , but also by the deepening and widening of channels and harbor entrances . The older methods of deepening channels are ' still followed to too great an extent and the employment of dredging machinery to dig out mud which the existing conditions are certain to replace can not be regarded as evidence of foresight or of good judgment . In some recent instances , however , an intelligent study of the manner in which the currents of water themselves act in shoaling and in scouring will reveal methods of directing these natural forces to produce , and also maintain , satisfactory depths at the desired points . By the construction  | of a . suitable curved jetty , so placed as to train the force of the tidal currents against its concave face , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases successfully applied to produce and maintain a deep channel . The success , of this plan at Aransas Pass , Texas , and at Cumberland Sound , Florida , appears to show that this method of har nessing natural forces to accomplish a most important purpose has been satisfactorily worked out . Mention has already been made , in these reviews of current techni cal progress , of the use of acetylene gas instead of hydrogen in connec tion with oxygen in a blowpipe , for the production of extremely high temperatures in the arts . The process , from its simplicity and conven ience , is attracting attention on both sides of the Atlantic . The desira bility of providing a convenient portable supply of acetylene fol. use with this apparatus has revived the method of Claude and Hess for ( Ussaving acetylene gas in acetone . The dangers of operating with acety lene which has been liquefied by pressure are well known , and this method of carrying the gas has been practically abandoned . The ex periments of Claude and Hess have shown , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissolving twenty-four times its own volume of acetylene , while under higher pressures the quantity dissolved is proportionally increased . Since acetone is an exothermic substance , while acetylene is endothermic , these two properties counterbalance each other , and the solution remains endothermic , or inexplosive . The difference between liquid acetylene and acetylene thus dissolved may be gathered by comparison with liquid carbonic-acid and the car bonic-acid gas dissolved in the so-called soda-water as bottled for drink ing purposes . There are now to be had in France steel tubes containing fragments of porous material saturated with acetone charged with acety lene . These reservoirs may be used most conveniently in connection with cylinders of compressed oxygen , for the production of the oxy acetylene blowpipe flame . Later experience of the use of the acetylene blowpipe for welding iron plates has shown the process to be most suc cessful ; the tests indicating the welded joint to be fully as strong as the original portions of the solid plate . The utilization of waste products is usually supposed to he limited to those substantial materials which can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , as the beautiful dyestuffs which have been made from coal tar . There are , however , other waste products , which , although not directly visible to the eye , at  | fifty-three elevators , forty-one of which are for passenger service . These are operated by electricity , a 35-horse-power motor being used in each came . Additional motors are employed for driving pumps , ventilating fans , refrigerating machines , cash carriers , etc. , so that in all there is nearly 3,000-horse-power of electric motors installed . In addition to the current required for these motors , sufficient is taken to operate 35,000 incandescent lamps of 16-candle power , and 500 arc lamps of 2,000-candle power each . A private telephone exchange , independent water-works , an automatic sprinkler plant , and a refrigerating plant ? all these go to make up what would form a respectable engineering equip ment for a moderate-sized city . The question of the consumption of timber for railway cross-ties is a matter which has long been considered . Many plans have been pro jected to increase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for timber . Steel ties of various designs have been made , and some of these have been found very satisfactory in service ; but , in the great majority of cases , the cost has prevented their use . In South Africa the white ants have been found so destructive to wooden ties that steel has been necessarily adopted ; but in other parts of the world the use of wood is still very general . The latest substitute which has been suggested , and one which offers several elements of advantage , is reinforced concrete . By making the ties in the form of concrete beams , reinforced by embedding in them pieces of old rails , a substance hav ing the necessary combination of elasticity and strength is produced , together with freedom from decay . The cost of such ties is a matter which can only be determined when they are manufactured upon a large scale and are extensively introduced ; but , in view of the success which has attended the use of deep girder rails embedded in concrete , to meet the exacting demands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction should serve well for steam railway lines . Improvements in engineering work sometimes come in response to demands caused by great disasters . Water-tight compartments have been provided on steamships in consequence of disasters by the collision of vessels at sea , and it was to reduce the great mortality by gas explo sions in mines that the safety lamp was designed . The deplorable loss of life by the fire in the Paris Metropolitain was the result of a combi nation of circumstances which may not occur again ; but the direct result will undoubtedly be the production and adoption of devices which shall render dangerous fires impossible in subways . Underground railways  | have become necessities in great cities ; and London , Paris , and New York are too fully committed to them for any change of policy to be practicable even if it were possible . It is , therefore , demanded of the engineer that he make such tunnels absolutely safe , and there is evidence that this task will be completely and practically accomplished . Naturally , the entire separation of the lighting service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , and , indeed , this is already a feature of the construction in New York . This , however , is a secondary matter . The primary requisite is the absence of combustibles , of material which can burn , or which can smoulder and smoke and cause suffocation . This last feature is one which must be taken into . account in considering plans for the use of non-flammable wood , slow-burning construction , and the like , for cars and for station structures . The eighty-four lives which were lost in the Paris disaster were taken by suffocation due to smoke , and anything which can produce smoke must be rejected if absolute safety is to be assured . The cars should be made wholly of steel ? a construction already common for freight cars , and admitted to be economical . and desirable  --  while the interior fittings may be effectively and satisfactorily made of asbestos , leather , and similar incombustible materials . Platforms should be of concrete , and buildings of metal and reinforced concrete . There is , thus , no reason why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is possible that some of these precautions may be objected to on account of cost ; but the falling off in traffic on Paris Metropolitain after the tire must be considered if such a matter is to be brought up at all . A rather daring experiment was recently tried in France to ascertain the effect of projectile shocks upon the electric and other machinery of the turrets of a modern battleship . Briefly , the experiment consisted in firing a " live " 12-inch shell against the armor protection of a battleship , while the crew were on board and the full equipment was iii place . This trial took place at Brest , early in August last ; the vessel under test being the " Suffren , " one of the latest and most powerful battleships of the French navy , and the shot being fired from the battleship " Massena , " at the short range of 200 yards . As there was was fired at a special target made of a piece of armor plate riveted to the turret in such a manner that the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shock of the explosion of the shell to be transmitted to the turret mechanism which it was desired to test .  | 226 APPLIED SCIENCE . Reports which have been officially made public show that no damage was dune either to the armor or the mechanism of the " Suffren . " Some live sheep which were placed in the turret were found to be uninjured , and , after the shots had been fired , the electrical machinery was tried and found to operate smoothly and satisfactorily . These tests were made for the purpose of determining the practicability of substituting electrical machinery for the usual hydraulic appliances for working the turrets , and there is no doubt that the result of the trials will be the confirmation of the policy of the French Marine of using electric power for the turret machinery as well as for the ammunition hoists and other accessory appliances . There were no casualties on board , and , indeed , no casualty was expected ; but at the same time experiments of this sort are coming as close to the actualities of warfare as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success which is attending the commercial development of telegraphy through space , there has appeared a renewed interest in the possibilities of the selenium cell in connection with telephonic communication without wires . ' The peculiar property of selenium by which its electrical resistance is affected by the action of light has been known for a number of years ; but the recent experiments of Ruhmer in applying the principle to wireless telephony are attracting attention . By using the so-called " speaking arc " of Simon and Duddell , in which a telephone transmitter is placed in the circuit of an arc lamp , the changes in light values caused by the articulation in the transmitter are caused to act upon a selenium cell , and the latter promptly responds . By using parabolic mirrors to direct and conserve the rays , the light vibrations have been successfully sent over distances of about ten miles , and articulate speech has been distinctly transmitted . In this apparatus the changes of current in the transmitting arc circuit are converted into varying light values ; and these , falling upon the selenium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which variations produce changes in a local circuit of which the selenium cell and the receiving telephone form parts . The range of such a system is naturally limited to the distance through which the light rays can be transmitted , but it is already much greater than was at first thought possible ; and , as has been already stated , the later experiments of Ruhmer have shown that distinct articulate messages can be received at distances of about ten miles .  |                     