@@486780

The magnitude of Mr. Roosevelt 's majority looms the bigger as rising out of the fiat level of the electoral contest Everybody must have thought the chances in his favor ; the more sanguine may have looked for an aggregate of votes in the Co7lege closely approximating that which will actually be cast ; but the " landslide , " to use the favorite journalistic metaphor , has taken the country by surprise  --  both those who were buried under and those who were a part of it . The perplexing listlessness that characterized the canvass did not prepare the public mind for such a full polling , for such unheard-of majorities There was something ominous in the absence of a lively interest , and of those enthusiastic demonstrations which would so well have befitted the Republican chief Mr Roosevelt himself must have looked for some boisterous signs of that popularity of which he felt assured . Could it be that his strenuous candidacy would elicit the required support with no more stir and bustle than the peaceful fall of the ballot snowflakes which execute the freeman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? And , now that the popular will has rolled his way in such a mighty tide , can the President be certain that he drew it after him , or may we conclude , like Tolstoy in his explanation of the Napoleonic flux and reflux from Paris to Moscow , that the great commander counted for nothing in the mysterious impulse of the multitude to rush in a particular direction ? We may trust Mr Roosevelt to take the benefit of the doubt Twenty reasons could readily be adduced for the Democratic defeat ; two or three suggest themselves for the antecedent apathy There was , for one thing , no need to get excited over prospective danger to the reputlic in case of Democratic success Judge Parker , by one decisive act of courage and abnegation , had removed the currency as a possible source of peril , and also as a bone of contention during the campaign . His own calm and equipose , added to his person being unfamiliar to any but the few thousands who heard him on the stump in a narrow territory , for-Lade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his own party was much divided and grudgingly loyal , was deficient in organization , and pursued no single , consistent weighty line of attack upon the status quo , which has always in itself a strong rallying power . All these Considerations lay upon the surface . and were a check on Republican anxiety and over-exertion . They probably did not , however , enter consciously into the determination of the mass to vote as they did . Their minds were made up , and stood in little need Of discussion or spectacular in citement Their apathy was not mental , precisely , but moral . They had not the least desire to rebuke the Administration for its inherited policy , or for those original acts of national dishonor which have renewed the blush of patriots . Their side-taking was in the gross They did not say , for example , while Judge Parker 's renunciation of a second term was ' ringing in their ears , that they saw nothing indecent in President Roosevelt 's proclaiming his intentions , while his predecessor was hardly cold in his grave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding with Odell that the latter would not go counter to this ambition . They did not forgive this indecency  --  they probably just forgot , if they ever noticed it . They passed over in the same way his active direction of the late canvass , and his free shuffling of his Cabinet in search of electioneering lieutenants . They in effect approved what we may question their readiness to cast an express ballot for on the ground of propriety , to say nothing of principle  --  his previous adhesion to'Addicks in Delaware , his rigging of a dishonest compromise in the same State , on the eve of the election , all with a view to consolidate his hold upon a majority in his own behalf . They accepted Pension Order No 78 , equally designed to propitiate a class of voters while intensifying the evils of the pension system itself . On the subjects of Imperialism , of an overgrown army and navy , of the mode in which we acquired the Isthmus , the majority of Northern voters have a-roved not , less compliant . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or they condone with plenary indulgence . They have cast a blanket ballot covering the entire ReDublican creed in its latest form . the acts of the Administration as a whole , and of Mr Roosevelt in particular They have done So tranquilly and emphatically . They have not borne even the testimony of ' abstinence from the polls In augmented numbers they have silently marched up to the urn , with more emotion on learning of their enormous victory than they experienced from any contemplation of the principles at stake - In such a picture there is much discouragement for those whose hearts are set on higher aims . They witness no such revival of tone as attended the two Cleveland successes , but a falling off Profoundly significant of moral deterioration . It is small consolation that the Independents did not stand together , and that-suCh of-them as mounted with the wave that bore Mr. Roosevelt once more to the White House , may four years hence return to their proper ranks The verdict just rendered is , all deductions made , a logical prelude to still lower depths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the unexpected , which has , in our American history , more than once seen the hour of triumph of the Worse succeeded swiftly by that of the Better . IS IT NOT TIME ? The marked increase in the distinctively Socialistic party led by Debs , as evinced on November 8 , may portend local rearrangement and , disturbance of party lines , with a natural legislative truckling to Socialistic demands . Exactly what took place in Massachusetts is still a matter of debate , though the fortunate Democratic candidate for Governor thought he was conducting the f ght for tariff reduction through reciprocity . He appears to have had a large Labor backing , so that the full dinner-pails were guilty of the inconsistency of voting with the one hand for Douglas and lower duties , with the other for Roosevelt and the highest tariff on earth . His opponent , the present incumbent , Governor Bates , had incurred Labor 's animosity by vetoing an Overtime bill not to be commended ; and it is likely that this act of manly independence accounts more for his defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of tariff iniquity . Both the Socialistic and the Labor movements , which have a bond of union in the protectionist principle , must be reckoned with , no doubt ; but they do not yet bulk sufficiently at the polls . The South offers by far the most interesting problem growing out of the reelection of Mr. Roosevelt . That section has been eaten into on the northern border , till now of the old slave States Delaware , Maryland , West Virginia , and Missouri are so far detached that they can not be counted upon to make common cause in national policy with the rest of the once united territory . Mr Roosevelt could even have dispensed with these accessions , which are likely to multiply with changes in Southern population through industrial growth ; and the coherent South is fairly to be regarded henceforth as a negligible quantity Mr. Roosevelt erased it from his thoughts , for hope or fear , when it turned upon him for controlling his own hospitality , nominating a few black men to Federal office , and standing by those persecuted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their Federal aspect , and more and more it must be difficult to call out a full vote south of Mason and Dixon 's line  --  south of the Potomac , as we may now say There is little pleasure in voting with a cooked and inevitable majority , especially when it has no effect on the national show of hands The composition of President Roosevelt 's electoral vote postpones indefinitely the chance of a Southern ' man-1. e , a native of the South , with Southern principles  --  securing a nomination for the Presidency . The solidity of the Southern remnant in isolated and futile support of Judge Parker points to the opportunity of leaving in its hands the name and style of Democratic party , and of forming a new combination with a few definite purposes , or even with one , under another designation . The position is this : At the South we have a population clinging to a fixed idea , white supremacy and negrophobia , which tinges their view of every public question even remotely bearing on the relations of the two races ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to barter their miscellaneous principles for the - withdrawal or defeat of obnoxious measures . At the North we have the Republican party , equally possessed with a fixed idea. , Protection , and equally ready to traffic in human rights if need be . The Southern idol is a relic of slavery ; the Republican is its legitimate successor as the greatest source of corruption the country has ever known . What is wanted is a third party ( for the present ) to put forth a clear , unambiguous programme that will not lose itself in the belly of a stump speech disguised as a party platform , and that has nothing to barter . Such a party can begin in the States , and can have for its function to force the issue upon public attention , and breed the politicians who will eventually argue its cause in Congress . To all appearances , Mr. Douglas  --  whose anti-tariff views spring from local conditions and necessities  --  might have succeeded in Massachusetts as the head of a party thus circumscribed and concentrated ; the regulation platform on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of the Democrats of Missouri to Mr Folk , who had made a sufficiently broad plank for himself and his fellow-reformers out of the crusade against graft and boodle . For our own part we consider Free Trade the most promising and the most essential creed for a new political organization . With it no Imperialist can he in sympathy , and anti-Imperialism is implicitly contained in-it . Civil-service reform likewise stands pat with opposition to special privilege . Freedom is what this country has gone on denying itself , till our daily relations have become a struggle for escape from the clutch of forces that would order us - where to buy , what to pay , and whom to employ , what to do and what to refrain from doing with our own hands These forces , whether Trusts or trade-unions , are intrenched in the tariff , or at least in the principle of protection and monopoly ; the directest assault upon them is through discussion of that question in season and out of season . Let us start that discussion at the North , as educators , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South and upon Tammany , abandoning the hope of immediate preferment , and trusting to the capacity of the American people to be regained not only to humanitarian idealism , but to recognition of their demonstrable material interest Is it not time to drop the name of Democracy , as an effete shibboleth for practical ends , and to favor the disintegration of the party when left to the machine and the South , with the virtue gone out of it ? Is there likely to be any more propitious hour than the present , amid the profound humiliation resulting from the latest attempt to restore the old landmarks of human rights , and orderly procedure by law , and international good-faith and brotherhood , through the instrumentality of a heterogeneous and discordant body of voters contending for divers issues , and " wanting ' wisdom , " if not wholly " void of right " ? BEREA COLLEGE AND THE NEGRO When Berea College opened its doors this fall , it was forced , for the first time in nearly forty years , to admit only white students By an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no person , corporation , or association of persons should maintain or operate any school or institution with persons of both the white and negro races as scholars , under penalty of a fine of $1,000 , and also of $100 for every day of operation . White persons attending such a school , or teaching in it , were to be fined $50 for each day A colored branch of a white school may be maintained , but not nearer than twenty-five miles . In the eyes of the Legislature , twenty-four would mean contamination  --  a dangerous proximity of races that yet have to work and live side by side Although in the form of a general bill , this law was aimed exclusively at Berea -- not , however , because of any scandals among its black and white pupi:s . Its offending may have been that its success in educating whites and blacks side by side was contrary to the doctrine of - white superiority , and tended to disprove the theory that equality of scholastic opportunity would mean the degradation of the white race . At all events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide . As the Berea Quarterly reports , they are now attending colored public schools , or have been sent to Fisk University and other reputable institutions The arrangement , it is reported , is working as well as could be expected . The sympathy of the friends of the school has been won as never before , and it is needed , for the law amounts to a confiscation of a large part of-the institution 's resources , since it has had to assume extra ex-peaces for the- colored students by paymg their railroad fares , part of their higher tuition , etc . Naturally , this is only a temporary state of affairs . Berea , having brought a formal violation of the law to the attention of the State officials , a friendly suit to test the ' constitutionality of the act has been begun , both sides agreeing to obtain a decision from the highest courts as speedily as possible . On its face , the law appears wholly unconstitutional . As the Quarterly remarks : " It invades the sanctities of personal ' liberty , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights and liberties of white and colored alike " The head of the law department in a Southern State school has written a private letter ? congratulating Berea 's trustees upon their stand , denouncing the law as " outrageouSly unconstitutional , " and declaring that their struggle is not for their own liberty , ' but " one for the liberty of every citizen . " Moreover , the action of the Legislature was " ruthless and inconsiderate " Officers of like State circulated gross misrepresentations , and both House ' and Senate declined ' to send committees to . investigate ' the college , - which is the one important school in Kentucky open to the negroes , and which has dope " work of inestimable value in spreading knowledge among the pitifully Ignorant moan-tam whites . Highly significant is the fact that many members of the Legislature told President neat that they were opposed to the bill , but that " the controlling element had determined to push it through , and that any man who voted in apposition would have the nigger question ' brought up against ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old story of " bulldozing " good citizens by the politicians , Who seek to make capital out of race prejudice . This explains why thousands of high-minded Southern white people who are opposed to attacks upon the negro , are silent in-the presence of the ignorant , blatant , and violent portion of the ' community . In the case of Berea , the evidence ' accumulates that the attack upon it was due to instructions received from politicians further south . It is pasSible that the Southern leaders - wall now deem it worth while to cease harping upon this one string , and that the better elements in their constituencies will see that attacks upon the negro are the greatest menace to the South 's politiCal and national influence . Whether the Tillman 's , " Jeff " Davises , and John Temple Gsisiveses can ' be muzzled or not , Berea 's white students have no hesitation an expressing their view , . independent of politicians ' or of those Who are the victims of unconquerable prejudice . We take from their resolutions of sympathy just voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good but timid members of the Kentucky Legislature : " Friends and Fellow-students ; As we Meet for tht first time under new conditions to enjoy the great privileges of Berea College , we think at once of you who are now deprived of these privileges . Our sense of jaslice shows us that others have the same rights as ourselves , and the teachings of tInvi , t , lead us to ' remember them that are al ponds as bound with them ' " We realive that you are excluded from the class-rooms of Berea College , which we se highly prize , by no fault of your own , and that thiq hardship is a part of a long line of deprivations under which you live Because yen were born in a race long oppressed and largely untaught and . undeveloped , heartless people feel more free to do you wrens , and thoughtless people meet your attempts at self-improvement with indifference 0 --  scorn Even good people sometimes fear to recognize your worth , or take your pa : t in a neighborly way , because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we have known you , or known about you , and that we know you are rising at ove all discouragements , and showing a capacity and a character that give promise for your people . . And you will always have our friendship , and the friendship of the best people throughout the world We hope never to be afraid or ashamed to show our approval of any colored person who has the character and worth of most of the colored students of Berea We are glad that the college is providing funds to assist you in continuing your education , and we are sure the institution will find ways in which to do its full duty by the colored race "                     