@@474840

FEW subjects touch man so closely as heredity , yet upon few is widespread ignorance more prevalent . The extreme complexity of the problems involved and the absence of any clear guide to the method of attacking them have discouraged scientific men from devoting their energies to these studies . Yet the knowledge to picture clearly the workings of heredity , to predict the outcome of this or that given mating , would give to man such powers of control over the living world as only a romancer has ventured to dream of . It is not generally known that the beginnings of that knowledge already exist , and that the great . and baffling problem of heredity has suddenly passed from the speculative to the experimental stage . The credit of it belongs to one man . More than forty years ago Gregor Mendel , an Austrian monk , showed clearly that heredity was no mystery , but a natural phenomenon open to attack by the scientific method of observation and experiment . The son of Silesian peasants , Mendel was destined for the Church , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the opportunity of studying natural science for a few years at Vienna , and became much interested in the problems of heredity . With the intuition of genius he saw wherein others had failed , and in his cloister garden he carried out with peas that series of experiments which have since become so famous in the scientific world . His results were'published in 1865. in a brief paper of less than fifty pages ? a paper that for clearness of exposition and magnitude of issue can be compared only with William Harvey 's classic treatise on the circulation of the blood . Yet no man heeded it , fur all were intent on other things . Mendel 's paper remained forgotten , buried in the proceedings of a local natural history society . Only with the dawn of the present von . eXVIII ? No. 703. -1 5century was it unearthed , and men of science began to realize the greatness of the achievement . Since then Mendel 's results have been confirmed over and over again . The principles which he enunciated have been shown to hold good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundations which he laid men have begun steadily to build up that accurate knowledge of heredity which in course of time will modify profoundly our attitude towards living things . In what does the revolutionary nature of these doctrines consist ? Let us take simple case . Hose-comb bantams are of two kinds , blacks and whites , and pure strains of either kind breed true . Now cross the black with the white . Instead of being of an intermediate color , the offspring are all black like the black parent . For this reason black is said to be dominant to white , which is spoken of as recessive . When the hybrid blacks are bred together they produce blacks and whites in the proportion of three of the former to one of the latter . The whites so formed thenceforward breed true , and throw no blacks , in spite of their black ancestry . The blacks , however , are of two kinds ? ( 1 ) pure dominants , which give only blacks when mated with a white bird , and ( 2 ) impure dominants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , giving blacks and whites in the ratio three to one . Moreover , such birds when crossed with whites may he shown experimentally to produce equal numbers of blacks and whites . For a group of facts such as this Mendel provided a simple explanation . The formation of a new individual , as is well known , is the result of the union of two germ-cells , of which one is provided by each parent , the spermatozoon or pollen grain by the male , and the ovum or egg-cell by the female . In the case of the rose-comb bantams we are dealing with the inheritance of two alternative characters , blackness and whiteness . The central idea of the Mendelian theory is that any given germ-cell can contain only one of these alternative characters . Such characters , which are transmitted as separate units , are known as unit-characters . In the present instance every germ-cell must carry either blackness or whiteness , but it can not carry both . When a " black " germ meets another " black " germ the result is a pure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ germs . When a " white " germ meets a " white " germ a white chick-en results which can give rise to " white germs only . And when a " black " germ meets a " white " germ the resulting bird is in appearance a black , because blackness is dominant over whiteness . But when such a bird comes to form germ-cells the black and the white characters separate from one another and pass singly into the germ-cells . Hence a bird which has been formed by the union of a " black " and a " white " germ-cell does not form " gray " germ-cells , but forms equal numbers of " black " and of " white " germ-cells . The breeding together of the hybrids therefore implies the coming together of two sets of germ-cells , each consisting of equal numbers of blacks and whites . As is graphically shown in diagram 2 , this can lead to one result only , viz. , the production of a number of offspring , of which one quarter are formed of the union of two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two " white " germ-cells , and two quarters by the union of a black and a white . These last , like the original hybrids , will be black to the eye , because blackness is dominant to whiteness where both exist in the same individual . Consequently the result of breeding together the hybrids is the production of blacks and whites in the ratio three to one . Let us now ace what happens when the members of such a family are bred onfor a further generation . In the first place the whites bred together breed true , and this in spite of the fact that their parents and most of their brothers and sisters are black . They can never give blacks , because the black character has been split clean out of the germ-cells from which they arose . Of the blacks there are two classes , of which one is twice as numerous as the other . These are the hybrid blacks formed by the union of a " white " and a " black " germ cell , and when bred together they behave like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a r e whites . The other class of blacks consists of those formed by the union of two black germ-cells . These breed as true to blackness as t h e original pure black grandparent . It is here that the great practical importance of Mendel 's discovery lies . When a cross is made between two pure strains which differ from one another in respect of a single pair of characters only , the second generation will contain a definite proportion of individuals which breed as true to the characters they exhibit as did the original parents . The white rose-combs of the second generation . in spite of their black ancestry , arc as pure and uncontaminated by blackness as the original white parental strain . Stich is Mendelian inheritance in its simplest form . Recent experimental work has shown that it is a phenomenon of wide if not of universal occurrence among living things . During the past few years it has been demonstrated for such varied characters as structure , size , shape , color , and fertility among plants , as well as for numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : tallness is dominant to dwarfness in peas , sweet peas , and snapdragons ; color is dominant to white , and purple is dominant to red , in stocks and sweet peas ; palm leaf is dominant to fern leaf in Primnlas , and in the same genus double flowers are recessive to single ; in Hyoscyamus the biennial flowering habit is dominant to the annual ; in the sweet pea sterility of the pollen is recessive to the normal fertile state . Among animals , the long Angora hair is recessive to short hair in rabbits ; color is dominant to albinism in rabbits , rats , and mice ; chestnut is recessive to bay or brown in horses ; the peculiar waltzing habit of the Japanese mouse is recessive to the normal condition ; while in fowls , which have been much used for these experiments , Il umerous Mendelian characters have been demonstrated for . the structure and color of the plumage , the form of the comb . the color of the skin , and many other features . So far we have only dealt with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single pair of characters . It more frequently happens that the original parents differ in in a n y characters , and such a cross may often appear to result in a hopeless tangle . Nevertheless , in many cases careful scrutiny will reveal an underlying simplicity of arrangement . Each pair of characters in which the original parents differed is transmitted according to the simple Mendelian rule , and is usually transmit-t e d independently of any other pair . For example , color is dominant to white in the flowers of the pea . And the tall habit of the ordinary garden pea is dominant to the dwarf habit of peas like American Wonder , which average about eighteen inches only . Here , then , we have two pairs of differentiating characters . Let us suppose that one of the plants to be crossed is a tall with white flowers , and the other a dwarf with colored flowers . The resulting hybrids must be tall , and must also have colored flowers . For tallness is dominant to dwarfness , and color is dominant to white . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mendelian rule , consist of three tells to each dwarf ; and at the same time there will be three plants with colored flowers to every plant with white ones . Therefore , this generation consists of four classes of plants , viz. , tall colored , tall white , dwarf colored , and dwarf white , in the ratio of 9:3 ; 3 ; 1 . A combination of characters has been AND brought about , and two new classes of peas , colored tails and white dwarfs , have been formed . Moreover , as theory demands and experience confirms , a certain definite proportion of each of the four classes is fixed in this generation . By picking out such plants the two new varieties may he established in the short period of three generations . The great economic importance of these results may fitly be illustrated by a short account of sonic experiments on wheat now being carried on by the Agricultural Department of Cambridge University . So long ago as 1890 the National Association of British and Irish Millers called attention to the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foreign article with its strong glutenous grains was found to be greatly superior , and English wheats were selling at 28a. 6d. a quarter , while Manitoba hard was fetching 35s . The National Association endeavored to interest the agricultural societies in the question , but found that they were more or less resigned to this unsatisfactory state of things , and despaired of coraneting with the superior quality of the foreign wheat . Indeed , many declared that grain of the highest quality could not be grown profitably in Great Britain . At this point the Association took a wise and for England a courageous step . They decided to provide the funds for experimental research , and in - 1900 Professor Biffen of the Cambridge University Agricultural Department started his remarkable series of experiments . It was just at the time of the rediscovery of Mendel 's paper . Thanks to Professor Eateson , the extreme importance of that paper was at once recognized in Cambridge , and Professor Biffen organized his work upon Mendelian lines . He collected together all the varieties he could lay hands on , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an accurate knowledge of the various unit characters that occur in wheat . lie found the beardless character to be dominant to beardlessness , rough chaff dominant to smooth , red grain to white grain , thick stem to thin stem , and so on . Early and late ripening behaved as a Mendelian pair of characters , as also did heavy as opposed to poor cropping capacity . Professor Biffen 's analysis further revealed Mendelian heredity in two characters of such importance as to deserve especial mention . We have already seen that the poor quality of English wheat is due to poverty of glutenous matter . The grain is too starchy , and requires the admixture of a considerable amount of glutenous " strong " foreign wheat to give flour which will bake into a presentable loaf . Professor Bilien has been able to show that the highly glutenous grain is dominant to the starchy one . With this knowledge he has been able in a few years to produce a wheat combining the large cropping capacity of English wheat with the high gluten content of a foreign variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Professor Biffen 's experiments concern the inheritance of an entirely different character . In all countries the most serious enemy of the wheat fanner is rust . Early in their growth the plants are attacked by a parasitic fungus whose presence is rendered conspicuous by an abundant outbreak of reddish-yellow pustules all over the foliage . In certain seasons and with certain varieties the outbreak may be so severe as to very greatly diminish the yield of grain . In the bad rust year of 1891 the loss due to this cause in Prussia alone was calculated at over ? 20,000,000 , while a well known authority estimates that the average loss from rust to the wheat crops of the world would not be covered by ? 100,000,000 . No prophylactic against the disease has been discovered , and it is recognized that the only way to avoid it is to make use of varieties which are naturally immune . Unfortunately the few such varieties that exist are in other respects poor and unprofitable to grow . Professor Biffen began his experiments by crossing a variety peculiarly subject to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hybrids produced were all severely attacked by rust . In the following year such seed as could be collected from these plants was sown . The greater number of the resulting plants were much rusted , but some were entirely free from the disease , though growing up in the closest contact with their rusty brethren . It was found on counting that the immune plants formed almost exactly a quarter of the total number . In other words , the experiment proved susceptibility and immunity to be a pair of Mendelian characters , and consequently within the control of the breeder to combine with other characters according as he pleased . The fact that resistance to yellow rust is a unit character exhibiting Mendelian inheritance makes it a simple matter to transfer it to wheats which are in every way desirable except for their susceptibility to rust . From the knowledge gained through his experiments Professor Biffen has been able to build up wheats combining the large yield and excellent straw of the best English varieties with the strength of the foreign grain , and at the same time quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres of such wheat coming true to type were grown on the Cambridge University Experimental Farm , and when the quantity is sufficient to he put upon . the market there is no reason to doubt its exerting a considerable influence on the agricultural outlook . Besides the work on wheat , experiments have been undertaken with barley . As with the wheats , there are varieties of barleys with glutenous and others with highly starchy grains . The more starch a barley contains , the more valuable it is for malting purposes . Since Professor Biffen has been able to demonstrate that with barley , as with wheat , starchiness is recessive to glutenous quality , it should be an easy matter in the future to associate the starchy character with other valuable properties in barleys . Nor is the work at Cambridge confined to plants . A start has been made with the object of investigating the inheritanceof horns and of face color in sheep , and Professor Wood has been able to show that both these characters are inherited upon Mendelian lines . In this way he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suffolk with the white face of the horned Dorset . Similarly , Professor Spillman has adduced evidence to show that the polled character in cattle is dominant to the horned stale , thus making it possible to dehorn painlessly any breed of cattle where this is thought desirable . In all experiments conducted on these lines the method is the same . The breeder sets to work on his living material just as the chemist in the laboratory investigates the properties of an tin-familiar substance . He starts by analysis . Appropriate crossing best enables him step by step to determine the unit characters which go to make up the plant or animal upon which he is working . Once these characters are determined , ? a knowledge of the Mendelian principles will enable him to combine them together according to his will , and to build up and fix a plant or animal having the properties which he considers most to be desired . No long and tedious method of selection is necessary . The new variety may be built up and fixed in three or four years . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is here that the chief difficulties of the work lie . The analysis of a complex chemical substance is often a lengthy and tiresome business . But it is simplicity itself in comparison with the analysis of the properties of the living thing . There is no plant or animal of which the analysis yet makes any pretence to completeness . As the breeder pursues his investigations he is constantly confronted with the unexpected . It is improbable that he will go far without encountering the curious and , until recently , mysterious phenomenon of reversion on crossing . White sweet peas breed true to whiteness , but it sometimes happens that the plants produced when two whites are crossed are not only fully colored , but their color is that of the wild purple Sicilian form . Color here is , as it were , a compound character . Two things are necessary for its production , and unless both arc present the flower will be white . Each of the white parents in our cross contained one of the two things necessary for the production of color , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Mendelian rule . Crossing brings these two things together , and straightway the color appears . The ease of the sweet pea may be paralleled among fowls , where a cross between certain strains of true-breeding whites results in the production of fully colored birds approximating to the ancestral black-red . Again , the cross between a black and an albino rabbit results in certain cases in the production of animals with the gray-brown. coat of the wild form . Many cases of similar nature have now been investigated , and to-day we realize that these peculiar instances of reversion , so mysterious to the older naturalists , are part of the orderly process of heredity , and equally amenable to control with the simpler cases mentioned above . There are other phenomena in heredity which at present are less understood . Characters may be associated together in a peculiar way . In the sweet pea the hooded character is recessive to the old-fashioned erect standard , and red is recessive to purple . But in certain families where both reds and purples as well as flat and hooded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the purple . All the reds have the erect standard . Yet the hooded red is not a physical impossibility , for it is well known to exist in other strains . The subject is at present obscure , and much experimental work will have to be done before it is cleared up . Not until then shall we be able to realize its bearing upon economic problems . By this time the very great importance of Mendel 's discovery will doubtless be apparent . Through it heredity emerged from the mysterious and the nebulous and took its place among the exact sciences . Yet no one realizes more than those who are actively attacking its problems how little has been achieved , how vast are the fields still to he conquered . But each new problem unravelled puts a fresh tool into man 's hands and helps him towards that control over the organic world without which he can not make full use of the living resources of the earth . It matters little with what material the experimenter works , whether mice or cereals , primroses or poultry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most readily supported by the means at his disposal and promises the speediest answer to his questions . For it may well be that a problem solved in rats or butterflies will clarify obscure phenomena in the breeding of cattle or potatoes ; and it is upon these seemingly irrelevant experiments that much of the future progress in agriculture will depend . But how about ourselves ? What of man ? These are questions which the reader has doubtless asked already . Though little is yet known , the answer need not be ambiguous . Man , too , is subject to those same laws of heredity that govern the transmission of characters in plants and in other animals . Manamong the most complex and slowly breeding of living things , and the investigator is further handicapped by having to rely for his data upon the haphazard and inextricable experiments which are the outcome of civilized marriage customs . Nevertheless a few clear cases have already been worked out , nor are indications wanting that the next few years will witness a considerable extension of our knowledge . One of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiar condition known as brachydactyly . In people affected with this malformation the joints of the fingers and toes are two instead of three , and the whole body is markedly stunted . Dr. Farabee in America and Dr. Drink-water in England have demonstrated clearly that this condition behaves as a simple dominant to the normal state . The chances of two brachydactylous individuals marrying are very small , and such people are practically always the offspring of a brachydactylous and a normal person . They are impure dominants , and they necessarily transmit the peculiarity to one-half of their children on the average . It is an equal chance whether the child of such a union is affected or normal . But when the recessive normal appears it breeds true to the normal state , no matter what the family history for brachydactyly may have been ( cf. diagram p. 122 ) . Another interesting human case is that of eye-color . All colored eyes have pigment at the back of the iris . In addition to this there is frequently some yellowish-brown pigment on the front of the iris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazel , brown , or deep brown , according to the amount of the yellow-brown pigment . Where it is absent the color of the eyes is blue , gray , or violet . It has been recently shown by Mr. C. C. Hurst that the condition in which the pigment is present is dominant to that in which it is absent . Blue-eyed children may spring from brown-eyed parents , but the biologist would regard with some surprise the brown-eyed child sprung from parents whose eyes were blue . The hereditary transmission of disease , to use the word in its widest sense , has for long been a subject of interest to the physician , and men arc beginning to inquire how far the Mendelian laws are operative in this sphere . Already there exist clear indications that certain abnormal conditions , such as congenital cataract of the eyes , alcaptonuria , diabetes incipidus , and others , are of the nature of simple Mendelian eases . In others again , such as color blindness and the peculiar disease known as hremophilia or " bleeding , " the inheritance is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male sex , though transmitted through the unaffected females to their male offspring . Nevertheless , recent experimental breeding among animals has revealed similar peculiarities of inheritance , and their solution is not unlikely to afford the key to the problems offered by these curious sex-limited diseases . And Professor Biffen 's classic experiments with wheat rust have opened up a fascinating field of research in connection with the problems of immunity . If we wish to build up a knowledge of the heredity of human disease , the method at any rate is clear . We must have full and accurate pedigrees , and for their interpretation we require carefully devised experiments in the breeding of plants and animals . With increase in knowledge will come powers of prevention far greater than those we have today . howfar we may use these powers must rest with the future to decide .                     