@@486785

Wellington complained that he had been , in his public life , " much exposed to authors . " President Roosevelt has been exposed to his intimate friends His kitchen Cabinet has been as grotesque in its way as Jackson 's The confidants whom he has had about him , deep in his secrets and bursting with information about his plans , policies , and preferences , are an extraordinary collection They embrace complacent little Mugfords of journalism , Boswells with all the toadying and gush but without the skill , divines in search of information and religious convictions , foreigners only half-naturalized and less than half-baked , swashbuckling writers and happy-thought publicists  --  the list is as long as it is miscellaneous These nondescript professional " friends of the President " have done him harm , not simply because it is a reflection upon any man to have such parasites and flatterers always at his ear , but because they are forever getting him into trouble and compelling him to repudiate them even while they fawn upon him For example , take the attitude of President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was a recent intimation made by Collier 's Weekly that Mr Roosevelt , it spite of his professed admiration for Mr Folk as the most conspicuous and determined enemy of political corruptionists , was al-owing it to be known that he hoped for Folk 's defeat A little investigation on our own account has put us in possession of the facts It appears to be another case in which the President has been " in the hands of his friends , ' to his own disadvantage , and , we should think , to their mortification The mischief originated with Mr Wilham Allen White of Kansas Discretion not being his forte , he let it he known , in his capacity as mouthpiece of the White House , that Mr Roosevelt was heartily for Folk and hoped that many Republicans would quietly vote for him This was but natural , in Mr White 's mind Was not the President , on his own confession , the most resolute foe of grafters ? Had he not inspired at least one magazine article showing how , in the post-office scan dais , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to get his clutches on the rascals ? The fact that the New York Senators denied interfering did not discompose Mr White of Kansas , and knowing how bitter was Mr Roosevelt 's hatred of boodlers , he went up and down asserting that of course the President was for Folk , that he could not but be , . since to suppose that he desired the success of the Missouri corruptionists in their efforts to overthrow Mr. Folk was an insult It was absurd to say that Mr Roosevelt was not in sympathy with the anti-graft campaign in the West , which has le so many honest men to subscribe to the campaign fund at once of Mr Deneen in Illinois and Mr. Folk in Missouri . So much for one friend of the President 's But another promptly arrived upon the scene He told Mr. Roosevelt that White 's splashing around in that way was making Republicans angry . Was the President a party man or was he not ? Could he maintain that its monopoly of virtue ended with Presidential candidates , and that a Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his opponent ? This view appealed to the President , and he authorized friend No 2 to write a letter declaring that friend No 1 had misrepresented him . But , alas , friend No 2 proceeded to do exactly the same thing  --  so the President asserted later In excess of zeal he made his letter too strong He was not content with arguing that it was preposterous to imagine that Mr. Roosevelt would not favor the election of any regularly nominated Republican , however bad , over any Democrat , however good , but asserted in so many words that the President thought Walbridge " a better man than 1 olk " The letter was extensively " shown " in Missouri , and in an evil hour was shown also to certain independent voters , who indignantly took the matter to the White House . There followed " a scene " ? in fact , we understand , several scenes , enough to make a comic op  --  ra Finally , friend No 2 was ordered io recant . Accordingly , he wrote letter No 2 His first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr Roosevelt thought Walbridge a better man than Folk , he had meant " purely in his capacity as a political candidate , " etc , etc If the whole incident provokes laughter , it is a laughter which teaches certain truths Government , said Burke , is an affair of ga-betweens Then they ought to be very carefully chosen Mr Roosevelt 's have not sufficiently observed the difference between going between and " butting in " Yet , after each incident of the kind , the kitchen Cabinet remains as before . Its reorganization would appear to be one of the President 's most urgent duties Another one is a rebuke of Ambassador Choate for having called Mr. Roosevelt " the chief of Independents " Mr. Roosevelt 's political independence is solely for consumption between elections . In actual voting he is always for " keeping up the organization , " even when , as in the present instance , it would mean fining boodlers with joy at the defeat of their implacable toe , and setting back the cause of reform throughout the whole country Ti ! E CASE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvania Civil Service Reform Assocatton , there has been unearthed one of the most genial attempts to assess Federal office-holders in many years . For its unconscious humor , for its frank and unblushing avowal that officials of the United States have no higher duty than to work for the " organization , " and for its complete exposure of Philadelphia machine methods , the circular sent out by Jacob G. Bunn , lately finance clerk of the Philadelphia post-office , must long remain a classic in the literature of civil-service reform Bunn 's own head has fallen . An investigation by Civil Service Commissioner Cooley brought out so many violations of the law that his decapitation was a matter of course . But his name will long survive even the memory of his official career . Bunn on Illicit Campaign Contributions should rank hereafter with some of the highest legal authorities on torts . Bunn himself , with the modesty ever becoming in an author , would share his laurels with others At the inquisition into his methods he insisted , but In vain , that his name had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achievement which has brought him sudden fame . The documents for which he was so cruelly deprived of his lucrative Federal office lie before us . They seem to exhibit the same desire to be business-like and thorough in campaign-time which has been so marked a characteristic of Mr Cortelyou 's management Mr Bunn and his associates also want to get out the vote and collect all the campaign money in sight . So they sent word to office holders and others : " ft. , - Bring in at next meeting Written List of Office Holders , wanted for Election Day Use some discretion and do not expect to have excused the entire Police Force , Fire Department , and Clerical - and Mechanical Force of the city Public interests make such a proposition impossible Electron Day is not a holiday , but a working day for the Organization to get busily-forgetful and disinterested citizens to vote Do not wait until Election Day  --  see that your particu , lar Division is thoroughly canvassed . Use every means from now to Election Day to arouse and enthuse Republican voters It is remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vote for ROOSEVELT AND FAIRBANKS " In order that no guilty officeholder should escape and no spurious contributor pass himself off as a real , live recipi ent of a Federal salary , the following " Note " appeared : " Please send by return mail a photograph of yourself If not recent and up-to-date , kindly sit for same immediately and forward a prepared proof , to be used for halftone work We want every Councilman , School Director , and Member of Ward Committee " With this appeal went two elaborate blanks which reflect infinite credit upon the great-Mr Bunn Upon them were to be entered full details as to the names , addresses , and employments of all Federal and municipal office-holding and non-office-holding voters in the ward . In the case of the office-holders there are such significant headings as " salary per day " and " salary per year , " " date of appointment , " and " upon whose recommendation . " In the case of the Republicans who do not hold office , there is deep significance in the demand that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and minority inspectors and clerks at the polling-place of each voter be appended Any one familiar with Philadelphia political methods will appreciate the convenience of having this information at hand . Naturally , Bunn et al were the best men to fix what proportion of his salary each office-holder should dedicate to the machine . They were particularly anxious to be square about it . In their own words . " In order that some equitable basis may be recognized from those who desire to contribute voluntarily to the support of the Republican Organization in the 28th Ward , the suggestion has been made that all those receiving $1,000 and over contribute one per cent , under $1,000 one-half of one per cent , all per-diem men one day 's pay , but no contribution solicited under $2 00 This money is only payable to the member of the Finance Committee from your Division , from whom you will get a regular printed form of receipt , and in addition , to prevent gross injustice being done contributors , a plan has been adopted by which the Finan cial Secretary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St , will verify the amount of every contribution by mail with every individual contributor " Mr. Bunn also announced that " the members of the finance committee will positively solicit no contribution from police officers " ? doubtless because other arrangements had been made . On the other hand , Mr. Bunn knew the value of precise information Hence he added the following queries to the blanks pertaining to office-holders ? " As an Organization Worker , what use is he ' . . . If no use , what hustler in your Division would you recommend for his place ? . . As a voluntary Contributor , are his contributions the amount suggested ? . . . .. Does he contribute appiectatively , begrudgingly , defiantly , or ignore the Organization altogether ? Let us have the facts Mr. Bunn explained the necessity for this by pointing out that " particularly those who sought the support of the Republican organization , were successfully recommended , and now are fearful to be known as a Republican , dodge every responsibility under the bugaboo of civil service . " Naturally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president , and Harvey L Frantz , treasurer , wanted to hear no more of such ingratitude They were anxious , too , that in creating the North Philadelphia Business Men 's League , no " Fakes , Bluffs , or Hot Air Contingents " be proposed for membership . What must be their opinion now of the leader of their own party of moral ideas , when , in the hour of apparent victory , he undid all their hard work , and ruthlessly cut short so promising a literary career as that of Jacob G. Bunn ? RUSTS AND THEIR PROSECUTORS " Our opponents , " said Judge Parker at Hartford on Thursday , ' ' have the effrontery to claim that they alone have shown any desire to oppose the Trusts Their claim is as false as it is flagrant " Mr Roosevelt himself had helped to circulate the misrepresentation In his letter of acceptance the President spoke of the action of the Attorney-General in enforcing the anti-Trust laws and interstate commerce laws , as having " for the first time opened a chance for the national Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growth of the Trusts " He added that " these laws are now being administered with entire efficiency " Admitting that the increase in numbers and power of the Trusts was due largely to official neglect of duty , he made the bald assertion that " such stricture upon the failure of the officials of the national Government to do their duty in this matter is certainly not wholly undeserved as far as the Administration preceding Mr McKinley 's is concerned , but it has no application a ! all to Republican administrations . " This slur upon the ' Cleveland Administration can not be sustained by the facts , and is so obviously capable of refutation as to make at astonishing that the able editors of the President 's letter allowed it to stand Moreover , Mr. Roosevelt 's language ' conveys the impression to the average reader that his Administration alone has sallied forth , bent on crushing the " octopuses " The Republican campaign committee freely advertised a misinformed editorial which appeared in the World in March last , and Which contained , among other errors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney-General Knox the first attorney-general to enforce and test the anti-Trust law In giving this editorial their endorsement , the Republican 's thus made it appear that President McKinley and his Attorney-General entirely neglected their sworn duty The records show that the very first President to attempt to enforce the anti-Trust law was a Republican President , but his name was Harrison , not Roosevelt . His Attorney-General , Mr W. H. H. Miller , sued the Sugar Trust , but was defeated in both the lower courts . When President Cleveland succeeded Mr Harrison , the litigation was still pending , and Mr. Richard Olney saw to it that the Republican lawyer , Mr. S F. Philips , a former solicitor-general Of the United States , in charge of the Government'ti case , argued it before ' the Supreme Court . This he did , only to meet defeat , largely on the ground that mere concentration of ownership an an agricultural , manufacturing , or mining industry was not under Federal control . The famous Trans-Missouri case was also brought to a hearing in the Circuit Court during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , prosecuted later by Attorney-General Olney , only met the same fate at the hands of the Circuit Court of Appeals . It was Mr. Olney 's successor , Attorney-General Harmon , who did the most important anti-Trust work , and who obtained a brilliant personal victory in the Trans-Missouri case over a number of distinguished New York and Chicago lawyers . The result was a decision for the United States upon all points , but the judgment Was ' delayed by the Supreme Court until a few days after the inauguration of Mr McKinley Not content with this activity , Mr. Harmon directed a similar suit against the Joint Traffic Association , which was also successful after Mr McKinley came into office . To Mr. Harmon also belongs the great credit of having set in motion the Addyston Pipe Trust Case , out of which came the first decision that the anti-Trust law applied to a manufacturing combination . This bad seemed highly improbable of achievement after the Sugar Trust case . As in the two other cases , the decision against the Pipe Trust was handed down under Attorney-General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under Attorney-General Griggs , affirmances in the Addys ton Pipe and Joint Traffic cases was secured , hut , so far as we are informed , Mr. Griggs dad not institute any new proceedings What the present Administration has done is simply to foncrw in the footsteps of its predecessors and apply the decisions to newly discovered facts . These facts are not new They have been ( brought out in Congress , and in the press ' by Mr Edward B. Whitney , Who was a member of the Department of Justice under Mr. Cleveland But ' they have been deliberately overlooked , precisely as it has ' been ' convenient to ignore the vain attempts of the Cleveland Administration to obtain from a Republican Congress ' an amendment to the anti-Trust act which would strengthen the Government 's hands , with money enough to enforce the law . THE CANADIAN ELECTIONS . No very clear issue was settled at the Canadian voting booths on Thursday Sir Wilfrid Laurier went before the country on his record , which includes chiefly the negotiation of the Grand Trunk extension to the Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the application of the preferential duties to South Africa , and a promise , not pressed of late , to revise the tariff In opposition to these pledges and achievements , the Conservatives demanded a more drastic protective policy , criticised the mixed contract with the Grand Trunk , urging Government ownership of the line , and made much of charges of corruption and of the Dundonald affair . The defeat of the Conservatives was expected , actually , they have suffered a rout A slight reduction in the Liberal majority in Quebec is made up by a clean sweep in Nova Scotia . Manitoba and the Northwest generally  --  very doubtful provinces politically  --  have declared strongly for Sir Wilfrid Laurier The Opposition leader , Mr R. L Borden , was defeated , meeting the fate of his predecessor , Sir Charles Tupper , four years ago Sir Wilfrid Laurier returns with an increased majority ? probably seventy or so , in a House of 214 . It seems to have been a waste of time for the Opposition to attack as they did the Grand Trunk contract , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government credit , leases , refunding , and the like , was simply too complicated to be understood by the average elector , who apparently voted for the immediate good of a transcontinental railway and trusted his Government for the means Much was made out of the tiff of the Commanding General , Lord Dundonald , with the Minister of Militia . But any effect of the exposure of the latter 's partisan interference with the service was nullified by Dundonald 's too clearly manifested scorn for his colonial superiors Imperial reciprocity hardly figured in the contest In fact , the Liberals were safely and platonically on record in its favor , and could point to the denunciation of the German trade treaty and the Bi nish and South African preferentials as their work Savage demands for higher tariffs rung hollow in view of the great industrial prosperity of the Dominion Indeed , the Liberals , with their bounties to iron , lead , and fisheries , could hardly be outbid in devotion to the mercantile theory So , in default of real ismes , the Conservatives rested their case on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperially minded , than the Liberals . To a shrewd and hustling people more eager for trade advantages than for sounding names , there seemed to be no good reason for turning out an efficient premier , or for engaging in tariff fights in behalf of a , mere formula which the mother country may or may not adopt . This eminently practical turn of the Canadian voter had been illustrated a few days earlier in Premier Bond 's extraordinary victory in Newfoundland . Representing a policy of independence for the colony , reciprocity with the United States , and in general the autonomous development of the industries of the island , he carried the constituencies five to one His opponent advanced chiefly the imperialistic argument of union with the Dominion In all British America , then , Imperialism as such has been either rebuked or ignored . Thus does a proper self-interest treat Brummagem dreams of an empire leagued against the world for some commercial Armageddon . For the United States this double victory of the Liberals may be of the highest importance It means the extension of an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blaine and Hay on a reciprocity treaty which would build up an export trade in foodstuffs and agricultural and mining machinery , while lowering the price of fish to the American consumer Sir Wilfrid Laurier has always been in favor of an equitable readjustment of tariffs between the United States and Canada It is known that he would be glad to reassemble the Joint High Commission to consider this and other matters outstanding between Ottawa and Washington . The Republicans of Massachusetts and Minnesota agree in demanding the removal of trade obstructions , with thousands of voters for Dingleyism the conviction lurks that it is absurd to pay the price of conquest over-seas and to scour the globe for trade , when we front for three thousand miles what should be our greatest market in the future and our greatest purveyor . We need Canada 's timber and minerals and live stock and fish and grain , she needs in a thousand instances our manufactures , both fundamental and secondary Already New England seeks that outlet for her shoes , cottons , watches , and finer products generally , while she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dominion All along the border the case is the same  --  a trade potentially great and mutually profitable hampered by the most ingeniously harmful restrictions of the Dingley tariff Why , it may be asked , should our Northwestern millers be forbidden to grind Canadian wheat except under bond , why should every newspaper pay double toll on its raw material , wood pulp ? Why should we eat dearer fish that they may be caught or smuggled by American fishermen ? On the other hand , why should the wheat-growers of the Assiniboine at once pay duty on their reapers and be shut out of the nearest market , why should Canada stumblingly and at great cost duplicate those manufactures for which we have unique material advantages and the dearly won experience of years ? If a shoemaker and a market gardener live side by side , and the man of cabbages undertook to make shoes for his family , and the cord-warner attempted to grow his own vegetables in window-boxes , the neighbors would call them both fools until a reciprocity treaty was negotiated across the fence Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unneighborly terms ? Because , instead of sensible advisers , they have thousands of interested persons in council : manufacturers who fear that their dole may cease , politicians who abhor the prospect of a party which , granting no unfair favors , can extort no excessive contributions ; timid people who will accept any injustice rather than upset trade conditions ; ambitious schemers of the Lodge type , with their little groups of tolerated smugglers to oblige , their phrases to maintain Of such are the enemy But against them the very situation fights , and the expectancy of Canada and Newfoundland must some day be interpreted , not with the Lodges as a hostile advance upon our markets , but as a fair appeal for a normal understanding on all trade matters  --  for tariffs drawn , not by politicians for the benefit of a handful of party proteges , but by statesmen for the mutual advantage of two great nations 