@@430371

 |p1096  LONDON is now enlivened once again by the reopening of Parliament , by the somewhat peculiar conditions of its reopening , and by the sure promise that it gives of an important and an exciting time during a great part of the coming winter . I may fairly describe the winter as only " coming , " for altho in England we usually consider ourselves in winter after the first fortnight of October has past , yet in this present year we have had a positive revival of the summer during the last four weeks , and of a very charming summer , too , except for the shortening of the days . Our legislators have now assembled in - Westminster Palace , not for the opening of a new session , but to continue the work of a session which was adjourned until last Monday . On Monday , therefore , we had no speech from the throne and no address in reply to that speech , but merely the formal resumption of the business of Parliament . Seldom , indeed , has there been a meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical , and more important work . The licensing measure is certain to bring about a most severe and exhaustive struggle . We are destined to see yet another great contest between the hereditary chamber and the elected chamber , which must have a most important effect on our future constitutional condition . Then the great social , or rather socialistic , questions which are calling more and more loudly with every day for an immediate  |p1097  settlement , or at least for legislation promising to bring about a speedy settlement , will have to be dealt with earnestlyand bravely during this adjourned session . I have already more than once endeavored to set before my American readers the principal characteristics of that most important and most impressive movement which insists that our legislators shall turn their attention much more to the condition of the unemployed and the poverty-stricken in these islands than to the policy of continental states and to the magnifying of our army and navy in order to prepare against the dangers of imaginary invasions . Here again we have the fresh Continental alarm which threatens to glee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are always only too ready to seize every opportunity for diverting public attention from the condition of our own unemployed and our own poor to the supposed necessity of preparing to hold our own in an immediate coming war . The sudden creation of a new Turkey , a Turkey with an accepted system of free constitutional government , an event which most Englishmen have regarded with welcome and hope , has led to Bulgaria 's declaration of independence and filled alarmists here with the idea that a great struggle is coming thruout Eastern Europe , in which Austria and even Russia are to take part against Turkey , and that England , therefore , ought to prepare instantly to stand in arms by Turkey 's side . The House of Commons was in full expectation of having its attention brought very directly and emphatically to bear on the really great question concerning our unemployed operatives . A vast meeting of the unemployed was summoned to be held in Trafalgar Square on the first day of the adjourned Parliament . The police authorities , however , interfered in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interfere with the public traffic  |p1098  and , above all , to interfere with the free access of members to the House of Lords and the House of Commons . The meeting was therefore somewhat restricted in its demonstration , but it represents a great and a pressing cause with which the Government must deal and are indeed resolved to deal on the earliest possible opportunity . The proceedings of the House of Commons in particular were threatened with a very different sort of demonstration , or even I might say invasion , on the second day of meeting , by the irrepressible Suffragettes , who had made proclamation everywhere by printed placards of their resolve to " rush the House of Commons " on behalf of woman 's right to vote at parliamentary elections . The " rush , " however , did not come to much , but it certainly accomplished one feat of invasion never known before in the history of the elective chamber . The invasion , however , was only realized by the act of one enterprising and ingenious lady . This fair ? or , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to her action , unfair ? Suffragette adopted a stratagem wholly unexpected by the assembled Commons . She had obtained from a member , who was himself an advocate of woman 's suffrage , an order of admission to the Ladies ' Gallery , but she also induced him to give her a preliminary look-in at the parliamentary chamber thru the panes of one of the windows standing , at either side of the doors which open into the House . Any member of the House is authorized to conduct personally , a lady to one of these windows , and the member who was helping the Suffragette to gratify her curiosity had no hesitation in conducting her to the nearest window . But , to his utter amazement , she had no sooner reached the window that she sprang away from him , flung open the doors of the House , and rushed into the House itself , calling in shrieking tones to the assembled Commons to desist from their present deliberations and carry a measure giving votes to women . The House was crowded and the assembled members were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his attendant did not lose their heads even at the sight of this unexpected apparition , and the lady was soon captured and carried out of the House and sent forthwith into the streets , the Speaker at the same time issuing an order that she must never again be allowed to enter the inner lobby , even with the escort of a member . Several other Suffragettes were arrested for causing disturbance in the streets , but this one , whose demonstration I have described , was the only heroine who illustrated by her personal action the resolve to " rush the House of Commons. ; ' For myself , I greatly regret that what seems to me a really good cause should be brought into ridicule and discredit by such absurdities . The death of Sir Henry Drummond Wolff was not an unexpected event , for he had long been in a most feeble condition of health . None the less , however , it came with a heavy shock to his family and his friends and to all who knew anything of his public career and his personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honor of knowing Sir Henry during many years . Our acquaintanceship began with the forming of that famous fourth ; party of which Wolff was the originator and to which Lord Randolph Churchill , Arthur James Balfour and Sir John Gorst became adherents . There had been previously three , parties in the House ? the Liberals , the Conservatives and the Irish National party , of which I was one . Sir Henry Wolff conceived the idea of creating a fourth party , , which should consist of independent Conservatives who did not pledge themselves to obey all the dictates of any Conservative Government , no matter what those dictates might be . Our Irish National party sat for a long time on that side of the House where the fourth party had its seats , and we had , therefore , many opportunities of close intercourse with its members . Thus it was that I first came to know Sir Henry Wolff , and the acquaintance grew into a friendship only interrupted by his death . He was a man of very high intellectual gifts , of extensive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one who had traveled much and learned something everywhere , a most delightful talker and fascinating humorist . With his wife also my family and I had most friendly intercourse during many years , and saw in her the heaven-sent companion and partner of her gifted husband . Of late years  |p1099  the weakness of his health , brought on , I should assume , by his incessant overexertion during his parliamentary career , had compelled him to give up work of all kind , and even to confine his out-ofdoor movements for the most part to excursions in a carriage , or , more commonly , in a bath-chair . Sir Henry often visited me in his bath-chair at a time when we were both invalids , and during all that time I never could observe any signs of depression or despondency in him . He had still the same vivid spirit , the same keen sense of humor , the same sparkling wit and the same genial enjoyment of all that life allowed him to enjoy . Lately I had not seen him for a considerable time , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendship with him is a possession which will ever live with me . Much and melancholy interest has been created here , and will be created in the United States , by the publication of " Gay Lawless , " the work of Helen Mathers , and by the conditions under which this , her latest novel , has come to be publisht . My American readers will know that Helen Mathers is the maiden name and the literary name of Mrs. Helen Reeves , who has won for herself a wide popularity and a distinct celebrity among novel-readers everywhere . This new novel is dedicated by its author to her son Philip , who helped her , as she tells us , with the sporting part of it . Before the work was concluded Philip Reeves died in England while still but a young man . Philip Reeves had been a lieutenant in the British army , had served all thru the South African war , and afterward served in India and in Sierra Leone . These years of campaigning thru most trying climates had no doubt a prematurely exhausting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and when he returned to England he began to sink more and more into a state of decaying health . He died just a year ago , aged only twenty-nine . I had the pleasure of meeting him often since his return to England , and was greatly imprest by his literary capacity , his bright humor and his devotion to his mother . Philip Reeves became well known in this country as an amateur steeplechaser , and this latest novel of his mother 's , in the production of which he helped her greatly , is partly about steeplechasing , but chiefly about trotting , a pastime better known , or at all events more widely practised , in the United States than here in England . Two of Mrs. Reeves 's novels , " Tally Ho ! " and " Pigskin and Petticoat , " were written by the authoress in actual collaboration with her son , and she tells us herself that in this , her latest novel , he helped her with all the sporting part of it . Sad memories , indeed , too sad to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart of my friend , Mrs. Reeves , as she penned this dedication of her new novel to that loved and loving son . The American public will , I am sure , be glad to hear that a cheap and popular edition of Morley 's " Life of Gladstone " is about to be issued immediately . This new edition is to be in two volumes and is to be brought out in excellent style , alike as regards the portraits and the printing , at a very cheap rate , which will make it accessible to all admirers of the great statesman and of the gifted author and parliamentary companion whose names come together on the title page of each volume . This new edition has been arranged for and is brought out mainly under the influence of the Daily Chronicle , one of our leading London newspapers . I need not here say anything as to the surpassing claims which the life of Gladstone , by John Morley , now Lord Viscount Morley , has upon public interest in every civilized country . The original edition had , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with valuable portraits , and therefore at a price which made it all but inaccessible to the vast majority of the reading public . It was indeed in every sense a book not merely to be borrowed from a lending library where such institutions existed , but to be bought and kept by all classes of readers who could appreciate its worth . This , I need hardly say , could not have been done in the case of the original edition , but the book is now to be brought well within the reach of the great majority of readers . No man is better qualified to write the life of Gladstone than John Morley . Gladstone and Morley were colleagues and comrades in parliamentary and political life , and Morley was not merely an official supporter of his great leader , but was in thoro companionship                     