@@474574

THE old oracles degenerated long ago into the dream-books of the back stairs . But some of the ancient dream-diviners were reasonable . Arta-banes , the Persian , said to Xerxes , who was frequently spurred to the advance on Greece by his dreams , that dreams reflected chiefly what a man thought of when awake . From that day to this there have been those who looked upon dreams reasonably and practically , and there have been others who as charlatans exploited them , wrote dream-books or told fortunes by them , and others still who regarded them as mystical penumbra of another life or another world . There were believers in dreams in Nineveh when they kept a brick dream - book in the library , and in Babylon when the sibyls interpreted them , and in the days of Joseph and David and Daniel , and in the time of Christ . when Artemidoros wrote his dream-book ( Oneirokritika ) in five volumes , which you may read now if you wish , in several tongues . There are also believers in dreams to-day , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the field of science , new diviners , new oracles . T.e.t us now try to sum up what has been accomplished by all who have studied dreams since Aristotle declared them to be of demoniacal but not godlike nature . But as a preparation for this summing up , a little must be said about the brain and consciousness and sleep . We must look upon the brain as the repository of all our past experiences , a vast storehouse filled with pictures of past scenes and faces and things , replete with stored-up voices , sounds , words , and music , containing innumerable memories of scents , tastes and sensations , pleasant and painful ; remembrances of incidents and conduct in the lives of ourselves and of our associates ; and , above all , crowded with thoughts and emotions based uponthese sensory impressions ? all traced and recorded and distributed among the billion tiny cells that compose the gray matter of the brain . And many more than a billion threads join these tiny cells together and bring them into countless associations under the control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will . Now nearly the whole of that great mass of brain-substance may be considered to be practically asleep most of the time . At least , as far as full consciousness is concerned , only a small island on that whole sphere or world of latent intellectual life is awake at any one moment in time . Consciousness , like a search-light , throws from its solitary tower its brilliant ray here and there over that wide expanse that stretches from infancy to old age and illuminates now this , now that islet or promontory . But this it does only sixteen hours of the day ; then sleep comes to dim but not to extinguish the light . When night arrives , that habit of sleep , fixed by the alternating dark , which has acted upon our nervous system since its earliest beginnings in ancient days , turns low the light of consciousness , which still swings and sends its feebler ray now here , now there , upon the old familiar landmarks . If the full consciousness of the day be compared to the sunlight , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to moonlight . And this is the domain of dreams . It is the same landscape upon which the sun shone , but it takes on something of ghostliness and unreality under the eerie magic of the moon . The stuff of dreams is then of the same fibre as the stuff of our waking state . Into it enters no material save that of our own experience . So much as to the substance of our dreams and as to the feeling of being in a different psychic locality or in another world . The world of dreams is the same as the workaday world , but seen in a dimmer and hence mysterious light . Rut another factor which has to do with the manipulation of the stuff of dreams is that the search-light of full consciousness by day is more or less regulated and directed in its movements by the will . In the subconscious state the will has quite gone to sleep , while the search-light mechanism moves on as before , throwing its feeble light into various parts , but no longer with voluntary regulation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now this year 's , now that of the far past . Even forgotten paths and roads and vistas appear , and without apparent sequence or association . Some scene of long ago appears side by side with one of yesterday , or between two of to-day ; or two wholly different experiences may be so illuminated as to blend together in a sort of fantastic composite photograph . The drowsy consciousness that looks along that luminous beam will see near and far points simultaneously lighted up , now distinctly , now indistinctly , for the beam comes from a flickering , wavering fire , bespeaking a varying intensity in the energies that create this refulgence . In some such way must we make clear to ourselves the chaotic singularity of dreams ? a mass of fragments stored in all sorts of out-of-theway places in the brain , but brought out in sleep and combined into a sort of homogeneous mass , which may be compared to that conglomerate made of every possible kind of pebble gathered by river and glacier from all parts of the earth to be finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before us the composition of dream-material is to consider it made up of endless films in a cinematograph , each film in itself being a line of natural memory-association ; but in sleep the films are exchanged rapidly , or even occasionally put one over the other , so that a medley of incongruities appears upon the screen . Thus we may be walking along Fifth Avenue , when suddenly the Colosseum looms up upon our right and the Taj Mahal on our left , with 1Tofbr-iiu in large gilt letters over the door ; a steamer is on the roof of the house ; we are on a lonely road and meet a man carrying his head in his hands ; we begin to fall down an . Alpine . precipice , but composedly open our umbrella and continue our ride in the gondola as if nothing had happened . The combination is new , but these fragments so put together are made of nothing outside of our own store of pictures , places , persons , memories . From what has already been said here of dreams , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memory is often much sharpened in sleep , so that old experiences are revived quite outside of the waking power of recollection , identifiable only by some clue given in a subsequent dream or by discussion of the dream with some friend or relative who supplied the missing link in the association . This sharpened memory is called hypermnesia . A frequent experience in dreaming is a hypernmesia with regard to childhood scenes . It may be true , as is sometimes supposed , that nothing the brain has ever received through its avenues of communication is wholly lost , that every impression , however insignificant , is recorded and susceptible of reappearance in the waking or sleeping consciousness . Another habit of dreams is to concern themselves often with apparently trivial and inconsequential material rather than with poignant griefs and losses or intense joys . One may do so , but as a rule one does not dream of a clear one recently dead . The intense prepossession with a single idea or cluster of ideas constellated about a grief tends to exhaust the group of brain-cells occupied therewith : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the dreamconsciousness than the other areas that may have rested and slept for days or years . I purposely said above " apporenfl. , y trivial and inconsequential material " of dreams , because these indifferent fragments frequently have a deep significance when studied and traced to the ideaassociations in which they really belong . Thus far it has been pointed out that , among the mental faculties or activities , during dreams the light of consciousness itself is low and dim and wavering , the will is drowsy or fast asleep , while the memory is wakeful , active , even hyperactive . How is it with the emotions and ethical feelings and the judgment ? Many dreams are comfortable and intereating , some accompanied with exaltation , others by depression and fear and anxiety ; yet in the main the emotions are somnolent , in abeyance . We manifest no surprise or amazement at the most astonishing metamorphoses of places , persons , things , or at the overturning of all natural law . The same is true of the ethical and moral feelings that are dulled or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less indifferent . Even those who claim to believe that the morality of the waking state is also the morality of one 's dreams are unwilling to accept responsibility for dream - conduct In dreams judgment also sleeps , and the dreamer believes in his dreams . He can not apply the law of causality to the phantasms of sleep ; the critical faculty fails . There is much difference of opinion among investigators as to the points just brought up , for there are dreams in which the emotions , the ethical feelings , the judgment , the critical faculties , do play their legitimate part . This can be explained , as in the case of consciousness , by the assumption of constant variation in the depths of their sleep ? a flickering intensity , as it were . Only some such theory makes it possible to explain the remarkable dream-work that is sometimes accomplished , the solution of difficult problems , and the creation of poems , music , and romance . The overactivity of the memory in dreams presents a remarkable contrast to the quick fading of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgotten on awaking , though some make so strong an impression as to be remembered for years . There are several reasons for this . The factors which help us to remember when awake are sharpness of impression , repetition of an impression , combination of an impression with an emotion and with other impressions in some sort of logical sequence or order , all of which factors are more or less lacking in dreams . The inchoate dream-composition , which has no analogue in our waking state , vanishes before the strong inrush of realities when we awake . It is a curious feature of dreams that they are largely made up of visual pictures , which is also true of most deliriums . While the waking mind thinks ordinarilyin word-images and speech , the dreaming mind employs optic illusions or hallucinations to express its - thoughts . The other senses also play a part at times . Another peculiarity is the tendency of the dreamer to " make a story " of the kaleidoscopic images brought before his consciousness . He must give the conglomerate some sort of unity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also ? to dramatize his experiences ? and he carries this wish for a dramatic finish into dreamland with him . It must be confessed that the dramatic tendency follows him back from dreamland , and is often apt to embellish quite unconsciously his report of his dream-adventures next day . There has been much discussion as to whether one dreams only on falling to sleep and during the act of waking up or whether dreams take place at any time during sleep . While not definitely determined as yet , the evidence seems to be rather in favor of the view that one may dream at any time during the night , or the whole night through . Dreaming is common to perfectly healthy persons , and in itself is no evidence of disorder . Until now we have concerned ourselves somewhat briefly with the psychic nature and composition of dreams , and have said nothing of their exciting causes . We may roughly class these as sensory stimuli which reach the sleeping mind through the five senses from outside the body , sensory stimuli from the organs within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eye and ear , and finally purely psychic excitants . The first two are so familiar to every one as to be almost proverbial exciters of dreams . The following are instances : A hot-water bottle at the feet led to a dream of a journey to the top of Atna . An attack of gout coming on in sleep induced a dream of the Inquisition and the rack . A light allowed to shine through red paper on a sleeper 's eyes caused a dream of storm and hot weather . A bad taste in the mouth brought forth a dream of having taken a bite from a specimen preserved in alcohol . One investigator was stimulated by the clatteringby of a horse in the street to dream of a banquet of giants whose jaws made a terrible clatter as they ate . A pleasant or disagreeable odor may in the same manner arouse analogous phenomena . A popular saying that many dreams come from indigestion is an example of an organic source , but general feelings of malaise , of thirst , of hunger , or special feelings based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or other organs in the body are prone to develop dreams . The functions of the healthy organisms do not come under the observation of consciousness when we are awake . but in sleep there is a hypersensitiveness of the subconsciousness to processes going on in the body even - under normal conditions , and in sickness this hypersensitiveness may be much emphasized . Long ago Aristotle declared it possible for some incipient organic disorder to first manifest itself in dreams , and many noodern authorities agree with him . As probably all normal individuals dream , and very likely every night , most physicians look upon these organic physiological stimuli as the chief sources of dreams . In illness they are more prolific causes . These excitants come from what a French author calls the " Splanchnic Ego " ? or the Ego connected with the sympathetic nerves . A theory as to cause which has much vogue among psychologists , if not among physicians , is the third mentioned above , internal sensory irritation , or the theory of hypnagogic hallucinations . Subjective sensations in the eye and ear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roaring in the ears , or even fainter conditions than these , remaining over from the waking state , may set as excitants of dreams . The theory has won much attention , particularly because the subconscious Ego tends so strongly to think in pictures or hallucinations . The fourth source mentioned above , the purely psychic cause , is based upon the well-known though infrequent relation of dreams to the thoughts and interests of the waking state . But while the interests of the day do at times haunt the brain in sleep , this source is too uncommon to make it the etiological basis of all dreams . The truth is , that any of these excitants may act at any time to determine the exposures of old associations , and their anachronous and disorderly reproduction . Dreams have a close relation to delirium and insanity , so close that insanity has been described as a long dream , and dreaming as brief insanity . There is nothing- in the phenomena of dreams that may not be encountered among the wideawake patients of an asylum ward . Sometimes insanity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still normal by day . Such dreams are then the precursors of aberration . Again , in patients just recovered from mental disorder , who are normal by day , there is sometimes a nightly recurrence for a time of the insane delirium in sleep , a nocturnal insanity . There have been patients who showed only this nocturnal form of insanity . Tn some cases anxious dreams have been the equivalents of epileptic seizures ; and in alcoholism the dreams sometimes foreshadow the characteristic alcohnlic delusions ( of infidelity , etc. ) that may or may not possess the waking consciousness later . Insanity and delirium have many features common to dreams , such as the prominence of visual and auditory hallucinations , the sharpened memory for the past , the imaginary fulfilment of wishes and desires , baroque associations , chaotic flight of ideas , weakened judgment , loss of sense of time , and division of personality . Indeed , so close is the relation that it has been said that insanity , though a pathological condition , is to be looked upon as the summation of periodically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a terrible dream may usher in insanity , and that the insane delirium then concerns itself with the material of the forerunning dream . Dreams are also at times the cause of so-called imperative ideas or impulses , haunting thoughts that take possession of the waking suited to the exclusion of everything else . These imperative ideas are frequent in neurasthenia . The individual may be normal in speech and conduct , but can not rid himself of the single end usually trivial thought that forces itself into his consciousness . Thus we may look upon insanity as a species of reduction of consciousness , such as exists in the dream-state . If sanity be the sunlit day of consciousness , then insanity is the night of consciousness , full of mysterious , fantastic moonlight distortions of reality . This is the age of rehabilitation and verification of old popular beliefs and su- ? perstitions . Just as the ancient alchemists would find to-day a justification in the behavior of newly discovered elements for their faith in transmutation , so , were the old oracles to be born again , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the dreaminvestigators of to-day . The method of explication is changed . The diviners of the past were symbolists and decipherers . The system of explanation by symbols is well exemplified in the dream of Pharaoh interpreted by Joseph . The seven fat kine that were followed and devoured by the seven lean ones were an allegorical prophecy of seven years of plenty followed by seven years of famine . The second popular system of ancient days was a sort of cipher method . A dream was like a piece of secret writing or a rebus , in which each sign had a fixed and arbitrary meaning recorded in a dream-book . If , for example , you should dream one night of a letter and also of a burial , reference to the dream-book would show that to dream of a letter predicts danger ; of a burial , a betrothal . Now the modern diviners of dreams take little or no rank as prophets , but they claim that there are no dreams , however trivial as to contents , that are without significance . They employ neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a method quite their own , which may be called the analyticsynthetic . To them the subconscious Ego , out of which the dream comes , is an infinitely vaster personality than the conscious Ego , and keen analysis of the compressed conglomerate of a dream is discovery , is a revelation of wishes , desires , conflicts , tendencies , characteristics , hidden far down in the inmost depths of the dreamer 's individuality . These broken fragments of unrelated experiences , woven by the dreamer 's fantasy into a sort of dramatic unity , drift , like the ice-floe , on that invisible sea of personality . Separately piece by piece the fragments are studied , and their old motives , relations and associations traced out . Each fragment is in itself a condensation of some outlived experience . As the paleontologist reconstructs his hypothetical monster from its only remains , a scale or a footprint , so the dream-diviner makes his synthesis from the vestige uncovered inthe strata of dreams . He examines the apparent material of the dream , but he must also follow closely all clues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting fact established by the dream-analysts is that a large proportion of dreams represent the fulfilment of a wish or desire . This is particularly true of children , whose dreams are of the simplest nature . Any one may convince himself of this by a little inquiry . There are thirst dreams and hunger dreams , wealth dreams , fame dreams , and so on through the whole catalogue of man 's desires . The sick dream of health , the unhappy of happiness , the childless of children , the penniless of golden ducats , and in his winter attic in the city the poet dreams of summer in the country . The discovery of the desire at the basis of dreams is not always easy , for it may be hidden from the dreamer himself , and this is a riddle that the new oracles enjoy solving . When one dreams that lie sees his enemy lying dead before him , the fundamental wish is clear . But when one dreams of the death of a friend or relative , a parent or sister , he is horrified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a desire lies hidden , albeit probably some old long-forgotten infantile wish such as children often express in irritation . Such at least is an explanation which has been authoritatively offered , though the writer feels that it is more than questionable . Common as a wish is as an impetus to dreams , it is not a constant or invariable factor . But whence come the wishes and why do they so often seek fulfilment in our dreams ? Wills , wishes , desires , struggles , conflicts , hopes , needs , the manifold complicated expression of the one Great Will . lying at the foundation of all consciousness and subconsciousness , repressed and censored in the waking state by reason and judgment , have a clear field at night when reason and judgment are asleep . But the modern investigators have not unravelled the whole mystery of dreams . There is still " an incommensurable rest , " and perhaps will always be , with which the mystics may busy their brains . There is still the vast domain of the subconscious , wherein the brownies , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compose poems . 