@@473973

ELECTRICTTY is of two kinds , positive and negative , each repels itself and . attracts the other . So begins or might begin every text-book of Electricity since the era of Gilbert of Colchester in the days of Queen Elizabeth . The most freely movable kind of electricity is the negative variety : a body containing an excess of negative is said to be negatively charged ; a body with a defect of negative is what we are accustomed to call positively charged . Anything which possesses the two kinds in equal quantities is not charged at all , but is neutral . So virtually taught that eminent man Benjamin Franklin a century and a half ago . Electricity is not a form of energy , any more than water is a form of energy . Water may be a vehicle of energy when at a high level or in motion : so may electricity . Electricity can not be manufactured , as heat can , it can only be moved from place to place , like water ; and its energy must be in the form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " charge " ; electricity in locomotion constitutes a current and magnetism ; electricity in vibration constitutes light . What electricity itself is we do not know , but it may perhaps be a form or aspect of matter . So have taught for thirty years the disciples of Clerk-Maxwell . Now we can go one step further and say , Matter is composed of electricity , and of nothing else , ? a thesis which I wish to explain and partially justify . First we must ask what is positive electricity t and the answer is still we do not know . For myself T do not even guess , ? beyond supposing it to be a mode of manifestation , Cr a differentiated portion , of the continuous and all-pervading Ether . It seems to exist in lumps the size of the atoms of matter ; and no porVet. clx. ? No 551. - 45 tion of it less in hulk than an atom has ever been isolated , nor appears likely to be isolated . But . although it may have bulk , it appears as if it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atom is probably clue to something else , in fact to the possession of negative charges in equal amount . This part of the doctrine is not yet certain . More investigation is urgently needed into the meaning and properties of positive electricity . Meanwhile we shall only be following the lead of Professor J. I. Thomson if we assume that a unit of positive electricity has a massiveness ( or what is often inaccurately called " weight " ) either zero or very small , most probably very small ; perhaps about one per cent . of the mass of some atoms of matter may he due to the positive electricity which they contain . At the same time it appears probable that the space occupied by a unit of positive electricity is not small compared with the size of a material atom . Its range , or sphere of influence , may be said to determine that size . But concerning negative electricity we know a great deal more . This exists in excessively minute particles , sometimes called electrons and sometimes called corpuscles : these are thrown off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they fly with tremendous speed till they strike something . When they strike they can propel as well as heat the target , and they can likewise make it emit a phosphorescent glow : especially if it he made of glass or precious stones . If the target is a very massive metal like platinum , the sudden stoppage of the flying electrons which encounter it causes the production of the ethereal pulses known as X-rays . Electrons are not very easy to stop however ; and a fair proportion of them can penetrate not only wood and paper , but sheets of such metals as aluminium , and other moderately thin obstacles . That is because they are extremely small , much smaller than the atoms of matter . If a magnet be brought near a stream of flying electrons they are deflected by the magnetic force , as a rifle-bullet is deflected by a wind ; they will then miss the target at which they were aimed , and may strike another . By measuring their deflection when their speed is known it is possible to estimate the mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particles of different masses it would be possible thus to sort or fan or winnow them out : the massive ones keeping nearly straight and the lighter ones being blown aside , somewhat as a cork projectile is more easily deflected than a bullet . Determinations made in this sort of way , supplemented by many other refined and most ingenious measurements conducted in the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge , England , have resulted in the following knowledge : ( 1 ) Each electron has a definite charge of electricity , viz. the same charge as is conveyed by each single atom when a current is passed through a chemically conducting liquid . Every electron has also a definite and uniform mass , which is about 1-800th of that of an atom of hydrogen ? hitherto the lightest known form of matter . ( 2 ) From every kind of material the same and no other kind of electron can be obtained , and we have reason for asserting that no other kind exists . ( 3 ) Electric currents are always due to the locomotion of these little electric charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being handed on from one atom to the next , as a fire-bucket is passed from hand to hand . This i3 metallic conduction . Liquid conduction is different : the electrons travel with the atoms in liquids , and hence travel slowly , being jostled by the crowd , and being laden with the heavy atom which they convey or propel , as a pony ( or a flea ? in mass a pony , but in bulk a flea ) might drag a heavy wagon through crowded streets ; until , at the terminal station , it is unharnessed and allowed to trot into its stable : which is what happens when the boundary between liquid and metallic conductors is reached . Electrons become still more emancipated however in rarefied gases , which act as a cleared race-course or like a free range for flight ; and then it is possible to find them flying at prodigious speed , even as high as a hundred thousand miles per second , and sometimes faster still , but never quite so fast as light . ( 4 ) Whenever an electron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a corner , it disturbs the ether through which it had been quietly moving , and excites a ripple in it . These ethereal ripples constitute radiation , and the hest-known variety of them we call " light . " With this we have been familiar for a long time , because of our happening to possess eyes ? instruments for the ready appreciation of ethereal ripples . We used not to know the reason however for the production of light , we know now that it is due to the sudden change of motion , either in speed or direction , of an electron ; and probably to no other cause . ( 5 ) An electric charge possesses the extraordinary property of self-induction , by reason of the magnetic field which it generates wherever it moves ; and so far back as 1881 J. J. Thomson showed that this was equivalent to the possession of mass or inertia , and calculated its value . The mass or massiveness of an electric charge depends upon its concentration , the more concentrated it is the greater is its effective inertia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely concentrated , that is to say it exists Only as a very minute nucleus ; and in order to explain the manifestation of the observed mass of 1-800th part of a hydrogen atom , by so trifling a quantity of electricity , it is necessary to suppose that it i3 concentrated into a space onehundred-thousandth of the diameter of a material atom . This is the size which is at present accepted for an electron . It is quite the smallest thing known . Eight hundred of them would , so to speak , " weigh " as much as a hydrogen atom , and would deal the same blow if stopped , and generally be equivalent to it ; but they have remarkably little hulk , for if they were packed tightly together ? an amount of packing probably quite impossible even to approach ? a thousand million million of them would be required to fill completely the space occupied by a hydrogen or any other atom . Inside a hydrogen atom electrons are therefore very sparsely distributed , for there is manifestly plenty of room for SOO ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sun and planets ; but some atoms contain many more than this number , and the tightest packing known exists in the atoms of the radioactive substances , Uranium , Radium , and the like , each atom of which contains something like two hundred thousand electrons . Even this is very far from tight packing , the intervening spaces are still very great compared with their size , but they are getting too crowded to be comfortable , and nature does not seem to have evolved any permanent atom more tightly packed than these . Moreover even these are not . quite stable and permanent , every now and then a particle escapes and flies away , from one or another atom , into space ; so that if we take a perceptible quantity of the substance ? which of course consists of many billion atoms ? a considerable number of particles are always being shot off fromit ; hence a substance composed of these heavy atoms maintains a continuous bombardment , emitting rays analogous to those which Crookes had so strikingly exhibited in 1879 in an exceptionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is due to M. Henri Becquerel in Paris in the year 1896 , one year after Roentgen 's singular discovery of the existence and electrical generation of X-rays . Our present view of an atom of matter therefore is something like the following : ? Picture to one 's self an individualized mass of positive electricity , diffused uniformly over a space as big as an atom , ? say a sphere of which two hundred million could lie edge to edge in an inch , or such that a million million million million could be crowded tightly together into an apothecary 's grain . Then imagine , disseminated throughout this small spherical region , a number of minute specks of negative electricity , all exactly alike , and all flying about vigorously , each of them repelling every other , but all attracted and kept in their orbits by the mass of positive electricity in which they are embedded and flying about . In so far as au atom is impenetrable to other atoms , its parts act on the sentinel principle , not on the crowd principle . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open building : one is to fill it with your own supporters , another is to place an armed policeman at every door . The electrons are extremely energetic and forcible , though in hulk mere specks or centres of force . Every speck is exactly like every other , and each is of the size and weight appropriate to the electron . Different atoms , that is atoms of different kinds of matter , are , all believed to be corn-posed in the same sort of way ; but if the atoms of a substance are such that each possesses 23 times as many electrons as hydrogen has , we call it sodium . If each atom has 200 times as many as hydrogen , we call it lead or quicksilver . If it has still more than that , it begins to be conspicuously radioactive . It would seem as if the excessive radia tion which follows upon an overcrowded condition were caused by the probability of collision or encounter between the parts of an atom : just as every now and then among the stars in the sky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of radiation , or temporary star , results . Even in atoms of which the parts are sparsely distributed such occurrences are not impossible , though they are Iess frequent , and accordingly it is to be expected that every - kind of matter may be radioactive to a very small extent : a probability which is now justified for most metals , by direct experiment with very sensitive means of detection . Indeed so far as radiation necessarily accompanies any change of motion of an electron , and in so far as in every atom some electrons arc describing orbits and are therefore subject to centripetal acceleration , a certain amount of atomic radiation is inevitable , on the electric theory of matter . In most cases it is imperceptibly small , but it must be there , and accordingly an atom must be slowly - undermining its own constitution by the gradual emission of its internal or intrinsic energy in the form of ether-waves . Thus then it is reasonable to expect that , every now and then , an atom will break up or collapse or divide into parts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The radiation from many of the radioactive substances , on being analyzed by a magnet , is found to be separable into three parts : ? ( 1 ) the so-called /3 rays , which are the shot-off electrons already mentioned ; ( 2 ) some y rays , which appear to represent an ethereal pulse , ? an analogue as it were of the sound-wave caused by the explosion or act of firing ; and ( 3 ) , more important than either , a third kind of projectile called the u rays , which are newly formed atoms of foreign matter or new substance . These are pitched away with extraordinary violence as the atom breaks up , they produce by their bombardment of zinc sulphide the bright little flashes seen in Crookes 's spinthariseope , and they likewise generate heat when they are stopped by any obstacle . They thus keep the vessel in which they are enclosed at a temperature a degree or two above surrounding bodies , at least . in the case of The most active known substances , radium and its emanation . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so surprising a rate that it could , if all of the heat were economized and none allowed to escape , raise its own weight of water from ordinary temperature to the boiling-point every hour , The number of atoms breaking up in any perceptible portion of radium salt must be reckoned in millions per second ; nevertheless the proportion , of atoms which are thus undergoing transformation at any one time is extremely small . If they could be seen individually most of them would appear quiescent and stable . Of every ten thousand atoms , if a single one breaks up and flings away a portion of itself once a year , that would be enough to account for all the activity observed , even in the case of so exceptionally active a substance as radium ; hence the apparent stability of ordinary matter is not surprising . The thus-projected atomic fragments were measured by Rutherford , who found them deflected by a magnet in the opposite direction to the electron projectiles , and were therefore proved to be positively charged ; but they are deflected so slightly that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massive as an electron , or twice the atomic weight of hydrogen . A substance with this atomic weight is known , viz. Helium ; and surely enough the discoverer of Helium , Sir W. Ramsay , working with Mr. Soddy , a recent colleague of Rutherford , has witnessed the Helium spectrum gradually develop in a tube into which nothing hut radium-emanation had been put . Matter then appears to be composed of positive and negative electricity and nothing ' else . All its newly dis-covered , as well as all its long-known , properties can thus be explained : ? even the long-standing puzzle of " co-hesion " shows signs of giving way . The only outstanding still-intractable physical property is " gravitation , " and no satisfactory theory of the nature of gravitation has been so far forthcoming . I doubt however if it . is far away . It would seem to be a slight but quite uniform secondary or residual effect clue to the immersion of a negative electron in a positive atmosphere . It is a mutual force between one atomic system and another , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is quite doubtful whether it is displayed by an isolated or disembodied electron , but the act of immersing an electron in its attracting atmosphere may develop it . We know too little about electricity , especially about positive electricity , to be able to justify or expand such a guess ; but , as a guess and no more , I venture to throw it out : believing it to be a static residual strain effect , not due even to corpuscular motion , or to any other modifiable circumstance , but inherent in the constitution of each atom , whether it be an entire complex or be broken up into simpler substances . If it be true that every atom occupies the same volume of space , then gravitation might seem to be an effect depending on the crowdedness of electrons ; but when an atom breaks up into unequal parts , the smaller portion must in that ease undergo considerable expansion , and that would be inconsistent with the constancy of gravitation , if it depended on crowdedness : hence I think it more probable that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that it is generated when these two come together , ? that is whenever an atom of matter is formed . The formation of an atom of matter out of electricity is a new idea , and has as yet no experimental justification . The breaking up of complex atoms into simpler forms , and the partial resolution of an atom into dust or constituent electrons , is all that is as yet experimentally justifiable and all therefore that ought to be mentioned ; but the inverse process seems to me naturally to follow , and I look to the time when some laboratory workers will exhibit matter newly formed from stuff which is not matter , instead of as now only recognizing the transmutation of some preexisting complex atoms into simpler forms . The evolution of matter was glimpsed as a brilliant dream by Sir W. Crookes , when he presided over the Chemical Section of the British Association in Birmingham in 1886 : be may yet live to see his dream come true . The family relationship between the atomic weights of the elements , described by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vision : scientific progress ever since has brought it nearer to realiza-tion ; and the splendid mathematical theories of J. J. Thomson and Larmor , concerning the properties and powers of electric charges , have now rendered possible a far greater precision of imagination than was then possible , and have engendered the conception of all atom of matter composed wholly of electricity : ? which thus steps on to the stage as the fundamental and really atomic substance . The Physical basis of life still eludes us ; and until we are willing to look outside our material environment into another order of things , the full truth concerning life and mind will I believe continue to be unrecognizable . But let us always remember that both life and mind have a physical basis , a complete material aspect : it may be possible for the mechanism of this aspect to be dragged to the light of day and displayed , perhaps as clearly and definitely as we hope before long to be able to display the con- stitution of matter itself . Let not the reader of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gropings of a searcher after knowledge , illuminated by the light of his brethren , trained quickly to seize and understand , and trying to act as an instructed guide or interpreter amid the haze ; though he recognizes , and would have others recognize , that the haze has not yet lifted , and that accordingly his statements must be understood as nothing more than an approximation to the truth . 