@@486879

In the short dispatch of Saturday announcing the return of Commander Peary , we have the bare record of what must for many years be regarded as one of the most remarkable pieces of exploration ever accomplished . Whether able to justify itself in the light of a contribution to science or not , whether it is to act as a stimulus or a deterrent to further exploration in the same field , the journey itself proves a courage and an ability on the part of individual man to battle with the forces of nature , which are but rarely found illumining even the brightest pages in the annals of discovery . Indeed , Mr. Peary , in his numerous Arctic ventures , entirely apart from the importance or significance of his discoveries , has set a standard for exploration which few will have the daring to emulate , and still fewer the physical , capacity to carry through . Starting systematically on his great work in 1891 , he has since that time devoted all his energies to the accomplishment of the one end in view  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ten years and more  --  virtually all of the period between 1891 and 1906 that was not taken up in preparations for his several expeditions  --  have been passed in the Arctic desert of ice and snow . The chief results of Mr. Peary 's explorations are to be found in the determination of the insularity of Greenland ( 1892 ) ; the fixation of the Arctic boundaries of what is seemingly the most northerly land-mass of our planet ( Cape Morris Jesup , latitude 83 ? 39 ' north ) ( 1900 ) ; and the tracing ( 1906 ) east and westward of the Arctic shore-line through 80 ' of longitude ; that is , from the northeastern extremity of Greenland to nearly 20 ? of longitude beyond the furthest point that , in Grant Land , was reached in 1876 by Aldrich . Aldrich , it will be remembered , was one of the lieutenants of the British national expedition under command of Capt . ( Sir ) George Nares . To this major work of Mr. Peary must be added the close charting of the inner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most complete study that has ever been made of that small band of true Greenlanders , hardly 250 to 300 in number , who inhabit the region lying northward of Melville Bay , and who appear in the early explorations of Sir John Ross under ' the name of Arctic Highlanders . Many of the more strictly scientific details of the explorations have not been elaborated , or at least have not yet been published . Our knowledge of the great ice-cap of Greenland  --  the physical conditions prevailing over it and its relation to the uncovered or ice-free land that lies northward of ' it  --  which was initiated by the late Baron Nordenskjbld in 1883 , and furthered by the " first crossing " of Nansen , we owe in the main to Mr. Peary . We likewise owe to him the presentation of a number of interesting problems in the domain of zoogeography . Among the latter is the occurrence in the land beyond the ice-cap of Greenland of the musk-ox . The presence of this animal , which the explorers have used as food , has alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escape starvation . The record of " the " farthest north " that is now made ( 87 ? 6 ' ) surpasses by ' thirty-eight statute miles the earlier brilliant achievement , northward of Franz Josef Land , of Capt . Cagni , the long arm of the " Stella Polare " expedition of the singularly successful Duke of the Abruzzi . It also eclipses by 196 statute miles Mr. Peary 's own best previous record of 84 ? 17 ' , northward of Cape Hecla , on Grant Land , in 1902 . In the final days of the heroic struggle of Captain ( now Admiral ) Markham , one of the lieutenants of the British expedition of 1876 , the advance over the hummocky pack-ice in the same field which was traversed this year , was made at the rate of not more than one-quarter or half of a mile a day . " This distance is considerably less than the retrograde movement of the ice that carried the explorers southward . This experience affords an insight into the labor which has permitted Mr. Peary to pass Mark-ham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles still inter-vene between the furthest of this year and the Pole , while the area of the regions in the extreme north that remain unknown , or at best vaguely known , is still reckoned in millions of square miles . One of the most important lessons to be drawn from the various Petry expeditions  --  one , unfortunately , that has not yet been able to break through the barrier of accepted notions is the value of a critical study of clothing and food In a knowledge of these all-important adjuncts to travel , Mr. Peary is facile prznceps . The almost complete absence of every form of illness from the Peary camps through so many years of severe trial and exposure , the absolute elimination of that plague of Polar exploration , scurvy , is a triumph which points to success in future ventures of this kind . And yet one reads with regret that the otherwise brilliant achievements of the British National Antarctic Expedition of 1902-1904 were shorn of probably their best results through the breaking out of scurvy and the death of the dogs , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was chiefly a matter of clothing which prevented Nausea from making a higher northing at the time that he abandoned the Fram to its famous drift . Troubles of this class never beset the Peary expeditions . Nature 's elements are still the force that baffles the best efforts put forth to conquer them . THE CASE OF MUNICIPAL OWNER-SHIP . It is not surprising that the League of American Municipalities declined to adopt a general resolution favoring municipal ownership . Its adoption would at best be premature . There is no present agreement among economists either for or against the further extension of the functions of American municipalities . There was a period when municipal enterprises were advocated and , in some cases , taken up in this country on more or less vague reports of similar experiments in Great Britain and elsewhere . This time has passed , and has been followed by one of inquiry , the results of which have not yet been fully ascertained . The evidence is not yet all in ; obviously , the time has not arrived finally to decide the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions both in Europe and America have greatly expanded within the last few years . Great Britain leads the way , with Germany close upon her heels , and America following more slowly . Great Britain numbers among the enterprises undertaken by her cities , not only the familiar water works , gas and electric Lghting plants , and tramways , but also municipal markets , baths , dwelling houses , telephones , theatres , warehouses , hotels , lodgingthouses , abattoirs , golf links , savings banks , crematories and cemeteries , oyster fisheries , rabbit warrens , sheep farms , hop farms , coke and tar factories , and brick yards . Germany has gone extensively into municipal lighting and street-ear service . American cities have thus far generally confined themselves to municipal water works , gas works , and electric lighting plants No American city has yet undertaken to operate street cars , though there are several instances , as in New York and Boston , where the city owns the right of way and leases to an operating company which supplies the equipni ent . Have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict begins . Dr. E. W. Bemis and Professor Howe have one ( ) Pinion ; Prof. L. S. Rowe and Prof. Hugo R Meyer hold another . The report of the Bureau of Labor , based on three separate investigations of the results of municipal trading in Great Britain , admits a principal charge against the system  --  that it increases municipal debt and raises the tax rate  --  but , on the whole , is mildly favorable . The most complete presentation by a single economist , " Municipal Ownership in Great Britain , " by Professor Meyer , is strongly against the substitution of municipal management for private enterprise . The Civic Faderston , which promises an elaborate re-. port , is yet to be heard from . Of the results in this country , no complete summary is available . It seems to be generally agreed that American municipalities can satisfactorily maintain and operate their water works , but opponents of municipalization urge , with some force , that the case of water is exceptional , not only because the supply is in most cases wholly natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water is required by all , while gas , electricity , and street cars are used by only a portion of the community . Apart from water , the reports from American cities are as confusing as the conflicting testimony from Great Britain . Toledo , Ohio , pays interest annually on a million-dollar debt for which the city has absolutely nothing to show , having sold for a tenth of its cost the natural gas enterprise embarked upon a dozen years ago Richmond , Virginia , has waked up to the fact that her supposed profit from a municipal gas enterprise was a matter of bookkeeping , and that instead of a profit there is a serious loss , which must now be made up in cash  --  renovating a worn-out planter the business abandoned . Alexandria , Virginia , has within a few months sold for $3,000 an electric plant costing $17 , - 000 Current news dispatches tell of four Indiana cities which are preparing to wind up their lighting ventures as soon as they can find purchasers for the plants . Many American cities , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric plants . This may mean that their experience is to be counted on the affirmative side  --  or it may mean that they have not yet called in an expert accountant . One might gather from the tenderness with which the subject is treated by the politicians that all the voters are in favor of municipal ownership and operation , but there happens to he proof that this is not true . Chicago , it will be remembered , voted for municipal ownership but not for municipal operation ; and if the street cars of Chicago are to be run by the city , specific authorization for it must still be secured at the polls . San Francisco was forced to take over a street car line , where the franchise had expired , but refused , on submission to the voters , to authorize municipal operation of the cars . Cleveland , Ohio , being urged by Mayor Johnson in 1903 to undertake the construction and operation of a municipal lighting plant , and the question being submitted to the electors , declined by a substantial majority . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected the mayoralty candidate of the municipal ownership party , thought better of it , and on September 12 , by a majority of more than 1,500 out of a total of 14,000 votes cast at a special election , refused to authorize a bond issue for municipal street car lines Certainly , there is nothing now in the record which calls for a generalization in favor of the wide extension of municipal functions , commonly implied within the term " municipal ownership . " For the present , at least , each proposal should be compelled to prove its own case , and the closer the scrutiny the better . UNIVERSITY TEACHING OF ENG-LISH . One who marks current discussion of college English will be reminded of an ungrammatical but expressive catchword of twenty-five years ago " Hit him again ; he 's Irish , and he ha n't no friends . " The latest castigator of these studies , Prof. George Rice Carpenter , deals the faithful wounds of a friend , being himself the incumbent of a chair of English in Columbia University . His criticism , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the universities . He notes that many Ph.D ' s in English have received a trainingwholly scrappy , and quite apart from the subjects they are to teach in the colleges . Thus we fill our chairs with erudite scholars , to be sure , but myopic teachers , disqualified from taking comprehensive views even of their specialty Naturally , such men are poor leaders of youth , having merely vague conceptions both of literary values and of pedagogical possibilities . A little acquaintance with college faculties will show that professors of this limited sort are by no means rare . We venture further , and assert that most of the good teachers of English have become so through a combination of native ability and vitality sufficient to overcome the defects of their university education Many a faithful teacher , reviewing his own university career , would say , not that it was bad in itself or wasted , but that it had been grossly unsystematic and relatively unprofitable as regards the actual service of teaching . In similar fashion , many a Grecian who has gloriously " settled notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to acquire some familiarity with Greek literature . In fine , the university often not merely neglects the more valuable studies , but so urgently puts forward the less valuable , that the student has no leisure for repairing individually the gaps in a haphazard curriculum . Nothing is more common than to find a doctor of philosophy whose mental acquisition , after all , consists of uncoordinated snippets of literary history and philology  --  a dash of Chaucer , and the Chester Plays ; a smat-tering of Gothic , and a sample of the Minnesanger ; a semester of Gower , and one of Dr. Donne ; a somnon , of Anglo-Saxon metre , and Aristotelian critiques ef poetry -- such is the ragout that is frequently seryed up in the name of uni'versity education . Evidently a student who escapes such a course with his associative faculties unimpaired is a monument to his own mental equipoise , not to the intelligence of the university that made him a doctor . The cause of this confusion is largely false ideals of research inherited from Germany , but even more the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have imported the notion that the process of investigation is everything ; the materials quite indifferent . In this view there is a plausible disinterestedness , and just enough truth to obscure the fundamental error . We would not minimize the value of any sort of truth , nor the desirability of research , however minute and remote from contemporary importance , but there is a world-wide difference between such self-effacing inrestigat on pursued by a trained scholar as part of a large and well-reasoned Ilan , and similar studies pursued by a novice in the name of education . The distinction is fundamental ; , what in the first case may seem necessary and heroic , becomes in the second merely casual and foolish . If Germany has thus imposed upon us an eminently unphilosophical notion of the relation of research to university education and college teaching , she has - unconsciously done us a deeper harm by confounding in the one word " philology " a great variety of linguistic and literary studies , of differing importance and availability . The ignorant sort of dilettanteism we have already had ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plausible sort . The gushing person who imagines that he can teach English literature by plenary inspiration , without any knowledge of the history of the language , or even without first-hand study of the history of the literature , is , after all , becoming rapidly discredited ; the philologer who , on the basis of inarticulate enthusiasms and incommunicable tastes , fixes himself in a chair of literature is far more detrimental to sound studies He is learned , and he gives to college presidents the impression of being also wise , which too often he is not . The quarrel here is not with philology , as such , but with those who , without comprehensive views or noteworthy attainment even in that subject , dabble languidly in both philology and literature ; whose vaunted investigations frequently consist merely of marginalia ; whose teaching is regulated not by any plan either philological or literary , but by the passing curiosity of the year or by the casual pressure of publisher or editor . Men of this type , however vast their merely cumulative attainments , are dilettantes ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Without exaggeration , this is the tera , . per that our university education tends to produce , and this is the reason why both our college teaching and our productive scholarship are of a scrappy and ineffective order . Of course , the remedy for impressionism is principle , and for intellectual disorder , logic . What we need in the present instance is a clear perception of ends . When the conditions of a rationalized education and the practical qualifications for college teaching are fairly considered , it will seem absurd to equip all college teachers of English as investigators in the German sense ; it will seem culpable to impose merely random philological studies , and still worse to prescribe them for the student of literary history It will seem indispensable to observe a certain sequence , and preposterous to omit the most rewarding authors and periods simply because these do not afford likely topics for doctoral dissertations The real reform will come when university authorities gain some conception of the distinctions between linguistic and literary study ; realize that the scholar 's conscience may be produced without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be taught without some recognition of its educational values and its relations to the whole field of the humanities And this implies a generation of university professors more forceful as personalities and better oriented as intellects , than the average of to-day . CODES OF PROFESSIONAL ETHICS . ' Writing on " The Ideal Lawyer " in the current Atlantic , Justice David J. Brewer of the Supreme Court cites with approval the action of the committee of the American Bar Association in advising the adoption of a code of professional ethics . This committee was appointed in , 1905 to report upon the advisability and practicability of such a code , and its recent report is worthy of wider attention than it has thus far received . In Justice Brewer 's opinion , it is plain proof that the profession as a whole recognizes that there is an ideal lawyer , and intends that " no one shall be tolerated who does not possess one at least of the elements of such a lawyer , to wit : a high moral character . " , - The committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Members of ' the bar , like judges , are officers of the courts , and , like judges , should hold office only during good behavior . " Good behavior " should not be a vague , meaningless , or shadowy term , devoid of practical application save in flagrant cases . It should be defined and measured by such ethical standards . however high , as are necessary to keep the administration of justice pure and unsullied Such standards may be crystallized into a written code- of professional organizations , local or national , formed . to promote the administration of justice and uphold the honor of the profession . Such a code in time will doubtless become of very great practical value by leading to action through the judiciary , for the courts may , as conditions warrant , require all candidates for the bar to subscribe a suitable and reasonable canon of ethics as a condition precedent to admission . . Indeed , eventually the people , for the welfare of the community and to further the administration of justice , may , either by constitutional provisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granted by the State the valuable franchise to practise , shall take an oath to support not only the Constitution , but such canons of ethics as may be established by law With this plan lawyers of the type of Edward M. Shepard and Joseph H. Choate will be in hearty accord . They realize that the rush for wealth , as Mr. Shepard recently pointed out , has in many cases undermined old-fashioned standards of professional ethics . They have seen an ever-increasing number of men enter the profession solely as a means of obtaining political office or of getting into some lucrative business by means of their legal knowledge These birds of passage naturally care little or nothing for the calling which they make merely a means to an end If the increase in the number of law schools of high standing has done much to instil a respect for the profession , there still are , as every one knows , far too many men who prostitute their abilities by using them only to show people how to avoid the penalties of the law while committing acts contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an actual multiplication of shysters out of proportion to the general growth of the profession There were blacklegs in the law centuries ago , as well as in the time of Marshall and Webster . But the increase in the number of lawyers has made the corps too unwieldy to act quickly , and thus the process of punishing by disbarment is long and difficult , except in clear-cut cases ; and many a rascal escapes because his wronged client either does not know how to press for punishment or would rather avoid further notoriety and unpleasantness . Plainly , the best way to tone up the profession , besides contriving some machinery to make disbarment speedier and more frequent , is to fix a standard at the beginning , and make sure that candidates for admission have a clear understanding that , in accordance with a written code , as honorable conduct is expected of them as is traditionally demanded of officers of the army and navy . If it is gratifying to see one of the oldest of the learned professions seeking to keep itself pure , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish an ethical code by which its members shall be bound . At the twenty-third annual convention of the Ameri can ' Institute of Electrical Engineers , held in Milwaukee this year , the president , Schuyler Skaats Wheeler , devoted his address to the question of engineering honor , and cited as his text these words from Francis Bacon 's " Maxims of Law " : I hold every man a debtor to his profession , from the which as men of course do seek to receive contenance and profit , so ought they of duty to endeavor themselves by way of amends to be a help and ornament thereto Besides expounding the ordinary reasons for a code of ethics which apply to all professions , Mr. Wheeler dwelt at some length upon the duty the electrical engineer owes to the public , if only to protect it from the charlatan and the impostor . As a result of the president 's address the Institute decided that , in imitation of such examples as the rules governing the relation of physician to patient and architect to client , a committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethics . This committee is now at work , on the understanding that the result of its labors will be submitted at the next annual meeting . It is with such voluntary acts as these that the defender of American business and professional life can best reply to the critic , whether native or foreign , who would have it that our ideals are perishing in an age of materialism . Just as ethical- standards are higher and ethical teachings more insistent and systematic than at any time in our history , so there is in every profession a growing desire to oust the quacks and the immoral , Even in the dental profession , debased as it is by countless frauds and fakirs , there is a stirring which bodes well for the future . Indeed , if this striving after ideals continues , we may yet see a professional code among newspaper men . Miracles have happened , and we may yet see such a portent . The time may come when journalists who pander to the basest passions , who deliberately incite to crime and immorality , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcasts 