@@430202

 |p1100  PROBABLY no single Federal public work in the United States has ever before attracted so much attention or excited such interest as the Panama Canal . It is now but little more than a year since the Panama Canal Commission , charged with the duty of constructing the canal , was created , and but little more than ten months since the first American engineering parties set foot upon the Isthmus to begin those extended engineering surveys and examinations imperatively necessary to determine what should be constructed . Members of the first Isthmian Canal Commission , which made the choice of the Panama route , stated emphatically before Congressional committees that at least one and one-half years should be devoted to the duty of preparation for the beginning of the work of construction . They maintained that plans should be adopted only after mature deliberation and that several months would be necessary to create the requisite operating organizations on the Isthmus before well considered construction could be begun . As a matter of fact much better results have been attained during the past ten or twelve months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission . The first engineering parties of the Commission created a year ago , consisting of a total of about one hundred and twenty-five engineers of all grades , were organized in Washington and New York , and reached the Isthmus during the period extending from the latter part of last May to the early part of July following . This engineer force was organized into five parties , each in charge of its own superior officer . The fields of this operation were set forth by the Commission in complete instructions as to the ends which their operations were to serve , so as to cover practically the entire canal line between Colon and Panama . The last party sent out was charged with the duty of constructing a complete modern system of water supply for the City of Panama , as well as a system of sewers , the City of Panama never having had in all its history either a public water supply or a sewer system . The same party was also instructed to devise and construct a system of public water supply and a system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations was also extended to include any water supply or sewer system which might be required for the smaller towns along the line of the canal . At the present time the population affected by this water supply and sewer work of the Commission is about 8,000 at Colon , about 22,000 at Panama , and perhaps 15,000 between those points . In June of last year the Commission was most fortunate in securing the services of Mr. John F. Wallace , then general manager of the Illinois Central Railroad Company , as its chief engineer . He reached the Isthmus about the first of July and has since that time conducted the work of the Commission as its chief engineer in a most judicious and energetic manner . The active engineering work and all the work of construction since his assumption of the duties of his office has been prosecuted under his direct supervision . He is now also a member of the new Commission . The title to the canal property was transferred to the United States by the new Panama Canal Company in the early part of May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary for the preservation of that company 's concession that it should maintain active construction of work , and it fulfilled that provision of the con/ cessionary contract by a force engaged in excavation at the great Culebra Cut . This force consisted of about eight hundred men of all grades . When the property was taken over by the United States Government the Commission maintained this working force , but immediately on his arrival at Panama the Chief Engineer reorganized , increased and made it more effective and so systematized its accounts as to show clearly all the unit costs of the work performed . The works of survey and investigation have been so comprehensive in their scope and so efficiently conducted that the resulting data , including those derived from the work of excavation in the Culebra Cut , secured up to the first of the current month ( May ) are sufficient to form a basis for the study of all the main features of the project . Last November fourteen steam shovels of maximum capacity were ordered from builders in the United States , to be shipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now engaged in the work of excavation in the Culebra Cut . They are removing the material encountered in the Cut , including hard rock , at an average rate of over one thousand cubic yards per day per shovel . A number of the old French excavators were also repaired and put in far more efficient condition than ever heretofore , and they are also engaged in excavating earth and clay at the same location at nearly the same rates per machine as the steam shovels . The principal difference in the results of operation of the two types of machine arises from the fact that the steam shovels operate with practically equal efficiency in all grades of rock and earth , while the French excavators can only be satisfactorily operated in the softer materials for the purchase of the infinite variety of plant , tools and materials required in its prosecution . A great department of supplies and materials was therefore promptly organized , both for the purchase and shipment of plant and material from this country and also for their receipt , proper care and efficient and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of ten to twelve hundred men , mostly rendering service on the Isthmus . Great numbers of buildings and warehouses must be erected , arriving cargo must be quickly unloaded , efficiently handled and distributed , so as to be available at all times at the shortest notice for the construction forces engaged along the line of the work . All the forces organized at the Washington office of the Commission and on the Isthmus have been in effective working condition for several months . Those on the Isthmus have been engaged in the actual construction of the canal , in the creation and instalment of four machine shops in which contractor 's cars and locomotives left by the French Company are being repaired and put in use at the rate of several hundred per month , in the construction of the water works for the cities of Panama and Colon and for intermediate places . The total of the Isthmian force on the first of April was nearly six thousand men . Much has been written regarding the intensely unsanitary condition of not only the cities of Panama and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being a territory ten miles wide , measuring five miles each way from the center line of the canal , and about forty-seven miles long , as that is the length of the canal between the tidewater lines on either side of the Isthmus . It has been recognized from the first that the initial work imperatively necessary before even the work of construction could safely be begun was the proper sanitation of this zone . Practically the first measure undertaken by the Commission , therefore , immediately upon its creation over a year ago was the organization of an effective sanitary force . On its first visit to the Isthmus , in March , 1904 , the Commission took with it three surgeons of the United States Army and Navy , eminent and experienced in the diseases of tropical climates , particularly those of the West Indies , Colonel Gorgas , U. S. A. ; Major La Garde , U. S. A. , and Captain Ross , U. S. N. Immediately subsequent to this preliminary inspection of the health conditions of the Isthmus the Commission appointed Colonel Gorgas Chief Sanitary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with Captain Ross* as Director of Hospitals and Major La Garde as Superintendent of the Ancon Hospital at Panama . The sanitary work of the Commission was organized under a number of heads , such as that of hospitals , including the Ancon Hospital at Panama , another large hospital at Colon and such smaller hospitals as might be required along the line of the canal ; that of street cleaning and the complete sanitation of the cities of Panama and Colon ; that of mosquito extermination , to which was devoted a large expert force , operating throughout the entire canal zone as well as in the two cities of Panama and Colon ; that of health departments with health officers for Panama and Colon and two quarantine organizations of the highest efficiency , one for Panama and one for Colon . This comprehensive sanitary force has been performing its duties with energy and the highest degree of efficiency for nearly a year . The general sanitary condition of the Isthmus of Panama has never before in all its history attained even the first approach toward its present advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terminal cities and along the entire line of the canal have been so far destroyed that the mosquitoes are greatly reduced in numbers and are now scarcely annoying as insects . There are still living in sheltered recesses of unsanitary occupied buildings some of those varieties which carry malaria and yellow fever bacilli , but they are being rapidly exterminated by thorough fumigation of all the buildings in the City of Panama . No yellow fever infection has been found in any other place on the Isthmus since the Commission assumed control . There have been but few cases , about one or two a week , during the past three months , and those have been sporadic ; there has been no epidemic . There is every reason to believe that under the active and effective efforts made by the sanitary forces of the Commission it will be but a short time before yellow fever will be completely stamped out on the Isthmus of Panama , a place which has not heretofore been free from it since the first occupation by the Spaniards . The total force engaged in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the hospital organization . Summing up the whole situation , therefore , the present condition of the Panama Canal enterprise exhibits an active and well directed engineering organization , having already performed practically all the work of investigation and securing data required for the complete study and determination of all the main features of the project ; a large force , amounting to nearly six thousand men , engaged in the actual work of construction and the care and distribution of the mass of plant and material required for the operations of construction now rapidly expanding ; an admirably organized sanitary force , amounting to nearly one thousand men , which has already brought the health conditions of the Isthmus to an excellent sanitary stage , which also has organized and is conducting a great and highly efficient hospital service with a capacity of not less than eight hundred beds , effective health departments for the two terminal cities of the canal zone , and admirable quarantine organizations at the terminal ports . A new Commission has been created to conduct the work so efficiently begun , and there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship canal will be prosecuted with vigor and efficiency so that ships may be passing from one ocean to the other within a period of time not more than ten years , even if a sea level plan of canal should be adopted . In addition to these matters bearing directly on the construction of the canal a complete government for the canal zone has been established , with the necessary enactment of laws and the creation of courts , police force and other governmental machinery . That particular aspect of the Panama Canal project which now interests the public most is the question whether the United States Government should undertake the construction of a canal at sea level or whether a canal plan with locks should be adopted ? It has been officially stated by the Secretary of War that the deliberation of the Commission on this and other main features of the project                     