@@485928

For a year past wireless telegraphy has been tested at varying distances , and it has been as certain as anything could be that Mr. Marconi 's ambition to send full messages across the Atlantic would soon be realized This anticipation , however , in no way detracts from the interest of the actual experiments of Sunday . About a year ago the inventor succeeded in transmitting the letter S from Cornwall to Newfoundland , but the results were so uncertain and the working of the instrument so irregular that many doubted the conclusiveness of the experiment . On Sunday , however , long messages were exchanged between Cape Breton Island and Cornwall , and the service was apparently as accurate as that of the submarine cables . Mr. Marconi deserves the fullest congratulations for perfecting , in its practical application , an idea of telegraphic communication which has baffled electricians from Morse down . It would be premature to speculate upon the practical and commercial advantages of wireless telegraphy . One might readily imagine applications to the art of naval warfare , for instance , which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long time be anything more than an auxiliary to the cables may well be doubted . Electrical light and power have not made an end of gas and steam . Perhaps the most immediate appeal of this remarkable discovery is to the imagination . An earlier age would have seen magic in the dispersion , through leagues of ocean air , of vibrations , meaningless except when they sweep strung wires to which they are attuned . And in our day Mr. Marconi 's experiments seem rather like those mysterious relations which subsist between persons at a distance than like the cold demonstrations of science . Only the regularity and sea . amiableness of his results assure us that we are not dealing with some strangely bedizened telepathy , but with the proved fact of aerial telegraphy . The arguments against the Newfoundland reciprocity treaty , now in committee of-the Senate , have an ancient and fish-like smell . The so-called representatives of the New- England fishermen not unnaturally treat the case as if fishing were the sole and original infant American industry . In this they resemble the makers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocked treaties that were undoubtedly for the good of the country as a whole . Nobody can complain because these gentlemen se'e only theIr trwp S'i'de of the case , but everybody should attack the sophistry under which these selfish individual claims become the basis of our national law-making . Laws should be framed from the latitude of Washington , not of Lynn , Gloversville , or Gloucester . The specific attack made in the fishermen 's behalf against the treaty is that the bargain is an unequal one . Cheap Newfoundland fish will glut our breakfast tables , while self-respecting American families forget that cheap food makes a cheap man . Besides this moral danger , the treaty is said to be mathematically unjust . The free bait which it promises will save our fishermen $4,000 , by estimate ; the remitted duties on Newfoundland fish will amount to several hundred thousand dollars , by prophecy . Strike a balance and you find just how much we lose by the bargain . But our total dutiable imports from Newfoundland and Labrador in 1901 were $271,000 . Clearly , we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of duties on this trade to anybody . What the Senate should see is , that this is not a question of a few fishing-smacks more or less , but of a cheap food supply for many people ; that the value of the right to get bait free from vexatious rules and possible reprisals must be measured in terms of convenience , not of the actual price of squid and capelin ; finally , that it is wiser to consider the market which we may gain , than the purely hypothetical duties which we fear to lose . The terms of the Cuban treaty of reciprocity are more liberal than the first report of its contents implied . It grants a reduction of 25 per cent . of the Dingley tariff on Cuban products entering our ports , and it secures for our products exported to Cuba a scale of reductions of 25 , 30 , and 40 per cent . on specified articles . The summary of the treaty given out at Washington is somewhat confusing in the clause which relates to trade relations of the two contracting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means that the most-favored-nation clause shall not carry to other nations the privileges here enumerated , though it does not estop either of the parties from making treaties of reciprocity with other countries or from changing its tariff in any way . In the event of either country making rates of duty on goods coming from the other different from those of the treaty , the other country is at liberty to abrogate the whole treaty . In other words , it is tentative , not ironclad , and in this respect may disarm the opposition of some Senators who might hesitate to vote for a treaty which could not be amended for a definite number of years . The time fixed for ratification ( Jan.hary-31 , ' 1903Y seems very short , es pecially in view of the possibilities of debate in the Senate , but perhaps this period was named with the concurrence of the Committee on Foreign Relations . At all events , the time can be extended if needful . Everything now depends on the temper of the beet-sugar men . They can kill the treaty for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the risk of offending public sentiment in that way again . A question more fraught with delay is whether the House will consent to be ignored in the ratification of the treaty . Looking at the precedents in the treaties with Canada and Hawaii , it is hardly possible that the House will allow itself to be snuffed out in this manner . Since the bill reducing to 25 per cent . of the Dingley schedules all duties on imports from the Philippine Islands has passed the House almost without debate , the question becomes pertinent ? If it is so easy to knock off 50 per cent . from these sacred schedules to-day , whywas it so impossible last winter to concede more than a beggarly 25 per cent ? The same grudging tendency appeared in the case of Porto Rico . Everybody , from President McKinley down , agreed that the establishment of free trade was au act of simple justice ; but free trade was achieved only by gradual and reluctant process . Congress has not learned to do fair things willingly or generous things generously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an open-hearted people seem unable to proceed directly upon lines of magnanimity . For this reason the Democrats in the House did well to introduce an alternative bill for free trade , putting the Republican party in the position of a repentant usurer , who gradually brings himself from 100 per cent. , through various degrees of extortion , to legal interest . Of course , the reduction of the duties will be so much gain in the way of putting us in a better moral attitude towards our Island wards , but the practical advantage to the Philippine Islands is likely , for a time , at least , to be inconsiderable . They have very few products to send us that we can not get more advantageously elsewhere , and they do not need facilities for commerce so much as.internal peace and security . In this respect , the Senate bill for establishing the gold standard in the Philippines is much more to the point . President Schurman continues to stand up and be counted in favor of Philippine independence . He explained his presence at Cooper Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by saying that it wee owing ttJ the way in which our motives as to the Philippines are becoming mixed . We went into the islands , he believed , for reasons of humanity . But our reasons for staying there have changed . He was not pressed to explain what the change was , but if he had been he would no doubt have had to say that the desire to , exploit the islands for the wealth they are said to contain is the ruling factor in- our present policy . Professor Jenks , of President Schurman 's own faculty , for instance , is now advocating a system of coolie slavery for the islands . The syndicates which would like to exploit the archipelago are delighted by this , because they see that nothing can be done under existing labor conditions . The same influences were behind the provisions in the Philippines civil-government law of last spring , which made it easy for syndicates to obtain large holdings of land . Immigration from the United States not having taken place as was expected , the influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go into the islands . But capital will not be likely to go in as long as men like President Schurman continue to advocate eventual independence and get entire Cooper Union audiences to agree with them that the United States is in the Philippines simply to fit the Filipinos for self-government , President Schurman is doing a most valuable service , and will , we trust , continue to speak out strongly in favor of freedom for the Filipinos . Forefathers ' Day gave us the usual amount of perfunctory and negligible speaking , mitigated by banquets . Senator Hoar at Philadelphia described a certain dangerous tendency in American popular thought and public speech , and ex-Attorney-General Griggs , in his address before the New England Society of Orange , illustrated that tendency even while the New England Senator was speaking . At the elbow of either orator the Philippine Banquo was standing . Neither could forget the frightful divergence of our Philippine practice from our New England principles . Senator Hoar deplored the " different meaning " which the American flag had come to have to so- many . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more protestations , more foolish talk of legislation to prevent the mere cloth of which it is composed from being " desecrated . " But for its deeper significance and essential symbolism we have ceased to care as we once did . " We no longer , " said Senator Hoar , " speak of it as the symbol of liberty , except coldly and formally ; but only as the symbol of power , or of a false , cheap , tinsel glory . " While he was yet speaking , confirmation of his words was given . Mr. Griggs at Orange was responding to the toast " Our Flag . in . the Orient , " and was saylug , " You were thinking of the Philippines . It is over these that our flag now- floats , the emblem of sole and undisputed sovereignty . " There could not well be a sharper contrast between the idea of America as standing for stark force , and of America as synonymous with liberty . Nor was the chasm which divides the thought of Mr. Griggs from that of Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political philosophy whole diameters away from that of the Massachusetts Senator . " Too much attention , " said the Jersey-man , referring to the never-ending Philippine debate , " has been given to the general question of forms of government and constitutions . " It was " the spirit of the American people " that was the main thing , and it was " humane , sympathetic , altruistic . " This reminds us of the bulwark against " centralized despotism " which Justice Brown of the Supreme Court thought he Saw in the " principles of natural justice inherent in the Anglo-Saxon character . " As we said at the time , the Anglo-Saxon character has , nevertheless , taken precious good care , and spilled a lot of blood , to get its principles written down in binding statute and Constitution . It has always pointed to documentary charters of freedom an3 monuments of liberty . And it is rather late in the day , simply because we have to forbid the reading of the Declaration of Independence in the Philippines , and to suspend the-operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for written guarantees was simply a contest of fools about meaningless forms of government. - It is a curious way of glorifying our forefathers to say that all of them who died at Bunker Hill or Gettysburg were giving " too much thought to the question of a form of government " ! As for " the American spirit , " Senator Hoar is as able to wax enthusiastic about it as Mr. Griggs . Only , to him , it means the deep heart of a people that beats for justice and liberty . Congressman Fowler , Chairman of the Committee on Banking and Currency , introduced last week a new currency bill to take the place of the one reported by his Committee at the last session . The latter has been wisely abandoned . as embracing too many subjects and inviting too many attacks , besides being cumbrous and hard to understand . There was no reason why a measure to grant greater freedom in the issue of circulating notes by national banks should embrace the retirement of the greenbacks , or a-provision for branch banks , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those changes may be in an ideal system , they are not essential to a sound scheme of " assets currency , " while they are sure to multiply opposition to the bill as a whole . The new bill is much shorter and simpler , and therefore much easier to pass . It might be made even shorter and simpler than it is . It provides that any national bank may , with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency , take out for issue and circulation an amount of national-bank notes not exceeding 25 per cent . of its paid-up and unimpaired capital , without depositing United States bonds with the United States Treasury , but upon condition of depositing in the Treasury either gold coin or United States bonds , or both , equal to 5 per cent . of said circulation . This 5 per cent . Is to be held as a guarantee fund for the redemption of the notes of failed banks . A tax of one-half per cent . per annum must be paid on all banknotes so issued , and the proceeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fund . The 5 per cent . so deposited in the Treasury shall constitute a part of the legal reserve , and the bank must keep a reserve against these notes equal to the legal reserve against deposits . This can not be considered a burdensome requirement , for although the existing law does not require any cash reserve against circulation , it requires 100 per cent . reserve , or even more , in the form of deposited bonds . Other important features of the measure are those providing for the redemption of the notes . Here the example of the old Suffolk Bank system has been followed in part . Banks are re , quired to redeem- their notes at their own counters , and also at one of three financial centres , New York , Chicago , and San Francisco . Banks are to be classified as belonging to particular districts numbered 1 , 2 , and 3 , according to their nearness to the redemption cities , and they are not allowed to pay out any notes except those which are redeemable in their respective districts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business must be sent home for redemption . This feature embodies a sound principle , but we can see the chance of a good deal ' of local bickering on the subject of redemption cities . The bill certainly furnishes a good ' starting-point for currency reform . Although it comes short of a satisfactory scheme for an elastic currency , it is probably all that Congress will consider favorably at the present time  --  even more . Indeed , we presume that there is no expectation of passing this bill or any other during the present short session , but it is important to have a really practicable measure on the calendar . The Congressional Record for Friday usually reads like a catalogue , for Friday is private pension day . Each proposed beneficiary ( who could not get his pension through the Bureau , and hence has appealed to Congress ) is awarded a little paragraph by himself in fine print . There are about twenty such paragraphs on a page , and in the Record of December 12 there were twenty pages of this matter . Ordinarily , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well-oiled machinery can make it , but on that date there was a slight interruption This was caused by Mr. Gaines of Tennessee , who asked why so many special pension bills were now necessary . " At the last session of Congress , " said Mr Gaines , " I asked the gentleman from New Hampshire Mr. Sulloway why there were so many of these special acts . and the gentleman from New Hampshire replied that it was because the parties did not get justice at the Pension Bureau , the real meaning of the remark being that the then Commissioner of Pensions , Mr H Clay Evans , was not dealing fairly with the proposed pensioners . We were given to understand that when the new Commissioner was appointed , Congress would be relieved from doing the work of that Bureau I will ask the gentleman from New Hampshire if the trouble still lies at the door of the Commissioner of Pensions ? " To this rather significant inquiry Mr. Sulloway replied ? " I understood the gentleman from Tennessee to ask if there had been any change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has nothing to do with these bills whatever . I will say that all these matters were adjudicated before the present Commissioner dame in " It is obvious that this answer may be taken by Commissioner Ware as an intimation of what is expected of him ; but his recent brief submitted to the Attorney-General respecting a case involving the joint resolution of 3uly 1 , 1902 , may also be taken by Mr Sulloway as an intimation that the Commissioner intend to have something to say about the policy Of MS Bureau . It is a good sign , and we sincerely hope that it will be followed by others even more conclusive . There is no more interesting organization in the South to-day than the Texas Farmers ' Improvement Society , of which the " Texas Booker Washington , " Robert L. Smith , is the head . This cooperative body recently held its seventh annual convention , and the reports made at that meeting should cure a great deal of pessimism in regard to the industrial future of the negro in the South . The society is composed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land , 8,000 head of cattle , and 7,000 horses and mules . It is waging an aggressive warfare against the crop-mortgage system , is introducing improved methods of farming , takes care of its sick and buries its dead . In his annual address Mr. Smith quoted from Secretary Hay 's protest on behalf of the Rumanian Jews , to show his hearers what advantages they possess , and he was able to say : " In Texas we have no race problem , so far as governmental affairs are concerned . Where we are settled and own property , where we have established a reputation as industrious , peaceable , sober , right-thinking citizens , I venture to say that the public conscience would not permit advantage to be taken of us " Commenting on the meeting , the Galveston Licaly News said . " One of the most pleasing features of this meeting was the excellent tone and fine common sense displayed in the speeches and addresses . The delegates all seemed to think Texas was the best place this side of Heaven , and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace . " The hands of those who are opposed to shipping subsidies in the United States will be much strengthened by the report of the select committee of the House of Commons adverse to subsidies in Great Britain The committee says that subsidies restrict free competition and lead to the formation of shipping rings and federations , and hence should not be granted except for services rendered , and that in the latter case the Government should have the right to fix the maximum rates of freight . The phrase " services rendered " is perhaps rather elastic . Whether it shuts off the proposed subvention to the Cunard Company for the new twenty-three-knot ships to be built with money loaned by the Government , is not quite clear ; but it is easy to see that there is room for a lively fight before the British constituencies if that particular subvention is granted and all others are denied . The committee does not attach much importance to the report that the Morgan combination is able to command an undue proportion of the Atlantic carrying trade by reason of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that it may be expedient for Great Britain to adopt the policy of reciprocity in the matter of coasting trade , and prohibit the carrying of goods between British ports by the ships of nations which forbid their coasting trade to British ships This is the only suggestion in the report that can be regarded as unfavorable to American ship-owners . We exclude from our coasting trade every foreign craft that floats , and when we annexed Porto Rico we applied the same rule to our trade with her . If England should forbid our ships , when making long voyages , to pick up and drop cargo in British ports , it would make the difference of a great many dollars to our ship-owners . Yet We could not justly complain if she adopted that policy . A British jury 's award of damages to the , Taff Vale Railway Company for injuries inflicted by a strike and boycott had been foreshadowed by a previous judicial decision asserting the liability of labor unions , but it is a great advantage to have so substantial a verdict as to show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the boycott , or other violent methods in a strike , to be criminal conspiracy . Hereafter there can be no doubt that the English unions are in the fullest sense responsible for their action Justice Wills , before whom the case was tried , rebuked the defendants for " their perpetual producing of the card of non-responsibility " in a manner " contrary to common law and common sense " This was the voice and tone of our own Judge Gray in the anthracite hearing He , too , showed that it was absurd and dishonest to say that there was no connection between a strike and subsequent violence because the individual lawbreakers could not he identified with the striking union . The moral of the Taff Vale award plainly is , that fearless judges and clear-headed juries can make old law meet new emergencies . The English are far better off under this extension of the law of conspiracy than they would be with elaborate anti-strike or anti-boycott legislation . Our own relief from the present irresponsibility of labor unions may well come about in this manner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financially Probably no further legislation would be necessary It may well be doubted if the capture of the Humberts will result in any far-reaching political scandal . Their gigantic swindle was not of a kind that permitted confederates , - and the chances are that their testimony before the courts will rather expose gulls than knaves in high place . The personal , and we may say the psychological , interest of their arrest far ' outweighs the political . We are near that thrilling point in a detective story when the plot is to be spun backwards and the mystery explained . We already know how the peasant girl , Mme. Humbert , with or without the aid of her father-in-law , an ex-Minister of Justice , borrowed millions upon the credit of a bogus lawsuit ; we know how that rather dull person , Ferdinand Humbert , got a standing in art and letters in Paris , while the whole family of impostors achieved a social position brilliant even for such wealth as theirs . Now we shall be told how Mme. Humbert justified her course to herself , upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraud or advance her notoriety ; we are presumably to learn the state of mind of the painters and poets who produced canvases and verses for Ferdinand Humbert to sign , we shall discover what the great folk of Paris thought of their vulgarian hosts , and what the Humberts thought of the great folk of Paris . " The Humbert family had relations in all sorts of circles , " says the present Minister of Justice , promising revelations . In this final act of their drama will be found in- epitome all the characteristic ambitions of our commercialized social order . - 