@@486844

If there has been any doubt that Secretary Shaw is a Presidential candidate , he removed it by his address to the bankers at Washington last week . Passing by all miserable interrogatories about currency and reserves and trust companies and the responsibility of di-lectors , he went in gloriously for the old flag and an appropriation for shipping subsidies . Some may question the appropriateness of his discourse What has the mercantile marine to do with the technique of banking ? Would Mr. Shaw be capable of haranguing a congress of physicians about the Alaska fisheries , or urging upon the New England college presidents the advantages of farming in the Philippines ? But such questions ignore the chief duty of a Presidential candidate . Nice points of good taste are not for him . Having gat , as he thinks , a taking issue , he must air it on every occasion , whether bankers will bear or forbear . Secretary Shaw has long made it plain that his chosen issue is ship subsidies His latest deliverance was a surprise only in being so malapropos He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereby making them a little more indefensible . For example , he gave this hint of his method of getting Congress to vote a subsidy : " No difficulty is ever experienced in pressing a river and harbor bill , if its benefits are sufficiently distributed " In other words , by skilful log-rolling , by striking hands in the dark to divide the plunder , by promises and bargains and bribes , it may yet be possible to induce Congress to increase the Treasury deficit by millions taken out for subsidies . This is an open advocacy of a policy of lavishness , ill becoming a Secretary of the Treasury at a time when the question of making both ends meet in national finance should occupy a serious mind But then , Mr. Shaw is now more candidate than Secretary . His argument fairly wallowed in the self-contradictions of a protectionist . We have " protected " the country into a prosperity which is tlhe envy of the world , now we must " protect " it into a vast trade with foreign nations . Of course , that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the chief of those who stand pat on the Dingley tariff , and he ought to know what opinion the framer of that law held and expressed . It was the crass old protectionist view that the more this nation could be isolated commercially , the richer it would grow . Congressman Dingley avowed the wish that the oceans bounding us were seas of fire , so that no ships could cross them filled with abhorred foreign products . Yet it is in the name of a protection thus inspired that Mr. Shaw would have a marine artificially created to go insearch of " new and important mar-keter here is always a comic as well as instr ctive aspect of the impotent anger of pr tectionists at finding that they have tas ed American shipping out of existence . They remind one of a man who had fed and drunk himself fat and puffy and short-winded , and who falls into a ragls when he discovers that he can not winl a free-for-all foot race in competi-tion ? with trained athletes . The writs of Iprotection do not run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tha wins  --  and the best ship is the one tha is built with the greatest skill and intelligence , care , safety , and profit . eco omy , and sailed with the greatest One let a nation admit that it can not co welt ' on equal terms , and it may as welt ' quit the business It may squander mokey in subsidizing inferior or too expenSive vessels , and keeping them afloat for b. time , but the inevitable crash will come in the end . The sea is free to all . Protection sinks like lead as soon as it leaves the land Within your own coasts you may screw up the cost of materials and of labor , and handicap Inventiveness and enterprise , while diminishing their rewards , by a backward and corrupting system of tariff taxes , but if you do it , you must be content to renounce the blue water . There the wholesome law of competition has free sway , and the survival of the fit is the rule . To listen to Secretary Shaw , one would think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the very moment he was speaking , the largest and latest example of modern marine architecture , the aineraca , was setting sail for our shores , the product of brains , not of bounties , the result of ingenuity and experience applied to seafaring , owned by a company which has built up a great fleet absolutely without subsidies . We share to the full the desire to see the American mercantile marine restored to something like its prestige before protection and stupid navigation laws drove it from the seas . But we must meet the conditions squarely . No trick of subsidy will be of any lasting benefit . The nation has got to get rid of some of its " protected " flabbiness if it is going really to compete for the commercial mastery of the Ocean  --  not , as Secretary Shaw would have it , try to brace itself up for the contest by another stiff horn of prOtection . We have not the slightest doubt that American ability and mechanical aptitude and executive capacity are adequate to the task of building and operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must he given an object ; the ships must have some promise of return cargoes ; the fetters upon American industry forged by the protective system must be stricken off . The exultant stand-patter may be a sublime spectacle , but he will neverstand on the bridge of an ocean steamship. - THE SORROWS OF THE OPTIMIST . One of the significant signs of the time is the dejection of our old friend , the optimist . It is but a few years since his voice was heard in all parts of the land , and his cheerful loquacity had shamed every pessimist into respectful silence . In industry , in finance , in politics , in religious and social affairs , the reign of the optimist was absolute ; and at his command the people were ready to laugh every carper out of court . In industry , it will be remembered , the advent of the Trust promoter had banished competition and introduced the reign of that kindly and sympathetic cooperation which Mr. Perkins has recently declared to be the very life of the insurance business . Panics were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " integrated " in a manner that should defy the forces of industrial depression In finance , we were told , a new era had been introduced , in which the old rules were not to apply , while the teachings of past experience should count for nothing Our financiers , their eyes in a fine frenzy rolling , were filled with boundless optimism concerning the value of securities , digested or undigested , ' and banished the last vestige of the old and pessimistic methods of appraising commercial assets . Sympathetic cooperation , with Christian charity for human frailties , prevailed universally in dealings between the promoter who supplied the watered stocks , the banker who agreed to underwrite them , and the insurance companies that furnished the money by which the deals were carried through . All hands were agreed to be as good trustees as they conveniently could ; and it did seem that the coming of the financial millennium could not be long deferred And this , or course , the optimist hastened to proclaim in season and out of season . President Alexander contributed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the funds of widows and orphans ; Mr Schwab , in the pages of the North , American , severely castigated Russell Sage for expressing doubt concerning the new order of industrial society ; while Chauncey Depew ? ! ? The same genial spirit pervades all the political world . By assuming " new duties and responsibilities " in the East we all became model citizens at home . When it was rumored that graft still existed in the Executive departments at Washington , optimists Payne and Wilson declared the reports to be mere " hot air " ; so that our complacency remained undisturbed . Then Dr. Hale assumed his duties as Senate chaplain , and discovered that his flock was composed of pure-souled children of God , who had been cruelly maligned by the rumormongers . It was clear , therefore , that - national political life was on a higher plane than ever before in our history ; and we were urged to inaugurate an era of good feeling , in which cruel criticism of public men should disappear , and all should take a hopeful view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outdone , sundry members of the clergy gave thanks to Goa that such an opportunity had come to spread the blessings of our civilization and religion in the benighted East . When , they asked , had God ever given a nation such a noble mission or such enlightened and righteous rulers ? But visions of Paradise so nearly re-gamed were rudely shattered in 1902 , when most unexpectedly the bottom fell out of the stock market . Something had gone wrong with the new plan for abolishing hard times , and pessimism as profound as the optimism of 1901 suddenly took possession of Wall ' Street . Then the lid was taken off from the Post-Office Department , and an unsavory mass of wretched scandals was revealed at- Washington . Straightway the popular magazines instituted a systematic investigation of the darker nooks and corners of American life , and published , month after month , unpleasant stories of lawlessness and graft in city , in State , in industry . This made at first but little impression upon our indomitable optimists , who insisted that the evil was confined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , to attribute all the trouble to a few " soreheads " and " croakers , " and put forth strenuous efforts to drown out the voices of the pessimists . Yet , struggle as they would , their best efforts were in vain . The Post-Office revelations were followed by the exposure of the public-land frauds ; and hardly had the courts ; begun work upon a new batch of Senators and Representatives when the scandals in the Agricultural Department came to light . Meanwhile , outside of official circles , some eminently respectable insurance grafters had fallen out with one another and begun to wash their dirty linen in public . In vain did Mr. Depew assure the people that the troubles would soon be " adjusted , " and that the Equitable would speedily be " stronger than ever before " ; vainly , too , did insurance magnates of other companies protest that not a suspicion of graft could attach to their own methods of - doing business Revelation followed revelation . Saddest of all was the discovery that the chief of the optimists , the genial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nation has been sometimes accused of pessimism ; and it is true that , prior to 1902 , when the optimist reigned triumphant in the land , this paper did express doubts about the immediate ; - coming of the millennium which was expected to follow the new developments in industry , finance , and " world-politics " Indeed , in the exulting of the optimist we saw reason for the Most serious misgivings . But in the process of heart-searching and ' house-cleaning now in progres:i , the Nation perceives / only happy augaries for the future . It was the loquao4us optimist who led us into the moral quagmire ; now that his voice is silen Led , even temporarily , there is hope th t we may give heed to wiser counsels nd retrace our stes to the safe , if narrow , highway of financial and political integrity . Perhaps groin our recent experiences we may yet Ifarn where and how to erect some fences that will prevent ithi future traveller from straying off in tae bad company of the chattering opts .. at . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage has lost its/ greatest surviving l'ePresenta , tive by the lamented death . of Sir Henry Irving is to tell but a small part of the truth . It- has lost also ) , the one link that connected it with the days when the stage was yet capable o inspiring the-respect of intelligent mend and women ; lost the , influence of illustrious example , and the inspiration of a force whose tendency was , almost invariably , upward During the last few years several great actors have on their decease been praised , mourned , and forgotten . Their departure has created a certain void  --  it is certain that they have thus far no successors , but inasmuch as , in most instances , they stood for nothing ; but their own fame , their death , however deplorable , did not assume the character of a general calamity . But with Sir Henry Irving the case is different : In him existed the essence of the ideal theatrical spirit  --  the spirit that was charged with a - sense of responsibility , with a conviction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agent of intellectual and Moral good in the form of entertainment , and an ambition to restore the stage to a dominant position among the arts ; and with him that spirit , the spirit of high endeavor as opposed to the greed of mere commercialism , has , it is to be feared , vanished . It is true , of course , that his life-work was nearly done  --  that he was meditating an early retirement from the stage which he had adorned for nearly fifty years , and that , latterly , failing health and cruel losses had compelled him sometimes to subordinate the claims of art to the need of a competency for his old age ; but even when he descended to popular melodrama as a sort of inevitable concession to a debauched public taste and the inexorable demands - of sordid speculative management , he yet contrived to invest these performances with a dignity and a sig , nific  --  nce peculiar to his own productions , and redeemed them from the charge of being altogether trivial and vulgar . There was a fine illustration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when his noble and pathetic figure of Dante imparted some sort of poetic value to the brazen and hollow ingenuities of the later Sardou . His great service to the stage , of course , was done during the memorable years of his management at the London Lyceum , which became the Mecca of intelligent playgoers from all parts of the world . There he took up the work which was laid down , almost in despair , by Macready and resumed , with wonderful success , by Phelps at Sadlers ' Wells . With the labors of the latter he was well acquainted . At one time , for a brief period , he shared in them , and ft was in the Shaksperian precincts of the once despised Islington , doubtless , that he found the inspiration which later on was to lead ' him to wealth and fame . That this inspiration was deep in him can not be questioned . It is no mere whim or vanity that could induce an actor who had won prosperity in such parts as Digby Grant and Mathias to risk both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the first his aim was to command success by the general perfection of his representations rather than by his own individual impersonations . No man , probably , knew better than he his own complete inadequacy for such characters as Romeo and Maude Melnotte , for instance , but he did not hesitate to undertake them , in the hope that the general excellence of the performance would compensate for his own deficiencies . Perhaps he would have been wiser if he had entrusted some of these parts to players better suited to them , but he must , at least , be credited - with the courage which enabled him to dare all . His career , at its best , was one long demonstration of the fallacies of the abominable " star " system , to which he , too , at the last , was compelled to have recourse . Wonderful as were many of his acting triumphs , it is nevertheless true that some of his most notable productions at the Lyceum owed their success quite as much to his associates as to his own efforts His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extraordinary ability in eccentric and romantic melodrama It was in such parts as Louts XI. , Mathias . and Malvolioto mention only a few types  --  that he was seen at his best He was supremely great also in parts of high intellectual and spiritual quality , including such priestly studies as Becket and Wolsey . In his spectacle of " Faust , " the mental quality of his Mephistopheles gave weight to the whole trivial show His Hamlet , too , was full of intellectual brilliancy  --  perhaps a little too full  --  while sadly deficient in real tragic power . His Macbeth , again , was but a variation upon his Mathias . His Richard III . was a superb embodiment upon the intellectual and cynical side , but weak in its tragic ? moments ; and illustrations of a similar kind might be continued indefinitely . In short , Irving was not a great tragic actor , ranking in this respect below Edwin Booth , Phelps , or Macready ; but he was a great actor by virtue of his eminence in many directions and his supereminence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all modern actor-managers that he will be known hereafter in the chronicles of his period . He found the stage in hopeless disgrace and collapse , and for a time raised it to a position of admiration and respect . He showed how companies ought to be formed , how they ought to be directed , and how the resources of modern scenic art could be applied to the illustration of literary masterpieces . He raised not only the condition of thei stage , but the social position of the performers themselves . He himself assumed a social rank almost unheard of among actors before , and the knighthood which acknowledged his worth lent it no additional emphasis . For almost a generation he has been the exemplar of all that a manager ought to be ; and long indeed is it likely to be , judging from present appearances , before we shall look upon his like again . THE CENTENARY OF TRAFALGAR One hundred years ago , on the 21st of October , was fought Trafalgar ; and as we look back from the vantage-ground of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteenth century ? not Waterloo , not Sedan , not Solferino , not KOniggrdtz  --  was charged with such consequences for the development of the world 's civilization . Yet the learned scholar of a thousand years hence who , searching into the history of our age , should chance on a store of French newspapers for the year 1805 , might search them through and through and never suspect that so much as an engagement between two frigates had occurred . France , or rather her ruler , Napoleon , chose to pass over in complete silence the great event that had taken place on the Atlantic Ocean ; and that silence tells us that the significance of Trafalgar was immediately realized . The more significant the event , the less Napoleon 's pride allowed him to acknowledge it . Notwithstanding his despotic methods , notwithstanding his cruel abuse of war , there is a penetration , a prophetic insight about Napoleon 's political perceptions that appeals to every intelligent student of his history . He saw what - we , a century later , marvel at as a new thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was prepared ' , one hundred years ago , to deal with the Indus as the strategic turning-point of the globe ; and this is what we deem the most startling novelty in the latest diploplatic achievement of our own day . He Was prepared to conquer by placing himself at the head of an army of Asiatics , while we , at the beginning of the twentieth century , are still agog at Great ' Britain 's foresight in making of an Asiatic power her equal ally . He perceived that , in world our present phrase , the sea i4 decisive , and tha to work to obtain . In ; that attempt he flied , and the rec-ord ' of his failure is separably connectqd with the name cq Nelson . That is why the name of t lat great fighter and Tailor is surround veneTtion by his coun he , Wad what he stood the ritish Empire possible . Nelson belo gs less to history than to the Imperial tradition ; he rep ; l'esents an ideal mor6 than a subject f ( .4. historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the . histerians have allowed ) him to repose in pace . He had sc4rcely been laid in the marble tomb that so many reverpntly visit in St. t , Paul 's Cathedral , before Southey wrote his life and told ! the public that ' its hero was of thie earth earthy . Since then controversy has raged , and during the last fifteen years with great bitterness . Learerl professors have lost their reason over Nelson , have slung ink on his behalf , or in his condemnation , with the zeal ' of pamphleteers . Passion rivalling that of mediaval theology has been displayed over the interpretation of his lease ( fortunate actions . , But the great British public remains calmly indifferent to the disputes of the historians , and cling0 faithfully to its hero . ? In truth , Nelson , as he appears to the clispaSsionate observer , is a somewhat disconcerting figure . This little flaxen-haired , one-eyed , one-armed man hardly belongs to the nineteenth century . If Napoleon was modern , Nelson was Elizabethan . He would have taken the Trictotry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cool unconcern as Grenville steered the Revenge for the San : Felipe and her ' consorts . His mouth was ever full of exaggerated sentiment , ' Chiefly of hatred for the enemies of his country , of ardor , for his coarse enchantress , Emma Hamilton . In such sentiments he was as whole-souled as a Viking , as blunt as a boatswain , and it is difficult to forget that he enjoyed having the head ' of a Jacohin pickled , or that'he gulped down with childish vanity Lady Hamilton 's outrageous doses of flattery . But what does it all matter ? ' 1 he great fact , the fact that remains , is that in those supreme moments in which the destinies of men and of nations are decided , he had the geniffs that compels victory . It was not force , but genius , for in most of his great battles he was outnumbered ; and although Napoleon , as is generally forgotten , still possessed a great fleet of battleships after Trafalgar , he acknowledged after that decisive test the superiority of Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the nature of this supreme quality in Nelson , of the quality that focussed in him the whole fighting efficiency of the Saxon , of the Dane , and of the Norman ? In the first place , ho had the ordinary skill of the seaman highly developed . The landsman still wonders at his calm confidence in the early hours of the 21st of October , 1805 . On the horizon hung the long Iine of Villeneuve 's sails crossing the Victory 's bows . The wind was very light ; the ships crept but slowly over the water . Nelson 's problem was so to direct the course of the British fleet as to strike the French line in the centre and divide it at that point . How delicate and unerring his judgment was , is shown by the fact that , two hours before the Victory got within cannon-shot , he closed his telescope , and , turning to Captain Hardy , declared that he had now done all that could be done , and that it remained for his captains and sailors to do their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment , and it is recorded . that the fleets eventually came into contact precisely as he had intended . In seamanship Nelson had peers ; he had none in his fighting instinct . He never accepted the defensive ; he always sought out his enemy ; he was ever careless of victory or defeat , content to get within range and to pour forth all the damage and destruction of which he was capable . And that , after all , is the whole secret of successful war . High intelligence will help the nation that is driven to this last arbitrament , but the supreme quality must ever . be determination to destroy the enemy . It is just in the matter of this mental attitude that the shadow of a doubt crosses the , mind as to Lee 's conduct of not his great commander , was the exact counterpart of Nelson . Fortunately , the opinion of the peaceful citizen is now , in all countries , of more weight than in times gone by ; war appears less necessary , more criminal . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Struggle for national existence must still be the crucial test of every community . Some communities , indeed , are faced by problems that make war probable at a period more or less near , and among such communities , unfortunately , is England . British civilization  --  and in the largest sense our own country represents its most advanced form  --  has spread its benefits ostentatiously over the globe . It has carried with it not only increased happiness for all men , but increased wealth ; and that-wealth it viewed with envy . During one hundred and fifty years one thing alone has maintained untouched this greatest of all factors in the advance of human- ity , and that thing is the British fleet . England has occasionally lost sight of this fact , though never for long . But the ships are not everything , as Napoleon found to his cost ; there must be a spirit behind them . It is that spirit which England looks for in the tradition of Horatio Nelson . And so on the hundredth anniversary of the battle in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far and wide patriotic pamphlets and shilling souvenirs carved from the old oaken timbers of the ship that carried the British admiral on the brave day of Trafalgar . And those whose business it is to comment on passing events attempt to point the moral . That tasli will have been accomplished in this place if attention is once more directed to the fact that there are two Nelsons , cne the subject for historical investigation , the other a national hero , the embodiment of a national ideal . It is this second Nelson whose festival is now being observed by our cousins over the ater.                     