@@430017

HERE is no better illustration of the truth that nations and individuals are affected in the same manner by like causes than is furnished by an observation of the beginning , progress , and results of a national boundary dispute . We all know that among individuals , when neighbors have entered up'on a quarrel concerning their divisionline or the location of a line fence , they will litigate until all account of cost and all regard for the merits of the contention give place to a ruthless and all-dominating determination , by fair means or foul , to win ; and if fisticuffs and forcible possession are resorted to , the big , strong neighbor rejoices in his strength as he mauls and disfigures his small and weak antagonist . It will be found that nations behave in like fashion . One or the other of two national neighbors claims that their dividingline should be defined or rectified in a certain manner . If this is questioned , a season of diplomatic untruthfulness and finesse sometimes intervenes for the sake of appearances . Developments soon follow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of diplomacy ; and in the end the weaker nation frequently awakens to the fact that it must either accede to an ultimatum dictated by its stronger adversary , or look in the face of war and a despoliation of its territory ; and if such a stage is reached , superior strength and fighting ability , instead of suggesting magnanimity , are graspingly used to enforce extreme demands if not to consummate extensive spoliation or complete subjugation . I propose to call attention to one of these unhappy national boundary disputes , between the kingdom of Great Britain and the South American republic of Venezuela , involving the boundary-line separating Venezuela from the English colony of British Guiana , which adjoins Venezuela on the east . Venezuela , once a Spanish possession , declared her independence in 1810 , and a few years afterward united with two others of Spain 's revolted colonies in forming the old Colombian federal union , which was recognized by the United States in 1822 . In 1836 this union was dissolved and Venezuela became again a separate and independent republic , being promptly recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain , however , halted in her recognition until 1845 , when she quite superfluously ceded to Venezuela by treaty the territory which as an independent republic she had actually owned and possessed since 1810 . But neither in this treaty nor in any other mention of the boundaries of the republic were they described with any more definiteness than as being " the same as those which marked the ancient viceroyalty and captaincy-general of New Granada and Venezuela in the year 1810 . " England derived title to her colony of Guiana from Holland in 1814 , by a treaty in which the territory was described as " the Cape of Good Hope and the establishments of Demerara , Essequibo , and Berbice . " No boundaries of those settlements or " establishments " were given in the treaty , nor does it appear that any such boundaries had ever been particularly defined . It is quite apparent that the limits of adjoining countries thus specified , and lacking any mention of definite metes and bounds , were in need of extraneous assistance before they could be exactly fixed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to lead to serious disagreement . In such circumstances threatening complications can frequently be avoided if the adjoining neighbors agree upon a divisional line promptly , and before their demands are stimulated and their tenacity increased by a real or fancied advance in the value of the possessions to be divided , or other incidents have intervened to render it more difficult to make concessions . I shall not attempt to sketch the facts and arguments that bear upon the merits of this boundary controversy between Great Britain and Venezuela . They have all been thoroughly examined by an arbitral tribunal to which the entire difficulty was referred , and by whose determination the boundary between the two countries has been fixed ? perhaps in strict accord with justice , but certainly finally and irrevocably . Inasmuch , however , as our own country became in a sense involved in the controversy , or at least deeply concerned in its settlement , I have thought these might be of interest in an explanation of the manner and the processes by which the interposition of the United States government was brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention every circumstance that may relate to the merits of the dispute as between the parties primarily concerned ; but so far as I make use of such circumstances I intend to do so only in aid and simplification of the explanation I have undertaken . This dispute began in 1841 . On October 5 of that year the Venezuelan minister to Great Britain , in a note to Lord Aberdeen , Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , after reminding the secretary that a proposal for joint action in the matter of fixing a divisional boundary , made by Venezuela on the 28th of January , 1841 , still awaited the acceptance of Great Britain , wrote as follows : The Honorable Earl of Aberdeen may now judge of the surprise of the Government of Venezuela upon learning that in the territory of the Republic a sentry-box has been erected upon which the British flag has been raised . The Venezuelan Government is in ignorance of the origin and purport of these proceedings , and hopes that they may receive some satisfactory explanation of this action . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him , urges upon the Honorable Earl of Aberdeen the necessity of entering into a treaty of boundaries as a previous step to the fixation of limits , and begs to ask for an answer to the above-mentioned communication of January 28 . Lord Aberdeen , in his reply , dated October 21 , 1841 , makes the following statement : Her Majesty 's Government has received from the Governor of British Guiana Mr. Schombnrgk 's report of his proceedings in execution of the commission with which he has been charged . That report states that Mr. Schomburgk set out from Demerara in April last and was on his return to the Essequibo River at the end of June . It appears that Mr. Schomburgk planted boundary posts at certain points of the country which he has surveyed , and that he was fully aware that the demarcation so made was merely a preliminary measure , open to further discussion between the Governments of Great Britain and Venezuela . But it does not appear that Mr. Schomburgk left behind him any guard-house , sentry-box , or other building having the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Venezuelan Government that the Governments of Great Britain and Venezuela should conclude a treaty as a preliminary step to the demarcation of the boundaries between British Guiana and Venezuela , the undersigned begs leave to observe that it appears to him that if it should be necessary to make a treaty upon the subject of the boundaries in question , such a measure should follow rather than precede the operation of the survey . In a communication dated the 18th of November , 1841 , the Venezuelan minister , after again complaining of the acts of Schomburgk and alleging that he " has planted at a point on the mouth of the Orinoco several posts bearing Her Majesty 's initials , and raised at the same place , with a show of armed forces , the British flag , and also performed several other acts of dominion and government , " refers to the great dissatisfaction aroused in Venezuela by what he calls " this undeserved offense , " and adds : " The undersigned therefore has no doubts but that he will obtain from Her Majesty 's Government a reparation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that those signs which have so unpleasantly shaken public confidence will be ordered removed . " No early response having been made to this communication , another was addressed to Lord Aberdeen , dated December 8 , 1841 , in which the minister refers to his previous unanswered note and to a recent order received from his government , which he says directs him " to insist not only upon the conclusion of a treaty fixing the boundaries between Venezuela and British Guiana , but also , and this very particularly , to insist upon the removal of the signs set up , contrary to all rights , by the surveyor R. H. Schomburgk in Barima and in other points of the Venezuelan territory " ; and he continues : " In his afore-mentioned communication of the 18th of last month , the undersigned has already informed the Honorable Earl of Aberdeen of the dissatisfaction prevailing among the Venezuelans on this account , an ( now adds that this dissatisfaction , far fron diminishing , grows stronger ? as is bu ' natural ? as time goes on and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two notes of the Venezuelan minis ter were answered on the eleventh day of December , 1841 . In his reply Lord Aberdeer says : The undersigned begs leave to refer to his not ( of the 21st of October last , in which he ex. plained that the proceeding of Mr. Schomburgls in planting boundary posts at certain points of the country which he has surveyed was merely a preliminary measure open to future discussion between the two Governments , and that it would be premature to make a boundary treaty before the survey will be completed . The undersigned has only further to state that much unnecessary inconvenience would result from the removal of the posts fixed by Mr. Schomburgk , as they will afford the only tangible means by which Her Majesty 's Government can be prepared to discuss the question of the boundaries with the Government of Venezuela . These posts were erected for that express purpose , and not , as the Venezuelan Government appears to apprehend , as indications of dominion and empire on the part of Great Britain . In a reply to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these posts or signs which Lord Aberdeen had given , it was said , in further urging their removal : " The undersigned regrets to be obliged to again insist upon this point ; but the damages sustained by Venezuela on account of the permanence of said signs are so serious that he hopes in view of those facts that the trouble resulting from their removal may not appear useless . " The minister followed this insistence with such earnest argument that on the thirty-first day of January , 1842 , nearly four months after the matter was first agitated , Lord Aberdeen informed the Venezuelan minister that instructions would be sent to the governor of British Guiana directing him to remove the posts which had been placed by Mr. Schomburgk near the Orinoco . He , however , accompanied this assurance with the distinct declaration " that although , in order to put an end to the misapprehension which appears to prevail in Venezuela with regard to the object of Mr. Schomburgk 's survey , the undersigned has consented to comply with the renewed representation of the Minister upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood to abandon any portion of the rights of Great Britain over the territory which was formerly held by the Dutch in Guiana . " It should be here stated that the work which Schomburgk performed at the instance of the British government consisted not only in placing monuments of some sort at the mouth of the Orinoco River , upon territory claimed by Venezuela , but also in locating from such monuments a complete dividing-line running far inland and annexing to British Guiana on the west a large region which Venezuela also claimed . This line , as originally located or as afterward still further extended to the west , came to be called " the Schomburgk line . " The Orinoco River , flowing eastward to the sea , is a very broad and deep waterway , which , with its affluents , would in any event , and however the bounds of Venezuela might be limited , traverse a very extensive portion of that country 's area ; and its control and free navigation are immensely important factors in the progress and prosperity of the republic . Substantially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south side , two quite large rivers , the Barima and the Amacuro , flow into the sea . The region adjacent to the mouth of those rivers has , sometimes at least , been called Barima ; and it was here that the posts or signs complained of by Venezuela were placed . The coast from the mouth of the Orinoco River slopes or drops to the east and south ; and some distance from that river 's mouth , in the directions mentioned , the Essequibo , a large river flowing for a long distance from the south , empties into the sea . This is the river which the Venezuelans insisted they might reasonably claim to be the eastern boundary of their country and the western boundary of British Guiana . After the correspondence which I have mentioned and which resulted in the removal of the initial monuments of the Schomburgk line from the Barima region , there seems to have been less activity in the boundary discussion until January 31 , 1844 , when the Venezuelan minister to England again addressed Lord Aberdeen on the subject . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the complaints of Venezuela on that account , and stated that since the removal of those monuments he had not ceased to urge Lord Aberdeen " to commence without delay negotiations for a treaty fixing definitely the boundary-line that shall divide the two countries . " He adds the following very sensible statement : " Although it was undoubtedly the duty of the one who promoted this question to take the first step toward the negotiation of the treaty , the undersigned being well aware that other important matters claim the attention of Her Majesty 's Government , and as he ought not to wait indefinitely , hastens to propose an agreement which , if left for a later date , may be difficult to conclude . " It is disappointing to observe that the good sense exhibited in this statement did not hold out to the end of the minister 's communication . Af ter a labored presentation of historical incidents , beginning with the discovery of the American continent , he concludes by putting forward the Essequibo River as the proper boundary-line between the two countries . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have known , would not be considered for a moment by the government of Great Britain . The line suggested as a settlement of a delicate and serious dispute was the line which bounded Venezuela 's most extreme pretensions ; and it seems to me that a diplomatic error was made when , failing to apprehend the fact that the exigencies of the situation called for a show of concession , the Venezuelan minister , instead of intimating a disposition to negotiate , gave Great Britain an opportunity to be first in making proposals apparently calculated to meet the needs of conciliation and compromise . Thus two months after the receipt of this communication , ? on the thirtieth day of March , 1844 , ? Lord Aberdeen sent his reply . After combating the allegations contained in the letter of the Venezuelan representative , he remarked that if he were inclined to act upon the spirit of that letter , it was evident that he ought to claim on behalf of Great Britain , as the rightful successor to Holland , all the coast from the Orinoco to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undersigned believes that the negotiations would not be free from difficulties if claims that can not be sustained are presented , and shall not therefore follow Senor Fortique 's example , but state here the concessions that Great Britain is disposed to make of her rights , prompted by a friendly consideration for Venezuela and by her desire to avoid all cause of serious controversies between the two countries . Being convinced that the most important object for the interests of Venezuela is the exclusive possession of the Orinoco , Her Majesty 's Government is ready to yield to the Republic of Venezuela a portion of the coast sufficient to insure her the free control of the mouth of this her principal river , and to prevent its being under the control of any foreign power . Lord Aberdeen further declared that . " with this end in view , and being persuaded that a concession of the greatest importance has been made to Venezuela , " he would consent on behalf of Great Britain to a boundary which he particularly defined , and in general terms may be described as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is on the coast southeast of the mouth of the Orinoco River and about two thirds of the distance between that point and the Essequibo River , said boundary running inland from that point until it included in its course considerably more territory than was embraced within the original Schomburgk line , though it excluded the region embraced within that line adjacent to the Barima and Amacuro rivers and the mouth of the Orinoco . This boundary , as proposed by Lord Aberdeen , was not satisfactory to Venezuela . Soon after its submission her diplomatic representative died , and this interruption was quickly followed by a long period of distressing internal strifes and revolutions . which so distracted and disturbed her government that for more than thirty years she was not in condition to renew negotiations for an adjustment of her territorial limits . During all this time Great Britain seemed not especially unwilling to allow these negotiations to remain in abeyance . This interval was not , however , entirely devoid of boundary incidents . In 1850 great excitement and indignation were aroused among the Venezuelans by s rumor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a province adjoining British Guiana on the west , and a part of the territo-ry claimed-by Venezuela ; and the feeling thus engendered became so extreme . both among the people and on the part of the government of the republic , that all remaining friendliness between the two countries was seriously menaced . Demonstrations indicating that Venezuela was determined to repel the rumored movement as an invasion of her rights were met by instructions given by Great Britain to the commander of her Majesty 's naval forces in the West Indies as to the course he was to pursue if the Venezuelan forces should construct fortifications within the territory in dispute . At the same time , Mr. Balfor i Hinton Wilson , England 's representative at Caracas , in a note addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for Venezuela , indignantly characterized these disquieting rumors of Great Britain 's intention as mischievous , and maliciously false ; but he also declared that , on the other hand , her Majesty 's government would not see with indifference the aggressions of Venezuela upon the disputed territory . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these words : The Venezuelan Government , in justice to Great Britain , can not mistrust for a moment the sincerity of the formal declaration , which is now made in the name and by the express order of Her Majesty 's Government , that Great Britain has no intention to occupy or encroach upon the territory in dispute ; therefore the Venezuelan Government , in an equal spirit of good faith and friendship , can not refuse to make a similar declaration to Her Majesty 's Government , namely , that Venezuela herself has no intention to occupy or encroach upon the territory in dispute . The Minister of Foreign Affairs for Venezuela responded to this communication in the following terms : The undersigned has been instructed by His Excellency the President of the Republic to give the following answer : The Government never could be persuaded that Great Britain , in contempt of the negotiation opened on the subject and the alleged rights in the question of limits pending between the two countries , would want to use force in order to occupy the land that each side claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Executive Power believes to have been most sincere , that those imputations had no foundation whatever , being , on the contrary , quite the reverse of the truth . Fully confident of this , and fortified by the protest embodied in the note referred to , the Government has no difficulty in declaring , as they do declare , that Venezuela has no intention of occupying or encroaching upon any portion of the territory the possession of which is in controversy ; neither will she look with indifference on a contrary proceeding on the part of Great Britain . In furtherance of these declarations the English government stipulated that it would not " order or sanction such occupations or encroachments on the part of the British authorities " ; and Venezuela agreed on her part to " instruct the authorities of Venezuelan Guiana to refrain from taking any step which might clash with the engagement hereby made by the Government . " I suspect there was some justification on each side for the accusations afterward interchanged between the parties that this understanding or agreement , in its strict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As we now pass from this incident , over a long period , to a date when attempts to negotiate for a settlement of the boundary controversy were resumed , it may be profitable , before going further , to glance at some of the conditions existing at the time of such resumption , as they are made apparent by the narration of facts which has already been given . In 1876 ? thirty-two years after the discontinuance of efforts on the part of Great Britain and Venezuela to fix by agreement a line which should divide their possessions ? Venezuela was confronted , upon the renewal of negotiations for that purpose , by the following conditions : A line proposed by her , founded upon her conception of strict right , which her powerful opponent had insisted could not in any way be plausibly supported , and which therefore she would in no event accept . An indefiniteness in the limits claimed by Great Britain ? so great that , of two boundary-lines indicated or suggested by her , one had been plainly declared to be " merely a preliminary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain and Venezuela , " and the other was distinctly claimed to be based upon generous concessions and a " desire to avoid all cause of serious controversies between the two countries . " A controversy growing out of this situation impossible of friendly settlement except by such arrangement and accommodation as would be satisfactory to Great Britain , or by a submission of the dispute to arbitration . A constant danger of such an extension of settlements in the disputed territory as would necessarily complicate the situation and furnish a convenient pretext for the refusal of any concession respecting the lands containing such settlements . A continual profession on the part of Great Britain of her present readiness to make benevolent concessions and of her willingness to cooperate in a speedy adjustment , while not substantially reducing her pretensions , and certainly not attempting in a conspicuous manner to hasten negotiations to a conclusion . A tremendous disparity in power and strength between Venezuela and her adversary , which gave her no hope of defending her territory or preventing its annexation to the possessions of Great Britain in case the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations began with a communication dated November 14 , 1876 , addressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs for Venezuela to Lord Derby , then Great Britain 's Principal Secretary of State . In this communication the efforts made between the years 1841 and 1844 to establish by agreement a divisional line between the two countries , and their interruption , were referred to , and the earnest desire was expressed that negotiations for that purpose might at once be resumed . The minister suggested no other line than the Essequibo River , but in conclusion declared that the President of Venezuela was led to " hope that the solution of this question , already for so many years delayed , will be a work of very speedy and cordial agreement . " On the same day that this note was written to Lord Derby , one was also written by the same Venezuelan official to Mr. Fish , then our Secretary of State . After speaking of the United States as " the most powerful and the oldest of the Republics of the new continent , and called on to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European nations , " the minister calls attention to the boundary controversy between Venezuela and Great Britain and the great necessity of bringing it to a speedy termination . He concludes as follows : " But whatever may be the result of the new steps of the Government , it has desired that the American Government might at once take cognizance of them , convinced , as it is , that it will give the subject its kind consideration and take an interest in having due justice done to Venezuela . " A memorandum was inclosed with the note , setting forth the claims of Venezuela in the boundary matter . This appears to be the first communication addressed to our government on the subject of a controversy in which we afterward became very seriously concerned . A short time after the date of these communications , a Venezuelan envoy to Great Britain was appointed ; and , on the thirteenth day of February , 1877 , he addressed to Lord Derby a note in which , after asserting the right of Venezuela to insist upon the boundary previously claimed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to settle this long-pending question in the most amicable manner , " and suggested either the acceptance of a boundary-line such as would result from a presentation by both parties of Spanish and Dutch titles , maps , documents , and proofs existing before the advent in South America of either Venezuela or British Guiana , or the adoption of " a conventional line fixed by mutual accord between the Governments of Venezuela and Great Britain after a careful and friendly consideration of the case , keeping in view the documents presented by both sides , solely with the object of reconciling their mutual interests , and to fix a boundary as equitable as possible . " The suggestion is made that the adoption of a divisional line is important " to prevent the occurrence of serious differences in the future , particularly as Guiana is attracting the general attention of the world on account of the immense riches which are daily being discovered there . " Let us here note that this renewal by Venezuela of her efforts to settle her boundary-line was accompanied by two new features . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to each other , and in their future combination and development so imperiously affected our government , that their coincident appearance at this particular stage of the controversy may well strike us as significant . One of these features was the abandonment by Venezuela of her exclusive insistence upon a line representing her extreme claims , and which England would not in any contingency accept , thus clearing the field for possible arbitration ; and the other was her earnest appeal to us for our friendly aid . Neither should we fail to notice the new and important reference of the Venezuelan envoy to the immense riches being discovered in the disputed territory . Gold beneath the soil in controversy does not always hasten the adjustment of uncertain or disputed boundary-lines . On the twenty-fourth day of March , 1877 , Lord Derby informed the Venezuelan envoy that the governor of British Guiana was shortly expected in London , and that he was anxious to await his arrival before taking any steps in the boundary discussion . After waiting for more than two years for a further answer from the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 19th of May , 1879 , addressed a note on the subject to Lord Salisbury , who , in the meantime , had succeeded Lord Derby . In this note reference was made to the communication sent to Lord Derby in 1877 , to the desire expressed by him to await the arrival of the governor of British Guiana before making reply , and to the fact that the communication mentioned still remained unanswered ; and on behalf of Venezuela her representative repeated the alternative proposition made by him in February , 1877 , in these words : " The boundary treaty may be based either on the acceptance of the line of strict right as shown by the records , documents , and other authoritative proofs which each party may exhibit , or on the acceptance at once by both Governments of a frontier of accommodation which shall satisfy the respective interests of the two countries " ; and he concluded his note as follows : If Her Britannic Majesty 's Government should prefer the frontier of accommodation or convenience , then it would be desirable that it should vouchsafe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding that , in order to obviate future difficulties and to give Great Britain the fullest proof of the consideration and friendship which Venezuela professes for her , my Government would not hesitate to accept a demarcation that should satisfy as far as possible the interests of the Republic . At all events , my Lord , something will have to be done to prevent this question from pending any longer . Thirty-eight years ago my Government wrote urging Her Majesty 's Government to have the Boundary Treaty concluded , and now this affair is in the same position as in 1841 , without any settlement ; meanwhile Guiana has become of more importance than it was then , by reason of the large deposits of gold which have been and still are met with in that region . Now , at the date of this communication England 's most extreme claims were indicated either by the Schomburgk line or by the line which Lord Aberdeen suggested in 1844 as a concession . These were indeed the only lines which Great Britain had thus far suggested . When in such circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ envoy of Venezuela offered to abandon for his country her most extreme claims , and asked that Great Britain should " vouchsafe to make a proposition of an arrangement " upon the basis of a " frontier of accommodation or convenience , " what answer had he a right to expect ? Most assuredly he had a right to expect that if Great Britain should prefer to proceed upon the theory of " accommodation or convenience , " she would respond by offering such a reduction of the claims she had already made as would indicate a degree of concession or " accommodation " on her part that should entitle her to expect similar concession from Venezuela . What was the answer actually made ? After a delay of nearly eight months , on the tenth day of January , 1880 , Lord Salisbury replied that her Majesty 's government were of the opinion that to argue the matter on the ground of strict right would involve so many intricate questions that it would be very unlikely to lead to a satisfactory solution of the question , and they would therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement as to the acceptance by the two Governments of a frontier of accommodation which shall satisfy the respective interests of the two countries . " He then gives a most startling statement of the English government 's claim , by specifying boundaries which overlap the Schomburgk line and every other line that had been thought of or dreamed of before , and says that such claim is made " by virtue of ancient treaties with the aboriginal tribes and of subsequent cessions from Holland . " He sets against this claim , or " on the other hand , " as he says , the fact that the President of Venezuela , in a message dated February 20 , 1877 , " put forward a claim on the part of Venezuela to the river Essequibo as the boundary to which the Republic was entitled " ? thereby giving controlling importance to a claim of boundary made by the President of Venezuela three years before , though his Lordship was answering a communication in which Venezuela 's present diplomatic representative distinctly proposed " a frontier of accommodation . " His declaration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward by the President of Venezuela would involve " the surrender of a province now inhabited by forty thousand British subjects , " seems quite irrelevant , because such a boundary was not then under consideration ; and in passing it may occur to us that the great delay in settling the boundaries between the two countries had given abundant opportunity for such inhabitation as Lord Salisbury suggests . His Lordship having thus built up a contention in which he puts on one side a line which for the sake of pacific accommodation Venezuela no longer proposes to insist upon , and on the other a line for Great Britain so grotesquely extreme as to appear fanciful , soberly observes : The difference , therefore , between these two claims is so great that it is clear that , in order to arrive at a satisfactory arrangement , each party must be prepared to make considerable concessions to the other ; and although the claim of Venezuela to the Essequibo River boundary could not under any circumstances be entertained , I beg leave to assure you that Her Majesty 's Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conciliation , and would be willing , in the event of a renewal of negotiations for a general settlement of boundaries , to waive a portion of what they consider to be their strict right , if Venezuela is really disposed to make corresponding concessions on her part . And ignoring entirely the humbly respectful request of the Venezuelan minister that Great Britain would " vouchsafe to make a proposition of an arrangement , " his Lordship thus concludes his communication : " Her Majesty 's Government will therefore be glad to receive , and will undertake to consider in the most friendly spirit , any proposal that the Venezuelan Government may think fit to make for the establishment of a boundary satisfactory to both nations . " This is diplomacy ? of a certain sort . It is a deep and mysterious science ; and we probably can not do better than to confess our inability to understand its intricacies and sinuosities , while at this point we are reminded of the methods of the shrewd , sharp trader who demands exorbitant terms , and with professions of amicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the large range for dicker which he has created . An answer was made to Lord Salisbury 's note on the twelfth day of April , 1880 , in which the Venezuelan envoy states in direct terms that he had received specific instructions from his government for the arrangement of the difficulty , by abandoning the ground of strict right and " concurring in the adoption for both countries of a frontier mutually convenient , and reconciling in the best possible manner their respective interests ? each party having to make concessions to the other for the purpose of attaining such an important result . " It will be remembered that in 1844 , when this boundary question was under discussion , Lord Aberdeen proposed a line beginning in the mouth of the Moroco River , being a point on the coast south and east of the mouth of the Orinoco , thus giving to Venezuela the control of that river , but running inland in such a manner as to include , in the whole , little if any less area than that included in the Schomburgk line ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not then acceptable to Venezuela . It appears , however , that the delays and incidents of thirtysix years had impressed upon the government of the republic the serious disadvantages of her situation in contention with Great Britain ; for we find in this reply of the Venezuelan envoy the inquiry " whether Her Britannic Majesty 's Government is disposed now , as it was in 1844 , to accept the mouth of the river Moroco as the frontier at the coast . " To this Lord Salisbury promptly responded that the attorney-general for the colony of British Guiana was shortly expected in England , and that her Majesty 's government would prefer to postpone the boundary discussion until his arrival . This was followed by a period of five months of silence , with no word or sign from England 's Foreign Office ; and in the meantime Earl Granville had succeeded Lord Salisbury as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs . After waiting thus long , the representative of Venezuela , on the 23d of September , 1880 , reminded Lord Granville that in the preceding April his immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of British Guiana was awaited before deciding the question of boundaries between the two Guianas ; and as he had not , after the lapse of five months , been honored with a communication on the subject , he was bound to suppose that the attorney-general had not accomplished his voyage , in which case it was useless longer to wait for him . He further reminded his Lordship that on the 24th of March , 1877 , Lord Derby , then in charge of British foreign affairs , also desired to postpone the consideration of the question until the arrival in London of the governor of British Guiana , who was then expected , but who apparently never came . He then proceeds as follows : Consequently it is best not to go on waiting either for the Governor or for the Attorney-General of the Colony , but to decide these questions ourselves , considering that my Government is now engaged in preparing the official map of the Republic and wishes of course to mark out the boundaries on the East . In my despatch of 12th of April last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a basis of a friendly demarcation my Government was disposed to accept the mouth of the River Moroco as the frontier on the coast . If Her Britannic Majesty 's Government should accept this point of departure , it would be very easy to determine the general course of the frontier , either by means of notes or in verbal conferences , as your Excellency might prefer . On the twelfth day of February , 1881 , Lord Granville , replying to Venezuela 's two notes dated April 12 and September 23 , 1880 , informed her representative , without explanation , that her Majesty 's government would not accept the mouth of the Moroco as the divisional boundary on the coast . A few days afterward , in an answer to this refusal , Venezuela 's representative mentioned the extreme claims of the two countries and the fact that it had been agreed between the parties that steps should be taken to settle upon a frontier of accommodation ; that in pursuance thereof he had proposed as the point of departure for such a frontier the mouth of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposition made by Lord Aberdeen on behalf of Great Britain in 1844 ; and pertinently added : " Thus thirty-seven years ago Her Britannic Majesty 's Government spontaneously proposed the mouth of the Moroco River as the limit on the coast , a limit which your Excellency does not accept now , for you are pleased to tell me so in the note which I have the honor of answering . " He thereupon suggests another boundary , beginning on the coast at a point one mile north of the mouth of the Moroco River and thence extending inland in such manner as to constitute a large concession on the part of Venezuela , but falling very far short of meeting the claims of Great Britain . He declares , however , that this demarcation " is the maximum of all concessions which in this matter the Government of Venezuela can grant by way of friendly arrangement . " Apparently anticipating , as he well might , that the boundary he proposed would fail of acceptance , he suggests that in such case the two governments would have no alternative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that on this basis they would find it impossible to arrive at an agreement . Therefore he declares that he has received instructions from his government to urge upon Great Britain the submission of the question to an arbitrator , to be chosen by both parties , to whose award both governments should submit . In this proposal of arbitration by Venezuela we find an approach to a new phase of the controversy . First , the two countries had stood at arm's-length , each asserting strict right of boundary , only to be met by obstinate and unyielding resistance . Next , the field of mutual concession and accommodation had been traversed , with no result except damaging and dangerous delay . After forty years of delusive hope , the time seemed at hand when the feebler contestant must contemplate ignominious submission to dictatorial exaction , or forcible resistance , futile and distressing , unless honorable rest and justice could be found in arbitration ? the refuge which civilization has builded among the nations of the earth for the protection of the weak against the strong , from which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbarism of war . The reply of Lord Granville to the communication of the envoy of Venezuela proposing an alternative of arbitration was delayed for seven months ; and when , in September , 1881 , it was received , it contained a rejection of the boundary offered by Venezuela and a proposal of a new line apparently lacking almost every feature of concession ; and , singularly enough , there was not in this reply the slightest allusion to Venezuela 's request for arbitration . I do not find that this communication of Great Britain was ever specifically answered , though an answer was often requested . No further steps appear to have been taken until September 7 , 1883 , when Lord Granville instructed the British minister to Venezuela to invite the serious attention of the Venezuelan government to the questions pending between the two countries , with a view to their early settlement . These questions are specified as relating to the boundary , to certain differential duties imposed on imports from British colonies , and to the claims of British creditors of the republic . His Lordship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon negotiations it was indispensable that an answer should be given to the proposal of her Majesty 's government in regard to the boundary . The representations made to the government of Venezuela by the British minister , in obedience to those instructions , elicited a reply from her Secretary of State , in which a provision of the Venezuelan constitution was cited prohibiting the alienation or cession of any part of the territory of the republic ; and it was suggested that , inasmuch as the Essequibo line seemed abundantly supported as the true boundary of Venezuela , a concession beyond that line by treaty would be obnoxious to this constitutional prohibition , whereas any reduction of territory brought about by a decree of an arbitral tribunal would obviate the difficulty . Therefore the urgent necessity was submitted for the selection of an arbitrator , " who , freely and unanimously chosen by the two Governments , would judge and pronounce a sentence of a definite character . " The government of her Majesty , in a response dated February 29 , 1884 , commented upon the new difficulty introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the republic , and expressed a fear that if arbitration was agreed to , the same prohibition might be invoked as an excuse for not abiding by an award unfavorable to Venezuela ; and it was declared that " if , on the other hand , the arbitrator should decide in favor of the Venezuelan Government to the full extent of their claim , a large and important territory which has for a long period been inhabited and occupied by Her Majesty 's subjects and treated as a part of the Colony of British Guiana would be severed from the Queen 's dominions . " This declaration is immediately followed by a conclusion in these words : For the above-mentioned reasons , therefore , the circumstances of the case do not appear to Her Majesty 's Government to be such as to render arbitration applicable for a solution of the difficulty ; and I have accordingly to request you , in making this known to the Venezuelan Government , to express to them the hope of Her Majesty 's Government that some other means may be devised for bringing this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let us pause here for a moment 's examination of the surprising refusal of Great Britain to submit this difficulty to arbitration , and the more surprising reasons presented for its justification . The refusal was surprising because the controversy had reached such a stage that arbitration was evidently the only means by which it could be settled consistently with harmonious relations between the two countries . It was on this ground that Venezuela proposed arbitration ; and she strongly urged it on the further ground that inasmuch as the prohibition of her constitution prevented the relinquishment , by treaty or voluntary act , of any part of the territory which her people and their government claimed to be indubitably Venezuelan , such a relinquishment would present no difficulties if it was in obedience to a decree of a tribunal to which the question of ownership had been mutually submitted . In giving her reasons for rejecting arbitration Great Britain says in effect : The plan you urge for the utter and complete elimination of this constitutional prohibition ? for its expurgation and destruction so far as it is related to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prohibition thus eliminated , expunged , and destroyed will still be used as a pretext for disobedience to an award which , for the express purpose of avoiding this constitutional restraint , you have invited . The remaining objection interposed by Great Britain to the arbitration requested by Venezuela is based upon the fear that an award might be made in favor of the Venezuelan claim , in which case " a large and important territory which has for a long period been inhabited and occupied by Her Majesty 's subjects and treated as a part of the Colony of British Guiana would be severed from the Queen 's dominions . " It first occurs to us that a contention may well be suspected of weakness when its supporters are unwilling to subject it to the test of impartial arbitration . Certain inquiries are also pertinent in this connection . Who were the British subjects who had long occupied the territory that might through arbitration be severed from the Queen 's dominions ? How many of them began this occupancy during the more than forty years that the territory had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this territory with knowledge of the dispute and against the warning of the government to which they owed allegiance , or were they encouraged and invited to such entry by agencies of their government who had full notice of the uncertainty of the British title ? In one case , being themselves in the wrong , they were entitled to no consideration ; in the other , the question of loss and indemnification should rest between them and their government , which had impliedly guaranteed them against disturbance . In any event , neither case presented a reason why Great Britain should take or possess the lands of Venezuela ; nor did either case furnish an excuse for denying to Venezuela a fair and impartial adjudication of her disputed rights . By whom had this territory " been treated as a part of the Colony of British Guiana " ? Surely not by Venezuela . On the contrary , she had persistently claimed it as her own , and had " treated " it as her own as far as she could and dared . England alone had treated it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabled , her to do this ; and her own decrees seemed to promise greater advantages as against her weak adversary than arbitration could possibly assure . The Secretary of State of Venezuela , soon after this refusal of Great Britain to submit the boundary dispute to arbitration , in a despatch dated the second day of April , 1884 , still urged that method of settlement , citing precedents and presenting arguments in its favor ; and in conclusion he asked the minister of the English government at Caracas " to have the goodness to think out and suggest any acceptable course for attaining the solution of this difficulty . " This was followed , a few days afterward , by another communication from the Venezuelan Secretary of State , repeating his urgent request for arbitration . From this communication it may not be amiss to make the following quotation : Venezuela and Great Britain possess the same rights in the question under discussion . If the Republic should yield up any part of her pretensions , she would recognize the superior right of Great Britain , would violate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ censure of her fellow-citizens . But when both nations , putting aside their independence of action in deference to peace and good friendship , create by mutual consent a Tribunal which may decide in the controversy , the same is able to pass sentence that one of the two parties or both of them have been mistaken in their opinions concerning the extent of their territory . Thus the case would not be in opposition to the Constitution of the Republic , there being no alienation of that which shall have been determined not to be her property . On the tenth day of June , 1884 , arbitration was again refused in a curt note from Lord Granville , declaring that " Her Majesty 's Government adhere to their objection to arbitration as a mode of dealing with this question . " About this time complaints and protests of the most vigorous character , based upon alleged breaches of the agreement of 1850 and violation of territorial rights , began on both sides of this controversy , and accusations of aggression and occupation were constantly made . I shall not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not among the incidents which I consider most relevant to the presentation of my theme . On the thirteenth day of December , 1884 , Venezuela , in reply to a proposition of the British government that the boundary question and certain other differences should be settled simultaneously , suggested , in view of the unwillingness of Great Britain to submit the boundary dispute to arbitration , that it should be presented for decision to a , court of law , the members of which should be chosen by the parties respectively . The British government promptly declined this proposition , and stated that they were not prepared to depart from the arrangement made in 1877 to decide the question by adopting a conventional boundary fixed by mutual accord between the two governments . This was in the face of the efforts which had been made along that line and found utterly fruitless . Immediately following the last-mentioned proposition by Venezuela for the adjustment of this difficulty , negotiations were entered upon for the conclusion of a treaty between Great Britain and Venezuela , which should quiet a difficulty pending between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also dispose of other unsettled questions . In a draft of such a treaty submitted by Venezuela there was inserted an article providing for arbitration in case of all differences which could not be adjusted by friendly negotiation . To this article Great Britain suggested an amendment , making such arbitration applicable only to matters arising out of the interpretation or execution of the treaty itself , and especially excluding those emanating from any other source ; but on further representation by Venezuela , Lord Granville , in behalf of the government of Great Britain , expressly agreed with Venezuela that the treaty article relating to arbitration should be unrestricted in its operation . This diplomatic agreement was in explicit terms , her Majesty 's government agreeing " that the undertaking to refer differences to arbitration shall include all differences which may arise between the High Contracting Parties , and not those only which arise on the interpretation of the Treaty . " This occurred on the fifteenth day of May , 1885 . Whatever Lord Granville may have intended by the language used , the government of Venezuela certainly understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the questions that should be submitted to arbitration . The other provisions of the treaty remaining under discussion seemed so easy of adjustment that its early completion , embodying a stipulation for the arbitration of the boundary controversy , was confidently and gladly anticipated by the republic . The high hopes and joyful anticipations of Venezuela born of this apparently favorable situation were , however , but short-lived . On the twenty-seventh day of July , 1885 , Lord Salisbury , who in the meantime had succeeded the Earl of Granville in Great Britain 's Foreign Office , in a note to Venezuela 's envoy , declared : " Her Majesty 's Government are unable to concur in the assent given by their predecessors in office to the general arbitration article proposed by Venezuela , and they are unable to agree to the inclusion in it of matters other than those arising out of the interpretation or alleged violation of this particular treaty . " No assertion of the irrevocability of the agreement which Venezuela had made with his predecessor , and no plea or argument of any kind , availed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Salisbury 's destructive decree . On the twentieth day of June , 1886 , Lord Rosebery suggested for Great Britain , and as a solution of the difficulty , that the territory within two certain lines which had been already proposed as boundaries should be equally divided between the contestants , either by arbitration or the determination of a mixed commission . This was declined by Venezuela on the twenty-ninth day of July , 1886 , upon the same grounds that led to the declination of prior proposals that apparently involved an absolute cession of a part of her territory ; but she still insisted on arbitration embracing the entire disputed territory as the only feasible method of adjustment . This declination on the part of Venezuela of Lord Rosebery 's proposition terminated the second attempt to settle this vexed question . In the meantime the aggressive conduct which for some time the officials of both countries had exhibited in and near the contested region had grown in distinctness and significance , until Great Britain had openly and with notorious assertion of ownership taken possession of a valuable part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1886 , an official document was published in the London " Gazette " giving notice that no grants of land made by the government of Venezuela in the territory claimed by Great Britain would be admitted or recognized by her Majesty . This more significant statement was added : " A map showing the boundary between British Guiana and Venezuela claimed by Her Majesty 's Government can be seen in the library of the Colonial Office , Downing Street , or at the Office of the Government Secretary , Georgetown , British Guiana . " The boundary here spoken of , as shown on the map to which attention is directed , follows the Schomburgk line . Protests and demands in abundance on the part of Venezuela followed , which were utterly disregarded , until on the thirty-first day of January , 1887 , the Venezuelan Secretary of State distinctly demanded of Great Britain the evacuation of the disputed territory which she occupied in violation of prior agreement and the rights of the republic , and gave formal notice that unless such evacuation should be completed , and accompanied by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontier dispute , by the twentieth day of February , 1887 , diplomatic relations between the two countries would on that day cease . These demands were absolutely unheeded ; and thereupon , when the twentieth day of February arrived , Venezuela exhibited a long list of specific charges of aggression and wrong-doing against Great Britain , and made the following statement and final pro-test : In consequence , Venezuela , not deeming it fitting to continue friendly relations with a state which thus injures her , suspends them from to-day . And she protests before the Government of Her Britannic Majesty , before all civilized nations , before the whole world , against the acts of spoliation which the Government of Great Britain has committed to her detriment , and which she will never on any consideration recognize as capable of altering in the slightest degree the rights which she has acquired from Spain , and respecting which she will be always ready to submit to a third power , as the only way to a solution compatible with her constitutional principles . Notwithstanding all this , three years afterward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an agent of Venezuela , appointed for that purpose , addressed a note to Lord Salisbury , still in charge of Great Britain 's foreign relations , expressing the desire of Venezuela to renew diplomatic relations with Great Britain , and requesting an interview to that end . A short time thereafter the government of Great Britain expressed its satisfaction that a renewal of diplomatic relations was in prospect , and presented to the representative of Venezuela " a statement of the conditions which Her Majesty 's Government considered necessary for a satisfactory settlement of the questions pending between the two countries . " As the first of these conditions it was declared that " Her Majesty 's Government could not accept as satisfactory any arrangement which did not admit the British title to the territory comprised within the line laid down by Sir R. Schomburgk in 1841 ; but they would be willing to refer to arbitration the claims of Great Britain to certain territory to the west of that line . " Naturally enough , this statement was received by Venezuela with great disappointment and surprise . Her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single point of the arbitrary and capricious line laid down by Sir R. Schomburgk in 1841 , which had been declared null and void even by the government of her Majesty ; and that it was not possible for Venezuela to accept arbitration in respect to territory west of that line . He further expressed his regret that the conditions then demanded by Lord Salisbury were more unfavorable to Venezuela than the proposals made to a former agent of the republic prior to the suspension of diplomatic relations . On the 19th of March , 1890 , the British government reiterated its position more in detail . Its refusal to admit any question as to Great Britain 's title to any of the territory within the Schomburgk line was emphatically repeated , and the British claim was defined to extend beyond any pretension which I believe had ever been previously made except by Lord Salisbury himself in 1880 . A map was presented indicating this extreme claim , the Schomburgk line , and a certain part of the territory between the boundary of this extreme claim on the west and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration , abandoning all claim to the remainder of the territory between these last-named two lines . This scheme , if adopted , would give to England absolutely and without question the large territory between British Guiana 's conceded western boundary and the Schomburgk line , with an opportunity to lay claim before a board of arbitration for extensive additional territory beyond the Schomburgk line . This is pitiful . The Schomburgk line , which was declared by the British government , at the time it was made , to be " merely a preliminary measure , open to further discussion between the Governments of Great Britain and Venezuela , " and since largely extended in some mysterious way , is now declared to be a line so well established , so infallible , and so sacred that only the territory that England exorbitantly claims beyond that line is enough in dispute to be submitted to impartial arbitration . The trader is again in evidence . On this basis England could abundantly afford entirely to lose in the arbitration she at length concedes . And yet Venezuela was not entirely discouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depressing communication , she appointed still another agent who was to try his hand with England in the field of diplomacy . On the twenty-fourth day of June , 1890 , this new representative replied to the above proposal made to his predecessor by her Majesty 's government , and expressed the great regret of Venezuela that its recent proposals for a settlement of the boundary difficulty by arbitration affecting all the disputed territory had been peremptorily declined . He also declared that the emphatic statement contained in Great Britain 's last communication in reference to this question created for his government " difficulties not formerly contemplated , " and thereupon formally declined on behalf of Venezuela the consideration of the proposals contained in said communication . This statement of discouraging conditions was ; however , supplemented by a somewhat new suggestion to the effect that a preliminary agreement should be made containing a declaration on the part of the government of Venezuela that the river Essequibo , its banks , and the lands covering it belong exclusively to British Guiana , and a declaration on the part of her Majesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the lands covering it belong exclusively to Venezuela , and providing that a mixed commission of two chief engineers and their staffs should be appointed to make , within one year , careful maps and charts of the region to the west and northwest of the Essequibo River , toward the Orinoco , in order to determine officially the exact course of its rivers and streams , and the precise position of its mountains and hills , and all other details that would permit both countries to have reliable official knowledge of the territory which was actually in dispute , enabling them to determine with a mutual feeling of friendship and good will a boundary with perfect knowledge of the case ; but in the event that a determination should not be thus reached , the final decision of the boundary question should be submitted to two arbitrators , one selected by each government , and a third chosen by the other two , to act as umpire in case of discord , who , in view of the original titles and documents presented , should fix a boundary-line which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should have the advantage as far as possible of constituting a natural boundary ; and that , pending such determination , both governments should remove or withdraw all posts and other indications and signs of possession or dominion on said territory , and refrain from exercising any jurisdiction within the disputed region . On the 24th of July , 1890 , Lord Salisbury declined to accept these suggestion : of the Venezuelan representative , and declared : " Her Majesty 's Government hav ? more than once explained that they can not consent to submit to arbitration what they regard as their indisputable title to districts in the possession of the British Colony . " Is it uncharitable to see in this reference to " possession " a hint of the industrious manner in which Great Britain had attempted to improve her position by permitting colonization , and by other acts of possession , during the half-century since the boundary dispute began ? Efforts to settle this controversy seem to have languished after this rebuff until March , 1893 , when still another agent was appointed by Venezuela for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settling , if possible , the boundary trouble and such other differences as might be pending between the two countries . As a means to that end , this agent , on the twenty-sixth day of May , 1893 , presented a memorandum to the British government containing suggestions for such settlement . The suggestion relating to the adjustment of the boundary question rested upon the idea of arbitration and did not materially differ from that made by this agent 's immediate predecessor in 1890 , except in the proposition that the status quo , pending final adjustment , should be the same as that existing after the agreement of non-interference in the disputed territory made by the two gSvernments in 1850 . The plan thus suggested was declined by the government of Great Britain , because , in the first place , it involved an arbitration , " which had been repeatedly declined by Her Majesty 's Government , " and , further , because it was , in the language of the British reply , " quite impossible that they should consent to revert to the status quo of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integral portion of British Guiana . " A further communication from the agent of Venezuela , offering additional arguments in support of his suggestions , brought forth a reply informing him that the contents of his note did not " appear to Her Majesty 's Government to afford any opening for arriving at an understanding on this question which they could accept . " On the twenty-ninth day of September , 1893 , a final communication was addressed by the representative of Venezuela to the British government , reviewing the situation and the course of past efforts to arrive at a settlement , and concluding with the words : I must now declare in the most solemn manner , and in the name of the Government of Venezuela , that it is with the greatest regret that that Government sees itself forced to leave the situation produced in the disputed territory by the acts of recent years unsettled , and subject to the serious disturbances which acts of force can not but produce ; and to declare that Venezuela will never consent to proceedings of that nature being accepted as title-deeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its jurisdiction . Here closed a period in this dispute , fiftytwo years in duration , vexed with agitation ; and perturbed by irritating and repeated failures to reach a peaceful adjustment . Instead of progress in the direction of a settlement of their boundaries , the contestants could only contemplate , as results of their action , increased obstacles to fair discussion , intensified feelings of injury , extended assertion of title , ruthless appropriation of the territory in controversy , and an unhealed breach in diplomatic relations . My narration of the incidents leading to this situation has been long , and I am afraid not always interesting ; but it has seemed to me that it would aid in a clear discussion of our general topic if these incidents , once entered upon , were completely disposed of before passing to a separate and independent consideration , on another occasion , of the interposition of our own government in a controversy whose prominent features I have endeavored thus far to exhibit .                 @ @ @ @ 