@@486828

McClure , Phillips &; Co. will soon have ready ' Irish History and the Irish Movement , ' by Goldwin Smith . Shortly to be published by Macmillan Co. is ' Japan and the Far East , ' by B. L. Putnam Weale ; and , in the spring , Winston Spencer Churchill 's biography of his father , the late Lord Randolph Churchill . Welsh people in all parts of the world will be interested in a book called Welsh Religious Leaders in the Victorian Era , ' which will be put out very shortly by James Nisbet ( London ) . These leaders , seventeen in number , are representative of the five great religious denominations to which the Welsh mainly belong . Their life and work are discussed in each case by a coreligionist selected from among the ablest theologians in Wales . The book owes its origin to the Rev. Vyrnwy Morgan , who is already well known to his countrymen in the United States . He is also its editor , and one of its main contributors . Among the taking reprints of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of William Morris 's ' Earthly Paradise , ' tastefully bound and clear of print , with a portrait of Morris at the front . Tennyson 's ' Maud , ' in a holiday dress , also comes to us from Dodd , Mead &; Co. , with illustrations by Margaret and Helen Maitland Armstrong . Those of the latter artist are full-page oval designs , with a little color wash , and are , if somewhat amateurish , pleasantly quaint ; the others are black-andwhite headpieces , and effectively ornamental . There is a not too obtrusive floreated green border to every page . There being no end to Shakspere , we greet without surprise a reissue of the Oxford Shakspere , edited , with a glossary , by W. J. Craig ( H. Frowde ) . This handy single volume is one of the India paper series , and now a larger and more legible type has been employed , to the reader 's great gain . It is simply marvellous that 1,350 fair pages can be so compressed . It is accompanied to our table by a plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' with sixteen illustrations , reduced from the Boydell plates if we do not mistake , and another of Grimm 's Tales , with twenty-two illustrations by George Cruikshank  --  both popularizations of the Oxford Edition . The 767 pages of the Newnes-Scribner ' Miscellaneous Works of Oliver Goldsmith , ' in green and gold , make but a finger 's breadth , and are light for the pocket , in the manner of its charming companions . Very composite are the illustrations of Messrs . Appleton 's fresh presentation of Kipling 's ' The Seven Seas . ' Some might have been made for the occasion , but here a Turner and there another old print is intercalated , and again a real photograph of an ocean liner . Being full-page and widely separated , they are not incongruous , and do not mar the attempt to adorn in addition to print , paper , and the green page border . It may be said to be the rule that a good book , expensively issued at first , will sooner or later be redressed for the modest bookbuyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. F. Pollard 's able work on ' Henry VIII . ' is an example . Three years ago , we noticed it at length in the sumptuous Goupil-Scribner edition . Now it comes to us with Messrs . Longman 's imprint , a modest duodecimo of 470 pages in clear type , shorn of all its external glory , deprived of all the splendid portraits , save Holbein 's chalk drawing of Henry , but containing the original substance , or the real thing . Moreover , Mr. Pollard has added reference to the non-contemporaneous writers to whom he was , in a small degree , indebted , and to the original sources as well . Text and notes , too , have undergone some revision . In fine , the cheaper edition may challenge the costlier on the scholarly plane . It is perhaps a unique thing for a book mainly of technical criticism of the text of a Latin author to be honored by reprinting almost a generation after its first issue , and a full twenty years after its author 's death . Such has been , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elucidations of Catullus , ' by the late Prof. H. A. J. Munro , of Cambridge University ( London : Bell ; New York : Macmillan ) . The new edition is substantially the same as the old . The only addition of note consists in the reprint of three brief articles contributed by Munro to the ( English ) Journal of Philology after the publication of his book . Even these the editor of the new edition ( Mr. J. D. Duff ) tries to keep concealed by distributing them in their proper local sequence through the pages of the book , and omitting specific reference to them in his preface . A comparison , page by page , of the two editions reveals them , however , on pages 143 , 150 , and 219 . The first proposes to read hilarate procitatis in Catullus 63. 18 ; the second to substitute nestis ubi for testibull , in 64. 276 ; and the third , to read , in 107. 7f. , aut magis mum Optandum Sac uita dneere guts poterit . The little book on ' Roman Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eng. , University Press ; New York : Macmillan ) , turned out to be his last , for all classical scholars will have marked with regret that he died recently . It contains in six chapters and a hundred pages all that is really known upon this subject , and it is the best compendium which we have seen . Without having the appearance of being too learned  --  for its style is pleasant and the method of treatment makes the book easy to read  --  yet chapter and verse are given for all the important statements , and a list of authorities is prefixed for the benefit of those who would go deeper into the subject . We are glad to observe that Professor Wilkins puts Roman familiarity with Greek earlier than is commonly recognized , and that he brings out the important fact that the Romans were the first nation to base their culture on the study of literature in a foreign language ; thus marking out the lines on which the higher education of all civilized nations was thereafter to move . Edith Harwood 's ' Notable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) aims to help the uninitiated in art matters , and she proposes to follow it up by similar treatises on Roman and Venetian art . She recognizes the inability of the ordinary sightseer to dwell long enough on the pictures of old Italian masters to enter into their train of thought , and to understand their meaning , fraught as it is with their serious interpretation of life and religion . In her introduction she tells briefly of the evolution , in the thirteenth century , of the revival of art in Italy , in both architecture and sculpture , from the inspiration of Greek ideals ; the first work of supreme artistic merit being the pulpit in the Baptistery in Pisa by Niccolb Pisano , whose possession of a Greek sarcophagus had awakened his enthusiasm for classic art , and induced him to found a new style . The impulse to effect a change from the prevalent Byzantine school of painting was , from the art of Pisano and his son , transmitted to Giotto , the first of the Italian painters to begin that great period which produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Miss Harwood arranges her artists alphabetically , giving us some account of their lives and their most important works , and telling where these are to be found , with small illustrations , good only for assistance in remembering the compositions . She includes the principal artists represented in the Belle Arti , the Uffizi , and the Pitti , along with the frescoes in the churches . The book is good to read , full of interesting historical detail , and ample in quotations from writers ancient and modern in prose and verse . The ' Egypt , Burma , and British Malayasia ' of W. E. Curtis ( Fleming H. Revell Co. ) follows so closely the lines of the same prolific writer 's ' Modern India , ' also published this year and reviewed in these columns two months ago , that any separate notice seems unnecessary . There is in the present book the same easy , confident , and confidential style of sketching and statisticizing ( if the word may pass ) that makes not unpleasant reading in Mr. Curtis 's previous volume . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the redundancy of superlatives , even the rather offensive tone of intimacy assumed with the reader , really do not matter . The subdued humor is thoroughly American : " Jiddah is of particular interest to us because it contains the tomb of our Mother Eve . I never heard before where she was buried , but it is a comfort to know . " " There are forty-four species of sna ; tes in Borneo , of which fourteen are venomous , and their bites are as conclusive as a projectile from a thirteen-inch gun . " So the book goes on . To peruse it is like reading the inside sheets of a Sunday newspaper . It is all fit to print , and alternately didactic and amusing . Messrs . Scribner have imported ' Golf Faults Illustrated , ' by G. W. Beldam and J. H. Taylor . A careful inspection of the illustrations leads to the conclusion that golf instruction by means of photography has probably reached if not passed its limit of usefulness . There are two obvious objections to the present volume . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taylor , they would not be likely to suit a man of entirely different build  --  different proportional length of arms , legs , etc. ? and that accurate measurements on the stance mat are therefore valueless . Second , that the differences between the illustrations showing the right and wrong way of making strokes are in some cases so slight that the beginner is about as likely to remember the one as the other when the critical moment arrives . We would suggest as the next development a book of photographs of the different strokes , to be attached to the player 's garments , and consulted before he addresses the ball ? in other words , " Every man his own Taylor . " Dr. Arnim Graesel , author of the well-known ' Handbuch der Bibliothekslehre , ' has prepared a popular ' Fiihrer far Bibliotheksbenutzer , ' containing various information as to the regulations in vogue in German libraries , the character of their catalogues , examples of classification schemes , etc . The comparative uniformity of administration in German libraries has made the preparation of such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , where the diversity between the several types of libraries and between individ-ual libraries , too , is much greater . The guide contains a list of common works of reference , Which might have been more up to date . The British Academy have just put out the first volume of their Proceedings . The first twenty pages are introductory , containing a " Brief Account of the Foundation of the Academy , " the Charter of Incorporation , the lists of Fellows and Members of the Council , and the Addresses of the President , Lord Reay , at the " Annual General Meetings . " The rest of the book is made up of the papers read before the society during the session of 1903-1904 , and illustrating the various studies it is intended to promote . Under the head of philosophy come " Idealism and the Theory of Knowledge , " by Dr. Edward Caird ; " TheCentenary of Kant 's Death , " by Mr. Shadworth H. Hodgson ; " John Locke as a Factor in Modern Thought , " by Mr. A. Campbell Frazer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summary of " Psychological Elements in Greek Sculpture . " Law and history are represented by " Locke 's Theory of the State , " by Sir Frederick Pollock ; by Sir , Courtenay Ilbert 's " Centenary of the French Civil Code " ; by Baron de Bildt 's " Conclave of Clement X. , " and by Professor Rh-C's 's " Irish Studies . " With these must also be ranked " The Ferment in Education on the Continent and in America , " by Mr. Michael Ernest Sadler , and Prof. W. M. Ram-say 's summary of the " Excavations in Asia Minor . " On the philological side we have Mr. F. G. Kenyon 's paper on Greek Papyri , Mr. T. W. Rhys Davids 's " Oriental Studies in England and Abroad , " and Sir Richard Jebb 's " Bacchylides , " not to mention Mr. Arthur J. Evans 's " Summary of the Pictographic and Linear Scripts of Minoan Crete and their Relations , " and Mr. Israel Gollancz 's Shakespeariana . We read on the back of the title-page that the single papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and can be had from the publisher ( H. Frowde ) . The centenary of Trafalgar has left its mark on the literature of 1905 . Many books have been published about Nelson , mostly of a popular character , among which that of Mr. Newbolt deserves conspicuous mention . The Navy Records Society have also , in the ' Fighting Instructions from 1530 to 1816 , ' added to our store some valuable material on the tactical side of Trafalgar . Among the numerous articles appearing in the English press may be noted , as of special importance or readability , a series in the London Times on Trafalgar , an article in the Athenceum by Professor Laughton , and one in the Publishers ' Circular , by its editor , Mr. Marston , who makes , and seemingly proves , the interesting point that Nelson was a faithful reader of at least one of Shakspere 's plays . In it he found the perfect expression of his own character ; his was the same heroic temper as that of Henry V. when he exclaimed : . . if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most offending soul alive . " The parallel between Shakspere 's hero and Nelson is certainly curious , and is on a line with the opinion expressed in our columns on the anniversary of Trafalgar , that " if Napoleon was modern , Nelson was Elizabethan . " Systematic efforts are being made for the propaganda of Buddhism in Germany . A Buddhistischer Missionsverein fiir Deutschland has been founded with headquarters in Leipzig , the object of which is to spread the Buddhistic philosophy of religion not only in the Fatherland , but also on the Continent in general . A monthly review is being published in the interest of this propaganda . In former times the rectors of the universities of Russia were appointed by the Ministers of Education . Now the Government has given the faculties the right to make their own selection , and this has recently been done by all the universities without creating any disturbance . A prominent Leipzig journal , in this connection , expresses the hope that a change in the statutes of the Russian institutions may soon be effected , so that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in reality schools of the grade they profess to be . In its Russian transformations even the old German University of Dorpat , now called " Yuryeff , " is by the Vedemosti of St. Petersburg declared to be " a parody of a university . " " An absolute mental famine " is the strong phrase with which a Japanese describes the lack of good reading in his country . The library of Prof. Max Miiller has been bought by Baron Iwasaki for the Tokio University , and it is now proposed to establish a great popular circulating and lending library-there . An appeal to aid in this work has been made to the English people , signed , among others , by Mrs. Max Mfiller , the Master of the Temple , and the editor of the Contemporary Review . It truthfully states that never before was such an opportunity offered for influencing ' the thought of another nation , for , besides the 4,000 Japanese students at the University and the 400 students in the College for Foreign Languages , there are already more than 2,600 Chinese students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their studies to qualify themselves as instructors in China . The industrial development of the natives of parts of West Africa is going on apace . The exports of cocoa from the Gold Coast have grown in ten years from less than 30,000 pounds in 1894 to 11,500,000 pounds last year , having a value of $1,000 , - 000 . A most interesting feature of the industry is that it is all the work of the natives themselves . For its still further development the Government proposes to build a railway from the coast to the cocoa district , and an engineer has been sent out to survey the route . Harbor works are also to be constructed at Accra , the terminus of the railway , consisting of a breakwater and jetty to enable lighters and steam launches to take the place of the dangerous surf boats now in use . ? It speaks well for the industry and enthusiasm of American scholarship that , in spite of the rare and inconsiderable opportunities enjoyed by workers on this side of the ocean for research among the great collections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground have daily access  --  there should nevertheless be recorded to our credit from time to time finds relating to figures of the first importance in the history of literature . Students of English literature , especially , will recall in this connection Dr. F. J. Mather 's discovery some years ago ( which was first announced in the columns of this journal ) of the document in the Public Rec. - ord Office in London which fixed exactly the limits of Chaucer 's first Italian journey . We take pleasure now in calling attention to another discovery of documents in the same great repository , which Mr. Charles William Wallace of the University of Nebraska has recently announced in the London Standard for October 18 . This , though of less importance than Dr. Mather 's in its bearing on the life and work of the particular writer , is in a sense even more startling , inasmuch as it offers something new concerning an author about whom the industry of research has long centred more perhaps than about any other in the literature of the world  --  namely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the companies of boy-actors at Blackfriars and Whitefriars theatres from 1597 to the middle of the reign of James I. , Mr. Wallace came upon three legal documents dated respectively April 26 , May 5 , and May 22 , 1615 , and relating to a suit in the Court of Chancery to which Shakspere was a party . The suit concerns certain properties Within the precincts of Blackfriars , and Shakespere ( or Shakespeare , for his name is spelt once each way in the text of these documents ) figures as one of seven plaintiffs in the suit , among whom the person of highest rank is a Sir Thomas Bendish , baronet . The defendant is one Mathew Bacon , who , as sole executor of his mother Ann Bacon , deceased , is holding in his possession certain " deeds , charters , letters patent , " etc. , which were necessary to the titles of the various properties of the plaintiffs in Blackfriars . The plaintiffs assert , in their bill of complaint  --  which , by the way , surpasses in verbosity even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ papers in question were left in trust with Ann Bacon " for and unto the use and behoofe of yor Oratores , " and they accordingly petition that her executor be required to give them up . It does not appear how these papers came into Ann Bacon 's hands in the first instance . Mr. Wallace has published in extenso in the above-mentioned number of the Standard the three documents he has discovered . They are respectively the Bill of Complaint , the defendant 's Answer , and the decree of the Court , which last , it may be remarked , was in favor of Shakspere and his fellow-plaintiffs , so that it is to be supposed that the papers were duly turned over to them . ? Mr. Wallace 's find thus puts us in possession of the records of a second suit in which Shakspere was engaged  --  the first , which has long been known , being that over the Stratford tithes in 1610 . It is to be hoped that these interesting documents will be republished in the near future in some organ more generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not but regret that the publication of Mr. Lambert 's handy volume entitled ' Shakespeare Documents ' could not by some accident have been delayed a year , so as to have included the new find , but we hope that another edition of that useful work may soon be called for . In conclusion , it will be of great interest to students of the Elizabethan drama to learn from Mr. Wallace 's communication to the Standard that he has come upon a number of other documents , in the course of his researches , which " change the view of the early histheatres , as also of the origin , career , and outcome of the children companies there , besides throwing light on certain authors and plays " ; Hamlet , it seems , being included among the latter ( that is , the famous passage in the Second Act concerning the boy-actors ) . These documents can not fail to be of the very highest interest , and we trust that Mr. Wallace will not long defer increasing still further by their publication the obligations under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the addition of a new item to the biography of the world 's greatest poet . ? Half of volume vii . of the Oxford English Dictionary ( H. Frowde ) is completed with the October issue ( Pennage-Pfennig ) . The exotic initial P can here claim only one English word , Penny ; but when the English occupied Britain they brought with them the word Pepper , already borrowed from the Latin . A later borrowing , through the French , of Peppered ( for venereal infection ) is now obsolete . Peppery is here first set down to Scott in 1826 . Perfervid , after not ancient Latin , but Buchanan 's , is quoted from Masson in 1856 . The plural Peoples was avoided in sixteenth-century Bibles , and was looked at askance as late as 1830 . Hence , perhaps , our own early writers on the Indian tribes spoke rather of " nations . " But , across the Channel , " Peuples , voila votre sainte alliance ! " sang B ? ranger at the time of the Crimean War . Pert had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been retained dialectically and in the United States ( " pearl " ) along with the special sense of sharp , " adroit , " clever , ' obsolete in England after the seventeenth century . Pesky , which may derive somehow from Pest as meaning ' plaguy , ' began its literary course on this side the water , with Major Jack Downing in 1848 . In the same year Thackeray brought out Penwiper . The Period , in punctuation , dates back to 1609 ; Pessimism ( habit of mind or point of view ) to 1815 . That English verbal prodigality we so much prize was docked when Percase dropped out of the series Peradventure , Perchance , Perhaps ( the latest of all ) . Etymological relationship is not as obvious as it is real between Penthouse and ( say ) Appendicitis . Attention should be called to Dr. Murray 's historical exposition under Petition . ? The Quarterly Journal of Economics for November opens with a timely article by Prof. S. J. McLean of Stanford University on the English Railway Commission of 1888 . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it also . The organization in England is more strictly that of a court . Of the three members , one is a Superior Court judge , deputed to act as member of the commission for the time being . The decisions are final on questions of fact ; and appeals , allowable on questions of law , are more in the nature of appeals in the regular course of adjudication . On the other hand , the activity of our Interstate Commerce Commission in conducting - investigations and furthering publicity  --  probably the most useful part of its work  --  has no counterpart in England . Neither body has the rate-making power ; each has to deal chiefly with the troublesome question of what constitutes " discrimination " and " relatively unreasonable England Professor McLean finds only one instance of a possible secret rebate or discrimination , and virtually no instances of the favors to individual shippers which are the worst of American railway evils . Noteworthy , also , is the immensely greater number of complaints brought before the English Board of Trade , whose jurisdiction is for conciliation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In England , as in this country , the expense of proceedings before , the commission is heavy , and makes the remedy virtually unavailable for the ordinary shipper , unless some commercial organization acts for him . On these various matters Professor McLean 's exhaustive account gives all needed information for those who have occasion to follow into its intricacies this phase of the railway problem . ? The October number of the Library Journal contains several papers on library conditions in the various Pacific States , discussed by Mr. W. L. Brewster of Portland , Mr. C. W. Smith of Seattle , and Mr. L. W. Ripley of Sacramento . Previous to the passing of the State Library law in 1901 there was no free public library in Oregon . There were school and college libraries , of course , and some subscription libraries ; the most important of the latter being the Portland Library , with 35,000 volumes , which owned its own building and other property , valued at $267,010 . Under the new law this was transformed into a free public library , while still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been eminently successful . The history of public libraries in Washington is somewhat less meagre ; the Public Library at Tacoma was established in 1890 , that at Seattle in 1891 , and that at Spokane in 1893 . The Washington Library law was also passed in 1901 , and under this act eleven public libraries have been organized . California , with its older culture , has naturally more and larger libraries than its two sister States . The oldest , the Sacramento Mercantile Library , was established in 1851 , but it was not until 1878 that any general library law was passed ; in 1901 this was " greatly amended and revised to bring it more in accordance with the results of experience in other States . " The majority of California libraries are concentrated within a radius of fifty miles from San Francisco . " This propinquity has developed an atmosphere , a library spirit , perhaps even a generous rivalry , not only among library workers , but the communities themselves , with much resulting advantage to the libraries . " The libraries within the charmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stanford University Library in a very interesting paper on " California as a Place of Residence for the Scholar . " Besides the State Library at Sacramento , with its 125,000 volumes , the Library of the Mechanics ' Institute in San Francisco , with 120,000 , the Public Library in the same city with 150,000 , the State University Library at Berkeley with 130,000 , and that of the Leland Stanford Junior University , already approaching the 100,000 mark , are mentioned the unaccessible libraries of Mr. H. H. Bancroft , with 50,000 volumes relating to the history of the Northwest , and of the Sutro estate , with its 200,000 volumes . including " the best collection in America as fifteenth century . " A fifth paper , by Prof. J. Schafer of the University of Oregon treats of the " Sources of Northwestern History . " It is interesting to learn that the History Department of the University of Oregon is planning a cooperative bibliography of the history of the Northwest . ? The recent celebration of the seventieth ' birthday of the Norwegian historian , Ernst Sars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attended by the Prime Minister and other leading members of the Government , the president of the national Legislature , the most prominent men in science , literature , and art , as well as in other walks of life , is interesthig when viewed in relation to the mixed feelings with which the initiative of the Storthing was received by the same circles of society when , about thirty years ago , it placed the amount of a professor 's salary at the disposal of the King and his Cabinet , provided they would appoint Mr. Sars a professor of history in the University . Sars early proclaimed himself a disciple of Comte , and it was widely felt that this " free-thinker 's " holding a chair in the University meant the complete destruction of religion , morals , and all other conservative forces of society . Sars , in his writings ( chief among which is his ' Synopsis of Norwegian History , ' in four volumes ) , first among Norwegian historians attempted to demonstrate a continuity of development . While his predecessors were at a loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy displayed during the early centuries and Norway 's complete inability to maintain itself beside Denmark and Sweden in the following centuries , Sars finds an explanation in the original constitution of Norwegian society , with , on one hand , a very strong royal power , and , on the other , an independent pessanti y , between which the originally existing aristocracy was weakened to such ac extent that it was unable to uphold the power of the kingdom in the union with Denmark and Sweden at a time when national consciousness was chiefly manifested by the feudal aristocracy , while democracy was still in a dormant condition . But this same independent peasantry became the bulwark of the country 's freedom when , under the Constitution of 1814 , the people were again called upon to assume the reins of government . Sars 's views , perhaps more than any other Single agency , have contributed to the shaping of political thought and events in Norway , and to that movement towards complete independence the consummation of which we are now witnessing . 